Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE can be shown to elute at neutrality. Those which hcmolyze at tempera- tures ahove 4OC: (NDV, mumps, Sendai) can be adsorbed to formalinized fowl erythrorytes at 4°C and eluted at, 37°C (Kis I’ov pt nl., IWU). Eluted virus may show a relative increase in hcmaggliit,inin titer but a decrease in infectivity, both effects being due to disruption and frwg- mentation of viral particles (.John and Fulginiti, 1968). Viral heniolysis was first described for mumps virus (Morgan et d., 1948; 1,. Chu and Morgan, 1950) and then for NDV (Kilham, 1949); arid somewhat more recently for Scndai virus (Sato, 1958) and type 3 pnrrtinflurnza virus (TIcrmodsson et nl., 1961). Thr rxnct mechanism which mediates viral llcmolysis remains to Ic eliicidated, however. Sev- eral facts have been estahlished which throw some light on this phenome- non. For hemolysis to occur, intact viral particles or large subunits were required as shown with both Sendai and NDV (Sagik and Lcvine, 1957; Sokol st nl., 1961). Heterogeneity of NDV particles with respect to hemolytic activity was demonstrated (Sokol, 1963). Not only was “in- complete” Sendai virus less hemolytic than complete virus (Sokol et al., 1964), hut! it was shown that sonicntion of infective virus progres- sively inactivated licmolysis which was ultimately eliminated when hem- agglutinating particles mere reduced helow LL certnin si7e range (Hosaka, 1970). This was in accord wit,h the earlier finding that subunits of Sendai virus ohtaincd by cthrr disruption of thr viral cnvelopr were nonhemo- Iytic (Sokol et nl., 1964). With respect to the cell surfwc, it is clear that the same receptors are requircd for hrmolysis as for hemagglutina- tion, since the virus must attach in order to hemolyze. This was originally shown for rnrimps virus (L Chu and Morgan, 1950) and has since been demonstrated for Scnd:ti virus (Sokol :tnd NcwatEi, 1962) . Accordingly, :intibody to purified virus receptor Rubstance prevents tjhc agglutination as well as the lysis of human group 0 erythrocytes by Sendai virus. The lwnnlytic property is invcrscly proportional to the capacity of a given strain to elute from tlic red crll surface, as has been demonstrated with NDV ISagik and Levine, 19571. These obscrvations suggested that the dcgree of contact,, i.e., the rcsultant of particle size and its “avidity” for cell receptors, might be of critical importance. Electron microscopic e.tarnination of crythrocyt,e ghosts lysed by Scndwi virus gave n clue
