Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


i.e., the rcsultant of particle size and its “avidity” for cell receptors, might be of critical importance. Electron microscopic e.tarnination of crythrocyt,e ghosts lysed by Scndwi virus gave n clue ELS to the nature of this contact,. Concentrated Sendai virus, when ad- sorbed to erythrocytes at 4OC, caused invaginatiom in the plasma mcm- hrane Aftcr elevation of the tcmperaturr to 37”C, the plasma membrane t)ecnine fuscd with viral ciivc~lopc.C cll lysis followccl and was accom- panied by rapid and total loss of hrmoglobin to the extracellular space and depletion of membrane NANA. Concomitantly, rupture of the virions occurreti, with relcasc of nuclcounpsid (Howe and hforgan, 1969) . Tt VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 21 appeared that thc viral particles joining erythrocytes in the initial agglu- tination reaction were torn apart as a result of the sheering forces en- gendered by rapid cell iysis at 37°C. More recently, it was shown that fusion of human erythrocytes occurred if cells agglutinated by virus at 4OC were packed by light centrifugation and the undisturbed pellet then brought to 37°C. Largc, stable polymembranes, retaining appreci- able amounts of hemoglobin, were thus formed in which no viral envelope components were recognized on morphological grounds. However, free nucleocapsid filaments were seen in the cytoplasm of fused erythrocytes. By freeze-etching techniques, it was demonstrated that smooth, plaque- like areas had formed, through obliteration or redistribution of normally well-ordered and numerous intramembranous particles (Bachi and Howe, unpublished). This rearrangement of intramembranous particles as a result of viral action was reminiscent of the regrouping which was effected by proteolytic enzymes, and which constituted the basis for proposing that sialoglycoprotein receptors exposed at the cell surf ace are associated with the intramembranous particles (Marchesi et al., 1971). Hemagglutinin as well as hemoly sin are trypsin sensitive, suggesting that peptide residues on the viral envelope are involved (Neurath, 1963, 1964~F; ontanges et al., 1964). In addition, the hemolytic property of Sendai virus may be host dependent for its expression, since virus grown in mouse lung cell cultures was nonhemolytic whereas the same virus from chick embryos was strongly hemolytic (Ishida and Homma, 1960; Matsumoto and Maeno, 1962). In sum, it appears that with Sendai virus, as probably also with the other paramyxoviruses, red cell lysis is a complex interaction between intact virion, or its larger subunits, and the cell surface. Those factors which are known to be operative are the requirement for firm adsorption
