Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


lysis is a complex interaction between intact virion, or its larger subunits, and the cell surface. Those factors which are known to be operative are the requirement for firm adsorption of hemagglutinin to sialoprotein cell receptors, readily effected at 4OC, and a sufficient area of contact between intact virion or larger envelope fragments and the cell receptor sites. Temperature and pH dependence suggest that some form of enzymatic activity is involved in effecting the initial breach in the integrity of the cell membrane. This results either in lysis of individual cells or, if virus-coated cells remain in close apposition to one another, in fusion and relatively restricted loss of hemoglobin. In the latter instance, it must be assumed that the increased permeability of the membrane is transient, its duration and extent limit- ing the egress of hcmoglobin. Except for porcine kidney cells (Hosaka, 1970) the chicken embryo is the only susceptible host which yields hemo- lytic virus. The possibility has been considered that host-derived lyso- soma1 enzymes or other factors (Neurath, 1963, 1964b), such as lysoleci- 22 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE thin , adsorbed or otherwise attached to the virus in 02’0, may somehow contribute to its hemolytic activity. Definitive confirmation of this possibility is lacking. Jikewise, the relationship of a “hernolysin” reported to be present in normal chorioallantoic membrane to the liernolytic action of Sendai virus is not clear (Neurath, 1964a). The hemadsorption phenomenon is accounted for by viral antigen (s), particularly hcInagglutinin, present on thc surface of infected cells hcforc and during the release of virions by budding from the membrane. As shown by electron microscopic studies using ferritin-labeled antibody, maturation and relertse of paramyxovirus particles was accompariicd by the nccumulation of rihonuclcoprotcin strands under segments of the membrane which had been altered to display antigenic specificity identi- cal to that of the viral envelope . Similarly, viral antigeris replaced normal cell membrane antigens in the course of in- fluenza virus infection (Duc-Nguyen ef nl., 1966). The presence of viral hemagglutinin at altcrcd membrane sites was demonstrated by electron microscopic examination of mumps virus heinadsorption which took place at the surface of infected cells even before the maturation and release of virions (Duc-Nguyen, 1968). The prcscnce of neuraminidase has also been deirionstrated in monolayers as early as 6 hours after infection with influenza virus and before release of progeny virus. Viral enzyme activity was associated with
