Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


of neuraminidase has also been deirionstrated in monolayers as early as 6 hours after infection with influenza virus and before release of progeny virus. Viral enzyme activity was associated with membranes as well as with cell sap releascd by freeaing tirid thawing (Kendal und Apostolov, 1970). C. Pseutloinyxovir uws , The pseudomyxovirus group cv~nprisest he agents of mcaslcs (rubeola) , canine distemper, arid rindcrpest (the nicdipest group) (lmagawa, 1968) and, with some reservations, respiratory syncytial (RS) virus. This group resembles the large pararnyxoviruses morphologically and in certain bio- logical properties. The complete virion, approximately the same size as the paramyxoviruses, contains RNA in helical symmetry. It is en- veloped and has the projcctions characteristic of myxoviruses. The en- velope, being ethcr sensitive, is thcreby assumed to have essential lipid. The differcrices from the parnmyxoviruses, however, are as striking and consistent as are the resemblances arid concern important properties of the envelope. None of the pseudomyxoviruscs possess neuraminidase, and measles is the only one which hemagglutinates. The extensive litera- ture on the biology of measles virus has been well reviewed (Waterson, 1965). The lieinagglutinin of measles is a property of the viral envelope. LLSoIuble,n” oninfective hemagglutinating particles in cultures of measles virus are now recognizcd as being subunits, or fragments of envelope VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 23 which accumulate in cultures as cytopathology progresses. These have been referred to as “large hemagglutinin,” infective and noninfective hemagglutinin, and small hemagglutinin, respectively (E. C. J. Norrby et al., 1964). The large hemagglutinin has been characterized as either intact infective virus or virions which have undergone partial disorgani- zation and hence are no longer infective, but retain the physical proper- ties of the particle. The small hemagglutinin, being noninfective, has no RNP core and varies in density over a relatively wide range. A certain proportion of the small hemagglutinins are seen as high density particles with a characteristic rosette appearance. Treatment of virus with Tween 80 and ether (E. Norrhy, 1962; Funahashi and Kitawaki, 1963) results in the conversion of most of the hemagglutinin to this latter form, at the same time substantially increasing the hemagglutinin titer of the preparation. Ether by itself disrupts the viral envelope with consequent reduction in hemagglutinin titer. The function of the Tween is to protect the smaller protein subunits from denaturation and hence to preserve their activity. Tween 80-ether-treated hemagglutinin is more sensitive to inhibition by antibody and thercfore constitutes
