Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


the Tween is to protect the smaller protein subunits from denaturation and hence to preserve their activity. Tween 80-ether-treated hemagglutinin is more sensitive to inhibition by antibody and thercfore constitutes an improve- ment over crude culture fluids as a reagent for use in hemagglutination- inhibition tests. Treatment of virus with sodium deoxycholate (SDS) results in the disintegration of viral particles and allows better separation of nucleocapsid from the small rosette hemagglutinin than is achieved with Tween 80-ether treatment. For this reason, SDS would appear to be a satisfactory reagent for the separation of nonhemagglutinating, complement-fixing antigens (nucleocapsid) from envelope constituents (Norrby, 1966). A small hemagglutinin has also been described which was found to have a lower buoyant density than the others. This low density particle, lacking RNA, was capable of hemolysis and of causing an early CPE. The latter was in all probability the same phenomenon as the early, rapid fusion produced by the application of high titers of measles virus to cell monolayers (Cascardo and Karzon, 1965). The character of the cytopathology and of the viral progeny resulting from the infection of monolayers with measles virus has been found to vary with the multiplicity of infection. Virus passaged as undiluted culture fluid caused the formation of incomplete virus consisting of antigen with high hemagglutinating and hemolytic titers and relatively low infectiv- ity; whereas virus passaged at high dilution resulted in production of virus with almost no hemagglutinin or hemolytic activity, but with high infectivity. (E. Norrby et al., 1970). The hemagglutinins discussed above, all referable to the virion or subunits directly derived from it, adsorb readily to erythrocytes in the presence of minimal concentrations of monovalent or polyvalent cations, 24 c. HOWE AND rJ. T. LEE and none can be made to elute. It was found that the addition of salts such as ammonium sulfate to measles virus pools enhanced the hemag- glutinating titer (Schluederberg, 1968). The degree of enhancement was dependent on the relutivc concentrations of particles which showed in- creased hcmagglutinatiun titcrs in high salt concentration and those which did not. Moreover, sonication of such preparations altered this ratio toward higher titers. Evidence suggested that the chttnge was rcfcr- able to the physical disintegration of viral cnvelopc. Sonicated measles virus, in the prescnce of ammonium sulfate, was also more sensitive to inhibition by antibody than untreated virus. A class of particles with an average sedirncntatiori coeficient of
