Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


Sonicated measles virus, in the prescnce of ammonium sulfate, was also more sensitive to inhibition by antibody than untreated virus. A class of particles with an average sedirncntatiori coeficient of 22 5, and smaller than any of the hemagglutinins previously described, was demonstrated in extracts of cells infected with measles virus (Schlucdcrberg and Nakamura, 1967). These particles in contrast to the “normal” hemagglutinin, including those cnhanccablc by hypertonic salt, were strictly dependent on the presence of polyvalent anions for both adsorption to and agglutination of erythrocytes. Their agglutinating activity was greater at pH 7.8 than at pH 5.6, and increased with elevation of temperature from 4°C to 37OC. Moreovcr, this salt-dependent agglutinin (SDA), after adsorption Lo erythrocytes in hypertonic solution, could be eluted into isotonic sa- line. Antigenic ttrialysis revealed clearly $he relation of SDA ti0 measles infection, and the data suggested that the particle might represent a virus-specific envelope precursor, or envelope comporierits not included in released viral progeny. Trypsin inactivates the hernagglutinin, suggesting that protein is in- volved in the interaction with erythrocytes. The same virus-coded pro- teins at the surfacc of infected cells may be held to arcount for hemad- sorption, which can kc demonstrated in nionolayers infected with measles virus. In limited electron microscopic observations of this phenomenon (Baker ef al., 1965), erythrocytes were found to be in closely contoured fit with infcctecl cells and their mirrovilli, but iiitact viral particles were rarely recognized. Moreover, there were none of the morphological changes characteristic of cells infected with paramyxoviruses, in which segments of cell membrane were converted to an antigenic specificity idelltical with that of the viral crivclopc . These findings suggest that the mechanism of measles virus hemadsorption, and hence of hemagglutination by free viral components, differs perhaps significantly from that of the paramyxoviruses. Concordant with this last supposition, evidence has been prcsented to suggest that the erythrocyte receptor also differs from that for ortho- myxoviruses. Treatment of erythrocytes with formalin inactivated recep- tors for measles virus, leaving intact those for influenza virus (Peries VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 25 and Chany, 1962). Neuraminidase, whether myxoviral or bacterial, failed to inactivate measles virus receptors. It is of some interest in this connec- tion that purified VRS prepared from rhesus erythrocytes by the phenol method did not inhibit measles hemagglutination (Howe, unpublished results). In one study rhesus erythrocytes treated with Vibrio cholerae neuraminidase displayed a 4- to 16-fold enhancement in
