Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


erythrocytes by the phenol method did not inhibit measles hemagglutination (Howe, unpublished results). In one study rhesus erythrocytes treated with Vibrio cholerae neuraminidase displayed a 4- to 16-fold enhancement in agglutinability by measles virus and by certain adenmiruses (q.v.) . Chymotrypsin, on the other hand, reduced or abolished the capacity of rhesus erythro- cytes to be agglutinated by these viruses (Tischer, 1967). Taken together these facts suggest that the receptor activity is associated primarily with the protein of the erythrocyte surface rather than with carbohydrate residues. Animal sera contain nonspecific measles hemagglutinin inhibi- tors, which are probably lipoprotein and can be removed by adsorption with kaolin or by treatment of the serum with heparin-MnCl, (Feldman, 1968). The hemolytic activity of measles virus is clearly related not only to the viral envelope, but also to the size of the hemagglutinating parti- cle. Presumably the same erythrocyte receptors are involved, since at- tachment by hemagglutinin is required for hemolysis, and the conditions of pH and temperature parallel those for hemagglutination. While infec- tivity is not a prerequisite for hemolysis, it is clear now that the size of the hemagglutinating particle is critical. Thus, intact virion, large noninfective hemagglutinin, and the small hemagglutinin of low density are all hemolytic; all three are also capable of rapid cell fusion (Water- son, 1965). Hemagglutinating units of smaller size are nonhemolytic, as is also the hemagglutinin derived by Tween 80-ether extraction of virus. There would thus seem to be a parallel, in the relation between particle size and hemolytic activity, with the hemolytic action of Sendai and Newcastle disease viruses. A further parallel is suggested by results of studies on thc inactivation of measles virus hemagglutinin and hemo- lysin (Neurath and Norrby, 1965) by compounds reacting specifically with protein. The results were similar to those reported with Sendai virus hemagglutinin and hemolysin (Neurath, 1964~p)o~i nting to the aromatic amino acids as having a critical role in the mediation of these activities by peptides of the viral envelope. As with the paramyxoviruses, the exact mechanism of measles virus hemolysis remains to be elucidated. D. Adenoviruses Adenoviruses are divisible into at least three major groups depending on their capacity to agglutinate the erythrocytes of several mammalian species (Rosen, 1960a). This signal discovery not only afforded an addi- tional basis for classification, but also pointed to important biological 26 c. HOU~EA ND L. T. LEE differences between the several
