Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


1960a). This signal discovery not only afforded an addi- tional basis for classification, but also pointed to important biological 26 c. HOU~EA ND L. T. LEE differences between the several groups. Some of tlicsc differences are now explainable in part by the rcccnt elucidation of the structure and function of sdenovirsl cttpsid components originally recognized by their antigenic specificities (Pereira, 1960; Yereira and Figucircdo, 1962). Ref- erence to the summary tahlc (Table 111) will show that division into tlicsc groups is based on “complete” or “partial” agglutination of rhcsus, rat, or human erythrocytes. Each group can be subdivided further ac- cording to the reactivity with erythrocytes of additional species (mouse, guinea pig, and grivet) (Wadell, 1970). Various morphological subunits associated with hemagglutinating and otlicr properties of thc3 viral capsid have been identified arid form the basis for the nomenclaturc which is now widely accepted (Ginsbcrg ct al., 19661. In the original designa- tion, “complete” hemagglutination referrcd to a smooth, uniform pattern produced under appropriate conditions by a given strain. In group 3, the “partial” pattern produced by the direct action of the virus prepara- tion is seen RS a button in the midst of agglutinated cells. This pattern can be rendered “complete,” that is uniform, by the addition of hctero- typic antibody (Ruben, 1960a; Pereira and Figueircdo, 1962). Other strains, showing little or no hcmagglutination, could be made to aggluti- nate by the same proccdurc. Both “complete” and “partial” forins of ag- glutination are inhibited by type-specific antibody. The principal mediator of hcmagglutination is thc fiber antigen on tlie intact virion as well as on the various subunits recoverable as “soluble” hemagglutinins in fractions of infected cells. From tlie functional standpoint, thcsc subunits may be either complete (bi- or multivalent) or incomplete (monovalent) hem- agglutinins. The complete hcmagglutinins me the intact virion and sev- eral structural forms of soluble hemagglutinin, nanicly the dodecon (12 pentons with intact fibers) and clirncrs of either pentons or fibers. Single pentons or fibers are incomplete hernagglutinins which, although mono- valent, are capable of adsorbing to thc crythrocytc surface. This was shown by the capacity of fiber antigen to inhibit agglutination of rat or human cells by purified virions (Wadell, 1969). The incomplete hem- agglutinins arc rendered bivalent through combination with heterospecific antibody. The latter is directed either to the vertex capsomere of pentons, or to an antigen in the proximal portion of the fiber
