Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


arc rendered bivalent through combination with heterospecific antibody. The latter is directed either to the vertex capsomere of pentons, or to an antigen in the proximal portion of the fiber (Wig. 4). The antigenic corriplexity of the fiber antigen increases with length, from one serotype to another. It is perhaps significant that, in general, fiber antigens of group 3 viruses are the longest, and are the most amenable to interaction with heterotypic antibody in the formation of complete agglutinin (E. Norrby, 1969a). It also appears that the several classes of capsid subunits are produced in greatest abundance in cells infected with group 3 viruses. The action of so-called “reccptor modifying factor” VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 27 Complete HAS lncomplete HAS M 1 )-om{ Red cell membrane Antibody to a = verfex capsomeres (penion base) = proximaf part of fibers FIG.4 . Schematic representation of adenovirus hemagglutinins (HAS). Complete hemagglutinins : the intact virion, aggregates of complcte (vertex) capsomeres, dodecons ; dimerized pentons (vrrtcx) ctlpsomerrs with fibers; dimcrized fibers. In- complete hemagglutinins : Monomeric pcntons or fibers. Incomplete (monomeric) hemagglutinins on separate cells joincd by heterotypic antibodies to penton base or to fiber. Redrawn from E. Norrby (1969a) by permission of the author and the pub lishcr . originally found in cell cultures of group 3 viruses (Kasel et al., 1961; Kasel and Huber, 1964) can probably now be explained as competitive inhibition of the complete rat and human 0 cell agglutinins by fiber antigens elaborated by group 2 or group 3 viruses (Wadell, 1969). Type 4 viruses produce only the dodecon as a soluble hemagglutinin. The evidence indicates that the distal knob on the adenovirus fiber is responsible for interaction of the virion or the soluble hemagglutinins with erythrocytes. The fiber knob is also the locus of attachment of hemagglutinin-inhibiting antibody. Nonterminal arginine residues on the viral capsid, presumably at this location on the fiber, and glutamic or aspartic carboxylic acid groups on the red cell membrane protein are required for the reversible interaction of adenovirus type 7 and erythro- cytes . It is of some interest that treatment of human 0 cells with RDE from I’ibrio cholerae as well as with influenza A2 virus reduced considerably thc capacity of the cells to be agglutinated by type 9 adenoviruses. Likewise adenovirus 9 adsorbed to normal human 0 e;ythro:ytes could be eluted with RDE. Apparently type 9 is unique among the adenoviruses thus
