Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


to be agglutinated by type 9 adenoviruses. Likewise adenovirus 9 adsorbed to normal human 0 e;ythro:ytes could be eluted with RDE. Apparently type 9 is unique among the adenoviruses thus far studied for this characteristic which suggests that the corresponding receptors differ from those for other types (Wadell, 1969). Adenoviruses classified in group 2 give complete agglutination of rat 28 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE erythrocytes. Certain group 2 viruses, however, also agglutinate rhesus cells. Further investigation of several of these (types 9, 13, 15) showed that a portion of the inonkcy cell hemagglutinin w~tsa ssociated with the virion and, for types 9 arid 15, could riot be separated from thc respcctive agglutinins for rat cells. On the other hand, the soluble rat cell agglutinins of types 9 and 15 were separahle from one another on the basis of buoyant density and their dif'fcring affinitics for monkey cells (Table 11) (Wigand and Stohr, 1965). In addition, monkey cell agglutinins were more resistant than were rat cell agglutinins to trypsin followed by lrclttirig to 56OC, a furthcr indication of the diversity in physi- cal and/or chemical configuration of the hemagglutinins. This diversity is reflected also in varying affinities for type-specific antibody. Human and animal sera contain nonspecific inhibitors of hemaggluti- nation occasionally in titer sufficient to interfere with detection of specific antibody (Rosen, 1960a; Schmidt et al., 1966). These nonspecific inhibi- tors may be rcinoved by adsorption to kaolin or inactivated with Pseudo- moms filtrate (Schmidt et nl., 1964~)T. he latter treatment was thought to remove less antibody tlian kaolin, a particularly important considera- tion with scra containing low antibody titers. Thc same result may be achieved by adsorption with heparin-MnC1, . What appears to be a different type of inhibitor for adenovirus type 5 was found in the a-1-globulin fraction of serum and, while also adsorbable to kaolin, had thc charactcristics of mucopolysaccharide with a molecular weight between that of orosorriucoid (44,000) and albumin (69,000). Electron microscopic evidence suggested that, in flocculating whole viral TABLE I1 SUBDIVISIOOFN GROUP2 ADI"NOVIRUHW Soluble Viral HA HA RBC (serotype) High density Low density + Monkey 9+ + - - 13,15+ + Rat 9++ ++b * - 1.5 + 13-" - -~ a Data from Wigmd and Stohr (1965). * Soluble HA (typcs 9, 15) solely for rat cells obtainable by absorption with monkey cells, Type 13 HA (viral and soluble) solely for monkey
