Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


from Wigmd and Stohr (1965). * Soluble HA (typcs 9, 15) solely for rat cells obtainable by absorption with monkey cells, Type 13 HA (viral and soluble) solely for monkey cells obtainable by absorption with rat cells. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 29 particles with purified inhibitor, the latter attached directly to the hem- agglutinating sites on the virion (Shortridge and Biddle, 1968). Suggestive evidence as to the chemical nature of adenovirus hemagglu- tinin receptors has come from a direct analysis of rhesus erythrocyte ghosts . It was shown that phenol, n-butanol, and potassium periodate treatment of membranes rendered them incapa- ble of inhibitory activity against adenovirus type 7 whereas RDE had no effect, although eliminating receptors for influenza virus. Inactivation of adenovirus 7 receptors was effected by treatment with trypsin, chymo- trypsin, papain, pronase, and ficin. These findings were taken as evidence for the proteinaceous nature of the receptors which were considered not to involve glycoproteins. E. Arboviruses Since the original description of hemagglutination with Japanese B encephalitis virus (Sabin and Buescher, 1950), this property has been found to be associated with many, but not all of the more than 200 arboviruses now recognized. Certain arboviruses of groups A and B, in cell culture, are detectable by hemadsorption (Buckley, 1959). Hem- agglutination and hemagglutination inhibition form the basis for the grouping of these viruses (Casals and Brown, 1954; Clarke and Casals, 1958), in the assay for which goose cells are used in preference to newly hatched chick cells. Methods used to prepare hemagglutinating antigens have been refined in recent years although they are still based on rela- tively empirical observations. The source of antigen is most often suck- ling mouse brain or, as in group C strains, mouse sera (Ardoin et al., 1969; Casals and Whitman, 1961). The basic procedure involves the extraction of homogenized infected brain tissue with acetone in the pres- ence of sucrose, the function of the latter being to protect the virus from the action of acetone. Acetone presumably separates viral particles from normal brain lipids which interfere with the attachment of hemag- glutinin to erythrocytes. Aqueous extracts of brain tissue usually have lower hemagglutination titers due to the presence of these lipids. A recent study , endeavoring to compare the utility of several preparative methods, demonstrated that simple genetron extrac- tion of suckling mouse brain yielded antigens comparable to those de- rived by sucrose-acetone extraction. The hemagglutinating
