Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


to compare the utility of several preparative methods, demonstrated that simple genetron extrac- tion of suckling mouse brain yielded antigens comparable to those de- rived by sucrose-acetone extraction. The hemagglutinating titer of group C viruses is enhanced by sonification and in certain instances by trypsin treatment . Final antigen preparations, though par- tially inactivated, still retain a substantial measure of infectivity and hence must be handled with due precautions. The conditions under which hemagglutination with arboviruses is per- 30 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE formed are critical. Thus, for most of the group A viruses the optimal ternperature is 37OC, the optimal pH 6.4; the corresponding values for meinbers of group B are 622°C and pH 7 (Casals and Brown, 1954). Spontaneous elution by certain group A viruses may be shown to occur . outside the pII range optiirial fur lie~nug~ltit~inatio(Sria lmincn, 1960) With elution, there is no detectable alteration of the erythrocyte surface since erythrocytes from which virus has eluted are fully capable of ab- sorbing more virus of the same or othrr types, RDE treatment of red cells fails to affect their aggliitinability by certain arboviruses (Eastern and Western equine encephalomyelitis) (Karabstsos, 1963) thus indicat- ing thitt receptors do not involvc NANA. A difference in the character and/or disposition of group A and B receptors was suggested by the finding that trypsin, chymotrypsin, and papain iriactivatcd group B vi- ruses and not, group A viruses with respect to both hemagglutinin and infectivity. The evidence indicated that the hemagglutinin of group 13 virus includes a protein on the viral capsid (Cheng, 1958). A numher of investigations have been directed toward establishing some analogy between lipids or lipoproteins on the one hand and, on the other, the lLreceptor”s ubstance present on the erythrocyte surface. Thus, serum lipoproteins can be shown to havc an inhibitory effect on srbovirus hemagglutination and their removal by absorption to kaolin or other means is often necessary in order to discover the presence of antibody (Clarke and Casals, 1958). A fraction extiactahle from ox brain and rich in phosI.’liotitlglinofiitol has also been shown to bind hcm- agglutinating urboviruses preferentially and thus to inhibit hcmaggluti- nation (Frisch-Niggemeyer, 1967). This led to the inference that the receptors on the erythrocytes werc or included lipid. Suggestive evidence has also becn sdrluccd from the direct assessriierit of hemagglutination inhibition by human red cell phospholipid fractions with Felected arbovi- ruses
