Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


on the erythrocytes werc or included lipid. Suggestive evidence has also becn sdrluccd from the direct assessriierit of hemagglutination inhibition by human red cell phospholipid fractions with Felected arbovi- ruses of groups A and B (Porterfield and Rowe, 1960). The B viruses were inhibited by lipoproteins from either serum or erythrocytes; the single group A virus tested was not. A more recent attcrn1,t to cxploir the chemical nature of erythrocyte receptors for rcprcscntative group A, B, and D viruses involved the assay, in hemagglutination inhibition tests, of crude goose red cell stromata which had been extracted with syucous ether. The inhibitory material, as finally uscd, contained no detectable sialic acid, only traces of hexose, but substantial phospholipid and protein (Nicoli, 1965). The evidence suggesting the similarity of these various lipid inhibitors to the actual receptor sites on erythrocytrs is undermined by several considerations. Phosphotidylinositol is not present in the red cell mem- brane; the anionic character of erythrocyte surface can be ascribed VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 31 wholly to terminally bound NANA. An extensive study undertaken with mixtures of standard lipids showed that suitable steric arrangements were necessary in aqueous solution for interaction with arboviruses to take place (Gorman, 1970). This admits at leabt of the possibility of lipid-lipid interactions but does not justify the assumption that cell receptors are lipid or even that they require lecithin or cholesterol for interaction with viral hemagglutinin. The chemical nature of receptors for arboviruses thus remains obscure, although the most attractive pos- sibility still remains that hemagglutination is a protein-protein interac- tion between viral capsid and membrane. The involvement of membrane polysaccharide is uncertain. F. Reoviruses The reoviruses, originally designated ECHO 10 viruses, were separated as a group on the basis of their larger size and their characteristic cyto- pathic effect, which differed from that of the enteroviruses. Reoviruses are found in many species besides man; but all, regardless of species, can be separated into three distinct serotypes based on hemagglutination inhibition reactions (Rosen, 1960b). Human erythrocytes are aggluti- nated by all three. Type 3, however, also reacts with bovine erythrocytes to somewhat higher titer. The agglutinin is neither strictly pH nor tem- perature dependent, taking place equally well at 4OC, 23OC, and in the pH range 6 to 8. Elution is variable and nonenzymatic in nature. The human erythrocyte receptors for reovirus are unaffected by Vibrio chol- erae neuraminidase. However, bovine erythroc5 te receptors
