Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


pH range 6 to 8. Elution is variable and nonenzymatic in nature. The human erythrocyte receptors for reovirus are unaffected by Vibrio chol- erae neuraminidase. However, bovine erythroc5 te receptors for tyFe 3 are inactivated by this enzyme (Eggers et al., 1962; Gomatos and Tamm, 1962) suggesting that there may be a difference between receptors for type 3 and those for types 1 and 2 which is related to the presence of NANA residues, Trypsin reduces agglutinability of human 0 erythro- cytes by all three types . Since human erythrocytes bearing the determinants of blood group A (i.e., cells of groups A or AB) are more reactive with all three serotypes than are cells of group 0 or B (Brubaker et al., 19641, blood group substances may be impli- cated in the reovirus receptor. However, it appears that the main reactive site on the red cell is a protein sensitive to trypsin and chymotrypsin but insensitive to certain carbohydrate-splitting enzymes and to boro- hydride (Lerner and Miranda, 1968). This would minimize the role of polysaccharide components. The demonstrated sensitivity to trypsin and chymotrypsin indicated that an essential peptide linkage with aromatic amino acids is involved in the receptor activity. On the other hand, preincubation of type 2 reoviruses with sodium borohydride, as well as with carbohydrases (par- 32 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE ticularly beta glucosaminidase) substantially reduced their agglutinating potency. These findings suggested that polysaccharicie residues on the virion might be essential to the hemagglutinating action. N-Acetylglucos- amine has been reported to be inhibitory for agglutination of human 0 cells by all three types of reovirus (Gelb and Lerner, 1965). The inhibition was proved bo be due to attachment of the sugar to the vi- rion rather than to combination with the surface of the erythrocyte. This was interpreted to suggest that N-acetylglucosamine on the red cell surface might be involved in the union with capsid glycoprotein. However, no oligosaccharide residues have as yet been definitively recog- nized as forming a part of the reoviral capsid. Hemagglutination is a property of both complete and incomplete, or coreless particles (Papadirnitriou, 1966), for which -SH groups on the virion are essential. This conclusion was based on the finding that treat- ment of virus (types 2 and 3) with p-choloromercuribensoate (PCMB) inactivated hemagglutinin and infectivity, the former being reactivable with thiol compounds, e.g., reduced glutathione (GSH) (Gomatos and Tamm, 1962). The
