Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


ment of virus (types 2 and 3) with p-choloromercuribensoate (PCMB) inactivated hemagglutinin and infectivity, the former being reactivable with thiol compounds, e.g., reduced glutathione (GSH) (Gomatos and Tamm, 1962). The removal of the cttpsid layer by proteolytic enzymes resulted in an increase in infectivity of all three typcs of reovirus. Hem- agglutinating activity was retained by the ensyme-treated virus. Electron microscopic examination of thcse capsidless particles revealed the pres- ence of spikelike components which protruded from the subcapsid layer and were thought to contain the hemagglutinin . The exact nature of the bond between viral hemagglutinin and receptor on the erythrocytes remains unidentified, however. All that can be said is that -SH groups on the virion arc nccebsary for the reaction and that one kind of receptor for type 3 may be glycoprotein. For the other two types, receptors are protein without essential -SH groups since pretreatment of crythrocytc with PCMB has no effect on hcmagglutina- tion with these viruses. Nonspecific hemagglutination inhibitors show some characteristics which parallel those of erythrocyte receptors. Thus type 3 reovirus was found to bind to ovomucin or to inhibitors present iri various animal sera, all of which were inactivated by RDE (Gomatos and Tamm, 1962). Likewise a salivary muciri was shown to have the same binding properties arid to be inactivated by RDE. These findings further substantiated the affinity of reoviruses for glycoproteins but, except by analogy, gave relatively little direct information regarding the chemical nature of the erythrocyte receptor groupings. Nonspecific serum inhibitors of reovirus herriagglutination could be absorbed by treatment of the serum with kaolin or with rivanol . These two reagents, however, removed substantial amounts of immuno- VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 33 globulin as well. Treatment of antisera with heparin-MnC1, resulted in only negligible loss of antibody while removing most of the nonspecific inhibitors. Inhibitory activity for the 3 serotypes was found in the p-lipo- protein fraction in addition to the mucoprotein inhibitor for type 3 . This was consistent with the previous finding that nonspecific inhibition could be inactivated by phospholipase C (Schmidt et al., 1964c) as well by lecithinase and proteases . G. Enteroviruses Among the picornaviruses it is predominantly the ECHO group and Coxsackie B3 virus which have been shown to hemagglutinate human 0 erythrocytes . While hemagglutination appears to be a common property of many serotypes, all the strains of a given agglutinate, the reaction can be inhibited with
