Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


to hemagglutinate human 0 erythrocytes . While hemagglutination appears to be a common property of many serotypes, all the strains of a given agglutinate, the reaction can be inhibited with type-specific antibody. The optimum pH varies from strain to strain, as does also the optimum temperature. Indeed, on the basis of the latter variation, it is possible to group certain serotypes depending on their maximal activity at 4OC or 37oC with adult or newborn human erythrocytes (Kern and Rosen, 1964). To this extent, temperature dependence is evident with some strains. Some, but not all, of the ECHO viruses elute from the erythro- cyte surface. Those which elute leave the red cell surface still capable of adsorbing fresh virus. The reaction can be considered, on this basis, to be nonenzymatic in nature (Podoplekin, 1964). In dissecting the hem- agglutination reaction, some inferences may be made as to the nature of the responsible viral and cell receptor components, respectively. The hemagglutinating property resides in the capsid protein, since both com- plete and incomplete viral particles are antigenically identical and hem- agglutinate, as shown with ECHO virus type 12. The incomplete particle, however, was found to be less stable to heat and ether treatment, from which finding the importance of the RNA core in maintaining icosohedral stability was inferred. Fragments of coreless particles, however, were without detectable hemagglutinating activity, suggesting a lower size limit for the manifestation of hemagglutination . While the thermal lability of different ECHO virus hemagglutinins varied in degree, it was shown in each case to parallel closely the inacti- vation of infectivity. The patterns of cationic stabilization for both hem- agglutinin and infectivity were identical for those strains tested (Podop- lekin and Ivanova, 1966). Moreover, the rate at which infectivity was inactivated was more rapid for whole virus than for the corresponding soluble RNA. These observations substantiated the hypothesis that sta- bilization by mono- and divalent cations involved primarily the capsid. 34 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE Further evidence as to thc chemical nature of the viral component responsiblc for the hemagglutination reaction hss been derived from studying the cff ects of various specific carbohydrases and proteases which reduce or eliminate the hemagglutinin. Complementary evidence was adduced by showing that several aldoses were capable of binding to thc crythrocytc surface, thereby rendcring the cells inagglutinable by ECHO viruses. The saccharides did not attach to viral particles. A rela-
