Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


showing that several aldoses were capable of binding to thc crythrocytc surface, thereby rendcring the cells inagglutinable by ECHO viruses. The saccharides did not attach to viral particles. A rela- tion was apparent between the nuinher of carbon atoms in the aldose chains and their inhibitory potency (Lerner et al., 1966b3. The results suggested that hemagglut'nation mtiy br effected by oligosaccliaride res- idues in the viral capsid . As with the reoviruses, however, the validity of these explanations must await the direct drmon- stration of oligosaccharides in the viral capsid. The role of -SH groups in the capsid has also been examined. Certain sulfhydryl reagents, notably PCMB, blocked the hemagglutinating activ- ity of a nurnbcr cf eriteroviruses (ECHO 7, 11, 12, 19.and Coxsackie B3) for human 0 cells. This effect was reversible by thiol compounds :wctainide) inactivation of viral hemagglutination was greater at pH 9 than at pH 5. It sccmed likely these reactions were taking place with dissociated mercaptides rather than with undissociated -813 groups. Since it is known that dissociation increases with pEI, this would explain the parallel increase in inactivation with iodoacetamide. The inactivation with iodoacctamide, in contrast to PCMB, was irreversible; however, both retigents could be shown by blocking experiments to act at the same site on the viral particle. In contrast, thc saine sulfhydryl and alkylating reagents had 110 effect on the erythrocyte surface with respect to agglutinability by enteroviruses. Trcatrrient with chymotrypsin or papain resulted in loss of agglutinahility by ECHO viruses (Imner and Miranda, 1968; Philipson, 1959). In addition, chymotrypsin altered both erythrocytes and crythrocytc rnembrancs in such a manner that no virus was adsorbed, indicating further that adsorption and hemagglutinating activities involved the same protein (s) of thc erythrocyte membrane. Receptors for ECHO 7, 11, and 19 arid for Coxsackie B3 viruses mwe identical with one another (Philipson and Bengtsson, 1962). Study of thc dynamics of virus-erythrocyte rcceptor interaction re- vealed two stages in the attachment of cnteroviruses to cells or mem- branes. The first was adsorption, which for nonrluting enterovirupes (ECHO 7 and Coxsackie B3) W:L~ 1 rlatively intiependcnt of temperature. These noneluting viruses could be dissociated from erythrocytes by chyrriotrypsin at 37OC. This wtis followed in time by a second stage, characterized by resistance to chymotrypsin. Other strains could be VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 35 shown to adsorb at 4OC and elute spontaneously at 37OC. The time required for elution in the
