Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


stage, characterized by resistance to chymotrypsin. Other strains could be VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 35 shown to adsorb at 4OC and elute spontaneously at 37OC. The time required for elution in the latter instance was the same as that required for the noneluting viruses to become resistant to dissociation from their receptors by chymotrypsin, i.e., attain the second stage. The pH optimum for adsorption to membranes was 5.5. Resistance of the receptor-virus complex to dissociation by chymotrypsin increased with pH above neu- trality, and was maximal at pH 9, the pH optimum of chymotrypsin being 7.8. There were some parallels in this erythrocyte-virus system with the first stages of infection of a susceptible host cell, to which virus attached reversibly at first, with time showing a progressive resis- tance to dissociation from the receptor complex with chymotrypsin. This resistance was temperature dependent ( Philipson and Bengtsson, 1962). Heat lability and temperature dependence indicated that this second stage might be an enzyme-mediated reaction, with both host cells and erythrocytes. Attempts have been made to characterize the chemical nature of the erythrocyte receptor material and to determine the mechanism of interac- tion with enteroviruses . Crude membranes, prepared by freeze-thaw hemolysis, were treated with n-butanol in the presence of 2.5 M CaC1,. Soluble inhibitory material was found in the aqueous portion of the mixture. This soluble material could be purified further by passage through Sephadex G-200. After removal of lipoprotein by precipitation with heparin and MnCl?, the inhibitory material, eluting with the vo'd volume, was assumed to have a molecular weight greater than 200,000. Analysis showed the presence of 60% protein, 31% lipid, and 9% carbohydrate. The major portion of the latter appeared to be bound to glycolipid. However, after lipid extraction of the soluble inhibi- tor, approximately 0.1% protein-bound NANA was found. A deoxynu- cleotide was also found in the receptor material. Double-stranded DNA was subsequently identified in hemoglobin-free membranes prepared from red cells which had been separated from leukocytes before lysis. Although the leukocytes were thereby excluded as a contaminating source, it was still possible that DNA from some other source was merely occluded to the erythrocytes ( Philipson and Zetterqvist, 1964). In accord with the findings with whole membranes, the soluble inhibitor inactivated enteroviruses capable of agglutinating (ECHO 7, Coxsackie B3), but not those incapable (ECHO 9, poliovirus lfof agglutinating human 0 cells. Similarly, hemagglu tination inhibitory activity was destroyed by
