Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


inhibitor inactivated enteroviruses capable of agglutinating (ECHO 7, Coxsackie B3), but not those incapable (ECHO 9, poliovirus lfof agglutinating human 0 cells. Similarly, hemagglu tination inhibitory activity was destroyed by treating the red cell fraction with papain and chymotrypsin, but not with trypsin, venom phosphodiesterase, periodate, or sonication. It is of interest that the inhibitory activity of the soluble material was 1000 times greater against hemagglutinating enteroviruses than against in- 36 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE fluenza or Sendai viruses. This was consistent with its low content of NANA, and suggested that the receptor activity for enteroviruses de- pendcd on peptides other than those involved in glycosidic linkage with oligosaccharide residues. However, the overall purity of this soluble in- hibitory material was difficult to assess. Previous experience with similar fractions suggests that several antigenically distinct proteins are in- volved, only one of which is glycoprotein (Table I). The macromolecular nature of the complex, moreover, can be ascribed to the tendency of these erythrocyte materials to aggregate spontaneously, especially in aqueous media of high ionic strength. Some evidence has been presented to indicate that soluble “purified” erythrocyte receptor, after irreversible binding by ECHO 7 virus, caused the release of infective viral RNA. A significant amount of ribonuclease appeared to be prescnt in the receptor preparation and could be inhibited by dextran sulfate. While it was readily shown that the labeled RNA released was infective, the mechanism of release from the virus-inhibitor complex remained obscure, although an enzymatic process was proposed (Philipson and Lind, 1964). The reaction of hemagglutinating enterovi- ruses with rcd blood cell components thus has some analogy with the first stages of enteroviral penetration into and eclipse by host cells. The red blood cell model, however, does not shed any particular light on the biochemical sequences involved, other than indicating that eclipse may be membrane mediated. There is some degree of parallel between the rcceptor material on red blood cells, thought to be lipoprotein, and inhibitory substances demonstrahle in fluids from both normal and infected cell cultures (Schmidt et al., 1964~)T.h e latter inhibitors, because of their susceptibil- , ity to chymotrypsin (not to trypsiii) papain, and organic solvents, were thought to be lipoprotein in nature. The heat-stable nonspecific hemag- glutination inhibitors present in many normal animal sera (Schmidt et at., 1964b) may also be lipoprotein or phospholipid protein complexes, since they are inactivated by combinations of chymotrypsin
