Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


nonspecific hemag- glutination inhibitors present in many normal animal sera (Schmidt et at., 1964b) may also be lipoprotein or phospholipid protein complexes, since they are inactivated by combinations of chymotrypsin and phos- pholipase C, or by filtrates of a psychrophilic pseudcmonad (Schmidt et nE., 1964~).I t would appear, insofar as both the tissue culture and serum inhibitors of enteroviral hemagglutination are concerned, that no polysaccharide constituents are involved, since neither inhibitor is affected by RDE or periodate oxidation. The general resemblance be- tween soluble inhibitors and erythrocyte receptors for hemagglutinating enteroviruses thus holds. It is on this basis also that enteroviral receptors may be said to differ from those for myxoviruses, the latter being highly dependent on certain oligosaccharide and peptide portions of mucopoly- saccharides at the cell surface. In sum, the evidence suggests that (1) VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 37' -SH groups on the virion, but not on the erythrocyte surface, are essen- tial for hemagglutination to occur. Attachment is thus not simply the establishment of S-S bonds between virus and cells, (2) Reagents affect- ing sugars, such as glycosidases, KIO,, and alkaline borohydride can inactivate viral hemagglutinin; comparable treatment of red cells does not interfere with the reaction. These facts suggest that oligosaccharide residues in the capsid may be the effectors of hemagglutinin; the presence of saccharides in the virion remains to be demonstrated. (3) The recep- tors on erythrocytes as well a5 on susceptible host cells are protein and/or possibly lipoprotein. The evidence suggests that polysaccharides of the membrane are not involved. The role of lipids is obscure. The character and behavior of nonspecific tissue culture and serum hemagglutinating inhibitors parallels to some extent those of the receptor material on erythrocytes insofar as this has been characterized. H. Miscellaneous Hemagglutinating Viruses 1. Rubella Virtu In order to detect hemagglutinin in cell cultures infected with rubella virus, nonspecific inhibitors must be removed from the sera used in the maintenance medium (Stewart et al., 1967; Furukawa et al., 1967). This is accomplished by prior adsorption of the sera with kaolin (Clarke and Casals, 1958) or by precipitation with heparin-MnC1, (Mann et al., 1967). Alternatively, infected cultures can be maintained in serum- free medium. Since the virus tends to remain cell associated, infected cells can be concentrated and hemagglutinin derived by disintegrating the cells. Various methods have been combined to enhance the hemagglu- tinin titer of rubella virus preparations. Virus dissociable from
