Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


infected cells can be concentrated and hemagglutinin derived by disintegrating the cells. Various methods have been combined to enhance the hemagglu- tinin titer of rubella virus preparations. Virus dissociable from inhibitor with Versene is subsequently treated with Tween 80-ether (Furukawa et al., 1967). These procedures result usually in loss of infectivity and, by analogy with measles virus, the fragmentation of hemagglutinin into smaller subunits. The critical conditions necessary for hemagglutination by rubella are comparable to those for arboviruses. The diluent must include dextran or gelatin as well as divalent cations and the final pH after addition of erythrocytes must be 6.0 to 6.2 (Stewart et al., 1967; Schmidt et al., 1968). Hemagglutination takes place best at 4OC with avian erythro- cytes, particularly those of the goose, newly hatched chickens or pigeons. Erythrocytes of mammalian species are nonreactive. Rubella virus ad- sorbed to erythrocytes does not elute spontaneously and at the pH of maximum agglutination is not capable of elution by RDE, myxoviruses or trypsin . However, the addition of Versene 38 C, HOWE AND L. T. LEE or elevation of the pH to 8.6 at 37OC cause elution of the virus. Erythro- cyte receptors remain unaltered. The nonspecific hemagglutination in- hibitor present in human and animal sera is thought to be p-lipoprotein, since it is inactivated by phospholipase C, is relatively heat stable and, as already noted, can be precipitated by heparin-MnC1, (Dold and Northrop, 1968) as well as by antibody to p-lipoprotein (E. Norrby, 1969b). Therc is evidence to suggest that the serum p-lipoprotcin inhibi- tor may bear some analogy to erythrocyte reccptors, particularly those on newly hatched chick cells which are morc readily agglutinated than adult cells. Elcctron microscopic studies showed the presence of “lanthanum staining material” as heavy elec- tron-dense coating present on erythrocytes from newly hatched chicks. Thc same material was present in only scanty amounts on adult erythro- cytes. Treatment of thc former with phospholipase C not only stripped the cells of most of this material but rendered them inagglutinable by virus. No further evidence was forthcoming as to the chemical character of this material although it was suggested it might he lipoprotein acting as the receptor for viral hemagglutinin. 2. Coronaviruses Members of this newly dcfined group of respiratory agents have in common a morphologicul resemblance to the viruses of avian infectious bronchitis (IBV-like agents) and mouse hepatitis. The name is descrip- tive of
