Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


newly dcfined group of respiratory agents have in common a morphologicul resemblance to the viruses of avian infectious bronchitis (IBV-like agents) and mouse hepatitis. The name is descrip- tive of the electron microscopic appearance of the viral envelope which is endowed with regularly arrayed club-shaped rods. These peripheral subunits are larger and more widely spaced than are the spikes on the envelope of myxoviruses. Their precisc function is unknown. Initially, coronaviruses were not found to agglutinate erythrocytes. However, treatment with trypsin or ether was found to render certain strains of IBV capable of hemagglutination (Corbo and Cunningham, 1969 ; Riswal et al., 1966). More recently, two human strains have been adapted to growth in suckling mouse brain. Concomitant with this changc in host species, virus-specific agglutinins wcre found to be associated with prep- arations of brain antigens of high infectivity (Kaye and Dowdle, 1969). Agglutinating activity was grcatest with rat, mouse, and chicken erythro- cytes at room tcmperature or at 37OC. Hemagglutination was inhibited by specific antibocly and was unaffected by neuraminidase treatment of erythrocytes. Receptors were therefore considered to be different from those for myxoviruses. Disruption of viral particles with detergent and ether destroyed the hemagglutinating activity. Nonspecific serum inhibi- tors of roronavirus hemagglutination apparently do not occur. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 39 3. Rhabdoviruses Hemagglutination of goose erythrocytes by rabies virus has recently been reported. Hemagglutinating activity associated with tissue culture grown rabies virus (Kuwert et al., 1968; Halonen et al., 1968; Murphy et al., 1968) depended on the integrity of the capsid protein. Agglutina- tion was apparently greater with artificially released intracellular virus than with extracellular, i.e., spontaneously released, virus. No noninfec- tive “soluble hemagglutinin” was found in cell cultures. Moreover, the hemagglutinin was sensitive to lipid solvents and to -SH reactive com- pounds. Maximum hemagglutination occurred at 4OC and at a pH below 6.8. Adsorbed virus eluted at 37OC without effecting any evident altera- tion of receptors. Treatment of erythrocytes with periodate or RDE had no effect on agglutinability of the cells by rabies virus. Proteolytic enzymes, lipid solvents, P-propiolactone and -SH reactive compounds inactivated the hemagglutinin. Because of the latter effect, it was inferred that -SH groups were involved in viral attachment to erythrocyte recep- tors. The nature of the latter, however, remains obscure. High titers of virion-associated agglutinins for goose erythrocytes were obtained in suspension cultures of BHKPl cells infected with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) maintained
