Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


Kmyon) saline) Polyoma g.p. (avian, 7-8 4°C irittmmttlian) H-viruscs 13-1, HT, H-3, g.p., hamster 7.2 6°C ItV, IIR (variable with other specks) Mouse leukemia R.auscher, g.p. 6.4 4°C virusw Gross (N-ase and phospholipase treatment of virus required) ovornucin (Hartley ef d.,19 59) and by an RDE-sensitivc glycoprotein inhibitor in bovinc wrum (Borecky et nl., 1962), provide cvidencc that the erythrocyte receptor for polyoina hemagglutinin may be included in thc virus reccptor substanre described in connection with myxoviruscs. VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 43 f Continued) Erythrocyte receptor Elution Nonspecific effected by Alteration Chemistry Viral Ha site inhibitors None by virus, None by RDE, ? Lipo- Virion and sub- Virus-serum EDTA, or paramyxo- protein, units derived complex change in pH viruses, ?? RNA by Tween- (CaZ+, Mgz+ , to 8.6 trypsin ether; ? pro- dependent) tein-lipid- dissociable ItNA with EDTA Nonenzymatic, None by RDE Unknown Suckling mouse change to brain adapted; 37°C destroyed by trypsin, Tween-80- ether Nonenzymatic, None by virus Unknown Intact virion Normal human, change to or RUE (capsid) ; in- burro, goat toom temp. activated by sera (R); proteases, sol- normal rabbit vents, -SH sera (VSV) compounds; propagate in serum-free medium Nonenzymatic By RUE, Glyco- Intact virion Ovomucin, at 37°C influenza proteins bovine serum viruses glycoprotein, normal tissue, and tumor extracts ? ? Unknown Intact virion Human and horse placenta1 glycoprotein (phosphatase) inhibits H-1, HB Nonenzymatic None by N-ase Unknown HA in virion ? blocked by glycopro tein, phospholipid Recent information on the structure of this material (VRS) may allow further elucidation of the interaction of polyoma and erythrocytes. The small RNA viruses, called H viruses, have been found to aggluti- nate a wide variety of mammalian red cells. The pattern among the 44 C. HOWE AND L. T. LEE different species was quite characteristic for each of 5 virus strains tested. H-1 virus had the widest range, and it alone agglutinated gerbil and goose cells. None of these viruses reacted with chicken erythrocytes (Toolan, 1967). A heat-stable glycoprotein inhibitor was found in horse and human placental fluids which was not a component of normal serum . The inhibitor in human fluid was active against H-1 and HB viruses and was subsequently shown to possess alkaline phosphatase activity . Inhibitory activity of the host placental material was destroyed by sialidase, meta- periodate, and papain, but not trypsin or chymotrypsin. These findings suggested by analogy that receptors on erythrocytes might be glycopro-
