Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: virus, viral, erythrocytes, cells, hemagglutinin, hemagglutination, viruses, influenza, cell, receptors, group, protein, erythrocyte, activity, human


of the host placental material was destroyed by sialidase, meta- periodate, and papain, but not trypsin or chymotrypsin. These findings suggested by analogy that receptors on erythrocytes might be glycopro- tein in nature. The morphological resemblance of RNA leukemia viruses of mice to myxoviruses has prompted an unsuccessful search for licmagglutination by these agents. Recently, however, it has bcen shown that treatment of mouse leukemia viruscs (SchSfer and SzBnt6, 1969) with neuramini- dase and phospholipase C uncovered n hemagglutinin for guinea pig erythrocytes which was associated with the viral particle, and was neu- tralized by type-specific antiviral antibody. The masking of hemaggluti- nin in the untreated viral particle was nscribcd to the presence of glyco- protein and phospholipid components acquired by the virion from thc host cell membrane during the process of maturation and release. The receptors on erythrocytes, unlike those for myxoviruses, were resistant to neuraminidase. Thcre was no evidence for an enzyme-nicdiated mcch- anism to explain the elution of virus. V. SUMMARY The agglutination of erythrocytes by direct action of viral particles was first described in connection with myxoviruses. This led directly to the discovery of viral ncuraminidase, a property unique to myxovi- ruses and paramyxoviruses. Thc discovery of hernagglutination by vi- ruses of other taxonomic groups has since added new dimensions to the study of these agents and antibodies to them. In this review, we have attempted to summarize the current knowledge of these reactions as it applies to the virion and its subunits and to the erythrocyte membrane. The latter has been the subject of recent intensive investigation, not a small portion of which originated in connection with the analysis of rnyxoviral hemagglutination and hemolysis. Considerable insight has thus been gained into the structure and cornpositon of the erythrocyte mem- brane through the use of viral receptor activity and blood group antigens as biological surface markers. While the most precise information avail- VIRUS-ERYTHROCYTE INTERACTIONS 45 able to date regarding viral receptors concerns those for myxoviruses, the rapidly expanding knowledge of membrane structure and function should allow the elucidation of othcr viral receptors as well. Much has already been learned through a study of receptor analogs derived from nonerythrocyte sources. Table I11 (pp. 40-43) summarizes the principal features characterizing hemagglutination by various members of the prin- cipal taxonomic groups of viruses.
