AdvsExp.Medicine,Biology-NeuroscienceandRespiration(2015)12:25–38
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, respiratory tract, symptoms, nasal, infection, tract infections, eccles, il-, etal, cytokines, viral, upper, associated


Eccles 1994; Proud 1998). arecorrelatedwiththelevelofcytokines,partic- The sensation of pain is mediated by the cranial ularlywithIL-6andTNF-α(Haydenetal.1998; nerves supplying the nasopharynx. Similar Kaiseretal.2001). symptoms have been observed in bacterial upper respiratory tract infections, pharyngitis, andtonsillitis(Georgitis1993). 4 Pathophysiology of Common Respiratory Signs and Symptoms 4.2 Nasal Congestion Evidence presented in our review of the patho- Nasal congestion is a subsequent symptom of physiology of signs and symptoms in the four respiratory infection that develops over the first most common viral upper respiratory tract week of symptoms . The infections suggest that the immune system’s mechanismofnasalcongestionreliesonthedila- response to infection rather than the virus- tionofthevenoussinusesinthenasalepithelium specific damage to the respiratory tract is in response to the vasodilator mediators such as PathophysiologyofClinicalSymptomsinAcuteViralRespiratoryTractInfections 31 bradykinin (Proud et al. 1990; Widdicombe colorful the nasal discharge appears (Stockley 1997). Symptom scores increase as kinin et al. 2001). Although the literature is related to concentrationsrise(Proudetal.1990).Dilatation sputum color changes, the same mechanisms of the sinuses in the narrow nasal valve region applytonasaldischarge. causes obstruction of the nasal airway (Eccles 2000b). The so-called nasal cycle (alternating congestion and decongestion of the nasal 4.4 Sneezing passagescontrolledbythesympatheticvasocon- strictornerves)isaccentuatedandtheasymmetry A watery nasal secretion in the infection’s early ofnasalairflowismorepronouncedduringrespi- stage is often accompanied by sneezing. Sneez- ratoryinfection(Ecclesetal.1996). ing together with a sore throat are the early symptoms of respiratory tract infections. Sneez- ingisareflexmediatedbythetrigeminalnerves 4.3 Rhinorrhea which supply the nasal epithelium (Leung and Robson1994;Eccles2005).Thesneezecenterin A watery nasal secretion often accompanied by the brainstem coordinates the sneeze reflex. sneezing is an early symptom of a respiratory Sneezing is related to inflammatory responses tract infection. Nasal discharge in respiratory in the nose and nasopharynx that stimulate the infections is a complex mixture of plasma and trigeminal nerves . As intranasal glandular exudates with cellular elements (e.g., administration of histamine causes sneezing, goblet cells, plasma cells, and neutrophils) of sneezing is probably mediated by histamine variable composition that changes over the receptors on the trigeminal nerves (Mygind courseoftheinfectionandseverityoftheinflam- etal.1983;Eccles2005). matoryresponse(Eccles1983).Thefirstphaseof nasal discharge consists of a glandular secretion reflex caused by stimulation of the upper 4.5 Cough airway’s trigeminal nerves. Studies have demonstrated that intranasal administration of Coughingisthemostcommonclinicalsymptom ipratropium inhibits nasal secretions in the first and the most frequent reason for visits to see a 4daysofacommoncold(e.g.,whenitiscaused doctor (McGarvey and Morice 2006). Coughing by coronavirus) (Akerlund et al. 1993; Hayden is aprotectivereflex thatprevents the aspiration etal.1996).Thecolorofthenasaldischargemay offoodandfluidsintotheairwayandcleansthe change from watery clear to yellow and green respiratorytractofmucusandotherforeignbod- during the course of the respiratory
