AdvsExp.Medicine,Biology-NeuroscienceandRespiration(2015)12:25–38
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, respiratory tract, symptoms, nasal, infection, tract infections, eccles, il-, etal, cytokines, viral, upper, associated


Coughing by coronavirus) (Akerlund et al. 1993; Hayden is aprotectivereflex thatprevents the aspiration etal.1996).Thecolorofthenasaldischargemay offoodandfluidsintotheairwayandcleansthe change from watery clear to yellow and green respiratorytractofmucusandotherforeignbod- during the course of the respiratory tract infec- ies. The reflex is mediated exclusively by the tion and this reflects the severity of the inflam- vagusnerve(Eccles2005).Coughingisinitiated matory response rather than the etiology of the inthe airway through stimulation ofthe sensory infection . The green or nerves in the larynx or below (Widdicombe yellowcolorofnasaldischargeisoftenregarded 1995).Theairway inflammationassociatedwith as a clinical marker of bacterial superinfection rhinitismustreachthelarynxtocausecoughing. andclinicalindicationtoantibiotictreatment,but Theexternalearandesophagusarealsosupplied there is no evidence that supports this concept by the vagus nerve and coughing can also be (Murrayetal.2000).Thecolorchangeisrelated triggered by gastroesophageal reflux (Morice to the recruitment of leukocytes into the airway 2002). Respiratory tract infections are often lumen . Neutrophils and accompanied by redundant, dry, and unproduc- activated monocytes contain chromatic, green tivecoughinginthefirstdays.Theunproductive granules (azurophil granules) containing coughing may be caused by the inflammatory myeloperoxidase with heme pigment. The more process spreading to the larynx since nasal leukocytes present in nasal discharge the more inflammation causes sneezing rather than 32 E.Kucharetal. coughing. Coughing in respiratory tract andinterleukins1,2,and6causemoodchanges infections is believed to be mediated by hyper- with anhedonia, cognitive dysfunction, anxiety, reactivityofthecoughreflexduetotheeffectsof irritability, psychomotor slowing, fatigue, inflammatory mediators onthe airway’s sensory anorexia, sleep alterations, and a lower pain nerve endings (Lee et al. 2002; Eccles and Lee threshold (Capuron and Miller 2004). The pro- 2004). When the larynx is inflamed and hyper- ductionofthesecytokinesisalsoassociatedwith reactive, coughing may occur spontaneously or respiratory tract infections which may mediate in response to stimuli that would not normally mood changes associated with these infections. cause coughing, e.g., cold air. It may persist for The exact mechanisms of cytokine action in the three weeks or longer. Some coughs may be brainarepoorlyunderstood,butthereisagrow- voluntary and related to airway irritation (Lee ing body of evidence suggesting that anorexia etal.2002).Productivecoughingusuallyoccurs associatedwithrespiratoryinfectionsismediated later in the course of respiratory tract infection by cytokines that act directly on the feeding andisrelatedtothemucusproductionassociated centerinthehypothalamus(Langhans2000). with inflammation of the lower airways (Eccles 2005).Rhinovirusandcoronavirusdonotusually causesignificantdamagetotheairwaycellsand 4.7 Headache the common cold is typically associated with little, if any, coughing while the influenza virus Headaches are a common early symptom of may cause substantial cellular damage to the respiratorytract infections.Themajority (60%) respiratoryepitheliumandaninfluenzainfection ofpatientswithrespiratorytractinfectionswitha is usually associated with coughing (Monto sore throat reported headaches in a clinical trial etal.2000). . The mechanism of a head- acheassociatedwitharespiratorytractinfection is unknown but headaches may be
