AdvsExp.Medicine,Biology-NeuroscienceandRespiration(2015)12:25–38
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, tract, respiratory tract, symptoms, nasal, infection, tract infections, eccles, il-, etal, cytokines, viral, upper, associated


respiratoryepitheliumandaninfluenzainfection ofpatientswithrespiratorytractinfectionswitha is usually associated with coughing (Monto sore throat reported headaches in a clinical trial etal.2000). . The mechanism of a head- acheassociatedwitharespiratorytractinfection is unknown but headaches may be triggered by 4.6 Malaise and Mood Changes cytokinesreleasedinresponsetoaviralinfection (Smith1992).Ithasbeenshownthattheadmin- Respiratory tract infections are associated with istrationofsomecytokinessuchastumornecro- impaired psychomotor function (Smith sisfactorandinterferonscauseheadaches(Smith et al. 1998). Mood changes and malaise may be 1992; Gold et al. 2005; van Zonneveld explainedbytheunpleasantobjectivesymptoms etal.2005). of respiratory tract infections such as nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, and coughing (Eccles 2005). These symptoms may cause discomfort 4.8 Muscle Pain andlowerthepatient’squalityoflife.However, there is increasing evidence that mood changes Myalgia is a common symptom of respiratory may also be caused by the effects of cytokines tract infections. Around half of patients with a on the central nervous system (Mahoney and common cold complain about muscle pain Ball 2002). Interferon alpha treatment for (Ecclesetal.2003;Eccles2005).Myalgiaoccurs chronic hepatitis B and C is associated with intheacuteimmuneresponsetoinfectionphase flu-likeadverseeffectssimilartothoseobserved andisrelatedtotheeffectsofcytokinesonskel- in respiratory tract infections: malaise, fever, etal muscles . myalgia, and mood changes (Schaefer Proinflammatory cytokines including TNF-α et al. 2002). Psychiatric adverse effects such as havebeenimplicatedinthebreakdownofmuscle depression, irritability, impaired concentration, proteins . Fever and myalgia andpsychoseshavebeenreportedwithinterferon associated with respiratory tract infection may alpha therapy. It has been reported that be caused by the production of prostaglandin cytokines,e.g.,tumor necrosisfactor-α (TNF-α) E2 in response to cytokines (Baracos PathophysiologyofClinicalSymptomsinAcuteViralRespiratoryTractInfections 33 et al. 1983). The cytokine-related synthesis of center of the hypothalamus. Many cytokines act prostaglandin E2 and the breakdown of skeletal as endogenous pyrogens and are released from muscle has been inhibited in vitro by leukocytes in response to infection (Conti non-steroidalanti-inflammatoryagentsandsimi- et al. 2004). The proinflammatory cytokines larly fever and myalgia accompanying acute (IL-1andIL-6)areregardedasthemostimportant respiratory infection are relieved with cytokines for causing fever (Netea et al. 2000; acetylsalicylic acid, a classic anti-inflammatory Leon 2002). They are believed to cross the agent . Since prostaglandin blood-brain barrier and increase the thermal set E2isapainmediator,itsincreasedsynthesismay pointinthetemperaturecontrolcenter.Thehypo- explain the myalgia associated with acute respi- thalamus then induces shivering, constriction of ratorytractinfections. theskin’sbloodvessels,andchills(Eccles2005). 4.9 Fever and Chills 4.10 Febrile Seizures Fever is a classic response to infection. It is a Febrile seizures are a rare but significant symp- manifestationofcytokinereleaseinresponsetoa tom of acute viral respiratory infections in chil- variety of stimuli. It is believed to be beneficial dren.Theyoccurin2–5%ofallchildrenandthe for the host’s response to infection (Cabanac majority of febrile seizures are triggered by 1990; Eccles 2005) and is usually associated respiratory tract infection (Schuchmann with
