Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, metastasis, melanoma, primary, organ, survival, study, metastases, pgim, analysis, cancer, xie, metastatic, site, prognosis


Medicine ® Observational Study Prognostic factors in primary gastrointestinal melanoma patients with organ metastases A population-based study Guixiang Wang, MMa, Yanan Xie, MMa,* Abstract Primary gastrointestinal melanoma (PGIM) is an exceedingly rare tumor with aggressive potential. We aimed to evaluate the patterns of metastasis and the prognosis in patients with PGIM harboring organ metastases, which may help clinicians better understand this rare disease. Data from patients with PGIM harboring organ metastases were obtained from the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results database between 2010 and 2021. The Kaplan–Meier method with the log-rank test was used to compare survival curves among patients with different metastatic patterns. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards models were employed to evaluate the independent prognostic factors. A total of 120 eligible patients were included in this study. The most common organ metastatic site was the liver (70.8%), followed by the lung (59.2%), bone (15.8%), and brain (11.7%). The predictors independently associated with overall survival were as follows: age, primary site, and surgery. Interestingly, the number of metastatic sites was not an independent prognostic factor for overall survival. These findings may assist clinicians in developing a more thorough understanding of this rare disease and formulating individualized management strategies. Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval, HR = hazard ratio, OS = overall survival, PGIM = primary gastrointestinal melanoma, SEER = Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results. Keywords: organ metastases, overall survival, primary gastrointestinal melanoma, prognostic factors, SEER 1. Introduction patterns. For PGIM, many reports are primarily limited to case studies due to its extremely low incidence.[9-11] The Primary gastrointestinal melanoma (PGIM) is a rare and aggres- Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data- sive form of mucosal melanoma, accounting for approximately base, which includes incidence, survival, and mortality data, 21% of newly diagnosed mucosal melanomas. The annual is a population-based cancer registry system covering approx- incidence is 0.58 per million population (0.59 in males and 0.57 imately 28% of the US population. This database provides in females). Within the gastrointestinal tract, PGIM is most a sufficient number of cases and prognostic outcomes, mak- commonly found in the anorectal mucosal epithelium, followed ing it possible to conduct prognostic studies on rare tumors. by the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intes- Previous studies using SEER data have reported on the inci- tine. Previous studies have shown that the 3-year overall sur- dence and OS of PGIM. However, there are currently no vival
