Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, metastasis, melanoma, primary, organ, survival, study, metastases, pgim, analysis, cancer, xie, metastatic, site, prognosis


on the months) and 6 months in the 2 or more organ metastasis group International Classification of Diseases for Oncology, third edi- (95% CI: 4–9 months). However, the Kaplan–Meier survival tion. Melanomas with primary site codes C15.0 to C21.8 were curve indicated no significant survival difference between the classified as PGIM. Patients with the sequence number of “One 2 groups (P = .17). We further analyzed the impact of the met- primary only” were selected. Then, patients with combined astatic sites on OS, focusing on solitary liver and solitary lung summary stage (2004+) of “Distant” were retained. The exclu- metastases. The median OS was 9 months in the solitary liver sion criteria were as follows: absence of pathological diagnosis metastasis group (95% CI: 4–19 months) and 6 months in the and unrecorded organ metastasis sites. Since SEER is a pub- solitary lung metastasis group (95% CI: 5–14 months). There licly accessible database with anonymized patient information, was no significant difference in OS between patients with sol- ethical approval or informed consent was not required for this itary lung metastasis and those with solitary liver metastasis study. (P = .84), as shown in Figure 3. Variables with P < .2 in the univariate Cox analysis were included in the multivariate Cox analysis, including age, race, 2.2. Outcome and variables primary site, surgery of primary site, and organ metastasis patterns. In the multivariate analysis, tumors originating from The outcome of this study was OS, defined as the interval from the anorectum (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.46, 95% CI: 0.27–0.77) diagnosis to death or the last follow-up. Metastatic organs or those received surgery of primary site (HR: 0.64, 95% CI: included the liver, lung, bone, and brain. Based on the number 0.42–0.99) were independently associated with improved OS. of metastatic organs, patients were divided into 2 groups: single- Age was identified as an independent risk factor for OS. Race organ metastasis and 2 or more organ metastases. Study variables included sex (male and female), age at diagnosis (<60 years and ≥60 years), race (White and non-White), marital status (mar- ried and unmarried/unknown), primary tumor site (anorectum Table 1 and non-anorectum), tumor size (≤5 cm, >5 cm, and unknown), Characteristics of patients with primary gastrointestinal melanoma surgery of primary site (yes and no), radiotherapy (yes and no/ harboring organ metastases. unknown), and chemotherapy (yes and no/unknown). Characteristics Number (N = 120) Sex 2.3. Statistical analysis
