Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, metastasis, melanoma, primary, organ, survival, study, metastases, pgim, analysis, cancer, xie, metastatic, site, prognosis


independently associated with a better OS (HR: 0.64, 95% CI: Project administration: Guixiang Wang, Yanan Xie. 0.42–0.99) compared to not undergoing surgery. These results Supervision: Yanan Xie. suggest that surgical resection of primary site, when feasible, Validation: Guixiang Wang, Yanan Xie. remains an effective treatment and confers some survival benefit Visualization: Yanan Xie. even in metastatic patients. This has been previously demon- Writing – original draft: Guixiang Wang. strated in multiple tumor studies. Nevertheless, these Writing – review & editing: Yanan Xie. results should be interpreted cautiously, as our study lacked information on baseline characteristics, such as nutritional sta- tus, comorbidities and surgery of metastatic sites, which could References introduce bias in treatment selection. This highlights the need Sergi MC, Filoni E, Triggiano G, et al. Mucosal melanoma: epidemiol- for larger, prospective studies to validate whether surgery – and what type of surgery (primary tumor resection, metastasis resec- Du Y, Chang X, Li X, Xing S. Incidence and survival of patients with tion, or both) – can provide survival benefits to patients. primary gastrointestinal melanoma: a population-based study. Int J In several tumor studies, including those on cutaneous malig- Colorectal Dis. 2023;38:87. nant melanoma, lung cancer and pancreatic neuroendocrine Zheng Y, Cong C, Su C, Sun Y, Xing L. Epidemiology and survival out- tumors, analyses have shown that patients with a single meta- comes of primary gastrointestinal melanoma: a SEER-based population static site have better prognosis compared to those with multi- study. Int J Clin Oncol. 2020;25:1951–9. ple metastatic sites.[21-24] Interestingly, our study found that the Serrao EM, Costa AM, Ferreira S, et al. The different faces of metastatic number of metastatic organs is not independently associated melanoma in the gastrointestinal tract. Insights Imaging. 2022;13:161. Siegel RL, Giaquinto AN, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2024. CA Cancer with the OS. The discrepancy in results may be attributed to J Clin. 2024;74:12–49. the inherently poor prognosis of PGIM. Our research demon- Zhang H, Cheng X, Guo W, et al. Metastasis patterns and prognosis in strated that the median OS was just 6 months. The disparity in young gastric cancer patients: a propensity score-matched SEER data- OS between the 2 groups may not be clearly evident because of base analysis. PLoS One. 2024;19:e0301834. the brief survival duration. Wang J, Li S, Liu Y, Zhang C, Li H, Lai B. Metastatic patterns This study is subject to several limitations. First, as a ret- and
