Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, metastasis, melanoma, primary, organ, survival, study, metastases, pgim, analysis, cancer, xie, metastatic, site, prognosis


the brief survival duration. Wang J, Li S, Liu Y, Zhang C, Li H, Lai B. Metastatic patterns This study is subject to several limitations. First, as a ret- and survival outcomes in patients with stage IV colon cancer: a rospective study, it is inherently susceptible to selection bias. population-based analysis. Cancer Med. 2020;9:361–73. Second, the SEER database lacks certain unmeasured con- Zhang S, Guo J, Zhang H, Li H, Hassan MOO, Zhang L. Metastasis founding variables, including comorbidities, immunotherapy, pattern and prognosis in men with esophageal cancer patients: a SEER- based study. Medicine (Baltim). 2021;100:e26496. specific nutritional and physical statuses, which may signifi- Orts M, Pérez DA. Atypical localization of metastatic melanoma in the cantly impact treatment decisions for patients. The absence of gastrointestinal tract. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2025;117:235–6. these data limited our ability to perform more detailed analy- Qin J, Cheung KS, Guo Y. Features of gastrointestinal malignant mel- ses based on these variables. Third, the SEER database relies anoma on endoscopic ultrasonography. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. on passive follow-up for its registered cases, which can lead 2024;22:xv–xv.e1. to incomplete records. For example, tumor metastasis sta- Sohail Z, Samar MR, Qureshi NJ, Arshad S, Zaki A. A curious case tus was classified as unknown/unstaged, suggesting potential of primary gastric mucosal melanoma. Korean J Gastroenterol. reporting omission. Furthermore, like other large retrospective 2024;83:33–6. cancer registries such as the National Cancer Data Base, SEER Sun S, Wang W, He C. Cardiovascular mortality risk among patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms: a registry- data are susceptible to misclassification bias. Fourth, the based analysis. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2021;2021:9985814. SEER database does not document metastases to other organs, Yin W, Zhang M, Ji Z, Li X, Zhang S, Liu G. Impact of tumor size such as peritoneal metastasis, which raises the possibility that on overall survival and cancer-specific survival of early-onset colon patients categorized as having single-site metastases may, in and rectal cancer: a retrospective cohort study. Int J Colorectal Dis. fact, have multiple metastatic sites. Consequently, it is imper- 2024;39:69. ative to interpret our findings with caution and to seek valida- Taylor JP, Stem M, Yu D, et al. Treatment strategies and survival tion through future research endeavors. Further study based on trends for anorectal melanoma: is it time for a change? World J Surg. different countries is essential for the attainment of generalized 2019;43:1809–19. conclusions. Zhang F, Xu B, Peng Y,
