Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


4–1 CHAPTER 4 GESTATIONAL DIABETES Boyd E. Metzger, MD, and Thomas A. Buchanan, MD Dr. Boyd E. Metzger is Tom D. Spies Professor of Nutrition and Metabolism Emeritus at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL. Dr. Thomas A. Buchanan is Professor of Medicine, Physiology and Biophysics, and Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA. Received in final form February 3, 2015. SUMMARY Since the 1979 publication on “classification and diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and other categories of glucose intolerance” by the National Diabetes Data Group, gestational diabetes has been defined as “carbohydrate intolerance of variable severity with onset or recognition during pregnancy.” The diagnosis and treatment of gestational diabetes focus on the prevention or reduction of adverse outcomes. However, the criteria that were proposed in 1964 by O’Sullivan and Mahan for interpretation of an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) during pregnancy focused on the level of risk for the development of diabetes in the mother. With modifications, these criteria remain in use in the United States in 2016. There is a longstanding controversy about the value of detecting and treating gestational diabetes. Two issues are the focus of concern. The first is whether the adverse outcomes that occur in pregnancies complicated by gestational diabetes are independently linked to maternal hyperglycemia or to confounding factors, such as obesity and/or higher maternal age. The Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) Study addressed this question. The HAPO Study demonstrated an independent association between maternal glucose from 75 g OGTTs performed at 24–32 (mean 27.8) weeks of gestation and the four independent primary study outcomes of birth weight above the 90th percentile, cord blood C-peptide above the 90th percentile, neonatal hypoglycemia, and primary cesarean delivery. Odds ratios were calculated for risk of outcomes associated with a one standard deviation increase in glucose at each of the three time points (fasting, 1-hour, and 2-hour) of the OGTT. The odds ratios, all of which were statistically significant, were in the range of 1.38–1.46 for birth weight above the 90th percentile, 1.37–1.55 for cord blood C-peptide above the 90th percentile, 1.08–1.11 for primary cesarean delivery, and 1.08–1.13 for neonatal hypoglycemia. There were no obvious thresholds at which risks increased. The second issue, whether diagnosing and treating mild gestational diabetes reduces adverse outcomes, was the focus of two large randomized clinical trials. Both trials showed
