Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


thresholds at which risks increased. The second issue, whether diagnosing and treating mild gestational diabetes reduces adverse outcomes, was the focus of two large randomized clinical trials. Both trials showed significant improvement in some perinatal outcomes when gestational diabetes was diagnosed and treated compared to when caregivers were blinded to the diagnosis and gestational diabetes was not treated. For example, rates of macrosomia (birth weight ≥4,000 g) were reduced from 21% and 14% in the untreated groups to 10% and 6%, respectively, in the treated groups of the two studies. Rates of the combined outcome of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension decreased from 18% and 14% in untreated to 12% and 9%, respectively, in treated groups in the two studies. The prevalence of gestational diabetes has increased substantially from the 1980s onward in parallel with increases in the frequency of obesity and overweight, type 2 diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, and impaired fasting glucose in the general population. For example, in pregnant women receiving prenatal care in the Northern California Kaiser Permanente Clinics, the overall frequencies of gestational diabetes were 4.7% in 1991 and 7.2% in 2000. The rate increased progressively with some year-to-year variation related to differences in age and racial/ethnic mix of the cohort. Based primarily on associations between glucose values and perinatal outcomes in the HAPO Study, the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG) recommended new glucose threshold values for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes (fasting, 1-hr, and 2-hr plasma glucose concentrations of 92, 180, and 153 mg/dL, respectively, with one or more values meeting or exceeding the threshold being diagnostic of gestational diabetes). Use of the IADPSG diagnostic thresholds leads to an additional increase in the prevalence of gestational diabetes. For this reason, some have recommended that more randomized treatment trials should be conducted to specifically assess the benefit of treating gestational diabetes cases that meet the IADPSG diagnostic thresholds but not older criteria for gestational diabetes. Thus, in the future as in the past, controversy about gestational diabetes is likely to remain part of diabetes in the United States. DEFINITION Since the 1979 National Diabetes Data Group (NDDG) publication titled “Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus and Other Categories of Glucose Intolerance” (1), gestational diabetes has been defined as “carbohydrate intolerance of variable severity with onset or recognition during pregnancy.” 4–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition BACKGROUND Diabetes occurring during pregnancy was recognized early
