Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


diabetes has been defined as “carbohydrate intolerance of variable severity with onset or recognition during pregnancy.” 4–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition BACKGROUND Diabetes occurring during pregnancy was recognized early in the 19th century (2), and in 1882, J. Matthews Duncan described what would later be called gestational diabetes mellitus when he indicated that “diabetes may occur only during pregnancy being absent at other times or may cease with the termina­ tion of pregnancy recurring some time afterwards” (3). With the advent of insulin treatment in 1922, pregnancy among women with diabetes occurred more frequently than it had previously. Information on pregnancy in women with preexisting diabetes is discussed in Chapter 5 Pregnancy With Preexisting Diabetes. It was soon found that “prob­ lems of fetal abnormality exist not only among diabetic women but also among those whom we have come to describe as ‘prediabetic,’ that is those in whom a diagnosis of diabetes is established at some time later” (4,5). Studies were initiated to determine whether treatment of prediabetes in pregnancy with insulin could reduce fetal complications (5). However, the criteria that were proposed by O’Sullivan and Mahan in 1964 for interpretation of an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) during pregnancy (6) focused on the level of risk for the development of diabetes in the mother. The term “gestational diabetes” had been used (7,8) before the O’Sullivan-Mahan criteria (6) were proposed in 1964. In 1971, Mestman et al. also proposed criteria for a normal OGTT in pregnancy (9). Focusing on gestational diabetes and fetal risks, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommended in 1978 screening for diabetes in pregnancy be carried out in patients with historical risk factors for diabetes using an OGTT (10), interpreted by the criteria of either O’Sullivan and Mahan (6) or by a separate set of criteria proposed by Mestman et al. (9). When the NDDG International Working Group published comprehensive guidelines for the classification and diagnosis of diabetes and other categories of glucose intoler­ ance in 1979 (1), the term gestational diabetes was restricted to pregnant women in whom the onset or recognition diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance occurred during pregnancy. Data linking maternal glycemia to perinatal outcomes were not available to define diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes. Instead, use of the O’Sullivan-Mahan criteria (6) was recommended with a correction to apply the criteria to plasma glucose concentrations rather than the whole blood
