Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes. Instead, use of the O’Sullivan-Mahan criteria (6) was recommended with a correction to apply the criteria to plasma glucose concentrations rather than the whole blood glucose values (1). In the 1980s, the World Health Organization (WHO) published recommen­ dations that equated gestational diabetes with diabetes detected during pregnancy and with values used for diagnosis of impaired glucose tolerance in nonpreg­ nant persons (11,12). In the absence of diagnostic criteria based on pregnancy outcome, numerous other strategies have been used in addition to the NDDG or WHO recommendations (13). With each of these strategies for the diag­ nosis of gestational diabetes, a diagnostic OGTT is administered only to pregnant women deemed high-risk by historical factors (glycosuria, family history of diabetes, obesity, maternal age [>35 or >40 years], previous fetal loss, malforma­ tions or birth of large for gestational age [LGA] infant), or a positive 50 g glucose challenge test (GCT), i.e., plasma glucose value at 1 hour of 135 or 140 mg/dL (7.49 or 7.77 mmol/L). This is discussed in detail in the section Detection and Diagnosis. Clinical and epidemiologic interest in gestational diabetes increased steadily during the last quarter of the 20th century. A series of five International Workshop-Conferences served to summa­ rize the work and to promote specific areas of research. In 1985, the Second International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (14) recom­ mended universal use of a GCT to exclude the majority of women with very low risk of gestational diabetes from full testing with an OGTT, leaving that testing to a minority with increased risk. In 1986, that recommendation was adopted by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) (15). The same year, ACOG also issued guide­ lines for screening for gestational diabetes (16). ACOG recommended administering a 50 g GCT to pregnant women age <30 years with risk factors for diabetes and to all pregnant women age ≥30 years. Both ADA and ACOG provided guidelines for treatment of gestational diabetes, including thresholds for initiating insulin therapy. In 1990, a survey of general obstetricians (ACOG Fellows) and special­ ists (Society of Perinatal Obstetricians) found that 90% of specialists and approx­ imately 77% of generalists conducted universal screening for gestational diabetes, primarily using a GCT followed by a 100 g OGTT in patients whose GCT value met or exceeded a cutoff value (17). Despite the endorsements and guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of gestational diabetes
