Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


followed by a 100 g OGTT in patients whose GCT value met or exceeded a cutoff value (17). Despite the endorsements and guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of gestational diabetes by two major U.S. professional organizations and widespread testing for gestational diabetes in clinical prac­ tice (17), there has been longstanding controversy about the value of detecting and treating gestational diabetes (18,19). Two issues have been the focus of concern. The first is whether the adverse outcomes that occur in pregnancies complicated by gestational diabetes are independently linked to maternal hyperglycemia or to confounding factors, such as obesity and/or higher maternal age. The second is whether treatment of hyperglycemia in gestational diabetes reduces adverse outcomes. In 2003 and again in 2008, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) concluded that the evidence was insufficient to make a recommendation for or against routine screening for gestational diabetes before or after 24 weeks of gestation (20,21). Since 2005, much evidence has been published to address both of these issues. The Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) Study demonstrated that there is indeed an independent association between maternal glucose from OGTTs performed Gestational Diabetes 4–3 at 24–32 (mean 27.8) weeks of gestation and several adverse perinatal outcomes (22). In parallel, two large randomized clinical trials investigated whether adverse outcomes were reduced by treatment of “mild” gestational diabetes (23,24). Both trials showed reductions in some perinatal outcomes in association with identification and treatment of gestational diabetes. In 2013, a USPSTF report found “adequate evidence that treatment of screen-detected gestational diabetes with dietary modifications, glucose monitoring, and insulin (if needed) can significantly reduce the risk of preeclampsia, fetal macrosomia, and shoulder dystocia. When these outcomes are considered collec­ tively, there is a moderate net benefit for both mother and infant” (25). However, the USPSTF went on to conclude that the evidence was inadequate “to determine whether there are benefits to screening for gestational diabetes in women before 24 weeks of gestation” (25). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY From the physiological standpoint, gestational diabetes identifies women whose pancreatic beta cells compensate inadequately for insulin resistance during pregnancy. Available evidence indicates that this beta cell defect is not specific to pregnancy: it exists before and after pregnancy in many, probably most, cases (26,27,28). As shown in Figure 4.1, women with gestational diabetes compensate for pregnancy-related changes in insulin resistance on a curve that is parallel to, but lower than, women without
