Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


cases (26,27,28). As shown in Figure 4.1, women with gestational diabetes compensate for pregnancy-related changes in insulin resistance on a curve that is parallel to, but lower than, women without gestational diabetes (27,28). In other words, defects in beta cell compensation for insulin resis­ tance, one of the best measures of beta cell function, are not dependent on preg­ nancy; they exist when the women are not pregnant as well. Data from Catalano et al. (26) indicate the defects antedate preg­ nancy as well. Thus, gestational diabetes can be thought of as detection of an underlying beta cell defect through routine glucose screening in pregnancy. In many cases, the beta cell defect that causes gestational diabetes worsens over time, imparting a high risk of diabetes following the index pregnancy. The beta cell defects of gestational diabetes result from many causes, including autoimmunity typical of type 1 diabetes (29,30,31), single gene variants typical of maturity-onset diabetes of youth (32,33) or maternally inherited diabetes (34), and chronic insulin resis­ tance typical of type 2 diabetes (26,28). The majority of women have phenotypic characteristics suggesting chronic insulin resistance and evolving type 2 diabetes (35). DETECTION AND DIAGNOSIS The diagnostic thresholds for gestational diabetes recommended by O’Sullivan and Mahan (6) represented the mean plus two standard deviation values for each sample (fasting and 1-, 2-, and 3-hour postload) of the 100 g OGTT that was performed on all 752 participants of the study cohort. Thus, by definition, the frequency of gestational diabetes was low in that population and in others with similar char­ acteristics. Since gestational diabetes is usually asymptomatic, it was necessary to formulate a strategy to screen pregnant women to determine in whom and when to do a diagnostic test (i.e., OGTT). SCREENING FOR GESTATIONAL DIABETES When Wilkerson and O’Sullivan developed a strategy to detect prediabetes or impaired glucose metabolism in pregnancy, they initially applied an approach and criteria that were used in nonpregnant persons (36). They compared the FIGURE 4.1. Beta Cell Compensation During and After Pregnancy in Women With and Without Gestational Diabetes Left panel: Relationships between pre-hepatic insulin secretion rates and insulin sensitivity measured during steady-state hyperglycemia (3 hours, 180 mg/dL) in women with GDM (n=7) or normal glucose tolerance during pregnancy (n=8). Right panel: Relationships between acute insulin response to intravenous glucose (AIRg) and insulin sensitivity (minimal model Si) in Hispanic women with GDM (n=99) or normal glucose
