Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


tolerance during pregnancy (n=8). Right panel: Relationships between acute insulin response to intravenous glucose (AIRg) and insulin sensitivity (minimal model Si) in Hispanic women with GDM (n=99) or normal glucose tolerance during and after pregnancy (n=7). Curved lines represent insulin sensitivity-secretion relationships defined by the product of sensitivity and secretion in each study group. Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. FFM, fat-free mass; GDM, gestational diabetes mellitus. SOURCE: Reference 28, copyright © 2007 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American Diabetes Association. Data for left panel are from Reference 27, copyright © 2001 Endocrine Society, reprinted with permission 4–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition predictive value of historical factors that they (4,5) and others (7) had associated with maternal prediabetes with the presence of a positive GCT. The GCT results were clearly more predictive. In 1973, O’Sullivan et al. (37) compared the GCT and OGTT results from the cohort of 752 pregnant women that had been used to define gestational diabetes (6). In this two-step analysis, they established that a GCT screening threshold of ≥130 mg/dL (whole blood; ≥7.22 mmol/L) had a sensitivity of 79% and specificity of 87% for the identification of women with gestational diabetes. Clinical risk factors alone or in combination were again found to be insensitive for detecting gestational diabetes (37). Accordingly, for many years, the standard practice in the United States has been to do a 50 g GCT in all women (14,15,16,17) or in all except those who qualify clinically as “low-risk” (38,39), followed by a diagnostic OGTT in women with screening values above a threshold designed for high sensitivity but low specificity for possible gesta­ tional diabetes. Worldwide, there are many different approaches to screening for gestational diabetes. In many areas outside of the United States, the GCT is not used at all or is administered only to women with clinical risk factors for diabetes or gesta­ tional diabetes. Many different values are used to discriminate between low-risk and at-risk results (40), due in part to inconsistent approaches to extrapolating plasma glucose values to replace whole blood glucose concentrations that were originally used to define a positive GCT (1,14,15,16,37,38,39,40,41). This problem and the concerns related to different laboratory methods and analyzers used to measure glucose were reviewed in detail in Diabetes in America, 2nd edition (42). Furthermore, a positive GCT is combined with either
