Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


related to different laboratory methods and analyzers used to measure glucose were reviewed in detail in Diabetes in America, 2nd edition (42). Furthermore, a positive GCT is combined with either a 75 or 100 g OGTT and the application of a variety of diagnostic criteria (40). Lowering the threshold for venous plasma glucose from 140 mg/dL (14) to 130 or 135 mg/dL increases the number diag­ nosed with gestational diabetes (greater sensitivity) but requires doing substantially more OGTTs (lower specificity) (41,42). However, few studies using different GCT thresholds in combination with specific diagnostic criteria have included a GCT and an OGTT in all participants (25,40). Systematic reviews published in 2012 (40) and 2013 (43) indicate that despite a number of limitations, using a GCT to identify women at risk for gestational diabetes is an acceptable screening procedure. However, differences in the application of the GCT as a screening tool are among several factors that contribute to the widely varying rates of gestational diabetes that have been reported across the globe (40,44). Furthermore, using only a postload glucose value for screening, as in the GCT, does not take advantage of the fact that the concentration of fasting plasma glucose (FPG) is also strongly and independently associated with several perinatal outcomes (22,45). The optimal time in pregnancy to screen and test for gestational diabetes is also an important question. Historically, pregnancy has been considered to be diabetogenic, particularly after the first trimester (46). The Second International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (14) and the ADA (15) recommended that “All pregnant women who have not been identified as having glucose intolerance before the 24th week should have a screening glucose load between the 24th and 28th week consisting of 50 g oral glucose given without regard to time of the last meal or the time of day. A value of >140 mg/dL… is recommended as a threshold to indi­ cate the need for a full diagnostic glucose tolerance test.” While some women could be identified as having gestational diabetes after screening and testing in the first trimester, a higher yield of abnormal results was found with testing in the second and/or third trimester (47,48). Early detection and treatment of previ­ ously undiagnosed diabetes are clearly of value; however, it remains uncertain that early detection and treatment of gestational diabetes are beneficial (25). Testing late in gestation may yield the largest number of cases
