Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


are clearly of value; however, it remains uncertain that early detection and treatment of gestational diabetes are beneficial (25). Testing late in gestation may yield the largest number of cases of gestational diabetes (47,48), but making the diag­ nosis of gestational diabetes late in the third trimester leaves little opportunity for treatment to have an effect on perinatal outcome. Performing a diagnostic OGTT in all preg­ nancies or in those considered at high risk for gestational diabetes and/or lifetime risk of diabetes (one-step procedure) is an alternate strategy for detection and diag­ nosis of gestational diabetes. In general, this approach to disease detection is most applicable if the diagnostic test is accurate and relatively inexpensive and the condition tested for is not rare. The merits, or lack thereof, of an OGTT as a diagnostic test have been debated histor­ ically (18,19) and remain controversial (49,50,51). Nevertheless, an OGTT is one accepted standard for making a diagnosis of diabetes outside of pregnancy (52). Whether the one-step or two-step approach to the diagnosis of gestational diabetes is most cost-effective has also been a concern. Meltzer et al. (53) conducted a randomized controlled clinical trial comparing costs and effec­ tiveness of the diagnostic process with one- and two-step procedures for the detection and diagnosis of gestational diabetes. Itemized costs included the time the women had to devote to complete the testing. Two versions of the two-step approach were included: in one, a positive 50 g GCT was followed by a 3-hour 100 g OGTT; in the other, a positive GCT was followed by a 2-hour 75 g OGTT. In the third group, all women had a 2-hour 75 g OGTT. Canadian Diabetes Association guidelines and diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes (54), which are similar to the NDDG criteria (1), were followed. Overall, the two-step approach was modestly, but significantly, less costly. However, in Asian women, who had a much higher prevalence of gestational diabetes than the population overall, costs of the one-step and two-step approaches did not differ (53). Of note, gestational age at diagnosis of gestational diabetes was significantly earlier with the one-step approach. Gestational Diabetes 4–5 TABLE 4.1. Diagnosis of Gestational Diabetes GLUCOSE VALUE 100 G ORAL GLUCOSE LOAD 75 G ORAL GLUCOSE LOAD O’Sullivan-Mahan (Ref. 6) Whole blood (mg/dL)* NDDG (Ref. 1) Plasma AutoAnalyzer (mg/dL)* Carpenter-Coustan (Ref. 41) Plasma glucose oxidase (mg/dL)* IADPSG (Ref. 67) Plasma enzymatic (mg/dL)† Fasting 90
