Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


for the diagnostic test. In 3 of 11, a 100 g diagnostic test was used, but diagnostic thresholds were not consistent. A 75 g 2-hour OGTT was used in the other eight programs; however, six different combi­ nations of fasting and 2-hour plasma glucose threshold values were used for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes. The criteria that are widely used for the diag­ nosis of gestational diabetes in the United States are shown in Table 4.1. Clearly, variance in strategies for screening to determine on whom to perform a diagnostic OGTT, the diagnostic test that is used, and the diagnostic thresholds that are used all contribute to the limitations of efforts to compare the frequency, complications, and the effec­ tiveness of treating gestational diabetes within and among countries. This situation is very reminiscent of the problems that prevailed regarding diabetes in the general population before the 1979 and 1980 recommendations of the NDDG (1) and WHO (11), respectively. PREVALENCE OF GESTATIONAL DIABETES The lack of standardized methods for the detection and diagnosis of gestational diabetes described above represents a major challenge to providing estimates of the prevalence of gestational diabetes (56,57). Engelgau et al. (58) used data from the National Maternal and Infant Health Survey (NMIHS) to estimate the prevalence of diabetes and pregnancy in the United States in 1988. With adjust­ ments for many factors, including lack of information on diabetes in 26% of the sample, the estimated prevalence of diabetes and pregnancy was 4%, and of those, 88% had gestational diabetes. Increasing maternal age and body mass index (BMI, kg/m2) were associated with higher rates of gestational diabetes. Getahun et al. (59) used National Hospital Discharge Survey data that included information on hospital discharge records of birth in the United States during the period of 1989–2004 to estimate temporal trends in the prevalence of gestational diabetes. The prevalence of gestational diabetes increased by 80% in white women and by 172% in black women during this interval (Table 4.2). The increase in prevalence was most striking in black women age <25 years; the rate more than tripled from 0.6% to 2.1% between 1989 and 2004 (59). Information was not available on factors such as maternal weight and method of detection of gestational diabetes that might have contributed to these temporal trends. Bardenheier et al. (60) used discharge- level and hospital-level data from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project and
