Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


between preexisting type 1 and type 2 diabetes, the demographics of this population suggest that much of the temporal trend represented an increase in type 2 diabetes and that the appearance of more type 2 diabetes in the younger women may have contributed to the leveling of the rate of gestational diabetes. The 6th edition of the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) Diabetes Atlas includes estimates of the prevalence of diabetes in 2013 and projections for 2035 (64). The estimates are based on reports from throughout the world that at a minimum included age-specific prevalence of diabetes in three age groups of adults between 20 and 79 years (65). The esti­ mated prevalence of gestational diabetes for 2013 was 16.8% (64). GLUCOSE TOLERANCE IN NONPREGNANT WOMEN The prevalence of gestational diabetes is associated with the prevalence of alterations of glucose metabolism (tolerance) in the general population. Table 4.6 shows National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) data analyzed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, on the status of glucose tolerance and BMI among women age 20–44 years in the periods 1976–1980 and 2007–2010. During this interval of 30 years, the frequencies of diagnosed diabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, and undiagnosed prediabetes each more than doubled. In parallel, the rate of obesity became nearly threefold higher, and the rate of overweight increased modestly. Comparable data from other countries are limited. The documented increases in prevalence rates of gesta­ tional diabetes and preexisting diabetes during pregnancy (above) occurred during the same general timeframe in which the epidemic of obesity and type 2 diabetes developed in the general population in the United States and globally. This is in keeping with the theme that gestational diabetes represents detection of existing abnormalities of glucose tolerance in the population (66). As noted, data on BMI were not available for the studies that demonstrated the increasing preva­ lence of gestational diabetes specifically (59,61,62). THE HYPERGLYCEMIA AND ADVERSE PREGNANCY OUTCOME (HAPO) STUDY The objective of the HAPO Study was to clarify associations of levels of maternal glucose lower than those diagnostic of diabetes with perinatal outcome (22). A 75 g OGTT was performed on unselected consenting pregnant women at 24–32 weeks of gestation (mean 27.8 weeks) in 15 centers in nine countries. In 23,316 participants with glucose values blinded to participants and caregivers, continuous, linear associations were found between each venous plasma glucose measure (fasting, 1-hour, and 2-hour post glucose TABLE
