Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


using American Diabetes Association cutpoints (Reference 73). SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 1976–1980 and 2007–2010 Gestational Diabetes 4–9 load) and multiple pregnancy outcomes (birthweight, cord serum C-peptide, percent infant body fat [each >90th percentile], primary cesarean delivery, neonatal hypoglycemia, preterm delivery, and preeclampsia). No obvious thresholds at which risks increased were observed (22). The HAPO Study was expected to provide data on associations between maternal glycemia and risk of specific adverse outcomes that could be used to derive internationally acceptable criteria for diagnosis and classification of gestational diabetes. Since no apparent glucose threshold for perinatal risks was identi­ fied, derivation of such criteria has been approached by consensus of experts. The International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG) sponsored a Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes Diagnosis and Classification attended by more than 225 conferees from 40 countries. Published and unpublished HAPO results and other work on associations of maternal glycemia with perinatal and long-term outcomes in offspring were reviewed. A Consensus Panel of more than 50 individuals repre­ senting the member organizations of IADPSG and other groups carried out further review and analysis of HAPO results, held a second face-to-face meeting of panel members, and then published recommendations for the diagnosis and classification of hyperglycemia in preg­ nancy (67). When IADPSG criteria are used, the diagnosis of gestational diabetes is made if one or more glucose values of the OGTT equals or is greater than threshold concentrations of 92 mg/dL (5.11 mmol/L) fasting, 180 mg/dL (10.00 mmol/L) at 1 hour, or 153 mg/dL (8.49 mmol/L) at 2 hours. Use of IADPSG criteria yields substan­ tially higher frequencies of gestational diabetes than is the case when two abnormal values and higher thresholds are applied (1,15,16,41). Some groups, including ADA (68), WHO (69), and others (70) have adopted the IADPSG diagnostic recommendations, while others have not (70,71,72). ACOG (71) and a Consensus Panel appointed by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) (72) recommended the continuing use of the longstanding two-step process for detec­ tion and diagnosis described above. In 2014, the ADA acknowledged that in the immediate future both O’Sullivan-Mahan- based criteria (1,6,41) and the IADPSG recommendations (67) will be used in the United States (73). The applicable diag­ nostic thresholds are summarized in Table 4.1 and are also discussed in Chapter 1 Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes. When the IADPSG thresholds for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes were
