Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


or Reference 67). FPG, fasting plasma glucose; GDM, gestational diabetes mellitus; HAPO, Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome Study; PG, plasma glucose. * Centers are listed from highest to lowest unadjusted frequency of gestational diabetes. † Includes all with FPG at or above the threshold without regard to 1-hour and 2-hour values. ‡ Includes all with FPG less than the threshold and 1-hour at or above the threshold without regard to 2-hour value. § Only 2-hour value is at or above the threshold. SOURCE: Reference 74, copyright © 2012 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American Diabetes Association 4–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition center-to-center differences (Table 4.8). The reasons for the differences are not clear and may partially relate to frequen­ cies of obesity and degree of abnormal glucose metabolism in the general populations where HAPO centers were located. Data from the new analysis of the NHANES 1976–1980 and 2007–2010 on glucose tolerance status in women of childbearing age in the United States are summarized in Table 4.6. Comparable data on population characteristics are not available for many countries where HAPO Study centers are located. Crucial to the definition of new criteria for diagnosis of gestational diabetes is evidence that effective treatment is available. This is especially important if use of the new criteria substantially increases the frequency of the diagnosis. Data from randomized trials using the IADPSG criteria are not yet available. However, the IADPSG thresholds (67) overlap (70) with criteria used in two randomized trials, the Australian Carbohydrate Intolerance Study in Pregnant Women (ACHOIS) (23) and the Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units (MFMU) Network (24), that showed significant benefit associated with diagnosing and treating mild gestational diabetes. Nonetheless, the 2013 NIH Consensus Development Conference Statement (72) called for studies to “Determine whether the additional women catego­ rized as having diabetes by the IADPSG model, who would be considered normal in the two-step strategy, accrue any benefit from treatment. This question would be best answered by a random­ ized controlled trial that, ideally, would use clinically important health and patient-centered outcomes.” Thus, the goal of globally accepted criteria for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes based on perinatal outcomes (75) remains elusive. TREATMENT RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED TRIALS OF MILD GESTATIONAL DIABETES The results of two randomized controlled trials (23,24) have addressed many of the longstanding controversies about benefits and potential adverse consequences of detection, diagnosis, and treatment of mild gestational diabetes.
