Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


risk that can be reduced by detection and treatment. In the absence of a large and clear benefit, debate about the importance of diag­ nosing and treating gestational diabetes will continue. For example, individuals with a diagnosis of gestational diabetes by IADPSG thresholds (67) have OGTT glucose values that overlap with those of women who participated in the ACHOIS (23) and MFMU (24) randomized controlled trials (70), where small but significant benefits attended diagnosis and treatment of gestational diabetes. The fact remains that the IADPSG criteria are untested in therapeutic trials. Based on that, the 2013 NIH Consensus Development Conference Statement (72) calls for studies to “Determine whether the additional women categorized as having diabetes by the IADPSG model, who would be considered normal in the two-step strategy, accrue any benefit from treatment. This question would be best answered by a randomized controlled trial that, ideally, would use clinically important health and patient-centered outcomes.” Thus, the goal of “outcome based, glob­ ally accepted criteria for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes” (75) is yet to be reached. OTHER ADVANCES IN TREATMENT The majority of pregnancies in women with gestational diabetes are not associ­ ated with an adverse perinatal outcome. In addition, the prevalence of gestational diabetes has increased dramatically (Tables 4.2, 4.4, and 4.5) (59,61,63). These observations provide an opportu­ nity to identify a large fraction of low-risk pregnancies that do not need intensive glucose monitoring or treatments beyond lifestyle change for antepartum manage­ ment of gestational diabetes. In this regard, measurement of fetal abdominal circumference (AC) by ultrasound has been used successfully (82). Women with gestational diabetes by NDDG criteria (1) and FPG <105 mg/dL (<5.83 mmol/L) had fetal ultrasound at 29–33 weeks gestation. At term, all of the excess of LGA infants was observed in pregnancies in which the fetal AC had been >70th percentile at 29–33 weeks and the condi­ tion was managed with nutrition alone. Pregnancies with a lower AC and preg­ nancies with a similarly high AC in which insulin treatment was given had no excess of LGA infants. In another approach, the concentration of FPG, BMI, and other risk factors for macrosomia (maternal height and parity) identified one-third of women with gestational diabetes by IADPSG criteria as low-risk for fetal macrosomia (83). The low frequency of severe adverse outcomes (5.6 perinatal deaths per 1,000) in the HAPO Study (22) among women whose caregivers were blinded
