Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


criteria as low-risk for fetal macrosomia (83). The low frequency of severe adverse outcomes (5.6 perinatal deaths per 1,000) in the HAPO Study (22) among women whose caregivers were blinded to glucose values (i.e., those with FPG <105 mg/dL and 2-hour value <200 mg/dL [<11.10 mmol/L] on 75 g OGTT) and the similarly low frequency of serious outcomes in women randomized to normal obstetric care in the ACHOIS (23) and MFMU Network (24) trials of mild gestational diabetes suggest that less intensive obstetric care for gestational diabetes may also be feasible for providing acceptable perinatal outcomes. LONG-TERM IMPLICATIONS OF GESTATIONAL DIABETES MOTHERS Development of Diabetes Since the early work of Wilkerson, O’Sullivan, and others focused on hyper­ glycemia in pregnancy as a prediabetic state (4,5,6,11,12), much of the interest in long-term maternal health after a diagnosis of gestational diabetes has been on the risk of later progression to type 2 diabetes. However, because of differences in methods of detecting gestational diabetes, diagnostic criteria employed, heterogeneity of populations, and duration of follow-up after the diag­ nosis of gestational diabetes, results of follow-up studies have been difficult to compare (35). Systematic reviews by Kim et al. in 2002 (35) and Bellamy et al. in 2009 (84) showed that with adjustment for these confounding differences, there is a very strong risk for development of type 2 diabetes globally, although ethnic and regional differences in risk remain and are not explained. When comparison was limited to studies that followed the NDDG recommendations for detection and diagnosis of gestational diabetes (1), 4–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition 5-year rates of progression to diabetes after gestational diabetes were between 25% and 50% in most studies and similar among different ethnic groups (35). The impact of gestational diabetes on risk of subsequent type 2 diabetes is also discussed in Chapter 13 Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes. The Troglitazone in Prevention of Diabetes (TRIPOD) (85) and Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) (86) trials showed that the development of diabetes after gestational diabetes can be prevented or delayed by lifestyle intervention or medications that are used to treat diabetes. Reductions in rates of progression to diabetes were 50%–55% in these studies. The potential public health benefits from focusing diabetes prevention efforts in women with previous gestational diabetes have been stressed (87). There are also limitations. For example, the long-term risk of diabetes after having gestational diabetes and potential prevention/delay
