Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


prevention efforts in women with previous gestational diabetes have been stressed (87). There are also limitations. For example, the long-term risk of diabetes after having gestational diabetes and potential prevention/delay of diabetes are well documented; however, only half of the women with previous gestational diabetes have early postpartum assessment of glucose tolerance and/or long-term follow-up (88,89). Recommendations have been made for ongoing assessment of glucose tolerance status after initial postpartum evaluation. However, specific paradigms have not been developed that are based on prospectively designed studies. In a simulation modeling study, Kim et al. (90) concluded that an OGTT every 3 years was less costly per case of diabetes detected than use of either FPG or A1c performed at the same frequency, because the OGTT identified more cases of diabetes than either the FPG or A1c. Cardiovascular Disease in Women With Previous Gestational Diabetes O’Sullivan followed his cohort of women with previous gestational diabetes for up to 16 years (91). At the final examination, women were on average approximately 45 years of age, and those who had progressed to diabetes (decompensated or “chemical”) had developed hyperten­ sion (blood pressure ≥160/95 mmHg), an abnormal electrocardiogram, or both at significantly greater frequencies than an age-matched control group without gestational diabetes (91). Other data on long-term development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in women with previous gestational diabetes are very limited. In a study of parous women having first degree relatives with type 2 diabetes, Carr et al. (92) found that those with previous gestational diabetes had more CVD and at an earlier age than those without previous gestational diabetes. Carr et al. (92) and others (93) also found that women with previous gestational diabetes had more CVD risk factors and features of the metabolic syndrome than those who did not have gestational diabetes. The rate of preeclampsia has been associated with increasing maternal BMI and levels of glycemia (94) and is more frequent in women with gestational diabetes than in those without gestational diabetes. Preeclampsia and gestational hypertension are associated with higher long-term risk of hypertension, but associations with stroke risk and heart disease are uncertain (95). Given these uncertainties, participants at the Fifth International Workshop- Conference on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus recommended that until more specific information is available about CVD risk after gestational diabetes, the indications for CVD risk factor assessment should be those used for the population at large (39). OFFSPRING Since
