Chapter 4: Gestational Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, gestational, gestational diabetes, glucose, pregnancy, women, study, diabetes mellitus, mellitus, diagnosis, care, criteria, age, type, risk


more specific information is available about CVD risk after gestational diabetes, the indications for CVD risk factor assessment should be those used for the population at large (39). OFFSPRING Since the mid-1970s, studies of animal models, human epidemiology, and clinical reports indicate that intrauterine expo­ sure to maternal diabetes or gestational diabetes can place offspring at increased risk for long-term adverse events, including more obesity, higher blood pressure, altered glucose metabolism, and poten­ tially, diabetes (96). From 1980 onward, a series of epidemiologic and clinical reports were based on long-term studies in Pima Indians and at the Northwestern University Diabetes and Pregnancy Center (96). Some (97,98,99,100,101), but not all (102,103), studies from other populations, suggest that offspring of mothers with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and gestational diabetes are at risk for adverse metabolic consequences. In 2005, Krishnaveni et al. (97) reported a follow-up study of South Indian children at age 5 years whose mothers had normal glucose tolerance or gestational diabetes during pregnancy. Female offspring of mothers with gestational diabetes had greater adiposity and more impaired glucose tolerance and insulin levels in the OGTT. In contrast, in offspring of fathers with diabetes, OGTT glucose levels and anthro­ pometry did not differ from controls. From 2002 to 2005, Clausen et al. (104) conducted a follow-up study of 597 young adult offspring (approximately 22 years of age) born to women with gestational diabetes or type 1 diabetes and from control mothers (not exposed to intrauterine hyperglycemia). All study participants underwent a 75 g OGTT. Combined rates of type 2 diabetes, impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance in offspring were: gesta­ tional diabetes 21%, gestational diabetes risk factors but normal maternal OGTT 12%, type 1 diabetes 11%, and controls without gestational diabetes risk factors 4%. Mothers with type 1 diabetes whose offspring had type 2 diabetes, impaired fasting glucose, or impaired glucose tolerance at age 22 years had more hyperglycemia in the third trimester of pregnancy than those whose offspring had normal glucose tolerance. In 2008, Pettitt et al. (98) reported that among participants in the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study, age at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes in those exposed to maternal diabetes in utero (mean age [standard error] 11.71 years [0.42 years]) was earlier than among those whose mothers developed diabetes after the child’s birth (mean age [standard error] 14.07 years [0.27 years]). However, differences in age of
