RESEARCHARTICLE BIOCHEMISTRY OPENACCESS
KEYWORDS: fig, activity, theobromine, drug, arainosine, channel, compounds, vidarabine, virus, antiviral, oseltamivir, viral, different, growth, influenza


bacterial growth, as observed in the led to the identification of many such proteins, collectively negativeassay(SIAppendix,Fig.S2A). termed viroporins (15). They are often characterized by their Inconclusion,allthreeassaysindicateappreciableconductivity small size and oligomeric nature, with varying roles in the viral by the viral protein, manifested by a change in bacterial infectivity cycle. In influenza, M2 was shown to be essential phenotype.Consequently,reversingthephenotypecanbeused to the pathogen since it allowed the concomitant acidification indrugscreening,aselaboratedbelow. of the viral lumen upon endocytosis and release of the viral ribonucleoproteinfromthematrix(13). Considering the fact that channels, as a family, are excellent Drug Screening.We employed the above bacteria-based assays drug targets, and there is a dearth of curative anti-influenza to search for compounds that can inhibit (i.e., block) the agents, we sought to identify novel blockers against the M2 activity of the influenza M2 channel. In particular, we used protein. In particular, we searched for blockers that will be ac- the negative assay as the primary screening tool since, in this tiveagainstaminoadamantane-sensitiveandaminoadamantane- instance,successfulblockerswillbeidentifiedduetotheirability resistant channels. To that end, we employed a combined toenhancebacterialgrowth.Hence,thenegativeassaypresents approachofbacteria-basedassays,incelluloassays,andstructure– astringenttestrequiringbacteriatogrowfasterthanotherwise, activity analyses that led to successful animal experimentation. thereby filtering out any compounds that are toxic to the host. Importantly,bacteria-basedassaysharnessthepowerofbacterial In contrast, in the positive assay, successful compounds will geneticstoexaminethedetailedinteractionsbetweenachannel be deleterious to growth, and in the pHlux assay, they will anditscognateblocker.Furthermore,suchassaysenableentirely abrogatefluorescencechange.Rimantadinewasusedasapositive risk-freegenerationofgain-of-functionmutationsand,combined control for all assays, while growth without drugs served as the with genetic selections, allow for the analysis of resistance negativecontrol.Ineachofthethreeassays,anoptimalprotein probability against an antiviral drug. Together, this approach expression level was selected to maximize the dynamic range yielded a potent anti-influenza agent that is less likely to elicit of blocker activity. Finally, we employed a repurposed drug viralresistanceandrepresentsageneralrouteapplicabletomany library numbering 2,839 compounds. Such a library represents otherviruses. a set of compounds with known toxicity and can be used as a starting point for further chemical exploration and subsequent examination of antiviral effect in mammalian cells and in vivo Results experiments. The above process led to seven compounds designated as Channel Activity in Bacteria.The channel activity of M2 was hits against the aminoadamantane-sensitive channel (Fig. 1A): examinedinbacteria,wherebyconductivitythatresultsfromthe amikacin, asunaprevir, fludarabine, flunisolide, kasugamycin, protein changes the host’s phenotype. In brief, three bacteria- ravuconazole,rimantadine,andtheobromine.Thesamescreen- based assays–negative, positive, and pHlux assays (16–18)– ingprocesswasthenemployedontheM2channelwiththeS31N were used to ensure reliability and minimize false results. This aminoadamantane-resistantmutation(28)yieldingeighthits,of approach has been used successfully on multiple viral ion which five were active against the aminoadamantane-sensitive channelssincetheirsmallsizefacilitatesfunctionalexpressionin channel as well (Fig. 1B):
