RESEARCHARTICLE BIOCHEMISTRY OPENACCESS
KEYWORDS: fig, activity, theobromine, drug, arainosine, channel, compounds, vidarabine, virus, antiviral, oseltamivir, viral, different, growth, influenza


heterologous thepresenceoftheobromine. proteins can potentially impact bacterial phenotype in many ways. Commensurately, the activity of inhibiting compounds maybeascribedtofunctionalitiesotherthanchannel-blocking. However,wedemonstratethatitisM2’schannelactivitythat Discussion impactsthehost’sphenotype,andtheactivityofthedrugsonthe of curative antiflu agents. Furthermore, the virus’s constant Weusethreeindependentandcomplementaryassaystomeasure genetic changes continuously vitiate even the partial benefit of channel activity (SI Appendix, Fig. S2). Moreover, two assays currenttreatments.Consequently,wehavesearchedforpotential are reciprocal in nature, whereby in the first, channel activity antiviraldrugsforclinicalapplicationbyattemptingtoidentify retards bacterial growth, while in the second, channel activity newinhibitorsofthevirus’sviroporin. enhancesgrowth.ii)Wedemonstratespecificitybyreversingthe PNAS 2025 Vol.122 No.31 e2502240122 7of 11 A byblockers(SIAppendix,Fig.S9).v)Theblockersareeffective A C D E F G H I K L M N P Q R S T V WY in multiple different hosts and systems: bacteria, tissue culture, S22 andanimals. S23 The outcome of the bacteria-based search yielded several D24 blockers that encouragingly exhibited antiviral activity in tissue P25 culture. Moreover, combination studies yielded a particularly L26 synergisticdrugduoofarainosineandtheobrominethatoutper- V27 formsoseltamivirconsiderably(Fig.3). V28 It is interesting to note that synergism is reduced at higher A29 concentrationsofbothcompounds.Mechanistically,Harrisand A30 coworkers have shown that sugars act as selective hydrotropes S31 toward caffeine (38). Therefore, it is possible to speculate I32 that the sugar moiety of vidarabine may similarly serve as I33 a hydrotrope to theobromine, which differs from caffeine by G34 a single methyl group. Finally, the combination of the two I35 compoundsexhibitedstrikingactivityinanimals,thatoncemore L36 appreciably outperformed oseltamivir, the leading drug on the H37 marketagainstinfluenza(Figs.6and7). L38 There is always a risk that compounds identified by their I39 abilitytoinhibitaparticularviralcomponentinisolationinhibit L40 the whole virus by an off-target route. In other words, while W41 the compounds were selected based on their ability to block I42 the M2 channel, they may exert their antiviral activity through L43 differentmechanisms.However,thefactthatseveralstructurally unrelatedcompoundsretrievedfromthebacteria-basedselection -0.6% -0.4% -0.2% 0 for channel blockers exhibit antiviral activity suggests a low B probabilityofanoff-targeteffect. It is possible to rule out an off-target mechanism altogether S22 through the use of adamantanol, an antagonist of amino- S23 adamantanes. The drug is an analog of amantadine but lacks a D24 positivechargeand,consequently,doesnotblocktheM2channel P25 (33). However, because it shares the adamantane group with L26 aminoadamantanes, it can bind the channel and competitively V27 inhibittheirblockingfunction(33).Thecompetitiveinhibition V28 ofadamantanolcanalsobeseenwhenanalyzingactivityagainst A29 theentirepathogenintissueculturewhereitabrogatestheantivi- A30 ralactivityofamantadinealmostentirely(Fig.4).Encouragingly, S31 adamantanolhasthesameneutralizingactivityontheobromine, I32 arainosine (to a lesser extent), and their combination (Fig. 4). I33 Hence, it is challenging to conjure up a scenario in which the G34 drugsinhibitthevirusbyanymechanismotherthanblockingits I35 M2channel.Finally,asexpected,adamantanolhasnoantiviral L36 effect on its own, nor does it impact the activity of oseltamivir H37 since the drug works by an entirely different mechanism as a
