RESEARCHARTICLE BIOCHEMISTRY OPENACCESS
KEYWORDS: fig, activity, theobromine, drug, arainosine, channel, compounds, vidarabine, virus, antiviral, oseltamivir, viral, different, growth, influenza


the G34 drugsinhibitthevirusbyanymechanismotherthanblockingits I35 M2channel.Finally,asexpected,adamantanolhasnoantiviral L36 effect on its own, nor does it impact the activity of oseltamivir H37 since the drug works by an entirely different mechanism as a L38 neuraminidaseinhibitor(31). I39 Itisalsonotpossibletoascribetheremarkableanti-influenza L40 activity of the drug duo based on the known anticancer and W41 anti-DNA virus activity of vidarabine: Vidarabine deamination I42 renders the drug inactive (39), while in the current study L43 arainosine, the deaminated metabolite, is as effective, if not more, than vidarabine. This result is not surprising since the Fig.8. AnalysisoftheresistancepotentialagainsttheM2channelblockers. influenza virus does not go through a “DNA phase” during its AlibraryofbacteriaharboringarandomlymutatedM2channelwasgrown infectivity cycle. Hence, the activity of arainosine on influenza inliquidmediaforthreehoursafterwhichtheirplasmidsweresequenced. Theprevalenceofeveryaminoacidistabulatedandcolor-codedasindicated should employ a different mechanism (i.e., blocking the M2 inthebar.Thedatacorrespondtodifferenceprevalenceofbacteriathat channel),astheimpactofadamantanolsuggests. are exposed to (A) rimantadine or (B) theobromine relative to untreated Importantly, the activity of the drug duo was effective agai- bacteria. nstaminoadamantane-resistantandaminoadamantane-sensitive strains. Yet, the activity of the compounds, when used on channel-driven phenotype in each of the different assays using their own, distinguishes the two strains. At 30nM, no activity aminoadamantanes,knownblockersofthechannel(11)(Fig.1). is observed for either drug against the aminoadamantane- iii)Thephenotypeofcellsthatexpressachannelthatisresistant resistant H1N1 strain (Fig. 2 and SI Appendix, Fig. S6). Yet, to aminoadamantanes cannot be reversed by blockers (Fig. 1). at the same concentration, both compounds exhibit appre- iv)Adamantanol,acompetitiveinhibitorofaminoadamantanes ciable but nonmaximal activity against the aminoadamantane- (33), can prevent the reversal of the channel-driven phenotype sensitive H5N1 strain (Fig. 2). Hence, either drug can inhibit 8of 11 pnas.org (partially) the aminoadamantane-sensitive strain. At the same time,theircombinationisrequiredforcompleteprotection.In contrast,theindividualdrugsoffernobenefitagainsttheamino- adamantane-resistantvariant,yettheircombinationprovidesfull protection. Further insight into the stark synergy between theobromine and arainosine in the aminoadamantane-resistant strain, was obtained by exploring the activity of similar compounds, in- dividually(Fig.5)andincombination(SIAppendix,Fig.S7). Comparison of xanthine with 3- and 7-methylxanthine indicates that at higher concentrations, it is less active than both of its methylated derivatives. At lower concentrations, 3-methylxanthine is more efficacious than its 7-methyl analog. Yet, all three compounds are less effective than theobromine. Therefore,itcanbeconcludedthatmethylationsatthe3and7 positionsarenecessarytoyieldoptimalantiviraleffects. 1-methylxanthine,though,hasaneffectatalowerconcentra- tionrangebutdoesnotshowaneffectatahigherconcentration. On the other hand, theophylline, which is methylated at the 1 and 3 positions is active to some extent but shows poor dose-dependentactivity(Fig.2).Notably,the1,7-dimethylated analog, paraxanthine, exhibits even lower activity. These obser- vationsfurtheremphasizetheroleofmethylgroupsatthe3and 7positions,andanydeviationfromthatleadstolossofactivity. Fig.9. Proposedmechanismforinhibitionofthearainosine-theobromine drugduo.ThestructureoftheM2proteinboundtorimantadine[PDBID6US9, Moreover, the molecule completely loses all activity when all (40)]isslicedintheMiddletodepictthechannel’sporeanddrugbinding three nitrogen atoms are methylated, as in caffeine. Finally, to site.Twooutofthefourhistidinesthatareimportantforchannelactivity checktheactivityofthealkylgroup,weemployedenprofylline aredepictedinball-and-stickalongsiderimantadine.Theobromine(Top)and or 3-propylxanthine and found no effect when compared to its arainosine(Bottom)areshownontheRightwithproposedhydrogenbonding ingreen. methylanalog3-methylxanthine. Arainosineoritsmetabolicprecursorvidarabinearenucleoside analogsinwhichapurineisN-linkedtoapentofuranose.While not as numerous
