RESEARCHARTICLE BIOCHEMISTRY OPENACCESS
KEYWORDS: fig, activity, theobromine, drug, arainosine, channel, compounds, vidarabine, virus, antiviral, oseltamivir, viral, different, growth, influenza


nitrogen atoms are methylated, as in caffeine. Finally, to site.Twooutofthefourhistidinesthatareimportantforchannelactivity checktheactivityofthealkylgroup,weemployedenprofylline aredepictedinball-and-stickalongsiderimantadine.Theobromine(Top)and or 3-propylxanthine and found no effect when compared to its arainosine(Bottom)areshownontheRightwithproposedhydrogenbonding ingreen. methylanalog3-methylxanthine. Arainosineoritsmetabolicprecursorvidarabinearenucleoside analogsinwhichapurineisN-linkedtoapentofuranose.While not as numerous as the analogs of theobromine, we examined planar molecule, is narrower than amantadine and, therefore, severalcommerciallyavailableanalogsfortheirantiviralactivity maystillbindandinhibittheaminoadamantane-resistantS31N incellviabilityassays(Fig.5B). M2 channel, albeit at a substantially lower affinity than the Fludarabinewastheleadcompoundidentifiedbythebacteria- aminoadamantane-sensitive channel. However, against amino- basedchannelassaysandintheincelluloexperiments.Therefore, adamantane-sensitive strains, theobromine is individually less comparedtovidarabine,aFluorineatR inthepurinering(the effective than aminoadamantanes, perhaps because its narrower only point of difference with vidarabine) does not hamper the dimensioncanonlypartiallyblockprotontransport.Incontrast, activity. On the other hand, substituting −NH at R with a adamantanolreducestheactivityofarainosineonlymoderately, 2 1 −OCH group, as in nelarabine, significantly reduces activity butabolishestheactivityoftheduoentirely.Hence,itispossible (onlyactiveat10μM). to speculate that arainosine’s binding site is located where the Analysis of the sugar moiety leads to a complex picture. porewidens,andonlypartiallyoverlapswiththebindingsitefor (cid:48) Epimerization at the 2 position, i.e., converting vidarabine to aminoadamantanes. adenosine,increasesthecompound’sactivityatlowerconcentra- Synergism between theobromine and arainosine may be tions but leads to a loss of activity at higher concentrations. explainedbasedontheirhydrogenbondcompatibility(Fig.9).In Substitution of the sugar 3 (cid:48) −OH with a −H, found in particular,caffeinethatdiffersfromtheobrominebyamethylat cordycepin, also hampers activity. Interestingly, for clofarabine theR1position(Fig.5A)exhibitsnosynergismwitharainosine, and cladribine, the scenario is entirely different: Inclusion of consistent with the proposed H-bonding complementarity be- (cid:48) a different halogen atom (e.g., Cl) in the 2 position of the tweenthetwocompounds.Thereareotherxanthinederivatives purine ring with concomitant fluorination (in clofarabine) or withahydrogenattheR1position(7-methylxanthine,xanthine, (cid:48) reduction(incladribine)atthesugar2 completelyabolishesthe and3-methylxanthine)andmaybecapableofsuchcomplemen- antiviralactivity.Theseobservationsilluminatedtheimportance tarity.However,theirlackofsynergismwitharainosinemaybe ofpurinering−NH atR andsugar−OHat2 (cid:48) fortheantiviral due to the absence of an additional methyl group required for 2 1 activityofthedrugs.Finally,examiningthe72combinationsof effectivechannel-blockage. each of the nine vidarabine derivatives with each of the eight Efficacyisnottheonlyattributethatisimportanttotheutility theobromineanalogsindicatesthattheonlypotentcombination ofanantiviraldrug.Equallyasimportantisthepotentialofthe is found between arainosine (or its prodrug vidarabine) and virus, due to its rapid change, to develop resistance against the theobromine. drug. The M2 channel is an infamous example of the above Clearly,detailedstructuralstudieswillbeneededtoexplainthe paradigm, whereby it developed widespread resistance against remarkable activity of theobromine with arainosine. However, aminoadamantanes, essentially removing them from the list of basedontheresultspresentedinthisstudy,itispossibletospecu- viableanti-influenzaagents(10,30,41–43). lateasfollows(Fig.9):Theactivitiesoftheobromineandamino- What is most frustrating about viral drug resistance is that adamantanes are similarly abolished by adamantanol (Fig. 4), it is exceedingly challenging to predict its detailed mechanism PNAS 2025 Vol.122 No.31 e2502240122 9of 11 experimentationmayprovidearoutetopredictresistancemecha- a single molecule. Yet, drug combinations remain an attractive nisms,buttheapproachisnotwithoutmedicalrisk.Itisprecisely approachwhentheiractivityisparticularpotent(e.g.,Paxlovid™). here where bacteria-based assays are able to provide a solution. Finally, fully exploiting the bacteria-based assays allowed us to Conductingexperimentsinwhichtheactivityoftheviralprotein demonstratethatthenewdrugcandidateislesspronetoresistance impactsbacterialphenotypeenablesustoharnessthetremendous developmentagainstaminoadamantanes. powerofgeneticscreening.Inotherwords,randommutagenesis of the viral protein followed
