Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


ranging from 4% to 15% over most aspects of interdisciplinary and interprofessional care for CD the past three decades.1 A cure remains elusive, and efficient manage- has been elaborated by ECCO in separate publications.3,11–16 ment of CD is essentially multidisciplinary and interprofessional. At least half of patients with CD undergo one or more surgical pro- cedures during their lifetime. CD patients frequently suffer from 2. Methods malnutrition and psychological comorbidities, and may have to live A detailed description of the methodology used is presented in the with a stoma.2–5 Care for CD has become more complex for both Supplementary materials, available at ECCO-JCC online. This art- medical and surgical disciplines. Several new drugs have entered the icle is the second in a series of two publications relating to the ECCO market, and surgical subspecialisation for inflammatory bowel dis- evidence-based consensus on the management of CD. The first article ease has evolved. The best possible outcomes are currently achieved [Torres J et al. ECCO guidelines on therapeutics in Crohn’s disease. within dedicated expert centres providing personalised medicine.6–10 Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis 2020; in press] covered medical man- Care for CD is exemplary in an interrelated clinical world where agement; the present article addresses surgical management. Both articles together represent the evidence-based recommendations of the ECCO for CD and they update previous Guidelines published management and research in terms of diagnosis, treatment, and side- in 2016.17,18 These Guidelines abide by the GRADE methodology effects. The European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation [ECCO] in terms of framing clinically relevant questions to draw evidence- provides an interdisciplinary framework with the present evidence- based statements and recommendations. However, due to the pe- based Consensus Guidelines to inform and guide clinicians and al- culiarities of the surgical literature, appraisal of the systematically lied health care providers caring for patients with CD. The present Downloaded from by guest on May ECCO Guidelines on Therapeutics in Crohn’s Disease: Surgical Treatment 157 researched literature was conducted according to the Oxford meth- perianal sepsis is recommended as good clinical practice and must be odology (Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine: the Oxford performed swiftly in the presence of signs of infection. 2011 Levels of Evidence 2—grading from evidence level [EL] 1: systematic review of randomised controlled trials to EL 5: expert Surgical techniques opinion).19 This allowed us to formulate statements and practice re- commendations that can be operationalised and can guide
