Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


systematic review of randomised controlled trials to EL 5: expert Surgical techniques opinion).19 This allowed us to formulate statements and practice re- commendations that can be operationalised and can guide clinical management. Statement 1.2. ECCO CD Treatment GL 3. Surgery for perineal disease Advancement flaps are a therapeutic option for patients with Crohn´s disease and complex perianal fistulae [EL4]. Section 1. Complex perianal fistula Medical therapy and surgical drainage A systematic review identified 11 retrospective studies that reported data from 135 patients with CD perianal fistulae treated with an advancement flap.22 The pooled success rate was 66%. However, def- Statement 1.1. ECCO CD Treatment GL initions of success and length of follow-up were highly variable, the results were heterogeneous, and the overall evidence level was low. In No prospective study directly compares medical or sur- a more recent meta-analysis, Stellingwerf et al. observed a 61% suc- gical treatment of complex perianal Crohn’s disease cess rate in 35 patients with CD perianal fistula, which did not differ fistulae, either in isolation or in combination with both significantly from the success rate of a ligation of the intersphincteric modalities. Observational studies support a combined fistula tract [LIFT] procedure [53%]. However, incontinence rates medical/surgical approach to control sepsis and luminal were significantly higher after flaps [7.8% versus 1.6%].23 activity [EL5]. As an RCT comparing advancement flap to no surgery would be unethical, collaborative efforts to collect larger numbers of cases undergoing advancement flap for perianal CD, with defined out- No randomised controlled trials [RCT] or prospective studies were comes and follow-up, are required to better define the role of this found which compared anti-tumour necrosis factor [TNF] treatment technique in CD. alone versus anti-TNF and surgery combined to treat complex peri- anal CD fistulae. A heterogeneous group of retrospective studies that compared anti-TNF treatment with a variety of surgical approaches Statement 1.3. ECCO CD Treatment GL was combined in a meta-analysis published in 2014.20 The results of this analysis suggest that combined treatment ‘may have additional Fibrin glue may be a potential treatment, with limited ef- beneficial effects compared to surgical or medical treatment alone’. ficacy, for patients with complex perianal Crohn’s disease However, the heterogeneity of the included studies, the retrospective [EL4]. nature of the included analysis, and low study quality preclude any firm conclusions or recommendations. Recently, results of the PISA study were presented as an abstract.21 PISA randomised pa- The
