Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


nature of the included analysis, and low study quality preclude any firm conclusions or recommendations. Recently, results of the PISA study were presented as an abstract.21 PISA randomised pa- The use of fibrin glue for the treatment of CD perianal fistulae was tients with high perianal CD fistula and a single internal opening assessed in an open-label RCT with 71 patients randomised to instil- initially drained for 6 weeks to: chronic seton drainage; or anti-TNF lation of fibrin glue into the fistula tract or no further treatment after for 1 year; or advancement plasty under anti-TNF for 4 months. removal of seton.24 Overall clinical remission rates at Week 8 were Primary outcome was fistula-related re-intervention [surgery and/or 38% for fibrin glue and 16% in the observation group [p = 0.04]. re-initiation of anti-TNF]. This RCT was stopped after inclusion of There was no significant difference in adverse events, which were 44 of 126 planned patients, based on futility analysis. Chronic seton non-significantly higher in the observation group. Follow-up length drainage was associated with the highest re-intervention rate within in this RCT was insufficient for a definitive judgement on the true 1.5 year [10/15 patients vs 6/15 anti-TNF patients and 3/14 advance- success rate. Several cohort studies with small numbers of CD pa- ment plasty + anti-TNF patients; p = 0.02]. No differences in quality tients reported a wide range of success rates with fibrin glue treat- of life and perianal disease activity index were observed. In a further ment. A uniform characteristic of all these studies is the relatively prospective analysis of 50 patients, inferiority of chronic seton treat- good safety profile of this technique, with no reported injury to the ment could not be observed any more for any outcome. The authors sphincter muscles, which may potentially justify attempting this concluded that chronic seton treatment should not be recommended technique in cognisant patients.25 as the sole or superior treatment for perianal CD fistula. tions. The key role of surgery is in controlling perianal sepsis by examination under anaesthesia and appropriate seton drainage. In Ligation of the intersphincteric fistula tract is an option for this regard, successful medical therapy and minimising the risk of treatment of patients with Crohn’s disease and complex anti-TNF therapy depend upon a close liaison between the physician perianal fistulae [EL4]. and surgeon. According to the summary of product characteristics registered and approved by the regulatory
