Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


and complex anti-TNF therapy depend upon a close liaison between the physician perianal fistulae [EL4]. and surgeon. According to the summary of product characteristics registered and approved by the regulatory agencies, active sepsis or any infection is a clear contraindication to the use of infliximab or LIFT is a recent option in the armamentarium of surgical treatments adalimumab. Therefore, any procedure likely to treat and prevent for perianal fistulae. Sirany et al. performed a systematic literature Downloaded from by guest on May 158 M. Adamina et al. review and identified 26 studies that included a total of 713 pa- The use of AFP in patients with CD appears to be relatively tients, of whom 13 had CD.26 Among these studies was a single RCT safe and may be considered for selected patients aware of the low [which however excluded CD patients] and 25 cohort or case series. success rate. Studies were heterogeneous, with a wide range of outcome meas- ures and follow-up times. The techniques used were only partially described and included seven technical variations. Primary healing Statement 1.6. ECCO CD Treatment GL rates ranged from 47% to 95%; thus even the lower end of this Ano- and rectogenital fistulae related to Crohn’s disease range appears promising when compared with other therapeutic op- are very complex and rare; accordingly, they should be tions. Very few and minor complications were associated with classic treated by an experienced multidisciplinary team [EL5]. LIFT or any of its variations [three complications were reported in six studies]. Göttgens et al. recently reported a retrospective cohort series of 46 patients mainly operated on for high trans-sphincteric fistulae [87%], excluding CD patients.27 The primary healing rate There is limited scientific evidence on the treatment of CD-associated was disappointingly low [37%] and the median time to failure was rectovaginal fistulae. A systematic review by Kaimakliotis identified 4.2 months. Moreover, 20% had new, mildly impaired faecal con- 23 studies [including one RCT, six prospective studies, and 16 retro- tinence postoperatively. Conversely, a prospective study by Gingold spective studies], with 137 CD-associated rectovaginal fistulae.34 Of et al. on 15 CD patients with complex perianal fistulae treated with 23 reported studies, three studies included 43 rectovaginal fistulae, LIFT revealed a 67% healing rate at 12 months and a significant im- focused on combined medical and surgical treatment, and revealed a provement of faecal continence.28 Overall, due to the paucity of data,
