Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


healing rate at 12 months and a significant im- focused on combined medical and surgical treatment, and revealed a provement of faecal continence.28 Overall, due to the paucity of data, healing rate of 44.2%. the role of LIFT for the treatment of perianal CD fistulae remains Hotouras et al. reviewed 17 studies, including 106 patients, on the use of gracilis muscle interposition for rectovaginal fistulae.35 unclear, although the complication rate seems to be reasonably low. RCTs are needed to clarify the role of LIFT in CD fistulae, perhaps Most studies were retrospective and non-randomised, and only 34 by comparing LIFT with advancement flap as a control arm. patients with CD fistulae were included. At a median follow-up of 21 months, 50% of the CD fistulae undergoing gracilis muscle interposition had healed, as compared with 60–90% for non-CD Statement 1.5. ECCO CD Treatment GL rectovaginal fistulae. The repair of rectovaginal fistulae of CD is challenging, and the Anal fistula plugs [AFP] should not be routinely con- selection of medical and/or surgical treatment should be considered sidered for ano-perineal fistula closure in Crohn’s disease, on a case-by-case basis within an expert multidisciplinary team. as seton removal alone is equally effective [EL3]. Stem cell therapy The use of collagen anal fistula plugs [AFP] in patients with CD perianal fistulae was assessed in a single RCT, which compared seton Statement 1.7. ECCO CD Treatment GL removal and insertion of AFP into the fistula tract with seton re- moval and observation only, in 106 CD patients.29 After 12 weeks, Allogeneic adipose-derived stem cell therapy could be an the fistula closure rate in the AFP group was 33.3% in patients with effective and safe treatment for complex perianal fistulae complex fistulae and 30.7% in patients with simple fistulae, as com- in patients with Crohn’s disease [EL2]. pared with 15.4% and 25.6% with seton removal alone, respect- ively. These differences were not statistically significant, perhaps because of an underpowered trial design. Importantly, there was a The use of allogeneic adipose-derived stem cells in patients with peri- trend towards more adverse events at 12 weeks in the AFP group anal fistulae of CD was assessed in a pivotal phase 3 RCT [ADMIRE [17% vs 8%; p = 0.07]. However, cumulative adverse event rates at CD trial] including 212 patients.36,37 All patients underwent curet- 12 months follow-up were similar. tage of the fistula tract and closure of the internal
