Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


However, cumulative adverse event rates at CD trial] including 212 patients.36,37 All patients underwent curet- 12 months follow-up were similar. tage of the fistula tract and closure of the internal opening and were A systematic review of 12 observational studies included 84 randomised to injection of stem cells or placebo around the internal patients with a median follow-up time of 9 [3–24] months.30 opening and alongside the fistula tracts. Patients with more than The overall fistula closure rate was 58.3%, with 40% success two internal and three external openings, patients with rectovaginal in the very small subgroup with a recurrent anal fistula after fistula, and those with anal and rectal stenosis or proctitis were previous treatments. However, there was no uniform definition excluded from the study. At 1 year, there was significantly higher for fistula closure or follow-up regimen. The quality of evidence combined remission (defined as closure of the external opening on for this systematic review was rated low due to the risk of bias physical examination and absence of abscess in magnetic resonance and imprecision. imaging [MRI]) in the stem-cell treated patients compared with pla- In the three largest studies that included both CD fistulae and cebo [56.3% vs 38.6%; p = 0.010]. non-CD fistulae,31–33 the overall healing rate for CD fistulae was A meta-analysis of 11 studies, including three RCTs of which 47.0% versus 72.2% for non-CD fistulae. Repeating the plug pro- the ADMIRE CD was the largest,38 showed improved healing rates cedure produced a lower success rate. Finally, an RCT that excluded when compared with the control arms. CD compared 48 patients treated with a plug versus 46 patients Allogeneic stem cell therapy seems to be safe. In the ADMIRE treated with an advancement flap. Quality of life and anal pain im- CD trial, serious adverse events did not significantly differ between proved in both groups, but the fistula closure rate at 1 year was the two groups, although the adverse event rate, mainly abscesses significantly lower in the plug group than in the advancement flap and fistulae, was slightly and not significantly higher in the treat- group [34% vs 62%; p = 0.006]. ment group compared with placebo [24.3% vs 20.6%]. There Downloaded from by guest on May ECCO Guidelines on Therapeutics in Crohn’s Disease: Surgical Treatment 159 are currently no long-term follow-up data available on safety and Section 2. Refractory pelvic sepsis effectiveness. The
