Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


guest on May ECCO Guidelines on Therapeutics in Crohn’s Disease: Surgical Treatment 159 are currently no long-term follow-up data available on safety and Section 2. Refractory pelvic sepsis effectiveness. The mode and technique of delivery of stem cells was not com- pared in any of the studies. Dozois et al. reported higher healing Statement 2.1. ECCO CD Treatment GL rates when stem cells were combined with fibrin glue or impreg- Pelvic sepsis and symptoms from complex perineal nated on a Gore Bio-A fistula plug versus direct injection [71% and Crohn’s disease refractory to medical or surgical interven- 83%, respectively, vs 50%].39 Allogeneic stem cell therapy may be tions can be controlled by a diverting stoma. However, an effective and safe approach to treat complex perianal fistula and the fistula healing rate and stoma closure rate are limited patient selection, optimal mode of delivery, and dose and frequency [EL4]. of injections should be determined in further studies. Statement 1.8. ECCO CD Treatment GL The quality of evidence for the use of defunctioning stoma in peri- anal CD is low, and no RCTs have compared defunctioning stoma Autologous adipose-derived stem cells may have positive with other surgical or medical interventions. There are several small effect for patients with Crohn’s disease and complex peri- and heterogeneous case series45–47 with variable stoma types and anal fistulae with good tolerability and safety [EL4]. definitions of success. A meta-analysis of 16 cohort series including 556 patients reported a clinical response in 63.8% of patients.48 Clinical response was similar in the pre-biologic era and in the bio- Autologous adipose-derived stem cells [ASC] have the advantage of logic era, respectively, and in patients failing biologics as in those originating from the patient considered for treatment, as opposed to not receiving biologics.48,49 Restoration of bowel continuity was donor-based therapy. Yet, both autologous and allogenic stem cells attempted in 34.5% of patients but was successful in only 16.6%. require cost- and resource-intensive culture, expansion, and cryo- Absence of rectal involvement was consistently associated with res- preservation of the harvested ASC.40 toration of continuity. Moreover, a quarter of the reversed patients The best evidence on the use of ASC for perianal fistula of CD required re-diversion [without proctectomy] because of severe re- comes from an open-label, phase 2 study including 43 patients.41 currence. Ultimately, 41.6% of patients failed temporary diversion Treatment included curettage, irrigation, and suturing of the internal and required
