Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


re- comes from an open-label, phase 2 study including 43 patients.41 currence. Ultimately, 41.6% of patients failed temporary diversion Treatment included curettage, irrigation, and suturing of the internal and required proctectomy. Similar results were reported in a later opening. The fistula tract was filled with a mixture of ASCs and fibrin single-centre report of 77 patients, of whom 57 were concomitantly glue. ASCs were injected into the lesion site[s]. A second injection of treated with biologics. Here, successful restoration of continuity was ASCs was performed for patients who did not show complete closure somewhat higher [27%] and reached 48% in the absence of ongoing of the fistula at 8 weeks. After 12 months, 88.5% of the patients perineal disease. showed sustained fistula healing. A second trial was performed in six Quality of life was not discussed in any of the studies. Despite the hospitals and included 24 patients, also allowing repeat ASC treat- low evidence and the low rate of fistula healing, diverting stoma may ment when fistula closure was incomplete at Week 12. At 6 months offer an alternative to extensive resection or proctocolectomy and healing of the treated fistula.42 A further phase 1 study included 12 patients and applied ASC in a bioabsorbable matrix [fistula plug] Key points for clinical practice The control of pelvic sepsis is multidisciplinary and draws from at 6 months in 10 of 12 patients [83%].43 In contrast to allogeneic interventional radiology, infectious disease, gastroenterology, stem cells, the use of autologous stem cells requires cell harvesting and surgery. Nutritional support is often key for optimal out- that entails an additional procedure [liposuction]. Overall, the pro- comes in this context, particularly if a stoma is created. Imaging cedures appeared safe, and the most common AEs were postoperative [pelvic MRI or endosonography], swift seton drainage, anti- pain and anal bleeding. There are no studies comparing autologous and allogeneic stem cells for CD perianal fistula. are the mainstay of treatment [Torres J. et al. ECCO guidelines Last, a recent prospective study investigated the effects of injecting on therapeutics in CD. Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis 2020; in freshly collected autologous adipose tissue into perianal CD fistulas. press]. In cases of poor sepsis control, a diverting stoma can pro- A total of 21 patients were treated with repeat injections offered vide relief and allow for clinical optimisation before undertaking when no healing was observed at 6 weeks, or
