Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


pro- A total of 21 patients were treated with repeat injections offered vide relief and allow for clinical optimisation before undertaking when no healing was observed at 6 weeks, or later relapse occurred. pelvic surgery. Six months following the last adipose tissue injection, 12/21 patients [57%] had complete fistula healing confirmed by MRI, and AE were minimal.44 Harvesting, preparation, and administration of adipose 4. Surgical management of abdominal Crohn’s tissue were performed as a single and inexpensive procedure. Further disease studies are required to define the true potential of this approach. Section 3. Approach to intra-abdominal abscess Key points for clinical practice Complex perineal disease remains a challenging CD presentation. Statement 3.1. ECCO CD Treatment GL Innovative approaches, such as LIFT and stem cell-based treatment, have enriched the therapeutic armamentarium. However, such novel Percutaneous image-guided drainage of well-defined ac- approaches have yet to demonstrate effectiveness and consistent re- cessible intra-abdominal abscesses is recommended as sults in a properly designed RCT with an adequate follow-up time the primary approach [EL4]. [more than 1 year] and consistent imaging [MRI]. Downloaded from by guest on May 160 M. Adamina et al. The treatment of active CD complicated by intra-abdominal ab- Nutritional deficiencies are common in CD patients who require sur- scesses is challenging. Immunosuppression can be hazardous gery. Persistent or recurrent mucosal inflammation, enteric fistulae or and antibiotic therapy may be insufficient for large abscesses. strictures, chronic diarrhoea, and medication side effects impede nu- Furthermore, surgical drainage has an additional risk in the emer- tritional status, which in turn is a major driver of medical and sur- gency setting/unfit patient, including the potential need for a stoma. gical outcomes.55,56 Although RCTs are lacking, IBD referral centres Percutaneous drainage [PD] is advised as the primary treatment for have long integrated nutritional support into multidisciplinary teams. well-defined unilocular abscesses when accessible by interventional Several observational studies have shown that preoperative opti- radiology, and has reported successful drainage rates of 74–100%.50 misation in malnourished patients improves outcomes, including a PD under ultrasonographic or computed tomographic guidance is a meta-analysis of 1111 CD patients who received preoperative enteral safe procedure with a low complication rate. When successful, PD or parenteral supplementation versus standard care.57 Preoperative may avoid subsequent emergency surgery in 14–85% of patients nutritional supplementation reduced postoperative complications with CD-related intra-abdominal abscesses.50,51 (20% vs 61.3%, odds ratio [OR] 0.26, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.07–0.99; p <0.001).
