Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


subsequent emergency surgery in 14–85% of patients nutritional supplementation reduced postoperative complications with CD-related intra-abdominal abscesses.50,51 (20% vs 61.3%, odds ratio [OR] 0.26, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.07–0.99; p <0.001). Enteral nutrition in particular led to markedly reduced postoperative morbidity [21.9% vs 73.2%, OR 0.09, 95% CI Statement 3.2. ECCO CD Treatment GL 0.06–0.13, p <0.01] with a number needed to treat of two. Goal-driven parenteral nutrition should be considered whenever enteral nutrition Following successful image-guided drainage of an intra- is hampered. Perioperative dietary therapy, including systematic nu- abdominal abscess, medical management without sur- tritional screening, correction of deficits, and optimal preparation for gery may be considered. A low threshold for surgery is surgery have been covered by Adamina et al. in a recent ECCO topical recommended in the event that medical management is review addressing the needs of IBD patients before and after surgery.3 not successful [EL4]. ECCO Statement 4.2. There is a limited evidence on the optimal management of CD pa- tients with intra-abdominal abscess who have undergone PD. In Preoperative corticosteroid use is associated with in- particular, the optimal timing of surgical intervention after abscess creased risk of postoperative complications [EL3]. drainage is unknown. Up to 30% of patients may avoid surgery Preoperative reduction of corticosteroid doses may re- following successful PD.52 Identifying those who may be treated duce postoperative complications but should be moni- without further surgery is challenging and presently relies on clin- tored carefully to avoid increasing disease burden [EL4]. ical judgment rather than on evidence. Nevertheless, elective surgery should be considered after sepsis control/resolution by PD and anti- biotic therapy, as abscess recurrence is up to 6.5 times greater fol- Treatment with 20 mg prednisolone daily, or equivalent, for >6 weeks lowing PD as stand-alone therapy than PD followed with surgical is an acknowledged risk factor for surgical complications and hyper- resection. Medically refractory disease, the presence of stenosis, or glycaemia, as reported in previous ECCO Guidelines.11,18 This has an enterocutaneous fistula—be it primary established or as a conse- been extensively reported, although no large RCTs were dedicated quence of PD—increase the likelihood of surgery. Conversely, emer- to this issue. Two meta-analyses of prospective and retrospective co- gency surgery without preceding PD and sepsis control is associated hort studies, including 1714 IBD patients58 and 3807 CD patients,59 with a higher rate of complications and stoma than with initial PD reported up to a
