Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


sepsis control is associated hort studies, including 1714 IBD patients58 and 3807 CD patients,59 with a higher rate of complications and stoma than with initial PD reported up to a doubling of surgical site infections for patients on ster- followed by surgery.53 Successful PD can be considered as a bridge to oids. Cut-offs for increased surgical complications were observed be- elective surgery, allowing nutritional and medical optimisation and tween 10 mg and 40 mg prednisolone daily for more than 3–6 weeks, hence improved postoperative outcomes.3,54 together with a uniform recommendation of tapering down steroids whenever possible before surgery. Conversely, thiopurines can be safely The control of intra-abdominal abscesses resembles the approach porary stoma may be considered when high-dose steroids cannot be to pelvic sepsis with interventional radiology, infectious disease, weaned [emergency surgery] and/or when other risk factors are present gastroenterology, and surgery involved, together with nutritional [e.g., sepsis, malnutrition, smoking]. Last, little evidence supports the support. Frequent monitoring and surgical consultation are crit- common practice of steroid stress dose administration perioperatively ical. Fortunately, surgery can be deferred in most cases. Definitive for patients on long-term corticosteroids over plain continuation of non-surgical management may be successful but must be carefully the preoperative dose, converted to intravenous equivalents where ne- balanced and discussed with the individual patient. cessary.63 Two small RCTs [37 patients] and five cohort studies [462 patients] did not demonstrate any benefit of steroid stress dose admin- istration.64 Testing of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis can be Section 4. Preoperative optimisation considered on an individual basis to assess adrenal suppression.65 Statement 4.3. ECCO CD Treatment GL Statement 4.1. ECCO CD Treatment GL Current evidence suggests that preoperative treat- Preoperative nutritional assessment should be performed ment with anti-TNF therapy [EL3], vedolizumab [EL4], for all patients with Crohn’s disease who need surgery. or ustekinumab [EL4] does not increase the risk of post Nutritional optimisation prior to surgery, with enteral or operative complications in patients with CD having ab- parenteral nutrition, is recommended for those patients dominal surgery. Cessation of these medications prior to with nutritional deficiencies [EL3]. surgery is not mandatory. Downloaded from by guest on May ECCO Guidelines on Therapeutics in Crohn’s Disease: Surgical Treatment 161 Anti-TNF therapy Surgery in the context of sepsis carries a high risk for postoperative The use of biologics in CD patients scheduled for surgery has complications, including anastomotic leaks and continued abdom- been controversial. Concern was raised
