Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


versus 289 patients on anti-TNF therapy, revealed a significantly in- obstruction without bowel ischaemia or peritonitis [EL4]. creased rate of surgical site infections after abdominal surgery in patients on vedolizumab.67 However the most recent meta-analysis, comparing 307 IBD patients treated with vedolizumab versus 490 patients on anti-TNF and 535 patients not exposed to preoperative Intestinal stenosis frequently occurs in the course of CD. Acute biologic therapy, revealed no differences in postoperative infectious small-bowel obstruction typically presents with intractable nausea/ and overall complications between vedolizumab patients and patients vomiting, abdominal distension, and absence of gas or stool passage without biologic therapy [OR 0.99, respectively 1.00]. A similar out- per anum. Conservative management is the preferred option in the come was observed, when comparing patients on vedolizumab with absence of peritonitis, including bowel rest, gastric decompression, those on anti-TNF therapy, for the occurrence of postoperative in- and intravenous fluid therapy. In the presence of active inflammatory fectious and overall complications [OR 0.99, resp. 0.92].68 Although disease, intravenous steroids should be considered11,17[and Torres larger, randomised studies including perioperative drug monitoring J. et al. ECCO guidelines on therapeutics in CD Journal of Crohn’s remain necessary, treatment with vedolizumab appears to be safe in and Colitis 2020; in press]. Primary conservative management al- the surgical context. lows optimisation of the nutritional and immunosuppression status Ustekinumab radiological signs indicate an intestinal perforation, emergency sur- gery and resection of the diseased bowel loop are required. Early Two retrospective multicentre cohort studies compared CD patients surgical consultation is strongly recommended to assess surgical in- exposed preoperatively to either ustekinumab [for 3–6 months] dication and to jointly monitor the progress of a conservative ap- or to anti-TNF therapy [follow-up to 6 months postoperatively]. proach. Episodes of [sub]acute small-bowel obstruction also tend to In univariate analysis, patients on ustekinumab were more likely recur over time; hence surgical advice is important in the context of to receive a stoma [70% vs 12.5%; p <0.001], to be on combin- interdisciplinary care and discussion of treatment options. ation therapy [25% vs 2.5%; p = 0.01],69 and to be reoperated [16% vs 5%; p = 0.01].70 Nevertheless, no increases in early or late postoperative complications were noted in multivariate ana- Statement 5.2. ECCO CD Treatment GL lysis when comparing the surgical outcomes of those 60 patients on ustekinumab versus 209 patients receiving anti-TNF therapy.69,70 Endoscopic balloon dilatation or surgery are both suit- Again, studies
