Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


Treatment GL lysis when comparing the surgical outcomes of those 60 patients on ustekinumab versus 209 patients receiving anti-TNF therapy.69,70 Endoscopic balloon dilatation or surgery are both suit- Again, studies of better design and larger patient numbers are re- able treatment options for patients with short [<5 cm] quired to confirm these results. strictures of the terminal ileum in Crohn’s disease. The choice of treatment depends on local expertise and pa- tient preference [EL5]. Statement 4.4. ECCO CD Treatment GL Preoperative control of sepsis is recommended prior to abdominal surgery for Crohn’s disease [EL4]. Although symptomatic short strictures are frequent in CD pa- tients, no RCT comparing surgery versus balloon dilatation has Downloaded from by guest on May 162 M. Adamina et al. been performed. The largest study investigating the benefits should also include the patient’s views, should follow. When surgery and risks of balloon dilatation is a pooled analysis published becomes necessary, it is important to thoroughly assess the bowel, in 2017 by Bettenworth et al., with 1493 patients who under- ideally preoperatively with MRI enterography. MRI enterography went a total of 3213 endoscopic balloon dilatations.74 A total of may reveal a distinction between inflammatory strictures [amenable 98.6% the strictures were ileal and 62% were anastomotic. The to intensified medical therapy] and fibrotic strictures. Assessing the primary technical success rate [passage of the endoscope through bowel during surgery can also be very useful in identifying stric- [symptom-free at completion of follow-up]. Complications [per- familiar with the different kinds of strictureplasties, including non- foration and/or bleeding] occurred in 2.8% of the procedures. conventional strictureplasties. Nonetheless, strictureplasty of the Despite the high initial success rate, 73.5% of the patients under- colon is not recommended.11 went re-dilatation within 24 months and 42.9% required sur- gical resection. Section 6. Surgical techniques for abdominal CD Similar results were reported in a systematic review by Morar et al. who analysed 1089 patients and 2664 dilatations and re- ported a technical success rate of 90.6% and a clinical success Statement 6.1. ECCO CD Treatment GL rate of 70.2%. Complications occurred in 6.4% of the balloon dilatations. At 5 years of follow-up, 75% of the patients had Laparoscopic surgery should be offered as the first-line undergone surgery.75 There were no differences in outcomes approach in surgery for Crohn’s disease, dependent on when primary or anastomotic strictures were dilated. Recent ob- appropriate expertise [EL2]. servational studies revealed comparable
