Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


There were no differences in outcomes approach in surgery for Crohn’s disease, dependent on when primary or anastomotic strictures were dilated. Recent ob- appropriate expertise [EL2]. servational studies revealed comparable results76-79.76–79 Hence, balloon dilatation of both primary and anastomotic short CD strictures appears safe and effective in the short term. However, A meta-analysis and a Cochrane review of two RCTs87,88 showed recurrence is the rule and the need for surgery is frequent in the no statistical difference in any outcomes between laparoscopic and following 5 years. open surgery for small-bowel CD. A more recent meta-analysis, which included RCTs and observational studies, revealed fewer complications and fewer incisional hernias in favour of the laparo- Statement 5.3. ECCO CD Treatment GL scopic approach.89 A further meta-analysis assessed laparoscopic resection for recurrent CD, confirming feasibility and safety in the Strictureplasty is a safe option to treat small-bowel stric- presence of appropriate expertise.90 Conversion to open surgery was tures related to Crohn’s disease. Strictureplasty may be 2.5 times more frequent in this context, although complications did preferable to resection of long segments of bowel, with not increase. Hence, patients benefit from a laparoscopic approach potential reduction in surgical recurrence rates [EL3]. in surgery for primary and recurrent small-bowel CD, with fewer postoperative complications and fewer incisional hernias. In the ab- sence of expertise to perform laparoscopic surgery, emergency oper- Strictureplasty is an established and safe surgical option for treating ations should not be delayed. strictures related to CD and is an alternative to bowel resection.80,81 Strictureplasty is recommended whenever reasonable and technic- ally feasible, particularly with multiple fibrotic strictures that would Statement 6.2. ECCO CD Treatment GL otherwise require more than a minimal bowel resection.11,82 A meta- analysis of 1112 patients who underwent 3259 strictureplasties A temporary stoma should be considered if steroids [81% HeinekeMikulicz, 10% Finney, 5% side-to-side isoperistaltic] cannot be withdrawn or significantly reduced prior to sur- before the biologic era revealed a 5-year recurrence rate of 28%.83 gery [EL5]. HeinekeMikulicz is the preferred technique for stenotic segments up to 6–8 cm, whereas Finney and side-to-side isoperistaltic techniques address longer or multiple strictures and require more expertise.84 The decision to create a stoma [primary anastomosis and protective Surgical morbidity is in the range of 8–15% and is unrelated to stoma or no anastomosis and split stoma] in the context of steroid ported81,84,85 and suggest better results for strictureplasty compared no data comparing
