Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


of bowel continuity/stoma reversal There are many options and crossroads in decision making for sur- was effective in up to two-thirds of the patients but was much less gery in CD. Some approaches have been tested over time and were when perineal disease was also present [i.e. 29–42%].130,131 Surgical described in these surgical guidelines. complications of defunctioning stoma creation were in the expected Although sufficient training, technical expertise, and an ad- range of 3–10% for stoma prolapse/hernia and <5% renal failure equate caseload to achieve and maintain subspecialisation in IBD due to high-output stoma.130 Further bowel resection was reported surgery are important, the key to success in managing CD is a in up to half of the patients in recent series.130,131 Risk factors for [procto]colectomy were severe refractory perineal disease, require- equation. ment for combined medical therapy, and a history of more than one The present Guidelines have been written with this interdiscip- biologic drug. For these patients, early colectomy and end ileostomy linary spirit in mind and summarise the current knowledge at hand. [as opposed to a defunctioning ileostomy] may be discussed. The degree of certainty in some aspects of surgery for CD is closer to eminence than evidence, thus paving the way for further research and better answers. Revealing gaps in evidence is the first step to Statement 6.8. ECCO CD Treatment GL Restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anas- rent evidence will inform guideline updates. Meanwhile, dynamic tomosis can be considered in selected patients with re- integration of gains in knowledge into the ECCO e-Guide will allow fractory pancolonic Crohn’s disease without history of for rapid dissemination. Guidelines provide guidance to clinicians, perianal disease, taking into account the high risk of who adapt expert knowledge and generic evidence to individualise pouch failure [EL4]. care. It is hoped that the present work will contribute to optimising care for patients with CD. Several expert centres have reported their experience with restora- Funding tive proctocolectomy and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis [IPAA] for This project was initiated, funded, and supported by the European Crohn’s refractory pancolonic CD. Previous ECCO Guidelines stressed the and Colitis Organisation. higher complication and failure rates of CD-IPAA, which should be restricted to highly motivated patients and to multidisciplinary teams, and only in the absence of small-bowel and perineal diseases.11 Conflict of Interest Panis et al. compared 31 CD-IPAA patients, without small- ECCO has diligently maintained a disclosure policy
