Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


teams, and only in the absence of small-bowel and perineal diseases.11 Conflict of Interest Panis et al. compared 31 CD-IPAA patients, without small- ECCO has diligently maintained a disclosure policy of potential conflicts of bowel or perianal involvement, with 71 ulcerative colitis IPAA interests [CoI]. The conflict of interest declaration is based on a form used by [UC-IPAA] patients. No differences in postoperative outcomes the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors [ICMJE]. The CoI were reported, whereas the 5-year definitive end ileostomy rate was statement is not only stored at the ECCO Office and the editorial office of 10% in CD-IPAA versus 2% in UC-IPAA patients.132 At 10 years of JCC, but is also open to public scrutiny on the ECCO website [ follow-up, rates of CD-related complications were 35%, with 10% ecco-ibd.eu/about-ecco/ecco-disclosures.html], providing a comprehensive of the pouches excised.133 overview of potential conflicts of interest of authors. Downloaded from by guest on May ECCO Guidelines on Therapeutics in Crohn’s Disease: Surgical Treatment 165 Author Contributions 5. Burke JP, Velupillai Y, O’Connell PR, Coffey JC. National trends in intes- tinal resection for Crohn’s disease in the post-biologic era. Int J Colorectal MA, GF, JT, and OZ coordinated the project; SB, TL, and MG-L provided ex- Dis 2013;28:1401–6. pert methodology advice, trained the working group members, and performed 6. Bemelman WA; S-ECCO Collaborators. Evolving role of IBD surgery. J the analysis of data; GD, TK, JPG, TR, AS, and JW coordinated the working Crohns Colitis 2018;12:1005–7. groups; all the authors listed contributed to the identification of relevant data, 7. Lightner AL, Shen B. Perioperative use of immunosuppressive medications data interpretation, and drafted and discussed the final recommendations; in patients with Crohn’s disease in the new ‘biological era’. Gastroenterol all the authors participated in the final Consensus; MA and OZ drafted this Rep [Oxf] 2017;5:165–77. manuscript; all authors, the ECCO Guideline Committee [GuiCom], and the 8. Reinglas J, Gonczi L, Kurt Z, Bessissow T, Lakatos PL. Positioning of old ECCO Governing Board approved the final version of the manuscript. and new biologicals and small molecules in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases. World J Gastroenterol 2018;24:3567–82. 9. Reinglas J, Restellini S, Gonczi L, et al. Harmonization of quality of care in Disclaimer an IBD center impacts disease outcomes: Importance of structure, process The ECCO Consensus Guidelines are based on an international consensus indicators and rapid access clinic. Dig Liver Dis 2019;51:340–5. process.
