Journal of Crohn's and Colitis, 2020, 155–168
KEYWORDS: patients, ecco, treatment, surgery, disease, surgical, crohn, therapy, complications, studies, rate, crohn disease, fistula, fistulae, colitis


an IBD center impacts disease outcomes: Importance of structure, process The ECCO Consensus Guidelines are based on an international consensus indicators and rapid access clinic. Dig Liver Dis 2019;51:340–5. process. Any treatment decisions are a matter for the individual clinician 10. Koltun WA. Better together: improved care of the IBD patient using and should not be based exclusively on the content of the ECCO Consensus the multi-disciplinary IBD center. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol Guidelines. The ECCO and/or any of their staff members and/or any 2017;11:491–3. Consensus contributor may not be held liable for any information published 11. Bemelman WA, Warusavitarne J, Sampietro GM, et al. ECCO-ESCP con- in good faith in the ECCO Consensus Guidelines. This manuscript is a joint sensus on surgery for Crohn’s disease. J Crohns Colitis 2018;12:1–16. expert consensus activity. Hence all authors participated sufficiently, intellec- 12. Harbord M, Annese V, Vavricka SR, et al.; European Crohn’s and Colitis tually or practically, in the work to take public responsibility for the content Organisation. The First European evidence-based consensus on extra- of the article, including the concept, design, data interpretation, and writing intestinal manifestations in inflammatory bowel disease. J Crohns Colitis of the manuscript. 2016;10:239–54. 13. Kemp K, Dibley L, Chauhan U, et al. Second N-ECCO Consensus Statements on the European nursing roles in caring for patients with Acknowledgments Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis. J Crohns Colitis 2018;12:760–76. 14. Maaser C, Sturm A, Vavricka SR, et al.; European Crohn’s and Colitis We gratefully thank: Paul Freudenberger for the literature search and full- Organisation [ECCO] and the European Society of Gastrointestinal and text retrieval; Torsten Karge for the support on informatics and on the web Abdominal Radiology [ESGAR]. ECCO-ESGAR Guideline for Diagnostic Guidelines platform; and the ECCO Office for the logistical and coordin- Assessment in IBD Part 1: initial diagnosis, monitoring of known IBD, de- ation support. We gratefully thank the EFCCA patient representatives Ciara tection of complications. J Crohns Colitis 2019;13:144–64. Drohan, Evelyn Groß, Sanna Lönnfors, and Marko Perovic who proactively 15. Sturm A, Maaser C, Calabrese E, et al.; European Crohn’s and Colitis collaborated in the development of these Guidelines. We would like to ac- Organisation [ECCO] and the European Society of Gastrointestinal and knowledge the ECCO National Representatives who acted as external re- Abdominal Radiology [ESGAR]. ECCO-ESGAR Guideline for Diagnostic viewers and reviewed and provided suggestions on the recommendations and Assessment in IBD Part 2: IBD
