NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: antipsychotic, liver, agents, injury, liver injury, medications, drugs, olanzapine, antipsychotic medications, antipsychotic agents, clozapine, risperidone, chlorpromazine, aripiprazole, quetiapine


jaundice"). Th e other phenothiazines were found to cause a similar cholestatic hepatitis, although much less frequently than chlorpromazine. The other conventional antipsychotic medications have been linked to liver injury only rarely, if antipsychotic medications have been linked to serum enzyme elevations during therapy, but clinically apparent 2 LiverTox liver injury with jaundice from these agents is rare except with olanzapine and clozapine, both of which have been implicated in more than 50 cases of clinically apparent liver injury. Both of these agents have many other difficult and potentially fatal side effects and are not commonly used. Among the remaining, relatively well tolerated antipsychotic agents, risperidone and quetiapine have been linked to a modest number of cases of clinically apparent liver injury, while aripiprazole and ziprasidone have been linked to a small number of cases not all of which are very convincing. • First Generation ⚬ Phenothiazines ▪ Chlorpromazine, Fluphenazine, Perphenazine, Prochlorperazine, Thioridazine, Trifluoperazine ⚬ Other ▪ Haloperidol, Lithium, Loxapine, Molindone, Pimozide • Second Generation (Atypicals) ⚬ Aripiprazole, Asenapine, Brexpiprazole, Cariprazine, Clozapine, Iloperidone, Lumateperone, Lurasidone, Olanzapine, Paliperidone, Pimavanserin, Quetiapine, Risperidone, Ziprasidone ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 10 June 2023 Zimmerman HJ. Neuroleptic drugs. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 483-91. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity of neuroleptic drugs including chlorpromazine and the phenothiazines, haloperidol, sulpiride, loxapine, molindone, pimozide, clozapine and risperidone published in 1999). Larry D, Ripault MP. Hepatotoxicity of psychotropic drugs and drugs of abuse. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 443-62. (Review of hepatotoxicity of psychiatric agents). Meyer JM. Pharmacotherapy of psychosis and mania. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 279-302. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). Drugs for psychotic disorders. Med Lett Drugs Ther. 2016;58(1510):160–4. PubMed PMID: 27960194. (Concise review of medications available in the US for therapy of psychotic disorders; mentions that olanzapine can cause aminotransferase elevations, and that olanzapine and ziprasidone can cause DRESS syndrome but does not mention ALT elevations or hepatotoxicity for any of other agents discussed, including aripiprazole, brexpiprazole, cariprazine, clozapine, quetiapine, risperidone, asenapine, iloperidone, paliperidone, and lurasidone). Druschky K, Toto S, Bleich S, Baumgärtner J, Engel RR, Grohmann R, Maier HB, et al. Severe drug-induced liver injury in patients under treatment with antipsychotic
