HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Published in final edited form as: Eur Respir J. 2020 July ; 56(1): . doi:. Treatment of Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease: An Official ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA Clinical Practice Guideline1 Charles L. Daley1,a, Jonathan M. Iaccarino2, Christoph Lange3,a, Emmanuelle Cambau4,a, Richard J. Wallace Jr5,a, Claire Andrejak6, Erik C. Böttger7, Jan Brozek8, David E. Griffith9, Lorenzo Guglielmetti4,10, Gwen A. Huitt12, Shandra L. Knight12, Philip Leitman13, Theodore K. Marras14, Kenneth N. Olivier15, Miguel Santin16, Jason E. Stout17, Enrico Tortoli18, Jakko van Ingen19, Dirk Wagner20, Kevin L. Winthrop21 1It is important to realize that guidelines cannot always account for individual variation among patients. They are not intended to adherence to the guidelines listed below to be voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding their application to be made by the accurate and reliable information, the information provided in these guidelines is presented “as is” without any warranty of accuracy, reliability, or otherwise, either express or implied. These guidelines should be applied in a manner consistent with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Neither ATS, ERS, ESCMID and IDSA nor their officers, directors, members, employees, or agents will be liable for any loss, damage, or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential damages, incurred in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information presented. form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written and prior written authorization by ATS, ERS, ESCMID and IDSA is required, to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make any other software product. Any person or entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact ATS, ERS, ESCMID and IDSA for approval in accordance with the terms and conditions of third party use, in particular any use of the guidelines in any software product. Fax: 303-398-1789, . aAuthors are co-chairs of this guideline committee that helped to support recommendations in this Guideline. His tireless effort to improve the diagnosis and treatement of NTM disease will never be forgotten. Potential Conflicts of Interests C.L.D. served on advisory committees for Cipla, Horizon, Insmed, Johnson & Johnson, Matinas Biopharma, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Paratek, and Spero; served on data safety and monitoring boards for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical and Sanofi Pasteur; received research support from Beyond Air, Insmed, and Spero; served as a consultant
