HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


slowly growing NTM and M. abscessus among the rapidly growing NTM. A panel of experts was carefully selected by leading international respiratory medicine and infectious diseases societies (ATS, ERS, ESCMID, IDSA) and included specialists patient advocacy. Systematic reviews were conducted around each of 22 PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome) questions and the recommendations were formulated, written and graded using the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. Thirty-one evidence-based recommendations about treatment of NTM pulmonary disease are provided. This guideline is intended for use by healthcare professionals Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript who care for patients with NTM pulmonary disease, including specialists in infectious diseases and pulmonary diseases. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The American Thoracic Society (ATS), European Respiratory Society (ERS), European Society of America (IDSA) jointly sponsored the development of this Guideline to update the treatment recommendations for nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) pulmonary disease in adults. NTM represent over 190 species and subspecies ( many of which can produce disease in humans of all ages and can affect both pulmonary and extrapulmonary sites. Attempting to cover such a broad array of species and disease in a guideline using current guideline development methods is impossible. Therefore, this guideline focuses on pulmonary disease in adults (without cystic fibrosis or HIV infection) caused by the most common NTM pathogens comprising Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), M. kansasii and M. xenopi among the slowly growing NTM and M. abscessus among the rapidly growing NTM. Twenty-two PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparators, Outcomes) questions and associated recommendations are included in the guideline. A panel of experts was carefully selected and screened for conflicts of interest and included specialists in pulmonary medicine, recommendations were developed based on the evidence that was appraised using GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) and are summarized below . Recommendations were either “strong” or “conditional,” (Table 1) and as suggested by GRADE, the phrase “we recommend” was used for strong recommendations and “we suggest” for conditional recommendations . This executive summary is a condensed version of the panel’s recommendations for the 22 PICO questions. A detailed description of background, methods, evidence summary and rationale that support each recommendation can be found online in the full text and accompanying supplementary material. DIAGNOSIS CRITERIA FOR NTM PULMONARY DISEASE—The 2007 guideline included The current guideline also recommends use of these criteria
