HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


can be found online in the full text and accompanying supplementary material. DIAGNOSIS CRITERIA FOR NTM PULMONARY DISEASE—The 2007 guideline included The current guideline also recommends use of these criteria to classify patients as having NTM pulmonary disease (Table 2). The significance of NTM isolated from the sputum of individuals who meet the clinical and radiographic criteria in Table 2 must be interpreted in the context of the number of positive cultures and specific species isolated. Because NTM can be isolated from respiratory specimens due to environmental contamination and because some patients who have an one positive sputum culture is recommended for diagnostic purposes and the same NTM species (or subspecies in the case of M. abscessus) should be isolated in two or more sputum cultures. Clinically significant MAC pulmonary disease is unlikely in patients who have a single positive sputum culture during the initial evaluation [5–7] but can be as high as 98% in those with two or more positive cultures . The pathogenicity of NTM varies significantly from organisms like M. gordonae, which rarely cause disease in humans, to M. kansasii, which should usually be considered pathogenic . For Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript species of low pathogenicity such as M. gordonae, several repeated positive cultures over months, if it was causing disease whereas a single positive culture for M. kansasii in the proper context may be enough evidence to initiate treatment . The pathogenicity of NTM species may differ between geographic areas . Importantly, just because a patient meets diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease does not necessarily mean antibiotic treatment is required. A careful assessment of the pathogenicity of the organism, risks and benefits of therapy, the patient’s wish and ability to receive treatment as well as the goals of therapy should be discussed with patients prior to initiating treatment. In some instances, “watchful waiting” may be the preferred course of action. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC PICO QUESTIONS—Twenty-two PICO questions are addressed in this Guideline resulting in 31 recommendations. For each NTM covered, the recommendations are organized by the drugs to be included in the regimen, frequency of administration, and duration of therapy. Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Questions I-II)—I: Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated with antimicrobial therapy or followed for evidence of progression (“watchful waiting”)? Recommendation: 1. In patients
