HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Questions I-II)—I: Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated with antimicrobial therapy or followed for evidence of progression (“watchful waiting”)? Recommendation: 1. In patients who meet the diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease (Table 2), we suggest initiation of treatment rather than watchful waiting, especially in the context of positive acid-fast bacilli sputum smears and/or cavitary lung disease (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: The decision to initiate antimicrobial therapy for NTM pulmonary disease should be patient priorities. Any treatment decision should include a discussion with the patient that outlines the potential side effects of antimicrobial therapy, the uncertainties surrounding the benefits of antimicrobial therapy, and the potential for recurrence including reinfection (particularly in the setting of nodular/bronchiectatic disease) [11–13]. II: Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated empirically or based on in vitro drug susceptibility test results? Recommendations: 1. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest susceptibility­ based treatment for macrolides and amikacin over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest susceptibility-based treatment for rifampicin over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 3. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, the panel members felt there is insufficient evidence to make a recommendation for or against susceptibility-based treatment. 4. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease we suggest susceptibility-based treatment for macrolides and amikacin over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript estimates of effect). For macrolides, a 14-day incubation and/or sequencing of the erm(41) gene is required in order to evaluate for potential inducible macrolide resistance. Remark: Although in vitro-in vivo correlations have not yet been proven for all major antimycobacterial drugs, baseline susceptibility testing to specific drugs is recommended isolates from patients with definite disease. Testing of other drugs may be useful but there is insufficient data to make specific recommendations. Mycobacterium avium complex (Questions III-IX)—III: Should patients with macrolide­ susceptible MAC pulmonary disease be treated with a three-drug regimen with a macrolide or without a macrolide? Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we recommend a three-drug regimen that includes a macrolide over a three-drug regimen without a macrolide (strong recommendation, very low certainty
