HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we recommend a three-drug regimen that includes a macrolide over a three-drug regimen without a macrolide (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: While no well-designed randomized trials of macrolide therapy have been performed, macrolide susceptibility has been a consistent predictor of treatment success for pulmonary MAC [16–18]. Loss of the macrolide from the treatment regimen is associated with a markedly reduced rate of conversion of sputum cultures to negative and higher mortality [16–18]. Therefore, the panel members felt strongly that a macrolide should be included in the regimen. IV: In patients with newly diagnosed macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should an azithromycin-based regimen or a clarithromycin-based regimen be used? Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease we suggest azithromycin-based treatment regimens rather than clarithromycin-based regimens. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: The panel felt that azithromycin was preferred over clarithromycin because of better tolerance, less drug-interactions, lower pill burden, single daily dosing and equal efficacy. However, when azithromycin is not available or not tolerated, clarithromycin is an acceptable alternative. V: Should patients with MAC pulmonary disease be treated with a parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen or without a parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen? Recommendation: 1. For patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest that parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the initial treatment regimen (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: In the absence of comparably effective oral medications there are few options other than parenteral aminoglycosides for “intensifying” standard oral MAC therapy. The committee thought that the benefits outweighed risks in those patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease and that administration of at least 2–3 months of an aminoglycoside was the best balance between risks and benefits. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript VI: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a regimen with inhaled amikacin or a regimen without inhaled amikacin be used for treatment? Recommendations: 1. In patients with newly diagnosed MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest neither inhaled amikacin (parenteral formulation) nor amikacin liposome inhalation suspension be used as part of the initial treatment regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease
