HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


nor amikacin liposome inhalation suspension be used as part of the initial treatment regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed therapy after at least six months of guideline-based therapy, we recommend addition of amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) to the treatment regimen rather than a standard oral regimen, only. (strong recommendation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of ALIS when added to guideline based therapy for treatment refractory MAC pulmonary disease . ALIS is currently approved by the United States Federal Drug Administration for treatment of treatment refractory MAC pulmonary disease. As noted in Question #5, we suggest that parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the initial treatment regimen in patients with cavitary or advanced/ severe bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease. VII: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a three-drug or a two-drug macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest a treatment regimen with at least three drugs (including a macrolide and ethambutol) over a regimen with two drugs (a macrolide and ethambutol alone). (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: A priority in MAC pulmonary disease therapy is preventing the development of macrolide resistance. The panel members were concerned that the currently available data were insufficient to determine the risk of acquired macrolide resistance with a two-drug regimen and therefore suggest a three drug macrolide-containing regimen. VIII: In patients with macrolide susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a daily or a three­ times weekly macrolide-based regimen be used for treatment? Recommendations: 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic macrolide­ susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest a three times per week macrolide-based regimen rather than a daily macrolide-based regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with cavitary or severe/advanced nondular bronchiectatic macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease we suggest a daily macrolide-based regimen rather than three times per week macrolide-based regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Intermittent therapy has similar sputum conversion rates as daily therapy for nodular/ bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease and is also better tolerated than daily therapy . A critically important finding from the available studies is the lack of development of macrolide Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in
