HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


is also better tolerated than daily therapy . A critically important finding from the available studies is the lack of development of macrolide Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript resistance with intermittent therapy. There is not similar evidence to justify or support intermittent therapy for cavitary MAC pulmonary disease and it is not recommended. IX: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should patients be treated with less than 12 months of treatment after culture negativity or 12 or more months of treatment after culture negativity? Recommendation: 1. We suggest that patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease receive treatment for at least 12 months after culture conversion. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: The optimal duration of therapy for pulmonary MAC disease is not currently known. The panel felt that in the absence of evidence identifying an optimal treatment duration that the recommendation from the 2007 Guideline should be followed . Mycobacterium kansasii (Questions X-XIV)—X: In patients with rifampincin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should an isoniazid-containing regimen or a macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? Recommendation: 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Isoniazid is widely used at present for treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease and in the experience of the panel members, there have been good outcomes when using a regimen consisting of rifampicin, ethambutol, and isoniazid irrespective of the result of MICs for isoniazid and ethambutol . Based on the in vitro activity of macrolides against M. kansasii, and two studies that demonstrated good treatment outcomes when clarithromycin was substituted for isoniazid , the panel suggests that either isoniazid or a macrolide can be used in combination with rifampicin and ethambutol. XI: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the treatment regimen? Recommendation: 1. We suggest that neither parenteral amikacin nor streptomycin be used routinely for treating patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Regimens of three oral agents, rifampicin and ethambutol, and either isoniazid or a macrolide, achieve high rates of sustained culture conversion and treatment success in the treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Therefore, given
