HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


agents, rifampicin and ethambutol, and either isoniazid or a macrolide, achieve high rates of sustained culture conversion and treatment success in the treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Therefore, given the good outcomes observed with oral regimens and the high risk of adverse effects associated with parenteral amikacin or streptomycin, the committee felt strongly that the use of these parenteral agents is not warranted, unless it is impossible to use a rifampicin-based regimen or severe disease is present. XII: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? Recommendations: 1. In patients with rifampin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest using a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide instead of a fluoroquinolone (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intolerance to one of the first line antibiotics we suggest a fluoroquinolone (e.g., moxifloxacin) be used as part of a second-line regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Treatment success of M. kansasii pulmonary disease with a rifamycin-based drug regimen is usually excellent but the optimal choice of companion drugs is not clear. While ethambutol is usually the preferred companion drug, the choice of an additional companion drug may be isoniazid, a macrolide or a fluoroquinolone. As there is more experience and better evidence for treatment regimens that include isoniazid or a macrolide as a companion drug, these drugs are preferred [25–28]. For rifampicin-resistant disease, a regimen such as ethambutol, azithromycin, and a fluoroquinolone would be likely to lead to successful treatment. XIII: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should a three times per week or daily treatment regimen be used? Recommendations: 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with a rifampicin, ethambutol and macrolide regimen, we suggest either daily or three times weekly treatment. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect) 2. In patients with cavitary M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with a rifampicin, ethambutol and macrolide-based regimen, we suggest daily treatment instead of three times weekly treatment. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 3. In all patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with an isoniazid, ethambutol
