HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


treatment instead of three times weekly treatment. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 3. In all patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with an isoniazid, ethambutol and rifampicin regimen, we suggest treatment be given daily instead of three times weekly. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Because there are no randomized trials available and the small size of the single study that evaluated three times weekly therapy , the committee did not feel that they could recommend intermittent therapy in the setting of cavitary disease until more evidence was available. Similarly, there are no data to support the use of isoniazid on a three times weekly basis in patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease. XIV: In patients with rifampicin susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for less than 12 months or 12 or more months? Recommendation: 1. We suggest that patients with rifampin susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease be treated for at least 12 months (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Current rifampicin-based treatment regimens are associated with a high rate of success if used for at least 12 months . Randomized controlled trials comparing shorter treatment regimens are currently lacking. Although some experts would favor 12 months of treatment after culture conversion, there is no evidence that relapses could be prevented with treatment courses longer than 12 months. Therefore, the panel members felt that M. kansasii could be treated for a fixed duration of 12 months instead of 12 months beyond culture conversion. Since sputum conversion at four months of rifampicin-based regimens is usually observed [29–31], expert consultation should be obtained if cultures fail to convert to negative by that time. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Mycobacterium xenopi (Questions XV-XVIII)—XV: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest using a multidrug treatment regimen that includes moxifloxacin or macrolide. (conditional recommendation, low certainty in estimates of effect) Remarks: There is in vitro evidence that macrolides and fluoroquinolones are active against M. xenopi, while rifampicin and ethambutol are inactive in vitro alone and in combinations . Preliminary data from a study in France that randomized patients
