HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


and fluoroquinolones are active against M. xenopi, while rifampicin and ethambutol are inactive in vitro alone and in combinations . Preliminary data from a study in France that randomized patients to receive either moxifloxacin or clarithromycin plus ethambutol and rifampicin reported no difference in the treatment success between the study arms . XVI: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a two, three or four-drug regimen be used for treatment? Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest a daily regimen that includes at least three drugs: rifampicin, ethambutol, and either a macrolide and/or a fluoroquinolone (e.g. moxifloxacin) (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Given the high mortality associated with M. xenopi disease, the panel members felt the large risk of treatment failure with a two-drug regimen warranted at least a three-drug treatment regimen. However, the absence of universal access to moxifloxacin and the small amount of data for other fluoroquinolones has to be considered when choosing a regimen. XVII: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the treatment regimen? 1. In patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest adding parenteral amikacin to the treatment regimen and obtaining expert consultation. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Barring compelling evidence to the contrary, M xenopi patients should be treated aggressively given the high mortality of the disease [34–36]. In addition to the high mortality, the committee considered the general acceptability and feasibility of parenteral therapy, and potential XVIII: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for less than 12 months or 12 or more months after culture conversion? 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest that treatment be continued for at least 12 months beyond culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Data suggest that treatment outcomes improve if the duration of treatment increases . The panel felt that this outweighs the risk of adverse events associated with longer treatment and agrees with previous recommendations . Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Mycobacterium abscessus (Questions XIX-XXI)—XIX: In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should a macrolide-based regimen or a regimen without a macrolide be used for treatment? Recommendations: 1. In patients
