HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Manuscript Mycobacterium abscessus (Questions XIX-XXI)—XIX: In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should a macrolide-based regimen or a regimen without a macrolide be used for treatment? Recommendations: 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains without inducible or mutational resistance, we recommend a macrolide-containing multidrug treatment regimen. (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being used for its immunomodulatory properties although the macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks:M. abscessus infections can be life-threatening and the use of macrolides is potentially of great benefit. Macrolides are very active in vitro against M. abscessus strains without a functional erm(41) gene and evidence supports use of macrolides in patients with disease caused by macrolide-susceptible M. abscessus . It is important to perform in vitro macrolide susceptibility testing including detection of a functional or non-functional erm(41) gene [40–42]. XX: In patients with M. abscessus complex pulmonary disease, how many antibiotics should be included within multidrug regimens? Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest a multidrug regimen that includes at least three active drugs (guided by in vitro susceptibility) in the initial phase of treatment. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Given the usual disease severity of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the variable and limited in vitro drug susceptibility of these organisms, the potential for the emergence of drug resistance, and the potential for more rapid progression of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the panel members suggest using a regimen consisting of three or more active drugs. The panel members felt strongly that treatment regimens should be designed in collaboration with experts in the management of these complicated infections. XXI: In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should shorter or longer duration therapy be used for treatment? Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest that either a shorter or longer treatment regimen be used and expert consultation obtained (conditional recommendation for either the intervention or the comparison, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: The lack of studies, the variation in drug availability, resources, and practice settings made it difficult to come to a consensus on
