HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: The lack of studies, the variation in drug availability, resources, and practice settings made it difficult to come to a consensus on the optimum duration of therapy. In addition, the panel members felt that some subgroups of patients should be considered separately in determining the length of therapy such as: patients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus cavitary disease, patients affected by lung disease caused by different M. abscessus subspecies and importantly, depending on susceptibility to macrolides and amikacin. The panel members suggest that an expert in the management of patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease be consulted. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Surgical Resection (Question XXII)—XXII: Should surgery plus medical therapy or medical therapy alone be used to treat NTM pulmonary disease? Recommendation: 1. In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we suggest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Remarks: Selected patients with failure of medical management, cavitary disease, drug resistant isolates or complications such as hemoptysis or severe bronchiectasis may undergo surgical resection of the diseased lung. The decision to proceed with surgical resection must be weighed against the risk and benefits of surgery. The panel suggests that surgery be performed by a surgeon experienced in mycobacterial surgery . Keywords nontuberculous; Mycobacterium avium complex; Mycobacterium kansasii ; Mycobacterium abscessus ; Mycobacterium xenopi INTRODUCTION The American Thoracic Society (ATS), European Respiratory Society (ERS), European Diseases Society of America (IDSA) jointly sponsored the development of this Guideline to update the treatment recommendations for nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) pulmonary disease in adults. NTM represent over 190 species and subspecies ( mycobacterium.html), some of which can produce disease in humans of all ages and can affect both pulmonary and extrapulmonary sites. Attempting to cover such a broad array of species and disease in a guideline using current guideline development methods is impossible. Therefore, this guideline focuses on pulmonary disease in adults (without cystic fibrosis or HIV infection) caused by the most common NTM pathogens comprising Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), M. kansasii and M. xenopi among the slowly growing NTM and M. abscessus among the rapidly growing NTM. Twenty­ two PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparators, Outcomes) questions and associated recommendations are included in the guideline. The recommendations were developed based on the
