HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


M. abscessus among the rapidly growing NTM. Twenty­ two PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparators, Outcomes) questions and associated recommendations are included in the guideline. The recommendations were developed based on the evidence that was appraised using GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) and are summarized below . BACKGROUND The genus Mycobacterium consists of a diverse group of species and subspecies (http:// www.bacterio.net/mycobacterium.html). With the exception of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, Mycobacterium leprae complex and Mycobacterium ulcerans the rest of the species are referred to as NTM and they can be found throughout our environment. The most underlying structural airway disease such as bronchiectasis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . The incidence and prevalence of NTM pulmonary disease are increasing in many areas of the world with rates particularly high in older individuals and those with Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript underlying bronchiectasis [44–48]. The reasons for the increases in prevalence are not fully understood but are likely multifactorial including environmental, host and microbial factors. encountering these patients increasingly frequently in the coming years. The availability of gene sequencing has improved taxonomy of mycobacteria, with an extraordinary increase in the number of validly published NTM species. Of the many known NTM species, only a small number appear to cause pulmonary disease in humans. The most common slowly growing NTM to do so are members of Mycobacterium avium complex which now consists of twelve separate species . The most common to cause pulmonary disease are M. avium, M. intracellulare and M. chimaera. Other important NTM causing pulmonary disease are M. kansasii and M. xenopi. M. abscessus and its subspecies abscessus, bolletii, and massiliense, are by far the most common causative agents of pulmonary disease due to rapidly growing mycobacteria. microbiology data. The ATS and IDSA developed a set of criteria to help guide clinicians in determining which patients are likely to have progressive disease . Unfortunately, the predictive values of these criteria are not well studied and thus they serve primarily as a guide to clinicians. The laboratory remains a critical component in the diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease given the many species and variable pathogenicity. Identification of NTM to the species level and in the case of M. abscessus, to the subspecies level, can provide important clinical and epidemiologic information. Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease varies depending
