HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


NTM to the species level and in the case of M. abscessus, to the subspecies level, can provide important clinical and epidemiologic information. Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease varies depending on the species (in some cases subspecies), extent of disease, drug susceptibility results (with limitations), and underlying co-morbidities. Regimens require the use of multiple antimicrobial agents that are often associated with clinically significant adverse reactions and must be administered for prolonged periods. Even so, treatment outcomes are often suboptimal and reinfection with another strain or species is common. In many settings, expert consultation is helpful. METHODS Committee Composition This guideline was developed by a multidisciplinary committee consisting of physicians and researchers with recognized NTM expertise (C.A., E.B., E.C., C.D., D.G., L.G., G.H., J.I., C.L., T.M., K.O., J.S., M.S., E.T., D.W., K.W., R.W.), methodologists (J.L.B. and J.M.I.), and a representative from an NTM non-profit organization the goal of which is patient support, education, and research in NTM (P.L.). The patient representative was a full participant in each step of the development process but did not vote on specific recommendations. The committee was chaired by C.D. (ATS) and co- chaired by C.L. (ERS), E.C. (ESCMID), and R.W. (IDSA), representing their respective societies. The committee worked with a medical librarian (S.K.) who had expertise in evidence synthesis and the guideline development process. All of the members who had potential financial and/or intellectual conflicts recused themselves or were excused by the chairs from discussions related to the recommendation formulation and grading, and voting Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript on recommendations related to the potential conflict. The methodology team conducted systematic reviews and prepared evidence summaries following the GRADE approach . Formulating Clinical Questions The committee developed potential questions to be addressed in the guideline using the 2007 guideline document and their own clinical experience and expertise. Committee members were asked to rank questions in order of importance and priority with all questions deemed important and high priority included for the guideline. Twenty-two questions were chosen based on committee ranking pertinent to the treatment of NTM pulmonary disease. Some of these questions had been previously addressed in 2007, but required updating based on new evidence, while others were new questions the committee felt were critical topics for NTM management. Outcomes of interest were selected a priori by the panel based on
