HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


based on new evidence, while others were new questions the committee felt were critical topics for NTM management. Outcomes of interest were selected a priori by the panel based on their group . Literature Search and Review of Evidence A medical librarian (S.K.) designed a search strategy using medical subject heading keywords and text words (see online supplement) limited to human studies and articles with English abstracts. Databases searched included MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Registry of of Effects from 1946 through July 2015. An update was performed in May 2016 prior to the final meeting at the ATS International Conference and a final update was performed in June 2018 prior to manuscript submission. Development of Clinical Recommendations The committee developed recommendations that considered the certainty of the evidence from the GRADE evidence profiles, as well as other domains that inform decision­ making. The GRADE evidence-to-decision framework was used to organize and document discussion for each recommendation . The committee considered each of the following in recommendation development: the quality of the evidence, the balance of desirable and undesirable consequences of compared management options, the values and the acceptability of the intervention to stakeholders, and the feasibility of implementation (see online supplement). The committee developed recommendations based on the GRADE evidence profiles for each question, with recommendations and their strength decided by committee consensus during face-to-face meetings. Recommendations were either “strong” or “conditional,” according to the GRADE approach (Table 1) . Strength of the recommendations was based upon the confidence in the estimates of effect, the outcomes studied and associated importance to patients, the desirable and undesirable consequences of treatment, the cost of treatment, the implications of to important stakeholders. In instances, where there was low certainty in the estimates of effect, the committee determined whether a strong recommendation was warranted based on paradigmatic situations outlined by Andrews et al . As suggested by GRADE, the phrase Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript “we recommend” was used for strong recommendations and “we suggest” for conditional recommendations . The Guideline, which was funded by ATS, ERS, ESCMID, and IDSA, will be re-evaluated in four years to determine if an update is necessary. DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR NTM PULMONARY DISEASE NTM pulmonary disease . The current guideline also recommends use of these criteria to classify patients as having NTM pulmonary disease (Table
