HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


is necessary. DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR NTM PULMONARY DISEASE NTM pulmonary disease . The current guideline also recommends use of these criteria to classify patients as having NTM pulmonary disease (Table 2). The significance of NTM isolated from the sputum of individuals who meet the clinical and radiographic criteria in Table 2 must be interpreted in the context of the number of positive cultures and specific species isolated. Because NTM can be isolated from respiratory specimens due to environmental contamination and because some patients who have an NTM isolated from sputum culture is recommended for diagnostic purposes and the same NTM species (or subspecies in the case of M. abscessus) should be isolated in two or more sputum cultures collected over an interval of a week or more. Clinically significant MAC pulmonary disease is unlikely in patients who have a single positive sputum culture during the initial evaluation [5–7] but can be as high as 98% in those with two or more positive cultures. The pathogenicity of NTM varies significantly from organisms like M. gordonae, which rarely cause disease in humans, to M. kansasii, which should usually be considered pathogenic . For species of low pathogenicity such as M. gordonae, several repeated disease, would be required to determine if it was causing disease whereas a single positive culture for M. kansasii in the proper context may be enough evidence to initiate treatment . The pathogenicity of NTM species may differ between geographic areas . Importantly, just because a patient meets diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease does not necessarily mean antibiotic treatment is required. A careful assessment of the pathogenicity of the organism, patient’s symptoms, risks and benefits of therapy, the patient’s wish and ability to receive treatment as well as the goals of therapy should be discussed with patients prior to initiating treatment. In some instances, “watchful waiting” may be the preferred course of action. LABORATORY DIAGNOSIS OF NONTUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIAL PULMONARY DISEASE The clinical laboratory plays a critical role in the diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease. A detailed review of the subject is beyond the scope of the guideline but a brief review of clinically relevant laboratory issues is below. Obtaining respiratory samples Given the slow course of NTM pulmonary disease, a prolonged interval ensures that repeat positive cultures are unlikely to reflect a transient contamination of the tracheobronchial system after a single environmental exposure. To distinguish NTM pulmonary disease
