HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


disease, a prolonged interval ensures that repeat positive cultures are unlikely to reflect a transient contamination of the tracheobronchial system after a single environmental exposure. To distinguish NTM pulmonary disease from Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript occasional presence of NTM in the tracheobronchial tract, at least three respiratory samples are investigated, over an interval of at least a week. For cavitary NTM pulmonary disease, sputum samples often suffice for diagnosis . Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and bronchial washing cultures have been reported in several small studies to be more sensitive than spontaneously expectorated sputum culture to diagnose nodular bronchiectatic NTM disease [51–54]. However, in the largest study, the yield of sputum culture and bronchial washing culture were equivalent . Bronchoscopy is performed only in patients suspected of having NTM pulmonary disease from whom sputum specimens cannot be obtained spontaneously or through induction. Sample processing and culture Decontamination by 0.25% N-acetyl-L-cysteine and 1% NaOH (NALC-NaOH) is the preferred method. An increase of NaOH concentrations lowers contamination rates but decreases sensitivity of culture . Culture of respiratory samples is performed on both liquid and solid media, to improve sensitivity. A meta-analysis of 9 studies [58–65] showed an increase in the sensitivity of culture for NTM of 15% if a solid medium was incubated alongside a liquid culture system. In the few studies that applied multiple solid media and reported results per medium, the LJ medium was found to be most sensitive for the detection of NTM . However, the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) currently recommends use of 7H10 and 7H11 solid media . CLSI has suggested incubations temperatures of 36 ± 1 °C for slow growers and 28 ± 2 °C for rapid growers : higher temperatures (i.e., 42°C) might accelerate growth of M. xenopi but lower incubation temperatures have not proven useful in diagnosing NTM pulmonary disease . In patients with a high suspicion of NTM pulmonary disease but negative cultures, review of decontamination procedures and use of supplemented media and molecular detection may be helpful although supplemental media are rarely necessary to diagnose NTM pulmonary disease. For molecular detection, most use a mycobacterium genus specific assay used in conjunction with nucleic acid sequencing, to distinguish M. tuberculosis complex from NTM . Species identification isolate as well as aid in the selection of a treatment
