HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


specific assay used in conjunction with nucleic acid sequencing, to distinguish M. tuberculosis complex from NTM . Species identification isolate as well as aid in the selection of a treatment regimen. Both molecular and mass spectrometry-based methods can be applied. Molecular identification is the preferred method and can be achieved using probes or gene sequencing. Probe-based assays are easier to perform and implement but lack discriminatory power, leading to misidentification and an oversimplified view of NTM phylogeny and epidemiology . Gene sequencing allows a higher level of discrimination, often up to subspecies level, but is only feasible for laboratories with access to sequencing facilities. Several target genes have been described, e.g., 16S rRNA, hsp65, rpoB, and the 16S-23S internal transcribed spacer (ITS) [72–75]. 16S rRNA gene sequencing alone offers limited discriminatory power, particularly for the M. abscessus-M. chelonae group . The hsp65 and rpoB genes and ITS are more Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript discriminative . Complementing 16S rRNA sequencing with additional targets where required yields the best discriminatory power, allowing identifications up to subspecies level (e.g. for M. abscessus) . The discriminatory power of the matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry method for NTM has increased with recent improvements in protein extraction protocols and databases but not all species and subspecies can be differentiated with this approach . These procedures work well for pure cultures however, if applied to newly positive liquid cultures, only 50% of isolates can be immediately identified . For the remainder, subculture on solid media until the occurrence of visual growth is needed to obtain good MALDI-TOF results . All clinically relevant isolates of NTM should be identified by molecular methods, including follow-up isolates of patients undergoing NTM pulmonary disease treatment. Where possible, isolates from patients who are being treated for NTM pulmonary disease are frozen and saved in order to distinguish reinfection from relapse when recurrence occurs. Drug susceptibility testing In general, drug susceptibility testing is performed for drugs used in treatment regimens and for which there are clear correlations between in vitro activity and the in vivo outcomes of treatment. Such correlations have become increasingly clear for NTM, especially for macrolides and amikacin. CLSI provides guidelines for test procedures. For M. avium complex, there is a clear correlation between baseline macrolide susceptibility of the causative strain
