HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


for NTM, especially for macrolides and amikacin. CLSI provides guidelines for test procedures. For M. avium complex, there is a clear correlation between baseline macrolide susceptibility of the causative strain and the outcome of treatment with macrolide-ethambutol-rifampicin regimens . Acquired macrolide resistance in M. avium complex is due to point mutations in the 23S rRNA (rrl) gene . For amikacin, acquired resistance is due to resistance conferring mutations in the 16S rRNA (rrs) gene and are mostly isolated from patients with extensive exposure to amikacin and/or related aminoglycosides . The breakpoint for resistance is a MIC ≥ 64 μg/mL for parenteral amikacin and ≥ 128 ug/mL for amikacin liposome inhaled suspension and finding such MICs would lead to cessation of intravenous or nebulized amikacin therapy . Tentative breakpoints for linezolid and moxifloxacin are also provided by CLSI but for these, in vitro-in vivo correlations have not been established . For M. kansasii, rifampicin and clarithromycin are the key drugs to test. Rifampicin resistance (MIC > 2 μg/mL) is rare, but can occur in isolates from patients with significant rifamycin exposures and failure of treatment with a rifamycin containing regimen . Resistance to clarithromycin is defined as an MIC ≥ 32 μg/mL . When rifampicin resistance has been identified, susceptibilities to amikacin, ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, linezolid, minocycline, moxifloxacin, rifabutin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole are tested . In M. abscessus pulmonary disease the association between in vitro drug susceptibility and in vivo outcome of treatment is evident for macrolides and amikacin . Parenteral drugs with in vitro activity include amikacin, imipenem, cefoxitin and tigecycline. Oral Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript drugs with some activity are the macrolides, oxazolidinones (linezolid) and clofazimine. Clofazimine shows in vitro activity, acts synergistically with amikacin and macrolides [91, 92], and prevents the emergence of amikacin-resistant M. abscessus in vitro . Strains of M. abscessus subsp. abscessus and M. abscessus subsp. bolletii have an erythromycin resistance methylase (erm) gene, named erm(41), that results in inducible resistance to macrolides . This inducible resistance can be measured in vitro by prolonged (i.e. up to 14 days) incubation of microdilution trays or can be investigated by molecular detection and characterization of the erm(41) gene. In M. abscessus subsp massiliense, the erm(41) gene is nonfunctional owing to a large deletion, thus rendering the strains macrolide susceptible. A nonfunctional gene also occurs
