HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


of the erm(41) gene. In M. abscessus subsp massiliense, the erm(41) gene is nonfunctional owing to a large deletion, thus rendering the strains macrolide susceptible. A nonfunctional gene also occurs in some M. abscessus subsp abscessus as a result of a C instead of a T at the nucleotide 28 position (Arg10 instead of Trp10) in the erm(41) gene . All of the three M. abscessus subspecies can develop constitutive macrolide resistance owing to 23S RNA (rrl) gene mutations . Susceptibility testing panels for M. abscessus include at least amikacin, cefoxitin, imipenem, clarithromycin, linezolid, doxycycline, tigecycline, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin. CLSI recommends that drug susceptibility testing be performed by broth microdilution . For patients whose NTM isolate is deemed to be clinically significant, drug susceptibility testing is performed for primary isolates as well as relapse/failure isolates. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC PICO QUESTIONS Twenty-two PICO questions are addressed in this Guideline. For additional details please see the online supplement, which includes supporting supplemental evidence profiles for each question (Tables E3.1–22) and evidence to decision tables (Tables E4.1–22) for each recommendation. For specific pathogens (M. avium complex, M. kansasii, M. xenopi, and M. abscessus), the PICO questions are organized by the drugs to be included in the regimen, frequency of administration, and duration of therapy. Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Questions I-II) Question I: Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated with antimicrobial therapy or followed for evidence of progression (“watchful waiting”)? Background: Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease with antimicrobial agents offers the possibility of cure of the disease. However, the potential benefits of antimicrobial treatment must be weighed against the potential adverse effects of treatment, low cure rates for some forms of infection, uncertain effect of treatment on quality and quantity of life, high costs of treatment, and the potential for reinfection. Recommendation: 1. In patients who meet the diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease (Table 2), we suggest initiation of treatment rather than watchful waiting, especially Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in the context of positive acid-fast bacilli sputum smears and/or cavitary lung disease (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence: No randomized, controlled trials have been conducted to examine the impact of treatment on either survival or quality of life. Limited retrospective observational data have failed to demonstrate that treatment
