HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


No randomized, controlled trials have been conducted to examine the impact of treatment on either survival or quality of life. Limited retrospective observational data have failed to demonstrate that treatment of NTM pulmonary disease prolongs survival over watchful waiting . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.1) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, Not all patients who have NTM isolated from a respiratory specimen or who meet ATS/ IDSA diagnostic criteria will develop progressive NTM pulmonary disease. For example, among 488 patients with MAC pulmonary disease in Taiwan who met ATS/IDSA disease criteria and were followed for at least one year, 305 (62.5%) demonstrated progression of disease . Progression was more likely to occur in patients who were acid-fast bacilli smear positive, had fibrocavitary disease or more extensive radiographic disease. Among those patients who met the 2007 ATS/IDSA criteria for MAC pulmonary disease and in whom treatment was not initiated, 51.6% underwent spontaneous sputum conversion during a median follow-up of 5.6 years . Predictors of spontaneous sputum culture conversion included younger age, higher body mass index and negative sputum acid-fast bacilli smears at initial diagnosis. Observational cohorts have noted wide variability in the proportion of patients with NTM pulmonary disease who are offered treatment (20–81%) likely contributing to selection bias [95, 98–105]. NTM pulmonary disease has been associated with diminished quality of life that correlates with the severity of lung impairment . A single study using standardized methods for quality of life assessment demonstrated improvement of quality of life associated with treatment of M. abscessus infection . Justification and implementation considerations: The decision to initiate antimicrobial therapy for NTM pulmonary disease should be individualized based on a combination of with relatively poor prognosis (e. g., cavitary disease, low body mass index, low albumin, and/or elevated inflammatory markers) , isolation of an organism that is more virulent and/or more responsive to antimicrobial therapy (e.g. M. kansasii), and underlying immune suppression were felt to move the balance toward antimicrobial treatment. Major symptoms such as severe fatigue with marked decrease in quality of life can also be major factors in starting therapy. Conversely, mild signs and symptoms of disease, higher potential for medication intolerance/toxicity and organisms less responsive to treatment (e.g. M. abscessus) were felt to move the balance toward watchful waiting. Any treatment decision should include a discussion with the patient that outlines the potential
