HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


less responsive to treatment (e.g. M. abscessus) were felt to move the balance toward watchful waiting. Any treatment decision should include a discussion with the patient that outlines the potential adverse effects of antimicrobial therapy, the uncertainties surrounding the benefits of antimicrobial therapy, and the potential for recurrence including reinfection (particularly in the setting of nodular-bronchiectatic disease) [11–13]. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question II. Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated empirically or based on in vitro drug susceptibility test results? Background.: Drug susceptibility testing for NTM is useful, but only for antibiotics for which correlations between in vitro activity and microbiological response to treatment have been well documented . These include the macrolides (clarithromycin and azithromycin) and amikacin with MAC and M. abscessus , and rifampicin with M. kansasii, . Recommendations: 1. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest susceptibility-based treatment for macrolides and amikacin over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest susceptibility-based treatment for rifampicin over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 3. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, the committee members feel there is insufficient evidence to make a recommendation for or against susceptibility­ based treatment. 4. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease we suggest susceptibility­ based treatment for macrolides and amikacin over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). For macrolides, a 14-day incubation and/or sequencing of the erm(41) gene should be performed to evaluate for potential inducible macrolide resistance. Summary of the evidence.: Only one study was identified that reported treatment outcomes based on empiric treatment versus the results of drug susceptibility results . The study was a retrospective observational study of 31 patients with various species causing NTM pulmonary disease who met the 1997 ATS case definition. Patients were treated with a variety of treatment regimens (13 different combinations were used). Adjusting treatment according to the results of drug susceptibility tests was not associated with any difference in median survival (75% with adjustment and 80% without). However, the study suffers from serious methodological flaws including lack of randomization, use of the 1997 ATS diagnostic criteria and methods of determining and interpreting drug susceptibility which are no longer recommended. Discussion of value
