HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


serious methodological flaws including lack of randomization, use of the 1997 ATS diagnostic criteria and methods of determining and interpreting drug susceptibility which are no longer recommended. Discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and health inequality (Table E4.2) can be found in the supplement. Although only one study was identified that attempted to evaluate the outcomes of treatment based on drug susceptibility results there are other studies that have correlated outcomes with in vitro activity. Trials of monotherapy with clarithromycin, rifampicin, ethambutol, or clofazimine for human immunodeficiency virus-associated disseminated MAC demonstrated that only clarithromycin susceptibility results correlated with treatment outcomes . In MAC pulmonary disease, retrospective case series have also shown that in vitro resistance to clarithromycin was associated with worse outcomes than susceptibility to clarithromycin, and a randomized trial found no association between in Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript vitro susceptibility to either rifampicin or ethambutol and failure/relapse . However, the latter study applied a drug susceptibility method not recommended for NTM and presented and analyzed only aggregate resistance data for all groups (MAC, M. xenopi, and M. malmoense) utilizing uniform discrete thresholds rather than considering minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) as a continuous variable to be explored for an association across species. Amikacin is an important drug used for treatment of M. abscessus pulmonary disease. Resistance to amikacin is caused by a specific mutation (A1408G) in the 16S rRNA (rrs) gene that has been associated with a high MIC (> 64 μg/ml) and previous exposure to amikacin . Recent Phase II and III clinical trials evaluating the efficacy and safety of amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) in patients with refractory pulmonary disease due to MAC (or M. abscessus) reported that when there was an A1408G mutation in the 16S rRNA gene and/or the MIC was > 64 μg/ml in MAC isolates, no patients achieved culture conversion on ALIS; responses were seen with MIC values up to and including 64 μg/ml . Treatment failure occurred in two patients whose isolates had become resistant by mutation to amikacin . In a randomized trial comparing intravenous streptomycin with placebo added to a standard three-drug regimen, there was no association of treatment outcome with MIC to streptomycin; however, exact MIC values were not determined if above 4 μg/ml . For M. kansasii pulmonary disease, resistance to rifampicin has
