HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


no association of treatment outcome with MIC to streptomycin; however, exact MIC values were not determined if above 4 μg/ml . For M. kansasii pulmonary disease, resistance to rifampicin has been associated with treatment failure although no randomized trials have been conducted that correlated in vitro activity of specific antimycobacterial drugs with treatment outcomes [36, 101, 122, 123]. No association could be found between in vitro activity and treatment failure/relapse in a randomized trial comparing rifampicin plus ethambutol with or without isoniazid. The study had important limitations including a small sample size and the use of discrete thresholds (based on M. tuberculosis) rather than considering MIC values as a continuous variable . Recent studies have reported poor treatment outcomes associated with macrolide resistance due to either mutational or inducible resistance related to the presence of a functional erm(41) gene in M. abscessus subsp. abscessus and bolletii. In a retrospective cohort treated with a standard regimen, the presence of in vitro resistance to clarithromycin was associated with worse outcomes . In a follow-up study, patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense were more likely to convert cultures to negative compared with patients infected with M. abscessus subsp. abscessus (85% vs 25%, p <0.001), presumably because of the presence of a non-functional erm(41) gene in the former (gene with major deletions) and inducible macrolide resistance due to a functional erm(41) gene in the latter [38, 40–42]. In addition, culture conversion rates were significantly higher in patients infected with an M. abscessus subsp. abscessus C28 sequevar isolate that does not exhibit inducible resistance to macrolides . Alternatively, when M. abscessus subsp. massiliense develops mutational Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript macrolide resistance with a mutation in the 23S rRNA gene, culture conversion is similar to that seen with subsp. abscessus and functional erm(41) gene . Justification and implementation considerations.: Although in vitro-in vivo correlations have been proven only for macrolides, amikacin and rifampicin (the latter only for M. kansasii), baseline susceptibility testing is recommended by CLSI guidelines for NTM isolates from patients with definite disease . Based on studies reviewed above, there is evidence of poor outcomes in cases of macrolide-resistant MAC and M. abscessus and poor outcomes in rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii . that high MICs of amikacin are associated with poor microbiological response as reported in a previous retrospective analysis
