HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


MAC and M. abscessus and poor outcomes in rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii . that high MICs of amikacin are associated with poor microbiological response as reported in a previous retrospective analysis of patients treated with parenteral amikacin [19, 20, 87]. Based on the studies and recommendations above, laboratories should provide drug susceptibility test results for the macrolides and amikacin for MAC and M. abscessus and rifampicin for M. kansasii. Precise sub-speciation is helpful for M. abscessus as identification of subsp. massiliense is associated with a nonfunctional erm(41) gene and in vitro susceptibility (MIC below 4 μg/ml) and thus the macrolides are active if constituitive resistance is not present. Alternatively, sequence analysis of the erm(41) gene can provide information (e.g., truncated or C28 sequevar) that can exclude inducible macrolide resistance. Although other drugs are sometimes tested in order to guide M. abscessus therapy there is insufficient data to make specific recommendations in this regard. Because no studies could be identified that adequately addressed M. xenopi pulmonary disease and in the absence of drug susceptibility testing guidelines and breakpoints for M. xenopi, the panel was unable to provide recommendation for or against susceptibility-based treatment. Treatment of MAC Pulmonary Disease (Questions III – IX) III. Should patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease be treated with a three-drug regimen with a macrolide or without a macrolide? Background.: Macrolides (clarithromycin and azithromycin) have been the basis of therapy against MAC pulmonary disease since they were demonstrated in multiple trials to be effective in prophylaxis and multidrug treatment of disseminated MAC infection [126–130]. Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we recommend a three-drug regimen that includes a macrolide over a three-drug regimen without a macrolide (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the Evidence: In spite of the widespread use of macrolides for treating MAC disease, there have been only two randomized controlled trials comparing a macrolide­ containing regimen with a non-macrolide containing regimen . A British Thoracic Society trial randomized 170 patients with primarily cavitary MAC pulmonary disease to receive standard doses of rifampicin and ethambutol with either clarithromycin or ciprofloxacin . The results showed that the clarithromycin group had a lower failure/ Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript relapse rate than the ciprofloxacin group (13% versus 23%) and was tolerated better. However, all-cause mortality was
