HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript relapse rate than the ciprofloxacin group (13% versus 23%) and was tolerated better. However, all-cause mortality was higher in the clarithromycin group for unclear reasons (48% versus 30%). At 5 years only 30% of the clarithromycin group and 21% of the ciprofloxacin group were known to have completed therapy and been alive. In a second small prospective trial from Japan , 27 patients with MAC pulmonary disease were treated for one year with rifampicin and ethambutol plus either gatifloxacin or low dose (600 mg) clarithromycin. The treatment outcomes were not significantly different between study arms: 11/13 (84.6%) in the gatifloxacin group and 9/14 (64%) patients in the clarithromycin group achieved sputum culture conversion to negative. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.3) and discussion of found in the supplement. The committee was concerned about several aspects of these two studies including, a) small sample size, b) under-dosing of the macrolide, c) populations not representative of nodular bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease patients encountered frequently in clinical practice d) the use of gatifloxacin which is not approved for use or no longer marketed in many countries worldwide and e) the high overall mortality seen in one study which raised questions about the validity of the study. There have been other non-comparator trials of macrolide-containing regimens that have reported varying culture conversion rates. A recent systematic review reported a sustained sputum culture conversion incidence rate ratio of 0.54 (95%CI 0.45–0.63) for macrolide­ containing regimens versus 0.38 (0.25–0.52) for macrolide-free regimens . Sputum conversion increased in the macrolide-containing regimens compared with macrolide-free regimens as study quality improved. Another systematic review reported overall treatment success using macrolide-containing regimens was 52.3% (95% CI 44.7%−59.9%) and success increased to 61.4% if treated with an ATS/IDSA three drug regimen, and to 65.7% if further treated for at least 12 months . The companion drugs and length of treatment are important factors in treatment success. Only regimens using rifamycin and ethambutol or clofazimine and ethambutol have been shown to prevent the emergence of macrolide resistance during treatment . Perhaps the strongest available evidence for the importance of the macrolide in the treatment regimen is demonstrated by its loss from the regimen. In the setting of macrolide resistant disease, the sputum culture conversion rate falls from approximately 80% to only
