HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


in the treatment regimen is demonstrated by its loss from the regimen. In the setting of macrolide resistant disease, the sputum culture conversion rate falls from approximately 80% to only 5–36% [16–18, 136]. Justification and implementation considerations: Case series have demonstrated that macrolide containing regimens are associated with higher culture conversion rates than non-macrolide containing regimens . Macrolide susceptibility has been a consistent predictor of treatment success for MAC pulmonary disease, whereas susceptibility to most other drugs has not been a predictor . In a post-marketing study from Japan, among 271 patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease who received a clarithromycin­ based regimen, sputum culture conversion to negative occurred in 95% . While no Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript well-designed randomized trials of macrolide therapy have been performed, the panel felt that macrolides are a critical component of MAC treatment based on poor patient outcomes if macrolides are not included in the treatment regimen. As such the panel members voted unanimously to make a strong recommendation despite the very low certainty of estimates of effect. IV. In patients with newly diagnosed macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should an azithromycin-based regimen or a clarithromycin-based regimen be used? Background: The macrolides are considered to be key components in treatment regimens against MAC pulmonary disease. The 2007 Guideline expressed a preference for azithromycin over clarithromycin in initial treatment regimens . Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease we suggest azithromycin-based treatment regimens rather than clarithromycin-based regimens. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence: Both clarithromycin and azithromycin have demonstrated activity in MAC pulmonary disease, with early studies demonstrating some efficacy for monotherapy , and subsequent studies demonstrating efficacy as part of multi­ drug regimens administered both daily and three times weekly . Limited data are available from comparisons of treatment outcomes in patients treated with clarithromycin versus azithromycin , and no significant difference was found in either microbiologic efficacy or tolerability, although there was a nonsignificant trend toward lower tolerability for clarithromycin in one study . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E 3.4) and discussion of value in the supplement. A recent systematic review reported no clinically significant differences between azithromycin and clarithromycin in sputum culture conversion at six months, end of therapy, or
