HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


discussion of value in the supplement. A recent systematic review reported no clinically significant differences between azithromycin and clarithromycin in sputum culture conversion at six months, end of therapy, or on sustained conversion after treatment nor was there a difference in the acquisition of macrolide resistance . However, azithromycin has less potential for drug-drug interactions than clarithromycin . The drug-drug interactions are particularly relevant when a rifamycin (rifampicin or rifabutin) is given concurrently; azithromycin serum concentrations are affected less by concurrent rifampicin or rifabutin administration than clarithromycin but the interaction is bi-directional for clarithromycin and rifabutin, leading to increased concentration of rifabutin (but not rifampicin), which has been associated with uveitis [111, 143–145]. Other considerations that would favor azithromycin over clarithromycin include a lower pill burden, once daily dosing, and possibly lower costs. Justification and implementation considerations: The preference for azithromycin is primarily based on the expert panel’s perception of better tolerability of azithromycin Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and fewer drug-drug interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 system than with clarithromycin. Both azithromycin and clarithromycin have been reported to be associated with severe adverse effects, including sudden death presumably mediated by QTc prolongation . However, a systematic review that evaluated adverse events in people taking macrolides versus placebo for any indication reported no increase in cardiac disorders or mortality when compared with placebo . Electrocardiographic monitoring may be considered for patients when concurrent medications that prolong the QTc interval are being used. In the same systematic review noted above hearing loss was reported more frequently in patients taking macrolides than placebo but the differences were not statistically significant and there were no studies of clarithromycin to address differences between macrolides. In older patients, hearing loss and GI symptoms have been associated with higher doses (600 mg daily) and serum concentrations of azithromycin whereas bitter taste, nausea and elevated hepatic enzymes have been associated with higher doses (1000 mg twice daily) of clarithromycin . Of note, all studies included some patients who did not tolerate azithromycin and were successfully switched to clarithromycin, and vice-versa. Switching from one agent to the other is a strategy that may be considered in case of intolerance. The panel felt that azithromycin was preferred over clarithromycin because of likely better tolerance, less drug-interactions, lower pill burden, single daily dosing and equal
