HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


be considered in case of intolerance. The panel felt that azithromycin was preferred over clarithromycin because of likely better tolerance, less drug-interactions, lower pill burden, single daily dosing and equal efficacy. In places where azithromycin is not available, clarithromycin is an acceptable alternative although more drug interactions are possible. V. Should patients with MAC pulmonary disease be treated with a parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen or without a parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen? Background: MAC isolates are usually susceptible in vitro to amikacin. Streptomycin was used in early non-comparative treatment trials during the initial months of treatment for both cavitary and nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease . Parenteral aminoglycoside therapy was recommended in some previous NTM guidelines during the initial months of MAC therapy . In the 2007 Guideline , parenteral aminoglycosides were recommended for initial therapy of fibro-cavitary MAC pulmonary disease and severe or previously treated MAC pulmonary disease . Amikacin or streptomycin administration have been viewed as an intensification of oral therapy although that assumption has not been rigorously tested. Recommendation: 1. For patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic or macrolide­ resistant MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest that parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the initial treatment regimen (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence: One randomized controlled trial was performed evaluating the impact of streptomycin addition to macrolide-based oral therapy for the initial three months of therapy . One hundred forty-six patients with MAC pulmonary disease (both nodular/bronchiectatic and cavitary disease) were randomized to receive clarithromycin, ethambutol and a rifamycin daily with (73) or without (73) streptomycin (15 mg/kg three Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript times per week during the initial 3 months of therapy). The sputum culture conversion rate was significantly higher for patients who received streptomycin than for those who received oral therapy only (71.2% vs. 50.7%). There were, however, no significant differences in microbiologic recurrence rates or clinical improvement (which included both clinical symptoms and radiological findings). There were also no significant differences in adverse reactions and abnormal laboratory findings between the two groups. Two additional retrospective studies have suggested that the inclusion of a parenteral aminoglycoside administered for six or more months in addition to adjunctive surgery improves outcome for patients with macrolide resistant MAC pulmonary disease . There are no published data examining
