HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


parenteral aminoglycoside administered for six or more months in addition to adjunctive surgery improves outcome for patients with macrolide resistant MAC pulmonary disease . There are no published data examining the relative efficacy of streptomycin versus amikacin for treating MAC pulmonary disease; streptomycin is no longer available in several countries. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.5) and discussion of found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations: In the absence of comparably effective oral medications there are few options other than parenteral aminoglycosides for “intensifying” standard oral MAC therapy. While the evidence is limited, it appears that there is some improvement in microbiologic response with the addition of three months of streptomycin to macrolide-based oral MAC therapy and when administered for a longer duration in the setting of macrolide resistant MAC pulmonary disease . Amikacin must be paired with adequate companion medications, such as a macrolide, ethambutol and possibly rifampicin and clofazimine, to prevent the emergence of acquired mutational resistance and predictable treatment failure . Based on the results of one randomized trial and the experiences of the panel members, the benefits were felt to outweigh risks in those patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic disease or those with macrolide resistant MAC pulmonary disease. Administration of at least 2–3 months of an aminoglycoside was considered the best balance between risks and benefits. VI. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a regimen with inhaled amikacin or a regimen without inhaled amikacin be used for treatment? Background.: Amikacin is active against MAC and has been recommended for intravenous treatment of cavitary or severe bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease . However, systemic use of parenteral amikacin has been associated with a high frequency of renal, auditory, and vestibular toxicity . Delivery of amikacin by hand-held nebulization may be a potential way to improve efficacy and decrease drug-related toxicity. Recommendations: 1. In patients with newly diagnosed MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest neither inhaled amikacin (parenteral formulation) nor amikacin liposomal inhaled suspension be used as part of the initial treatment regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed therapy after at least six months of guideline-based therapy, we recommend addition of amikacin liposomal inhaled suspension
