HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Manuscript Author Manuscript 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed therapy after at least six months of guideline-based therapy, we recommend addition of amikacin liposomal inhaled suspension to the treatment regimen instead of a standard oral regimen, only. (strong recommendation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: Reports evaluating the use of inhaled amikacin as part of a multidrug regimen for NTM pulmonary disease, including patients with MAC pulmonary disease, have primarily targeted patients with treatment refractory disease. Five retrospective case series (N=138 patients, 55 with MAC) with no comparator arm most commonly used inhaled doses of commercially available amikacin (parenteral forumation) ranging from 250–500 mg once daily up to 15 mg/kg once daily added to their oral antibiotic regimen [155–159]. Clinical responses were reported in 20–100% and sputum conversion was reported in 18 to 67% of treatment refractory MAC pulmonary disease. Reported side effects in these series ranged from 8–38% and included hoarseness, throat irritation, bitter taste, and thrush. Ototoxicity occurred in 0 to 19% of patients with nephrotoxicity reported in only one patient, and vertigo in two patients [155–159]. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.6) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, A Phase II controlled trial randomized treatment refractory patients (e.g. with culture positivity after at least 6 months of guideline-based treatment that included a macrolide) with predominantly MAC (n=57) or M. abscessus (n=32) pulmonary disease to investigational ALIS (n=44) vs placebo (empty liposomes, n=45) . While the primary endpoint of reduction in semi-quantitative mycobacterial culture growth from baseline was not achieved, significantly more patients who received ALIS achieved culture conversion by day 84 and had greater improvement in distance achieved on 6-minute walk test. Adverse events were common (~90%) in both groups but patients receiving ALIS had more dysphonia and oropharyngeal discomfort, cough, wheezing, chest discomfort, acute exacerbations of bronchiectasis, and fatigue . A randomized controlled Phase III trial recently reported that ALIS, when added to guideline-based regimen for treatment refractory MAC pulmonary disease, was associated with a higher proportion of patients with negative cultures at 6 months compared to those who continued to take the standard regimen only : Culture conversion was achieved by 65 of 224 patients (29.0%) with ALIS + guideline-based therapy (GBT) compared with 10 of 112 (8.9%) with GBT alone (OR, 4.22;95% CI [2.08,8.57];P<.001). Adverse reactions were
