HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


isolates retain in vitro susceptibility to amikacin. The results of Phase II and Phase III randomized trials of ALIS show that addition of ALIS to patients with MAC pulmonary disease that failed to convert sputum cultures after 6 months of GBT leads to culture conversion in 29% of patients in comparison to 9 % in patients who continue GBT only. Since 10% of patients in the ALIS-arm developed amikacin resistance, the addition of another companion drug to prevent resistance development need to be considered in these patients, although the preventive effect of an additional medication has not been determined in this situation. Where ALIS is not yet available, addition of inhaled parenteral amikacin is a reasonable alternative. VII. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a three-drug or a two-drug macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? Background: The poor response to treatment in AIDS patients with disseminated MAC in the pre-macrolide era and the rapid development of resistance with clarithromycin monotherapy reinforced the need for multiple drugs for treatment success. In contrast to the need for multi-drug therapy, there is an opposing pressure to reduce the number of agents in MAC regimens to minimize drug-related adverse effects, the cost of the drug regimen, and the pill burden seen with 12–18 months of therapy. Recommendation: 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest a treatment regimen with at least three drugs (including a macrolide and ethambutol) over a regimen with two drugs (a macrolide and ethambutol alone). (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the Evidence: There are two randomized studies that compared a two-drug regimen with a three-drug regimen but only one of these studies included a Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript macrolide-containing regimen . In this single center open label study from Japan, patients with previously untreated nodular/bronchiectatic or fibrocavitary MAC pulmonary disease were randomly assigned to either a daily three-drug (clarithromycin/ethambutol/ rifampicin) or a daily two-drug (clarithromycin/ethambutol) regimen for 12 months . The drug doses (especially clarithromycin at 200 mg three times daily or twice daily based on body weight) were all lower than ATS/IDSA recommended dosing. The primary endpoint was sputum conversion (i.e., three consecutive negative cultures). Fifty-nine patients were assigned to a three-drug regimen and 60 to a two-drug regimen with lung cavitation present in
