HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


The primary endpoint was sputum conversion (i.e., three consecutive negative cultures). Fifty-nine patients were assigned to a three-drug regimen and 60 to a two-drug regimen with lung cavitation present in approximately 50% of patients in both arms. In the intent to treat analysis, the sputum culture conversion rate was 40.6% with the three-drug regimen and 55.0% with the two-drug regimen. The incidence of adverse events leading to the discontinuation of treatment was 37.2% and 26.6% for the three-drug and the two-drug regimens, respectively. In the per protocol analysis (those who completed therapy) 24/32 (75%) converted on 3 drugs and 33/40 (82.5%) converted on 2 drugs. No isolates in either group developed macrolide resistance although the study was underpowered to detect a difference. This study has significant limitations making interpretation difficult. The study was unblinded with a small sample size, had significant drop out during the course of the study, and used low doses of clarithromycin administered in a nonstandard frequency of dosing . When combined with rifampicin in the three-drug regimen, this would have led to low and potentially ineffective clarithromycin levels. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.7) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, Justification and implementation considerations: A priority in MAC pulmonary disease therapy is preventing the development of macrolide resistance. Ethambutol is the best companion drug for preventing the emergence of macrolide resistance . A two­ drug regimen including a macrolide and ethambutol is the regimen with the fewest possible drugs for treating MAC. The role of a rifamycin, or another third drug, is unclear. One possibility is that a third drug provides additional protection to that provided by ethambutol for preventing the emergence of macrolide resistance. In a randomized controlled trial of rifabutin added to clarithromycin and ethambutol for treatment of disseminated MAC infection, response rates, with or without rifabutin, were equivalent but development of macrolide resistance was lower (P= .055) in patients on the three-drug regimen . Until additional evidence is provided showing that acquired macrolide resistance is equally common among macrolide containing three-drug and two drug regimens, the panel prefers a three-drug regimen. A PCORI-funded randomized controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a two vs three drug regimen is currently underway. VIII. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a daily or three-times weekly regimen be used for treatment? Background.: The intermittent
