HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


two vs three drug regimen is currently underway. VIII. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should a daily or three-times weekly regimen be used for treatment? Background.: The intermittent administration of antimycobacterial drugs has been a standard approach to drug susceptible tuberculosis therapy in North America for more than two decades therefore, it seems reasonable that macrolide susceptible MAC pulmonary disease might also be effectively treated with intermittent antibiotic administration. In the prior Guideline , three times weekly therapy was recommended Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for patients with nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease but was not recommended for patients with cavitary disease, patients previously treated or patients with moderate or severe disease . Recommendations: 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic macrolide- susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest a three times per week macrolide-based regimen rather than a daily macrolide-based regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with cavitary macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease we suggest a daily macrolide-based regimen rather than three times per week macrolide-based regimen. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect) Summary of the evidence.: No randomized trials have been performed that address this question however, there are several cohort studies that have reported treatment outcomes with intermittent therapy. The first prospective non-comparative case series of patients receiving intermittent azithromycin-containing therapy for MAC pulmonary disease was reported in 1998 . These preliminary results were followed by the results of three prospective non-comparative studies of azithromycin-containing regimens (including rifabutin or rifampicin, and ethambutol) for MAC pulmonary disease . Patients received either intermittent azithromycin with daily companion medications, intermittent azithromycin with intermittent companion medications or daily azithromycin with daily companion medicines. Conversion of sputum cultures to negative was observed in 17/29 (59%), 11/20 (55%) and 28/43 (65%) of patients, respectively. The microbiologic outcomes for the three regimens were not significantly different. In a subsequent study, 41 patients completed 6 months of therapy with clarithromycin 1000 mg, rifabutin 300–600 mg and ethambutol 25 mg/kg administered 3 times per week . Thirty-two (78%) of these patients converted sputum cultures to negative. Adverse events associated with this regimen were primarily due to rifabutin and in 41% of patients the dosage was decreased or the drug discontinued. These initial three studies included both cavitary and nodular bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease patients
