HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


due to rifabutin and in 41% of patients the dosage was decreased or the drug discontinued. These initial three studies included both cavitary and nodular bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease patients . A large retrospective case series that included 180 patients with nodular bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease reported outcomes with either daily or intermittent macrolide-containing (either azithromycin or clarithromycin) regimens (with rifampicin and ethambutol) for a minimum of 12 months . Conversion of sputum cultures to negative occurred in147/172 (85%) of patients treated with the intermittent regimen compared to 7 of 8 (88%) patients who completed therapy with daily medication. A significantly greater number of patients treated with daily medications experienced medication intolerance and required a switch in regimen to intermittent therapy. None of the NTM strains from patients in the study developed macrolide resistance. Another retrospective study compared daily (earlier temporal period, 99 patients) with intermittent (later temporal period, 118 patients) administration of clarithromycin, rifampicin and ethambutol for nodular bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease . Significantly more patients on daily therapy required regimen Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript modification because of medication intolerance than patients on intermittent therapy (46% vs 21%). Seventy-six percent of patients receiving daily therapy and 67% of patients receiving intermittent therapy converted cultures to negative. Acquired macrolide resistance was not reported in the study. In addition to the two recent studies showing that intermittent macrolide-containing regimens are better tolerated than daily regimens there may be other benefits to intermittent regimens. A case series suggested that intermittent ethambutol administration was less often associated with ethambutol-related ocular toxicity than daily ethambutol administration . A recent systematic review reported that the default rate was 12.0% (95% CI 8.9% −15.0%) in patients receiving three times weekly therapy compared to 16.0% (95% CI 12.3–19.7%) with daily administration . A small study from South Korea on patients who were failing an intermittent regimen after 12 months of treatment, reported that sputum culture conversion to negative was observed in approximately 30% of patients after switching to daily therapy . Treatment outcomes with intermittent therapy are not as favorable in patients with cavitary pulmonary disease. A prospective open label multicenter trial reported a low culture conversion rate in patients with MAC pulmonary disease treated with three times weekly therapy . Sputum culture conversion occurred in only 4% of patients with cavitary
