HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


reported a low culture conversion rate in patients with MAC pulmonary disease treated with three times weekly therapy . Sputum culture conversion occurred in only 4% of patients with cavitary disease. Patients with non-cavitary disease were approximately four times more likely than patients with cavitary disease to demonstrate sputum culture conversion and high resolution CT, or symptom improvement. A recent case series from South Korea reported a high sputum culture conversion rate in patients with recurrent nodular bronchiectatic disease who received an intermittent macrolide-based regimen. In this case series, 86% of the recurrences were likely due to reinfection which would possibly explain the good outcomes. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.8) and E4.8) can be found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations: These recommendations are based on several non-comparative case series with consistent microbiologic results showing that intermittent therapy is similar to daily therapy for nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease and also better tolerated than daily therapy. A critically important finding from the available studies is the lack of development of macrolide resistance with intermittent therapy . There is not similar evidence to justify or support intermittent therapy for cavitary MAC pulmonary disease and it is not recommended. IX. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, should patients be treated with less than 12 months of treatment after culture negativity or 12 or more months of treatment after culture negativity? Background.: Although MAC species are the most common organisms causing NTM pulmonary disease, the optimal treatment duration for MAC pulmonary disease has not been evaluated in a prospective randomized clinical trial. While the duration of treatment of MAC pulmonary disease that is needed to achieve relapse-free cure is likely highly variable Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment duration. Recommendation: 1. We suggest that patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease should receive treatment for at least 12 months after culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: There are no randomized studies or case series that address this question although there is one study that reported outcomes based on whether the patient received less than 12 months of treatment . In a single center retrospective observational cohort study that evaluated and reported treatment outcomes of patients with nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease, 27
