HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


received less than 12 months of treatment . In a single center retrospective observational cohort study that evaluated and reported treatment outcomes of patients with nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease, 27 patients received treatment for <12 months and 180 patients for ≥ 12 months of a clarithromycin or azithromycin-based combination therapy, either daily or three times a week. Sputum culture conversion to negative was observed only in 6 of the 27 patients (22%) who received treatment for less than 12 months, compared with 154 of 180 (86%) of patients who completed at least 12 months of therapy (p<0.001). The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.9) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, A recent systematic review reported that treatment success was higher in persons who received at least 12 months of macrolide-based therapy compared with less than 12 months . Neither the aforementioned study nor the systematic review evaluated treatment outcomes by duration of treatment after culture conversion . In a post marketing study from Japan, bacteriologic relapse was noted in 5% of patients when treatment was continued for less than 15 months after sputum culture conversion and in zero patients who continued treatment for over 15 months . Given the lack of data on the optimal duration of therapy, the panel voted unanimously to continue to follow the recommendations from the 2007 Guideline. Justification and implementation considerations.: The optimal duration of therapy for MAC pulmonary disease is currently not known. Semi-quantitative sputum culture scores from the third month of treatment onwards are predictive of sustained sputum conversion at 12 months of treatment, so regular (e.g. monthly) sputum cultures are recommended during the treatment of MAC pulmonary disease . There is currently not sufficient evidence to support bronchoscopy to obtain specimens for mycobacterial culture to determine the duration of therapy. Treatment outcome definitions have now been published to promote uniform outcome reporting in studies and gather more reliable data on optimal duration of therapy in MAC pulmonary disease . In patients who fail to convert sputum cultures to negative after 6 months of treatment or who have extensive disease, expert consultation should be obtained. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Treatment of MAC Pulmonary Disease -Summary We recommend a three-drug, macrolide-based regimen for patients with macrolide­ susceptible MAC pulmonary disease (Table
