HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Treatment of MAC Pulmonary Disease -Summary We recommend a three-drug, macrolide-based regimen for patients with macrolide­ susceptible MAC pulmonary disease (Table 4). For patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic or macrolide resistant MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest that parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the initial treatment regimen. The parenteral agent is typically administered for at least 2–3 months. We suggest a three times per week regimen in patients with nodular bronchiectatic disease but a daily macrolide-based regimen in those with cavitary disease. We suggest that treatment be administered for at least 12 months after culture conversion. If sputum cultures have not converted to negative after 6 months of guideline-based treatment, we recommend the use of ALIS as part of the continuation treatment regimen. In the setting of disease caused by macrolide-resistant MAC, the expert panel suggests seeking expert consultation. Treatment of M. kansasii Pulmonary Disease (Questions X-XIV) X. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should an isoniazid-containing regimen or a macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? Background.: M. kansasii was one of the first NTM to be recognized to cause pulmonary disease . Initially, a M. tuberculosis-like regimen including isoniazid was used but treatment success was unsatisfactory until the introduction of rifampicin . Once rifampicin was included in the regimen, treatment outcomes improved dramatically and thus a rifampicin-based regimen is recommended . Because of the uncertain value of isoniazid and excellent in vitro activity of the macrolides [174–177], some clinicians have begun to substitute a macrolide for isoniazid in rifampicin-containing regimens . Recommendation: 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect ). Summary of the evidence.: No randomized clinical trials have directly compared an isoniazid-containing regimen with a macrolide-containing regimen but there are case series that reported treatment outcomes of these regimen for treating M. kansasii pulmonary disease. A three-drug regimen that includes isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol was recommended in the 2007 Guideline . Treatment outcomes with the three-drug regimen when administered for 9–18 months have been excellent with cure rates of 80 to 100% and low relapse rates of 2.5–6.6% when administered for at least 12 months [27–29]. Untreated strains of M. kansasii are susceptible to macrolides, as minimal inhibitory concentrations of clarithromycin for
