HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


and low relapse rates of 2.5–6.6% when administered for at least 12 months [27–29]. Untreated strains of M. kansasii are susceptible to macrolides, as minimal inhibitory concentrations of clarithromycin for M. kansasii range from 0.125–0.25 μg/ml . Two small retrospective cohort studies evaluated treatment outcomes of regimens that substituted clarithromycin for isoniazid and reported similar cure rates of 80–100% . Among subjects who completed the treatment regimen, cure was 100%. Discussion of value Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations.: Isoniazid is widely used at present for treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease and in the experience of the expert panel, there have been good outcomes when using a regimen consisting of rifampicin, ethambutol, and isoniazid irrespective of the result of MICs for isoniazid and ethambutol . Based on the in vitro activity of macrolides against M. kansasii, and two studies that demonstrated good treatment outcomes when clarithromycin were substituted for isoniazid , the panel suggests that either isoniazid or a macrolide can be used in combination with rifampin and ethambutol. XI: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the treatment regimen? Background.: Amikacin or streptomycin is sometimes used for treating NTM pulmonary disease. Studies that included two to three months of streptomycin added to a multidrug oral regimen demonstrated high rates of culture conversion and cure in patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease . However, their use in M. kansasii disease has not been recommended since the introduction of highly effective rifampicin-based regimens [4, 152, 173]. Recommendation: 1. We suggest that neither parenteral amikacin nor streptomycin be used routinely for treating patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: There have been no randomized clinical trials addressing the use of amikacin or streptomycin for treating M. kansasii pulmonary disease, however three case series reported results with parenteral-containing regimens . In one retrospective study including a mixture of NTM species, 16 patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease were treated for 6 months to 2.5 years with regimens including streptomycin (n=14) or capreomycin (n=2) . In the other two studies, 115 patients were treated with a rifampicin-based regimen that included isoniazid and ethambutol for 12 months, supplemented with streptomycin three days a
