HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


capreomycin (n=2) . In the other two studies, 115 patients were treated with a rifampicin-based regimen that included isoniazid and ethambutol for 12 months, supplemented with streptomycin three days a week for the first two months. The pooled culture conversion rate was 95.5% (42 of 44 patients in two studies) and recurrences were observed in 4.7% (6 of 127 patients in three studies) . Significant adverse events were reported in one study (14.7%), leading to discontinuation of the parenteral agent in 9.5% . Studies that have used oral regimens without inclusion of aminoglycosides have also demonstrated high culture conversion rates and cure with low relapse rates [25–27]. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.11) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and health inequality (Table E4.11) can be found in the supplement. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Justification and implementation considerations.: In general, regimens of three oral agents, rifampicin and ethambutol, and either isoniazid or a macrolide, achieve high rates of sustained culture conversion and treatment success in the treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Therefore, given the good outcomes observed with oral regimens, the lack of data supporting the benefit of amikacin or streptomycin, and the potential risk of adverse effects associated with amikacin or streptomycin, the panel members felt strongly that the use of these parenteral agents is not warranted, unless it is impossible to use a rifampicin-based regimen or severe disease is present. XII. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? Background.: In vitro testing shows susceptibility of clinical M. kansasii isolates to fluoroquinolones and fluoroquinolones are currently recommended as part of a multi-drug regimen to treat rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii pulmonary disease . It is not known whether the in vitro activity translates into treatment success that would lead to a change in the current treatment recommendation. Recommendations: 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest using a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide instead of a fluoroquinolone (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intolerance to one of the first line antibiotics we suggest a fluoroquinolone (e.g., moxifloxacin) be used as
