HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intolerance to one of the first line antibiotics we suggest a fluoroquinolone (e.g., moxifloxacin) be used as part of a second-line regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of evidence.: Although there is good in vitro activity of the fluoroquinolones a fluoroquinolone was used for the treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Discussion be found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations.: Treatment success of M. kansasii pulmonary disease with a rifamycin-based drug regimen is usually excellent but the optimal choice of companion drugs is not clear. While ethambutol is usually the preferred companion drug, the choice of an additional companion drug may be isoniazid, a macrolide or a fluoroquinolone. As there is more experience and better evidence for treatment regimens that include isoniazid or a macrolide as a companion drug, these drugs are preferred. For rifampicin-resistant disease, a regimen such as ethambutol, azithromycin, and a fluoroquinolone would likely to lead to successful treatment. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript XIII. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should a three times per week or daily treatment regimen be used? Background.: A rifamycin-based multidrug regimen for treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease is associated with a high cure rate when administered daily for at least 12 months . Three times weekly treatment has been used successfully in the treatment of non-cavitary MAC pulmonary disease and may decrease side effects and increase tolerability without impacting treatment success in patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Recommendations: 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with a rifampicin, ethambutol and macrolide regimen, we suggest either daily or three times weekly treatment. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with cavitary M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with a rifampicin, ethambutol and macrolide-based regimen, we suggest daily treatment rather than three times weekly treatment. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 3. In all patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with an isoniazid, ethambutol and rifampicin regimen, we suggest treatment be given daily rather than three times weekly. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of evidence.: Treatment regimens using daily administration of rifampicin, isoniazid and ethambutol are associated with
