HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


rather than three times weekly. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of evidence.: Treatment regimens using daily administration of rifampicin, isoniazid and ethambutol are associated with high treatment success and low relapse rates [27–29]. There are no studies that have evaluated treatment outcomes of this regimen when given intermittently. In contrast, clarithromycin-based treatment regimens have been demonstrated to have similarly good success rates , even when given three times per week (14/14 evaluable patients converted sputum cultures and remained relapse free after 46 ± 8.0 months); 9 of the 14 patients had cavitary disease . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.13) and discussion of found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations.: Cavitary NTM pulmonary disease has higher morbidity and mortality and warrants a more aggressive treatment approach than non-cavitary disease . It is unclear to what extent this principle applies to patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease given that three times weekly treatment can be effective in patients with nodular bronchiectatic or cavitary disease . However, because there are no randomized trials available and the small size of the single study that evaluated three times weekly therapy, the panel did not feel that they could recommend intermittent therapy in the setting of cavitary disease until more evidence was available. Similarly, there are no data to support the use of isoniazid on a three times weekly basis in patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript XIV: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for less than 12 months or 12 or more months? Background.: Treatment for M. kansasii pulmonary disease with a rifampicin-based regimen for at least 12 months after negative sputum cultures was recommended by the 2007 ATS treatment guideline . However, data from several studies suggest that a 12-month fixed duration may be enough to cure most patients [27–29]. Recommendation: 1. We suggest that patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease be treated for at least 12 months (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: There have been no randomized clinical trials comparing less than 12 months with 12 or more months of treatment after culture conversion, but a 12-month fixed duration regimen was evaluated in three
