HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


been no randomized clinical trials comparing less than 12 months with 12 or more months of treatment after culture conversion, but a 12-month fixed duration regimen was evaluated in three studies [27–29], and a 9-month regimen in one . A clinical trial randomized 28 patients into two groups of 14: one group received rifampicin, isoniazid and ethambutol daily for 6 months, followed by rifampicin and isoniazid to complete 12 months (14 patients) and the other group completed 18 months (14 patients). After 12–30 months of follow-up, one patient in the 12-month arm (7%) and none in the 18-month arm recurred after completing treatment. In a prospective study , 40 patients were treated with 1 g of streptomycin (twice weekly for the first 3 months) plus rifampicin, isoniazid and ethambutol for 12 months. One patient (2.5%) recurred 6 months after completing treatment. Using the same regimen in a series of 75 patients , 5 (6.6%) recurred after a median follow-up of 41.5 months. The pooled recurrence rate from these three studies was 5.4% (7 of 129 patients) [27–29]. The British Thoracic Society evaluated a 9-month regimen with rifampicin and ethambutol in 115 patients in a prospective study. Although conversion of sputum to negative was achieved in 99.4% of patients, 10% experienced disease recurrence. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.14) and discussion of found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations.: Current rifampicin-based treatment regimens are associated with a high rate of success if used for at least 12 months . Randomized controlled trials comparing shorter treatment regimens are currently lacking. Although some experts would favor 12 months of treatment after culture conversion, there is no evidence that relapses could be prevented with treatment courses longer than 12 months. Some of the reported relapses may actually be exogenous re-infections, as suggested by the long periods between treatment completion and recurrence . Therefore, the panel members felt that M. kansasii could be treated for a fixed duration of 12 months instead of 12 months beyond culture conversion. Because sputum conversion at four months of rifampicin-based regimens is usually observed [29–31], expert consultation should be obtained if cultures fail to convert to negative by that time. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Treatment of M. kansasii Pulmonary Disease – Summary We suggest a
