HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Treatment of M. kansasii Pulmonary Disease – Summary We suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide for patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Neither parenteral amikacin nor streptomycin are recommended for routine use in these patients. We suggest that patients with nodular/bronchiectatic M. kansasii pulmonary disease receive either daily or three times weekly treatment when receiving a macrolide, rifampicin and ethambutol. However, in patients with cavitary disease, the regimen should be administered daily. In addition, when patients are treated with a regimen that includes isoniazid, ethambutol and rifampicin, we suggest treatment be given daily. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intolerance to one of the first line antibiotics we suggest a fluoroquinolone (e.g., moxifloxacin) be used as part of a second-line regimen. We suggest that all patients be treated for at least 12 months. Treatment of M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease (Questions XV-XVIII) XV. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? Background.: M. xenopi pulmonary disease is difficult to treat and associated with high all-cause mortality that is higher than other NTM species, with a five-year mortality of 51% and 43% in population-based studies from Denmark and Canada, respectively . The elevated mortality may be due to the underlying lung disease, frequent concomitant chronic pulmonary aspergillosis , as well as frequent cavitation among patients with M. xenopi disease . In vitro data suggest that MIC values of fluoroquinolones are low for M. xenopi: in vitro activity of moxifloxacin is equal to that of clarithromycin . In murine models, adding either moxifloxacin or clarithromycin to a rifampicin-ethambutol combination leads to drug regimens of equal efficacy . Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest using a multidrug treatment regimen that includes moxifloxacin or a macrolide. (conditional recommendation, low certainty in estimates of effect) Summary of the evidence.: There are two systematic reviews that have reported treatment outcomes of M. xenopi pulmonary disease and both noted a wide range of drugs and compared ciprofloxacin with clarithromycin when added to rifampicin and ethambutol in patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease. In this study, 34 patients were treated with either ciprofloxacin (n=17) or clarithromycin (n=17) in addition to rifampicin and ethambutol.
