HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


rifampicin and ethambutol in patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease. In this study, 34 patients were treated with either ciprofloxacin (n=17) or clarithromycin (n=17) in addition to rifampicin and ethambutol. No significant differences were found between the two regimens in term of death, cure, recurrence or adverse effects. However, the power of the study was too low to conclude which regimen was best (only 34 patients and 2 events). Moreover, in this study that also included patients with M. avium or M. malmoense, adverse events were not reported separately for M. xenopi. Preliminary data from a study in France in which Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript randomized patients received either moxifloxacin or clarithromycin plus ethambutol and rifampicin reported no difference in the treatment success between the study arms . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.15) and E4.15) can be found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations: There is in vitro evidence that macrolides and fluoroquinolones are active against M. xenopi, while rifampicin and ethambutol are inactive in vitro alone and in combinations . From this perspective, a multidrug regimen that utilizes a macrolide or fluoroquinolone would be likely more active. XVI. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a two, three or four-drug regimen be used for treatment? Background.: Despite the poor prognosis of M. xenopi pulmonary disease, there are few studies available on optimal treatment . Like in other NTM infections, a multidrug therapy is used to avoid selecting for drug resistance but the optimal number and combination of drugs are not known. Recommendation: 1. In patients with M xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest a daily regimen that includes at least three drugs: rifampicin, ethambutol, and either a macrolide and/or a fluoroquinolone (e.g. moxifloxacin) (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of evidence.: There are two systematic reviews that have reviewed treatment outcomes of M. xenopi pulmonary disease and both noted a wide range of drugs and regimens used . The authors of these reviews were unable to recommend the optimal number of drugs to be used in the regimen although in one review, flouroquinolone­ containing regimens were associated with a greater proportion of relapse-free success . Two randomized controlled studies in patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease were conducted by the
