HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


one review, flouroquinolone­ containing regimens were associated with a greater proportion of relapse-free success . Two randomized controlled studies in patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease were conducted by the British Thoracic Society . The first study compared efficacy of a regimen containing rifampicin, ethambutol with or without isoniazid in 42 patients (20 vs. 22). No significant differences were found in terms of death, cure or recurrence between the two groups. Nevertheless, the power is probably insufficient, with few patients included and few events occurred. The main result of this study was the poor prognosis of these patients (5-year mortality of 57% with M. xenopi versus 31% in MAC disease and 25% in M. malmoense disease). In the second study, 34 patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease were randomized to receive rifampicin, ethambutol and either ciprofloxacin or clarithromycin. Treatment failure/relapse occurred in 24% of the clarithromycin group versus 6% in the ciprofloxacin group . In a murine model of M. xenopi infection, a four-drug regimen (rifampicin, ethambutol, amikacin and clarithromycin or moxifloxacin) demonstrated better efficacy than a three drug regimen (rifampicin, ethambutol and moxifloxacin or clarithromycin) . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.16) and discussion of value preferences, Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript supplement. Justification and implementation considerations.: In animal and in vitro models, regimens of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either clarithromycin or moxifloxacin are efficacious and those that included amikacin (see Question 17) even more so. Given the very high mortality associated with M. xenopi, the committee felt the large risk of treatment failure with a two-drug regimen warranted a strong recommendation for at least a three­ drug treatment regimen. However, the lack of confidence in the estimates of effect from the available studies tempered the recommendation. Additionally, the absence of universal access to moxifloxacin and the small amount of data for other fluoroquinolones has to be considered when choosing a regimen. XVII. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the treatment regimen? Background.: Patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease frequently present with cavitary disease , often respond poorly to treatment , and suffer a higher all-cause mortality than other NTM species . Based on expert opinion, the 2007 Guideline suggested that adding streptomycin to a multi-drug oral regimen is
