HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


treatment , and suffer a higher all-cause mortality than other NTM species . Based on expert opinion, the 2007 Guideline suggested that adding streptomycin to a multi-drug oral regimen is reasonable . However, there is substantial uncertainty regarding best treatment regimens for M. xenopi. Recommendation: 1. In patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest adding parenteral amikacin to the treatment regimen and obtaining expert consultation. (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: For the current Guideline, no high-quality studies addressing the question were identified. In a systematic review of M. xenopi-pulmonary disease, data regarding parenteral therapy were found exclusively in retrospective series, and the data synthesis identified evidence against aminoglycosides . Compared with patients who did not receive aminoglycosides, patients who received aminoglycosides had lower success rates both in the short-term (56% versus 82%, p=0.019) and long-term (38% versus 68%, p=0.029). However, the comparison was undoubtedly biased strongly by disease severity. Two studies in mice infected with M. xenopi have shown reduced colony forming units among mice treated with amikacin in addition to comparator regimens . One study used intravenously infected mice treated with clarithromycin, ofloxacin plus/minus amikacin, and the other study used an inhalational infection model and treatment with either clarithromycin/ethambutol/rifampicin or moxifloxacin/ethambutol/rifampicin plus/minus amikacin , and both studies identified microbiologic benefit of the addition inequality (Table E4.17) can be found in the supplement. Justification and implementation considerations.: This recommendation is based on expert opinion and data from murine models of M. xenopi infection, wherein microbiologic Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript benefit was observed in mice treated with amikacin . Barring compelling evidence to the contrary, M xenopi patients should be treated aggressively given the high mortality of the disease [34–36]. In addition to the high mortality, the panel considered the general acceptability and feasibility of parenteral therapy, and potential costs and toxicities, all based on clinical experience. XVIII. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for less than 12 months or 12 or more months after culture conversion? Background.: The optimal duration of treatment for M. xenopi pulmonary disease is not known, neither is the effect of treatment duration on the frequency of disease recurrence. The 2007 Guideline suggested a treatment duration of 12 months beyond culture conversion, acknowledging
