HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


is not known, neither is the effect of treatment duration on the frequency of disease recurrence. The 2007 Guideline suggested a treatment duration of 12 months beyond culture conversion, acknowledging that the optimal duration was unknown . Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest that treatment be continued for at least 12 months beyond culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: No studies have specifically addressed this question. Two studies in the 1980s found that treatment durations had an effect on outcomes (typically with isoniazid-rifampicin-ethambutol regimens). Treatment duration over 18 months lead to relapse-free cure in 8/11 patients ; treatment regimens over 9 months of duration cured more patients (11/23) than shorter regimens (1/11) . A 2009 systematic review concluded that the data available at the time of the review did not permit comment on the impact of treatment duration on treatment outcomes . Subsequent case series could not address the specific question but found that treatment duration of less than 6 months was associated with higher mortality and with recurrence. One clinical trial has examined 24-month long regimens for M. xenopi pulmonary disease; 12 of 34 (35%) patients treated showed a favorable response that could be sustained for three years after treatment; however, 18 patients (54%) deviated from the treatment protocol, for which no further details are available . Three retrospective case series have reported on outcomes and mean or median treatment duration, but regimens varied and none of these studies specifically correlated treatment duration with outcomes. A study in France recorded 27% clinical and/or microbiological conversion with a median duration of treatment of 5 months in 122 patients . In Croatia, 6 months of first line anti-tuberculosis treatment lead to favorable outcomes in 10 of 20 patients (50%) . In the Netherlands, 11 of 19 patients (58%) treated for a mean of 9 months achieved culture conversion sustained until end of treatment. Mortality rates varying from 21% , to 41% and even 69% suggest that long-term treatment and follow-up are a significant challenge in this specific disease. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.18) and E4.18) can be found in the supplement. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Justification and implementation considerations.: The data reviewed above
