HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


in the supplement. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Justification and implementation considerations.: The data reviewed above suggest that treatment outcomes improve if the duration of treatment increases. The panel members felt that this outweighs the risk of adverse events associated with longer treatment and agrees with previous recommendations . Treatment of M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease – Summary In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest a daily regimen that includes at least three drugs: rifampicin, ethambutol, and either a macrolide and/or a fluoroquinolone (e.g. moxifloxacin). In patients with severe M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest adding parenteral amikacin to the treatment regimen and obtaining expert consultation given the poor treatment outcomes. We suggest treatment be continued for 12 or more months after culture conversion. Treatment of M. abscessus Pulmonary Disease (Questions XIX-XXI) XIX. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should a macrolide­ based regimen or a regimen without a macrolide be used for treatment? Background.: Macrolides possess potent activity against M. abscessus as well as immunomodulatory effects. Macrolide resistance can develop through chromosomal mutations in the 23S rDNA (rrl) gene resulting in high level mutational resistance as well as through induction of the erm(41) gene that causes inducible resistance in the presence of a macrolide . M. abscessus subsp. (abscessus, bolletii, and massiliense) are rapidly growing mycobacteria that differ in in vitro susceptibility to macrolides based on the functionality of the erm(41) gene . The different mechanisms leading to macrolide resistance have made it difficult for clinicians to determine when to use a macrolide in the treatment of M. abscessus pulmonary disease. Recommendations: 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains without inducible or mutational resistance, we recommend a macrolide-containing multidrug treatment regimen. (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being used for its immunomodulatory properties although the macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of evidence.: There were no studies identified that compared macrolide­ containing regimens with non-macrolide containing regimens. A recent systematic review reported that a single study reported the use of macrolide-free regimens in 120
