HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


were no studies identified that compared macrolide­ containing regimens with non-macrolide containing regimens. A recent systematic review reported that a single study reported the use of macrolide-free regimens in 120 patients of whom 8% experienced culture conversion . This review included an additional 13 studies that used macrolide-containing regimens of which 10 were restrospective [38, 39, 89, 197–203] and 3 prospective cohort designs . A second systematic review included 10 studies including 2 that were not assessed in the other systematic Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript review. Evidence from these studies has demonstrated the importance of macrolide susceptibility and treatment outcomes. Compared with the macrolide-free regimen, the macrolide-containing regimens had a pooled sustained sputum culture conversion of 34% with M. abscessus subsp abscessus and 54% with subsp. massiliense . Overall, good treatment outcomes were noted in 84% of those with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense compared with 23% with subsp. abscessus. Four studies compared treatment outcomes in patients with infections due to M. abscessus subsp. abscessus or massiliense . Among the over 200 patients included in the studies, culture conversion ranged between 25 to 42% and 50 to 96% among those with subsp. abscessus and massiliense, respectively. The very large differences in culture conversion between the two subspecies were likely related to the non-functional erm(41) gene (no inducible resistance) in subsp. massiliense and a functional gene in most isolates of subsp. abscessus. This strongly suggests that macrolides provide a very large benefit in the treatment of macrolide-suspectible M. abscessus. Additional data demonstrating the importance of the macrolide in treatment is a study that reported that only 1 (7%) patient with macrolide resistant M. abscessus subsp. massiliense had a favourable outcome with treatment . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.19) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, Justification and implementation considerations.: M. abscessus infections can be life­ threatening and the use of macrolides is potentially of great benefit. Macrolides are very active in vitro against M. abscessus strains without a functional erm(41) gene . The far better treatment outcomes in studies of M. abscessus subsp. massiliense versus subsp. abscessus (inactive versus active erm(41) gene), where treatment differences appear to depend on the activity of the macrolide, strongly suggest a major benefit from this drug class . Despite the very low
