HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


versus active erm(41) gene), where treatment differences appear to depend on the activity of the macrolide, strongly suggest a major benefit from this drug class . Despite the very low certainty in the estimates of effect, the committee felt a strong recommendation was appropriate given the high morbidity and mortality of M. abscessus infections and significant potential clinical impact of macrolides given their in vitro activity. It is important to consider identification of the M. abscessus subsp. in addition to in vitro macrolide susceptibility testing, because of the difference in response to macrolide therapy based on the presence of a functional or non-functional erm(41) gene. The acquisition of treatment associated mutational macrolide resistance in patients with M. abscessus, with or without inducible macrolide resistance, suggests that mutations in 23S rRNA are responsible for high level macrolide resistance . In this setting, macrolides are unlikely to be contributing to the antimicrobial effect of the treatment regimen. Macrolides have been demonstrated to prevent exercerbations of bronchiectasis in patients with chronic Pseudomonas infection, despite the lack of antimicrobial activity against Pseudomonas , which is a common co-pathogen in patients with bronchiectasis . However, the risk of acquiring resistance to other co-infecting pathogens must be considered when macrolides are used for immunomodulatory purposes in patients whose isolate has documented inducible or mutational macrolide resistance . As with Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript all patients receiving treatment, frequent sputum cultures should be obtained during the course of therapy to monitor for treatment response and survey for the appearance of other organisms such as M. avium complex. In this setting, the treatment regimen should be adjusted to cover the new isolates in order to avoid development of macrolide resistance in the new NTM. XX. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, how many antibiotics should be included within multidrug regimens? Background.: M. abscessus isolates display in vitro resistance to most oral antibiotics, and are generally susceptible to a limited number of parenteral agents including tigecycline, imipenem, cefoxitin, and amikacin. Previous guidelines recommend using a multi-drug regimen including two or more of these antibiotics to which the organism is susceptible in vitro. Recent work suggests a lack of consensus among treating physicians, with a variety of regimens employed against this organism ranging from 2 to 5 drugs in the initial phases of therapy
