HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


work suggests a lack of consensus among treating physicians, with a variety of regimens employed against this organism ranging from 2 to 5 drugs in the initial phases of therapy . Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest a multidrug regimen that includes at least three active drugs (guided by in vitro susceptibility). (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: There are two systematic reviews that have reported treatment outcomes in patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease but there are no studies that have directly compared the efficacy or safety of different multi-drug regimens. Based on the systematic reviews, the overall sputum culture conversion in patients with M. abscessus (not further subspeciated) treated with a multidrug, macrolide-containing regimen was 59%: culture conversion occurred in 34–41% in those with M. abscessus subsp. abscessus and 54–69.8% in those with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense . One observational retrospective study attempted to compare a macrolide plus amikacin regimen versus a three­ drug regimen consisting of a macrolide, amikacin, and either imipenem or cefoxitin . However, they did not distinguish patients with M. abscessus isolates with and without functional erm genes. Accordingly, the interpretation of outcomes associated with these regimens was not possible. One additional observational retrospective study suggested that multi-drug therapy is associated with improved quality of life in M. abscessus patients, but this study did not compare outcomes according to different drug regimens . Importantly, the few cases series that have described treatment outcomes all used multidrug regimens with three or more drugs . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.20) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, Justification and implementation considerations.: Given the usual disease severity of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the variable and limited in vitro drug susceptibility of these organisms, the potential for the emergence of drug resistance, and the potential for more rapid progression of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the expert panel suggests using a Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript regimen consisting of three or more active drugs. This is particularly true in the initial months of therapy when bacterial burdens are greater. Design of regimens beyond the initial intravenous phase is difficult given the lack of oral antimicrobials with activity against M. abscessus. While macrolides might still be
