HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


bacterial burdens are greater. Design of regimens beyond the initial intravenous phase is difficult given the lack of oral antimicrobials with activity against M. abscessus. While macrolides might still be useful for immunomodulatory effects or anti-microbial effects against other co-infecting organisms, they are not counted as an active drug against M. abscessus when inducible or mutational resistance is noted. The committee members feel strongly that treatment regimens should be designed in collaboration with experts in the management of these complicated infections. XXI. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should shorter or longer duration therapy be used for treatment? Background: The 2007 Guideline noted that no medication strategy could reliably achieve the goal of 12 months of negative sputum cultures while on therapy . It was therefore suggested that periodic treatment courses, or aggressive treatment regimens including multiple parenteral agents for a few months, could be effective strategies. However, the optimum treatment duration of pulmonary disease caused by M. abscessus complex is currently unknown. Recommendation: 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest that either a shorter or longer treatment regimen be used and expert consultation obtained. (conditional recommendation for either the intervention of comparator, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence: Only one study addressing this specific question was identified by the systematic review . This observational, retrospective study included 30 patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease who met the diagnostic criteria defined in the 2007 Guideline. Overall, 17 of the patients were treated for more than one month and had follow­ up available for at least one year: 13 were treated for less than 12 months, and 4 were treated for 12 months or more. No significant difference was found in the cure rate between the two groups. No additional information was available with regard to lung involvement, nor to the subsp. of M. abscessus. The study methodology, notably no control for confounding, indirect comparisons with different regimens of various duration, and a wide confidence interval, indicate high risk of bias. Two recent systematic reviews did not address the optimum duration of therapy but noted that most patients with M. abscessus were treated for over 12 months with multidrug regimens including a minimum of 4 weeks of one or more parenteral antimicrobials . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.21) and discussion of value preferences,
