HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


minimum of 4 weeks of one or more parenteral antimicrobials . The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.21) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and health inequality (Table E4.21) can be found in the supplement. Given the better treatment outcomes with disease due to M. abscessus subsp. massiliense, a shorter or less intensive course of therapy may be possible. In a retrospective study of 128 patients with M. abscessus, patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense had better treatment outomes than patients with subsp. abscessus despite receiving shorter durations of parenteral and total treatment: patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense received a Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript median of 4.7 months of parenteral therapy and 12.1 months of total treatment compared with 7.4 and 16.3 months in patients with M. abscessus subsp. abscessus, respectively . In another study, 71 patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense were treated with either 2 or 4 weeks of intravenous amikacin and cefoxitin (or imipenem) along with an oral macrolide. Those treated with a two week course of parenteral therapy followed by at least 12 months of an oral macrolide post conversion had a culture conversion rate of 91% compared with 100% in those who received a 4 week course and oral macrolide for 24 months. Two patients who received the shorter course of therapy developed acquired macrolide resistance. While the expert panel does not recommend macrolide monotherapy for treatment of NTM pulmonary disease, the study demonstrated that similar treatment outcomes could be obtained using shorter and less intensive treatment than used for M. abscessus subsp. abscessus. Justification and implementation considerations: The one study identified had a very small sample size, only indirectly addressed this question, and was felt to be of too low quality to form the basis of a recommendation. The lack of studies evaluating treatment durations, the variation in drug and resource availability as well as the diverse practice settings, made it difficult to come to a consensus on the optimum duration of therapy. In addition, the panel members felt that some subgroups of patients should be considered separately in determining the length of therapy such as: patients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus cavitary disease, patients affected by lung disease caused by different M. abscessus subspecies and importantly, depending on susceptibility to
