HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


determining the length of therapy such as: patients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus cavitary disease, patients affected by lung disease caused by different M. abscessus subspecies and importantly, depending on susceptibility to macrolides and amikacin. Although the optimal duration of therapy is not know, most patients reported in the literature with M. abscessus were treated for over 12 months and the treatment was divided into an initial phase usually including parenteral drugs followed by a longer phase using oral and sometimes inhaled antibiotics . The panel members suggest that an expert in the management of patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease be consulted prior to initiation of therapy in order to assist with determination of the duration of therapy. Treatment of M. abscessus Pulmonary Disease – Summary The optimal drugs, regimens, and duration of therapy are not known. Patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains without inducible (typically M. massiliense) or mutational macrolide resistance should be treated with a macrolide-containing multidrug regimen that includes at least three active drugs (guided by in vitro susceptibility) in the initial phase of treatment (the phase including intravenous agents) (Table 5). In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains with inducible (typically M. abscessus or M. bolettii) or mutational macrolide resistance, we suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being used for its immunomodulatory properties although the macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug regimen. For the continuation phase of therapy (after the parenteral component), we suggest that at least 2–3 active drugs be given. Some experts would use intermittent courses of multidrug therapy instead of transitioning to a longer continuation phase although almost all published studies treated patients for greater than 12 months. In the absence of data to support a shorter or longer treatment course for M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the panel members suggest that expert consultation be Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript obtained prior to initiation of therapy in order to assist with design of the regimen and determine whether a shorter or longer treatment regimen should be used. Surgical Resection for Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Question 22) XXII. Should surgery plus medical therapy or medical therapy alone be used to treat NTM pulmonary disease? Background.: NTM pulmonary disease is often difficult to cure with antimicrobial therapy alone. Selected
