HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Should surgery plus medical therapy or medical therapy alone be used to treat NTM pulmonary disease? Background.: NTM pulmonary disease is often difficult to cure with antimicrobial therapy alone. Selected patients with failure of medical management, cavitary disease, drug resistant isolates or complications such as hemoptysis or severe bronchiectasis may undergo surgical resection of the diseased lung. The decision to proceed with surgical resection must be weighed against the risk and benefits of surgery. Recommendation: 1. In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we suggest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the evidence.: We identified 15 observational studies [30, 39, 43, 89, 214– 223] including approximately 700 patients who underwent various surgical resections including segmentectomies, lobectomies, and pneumonectomies. Most patients included in the studies had MAC pulmonary disease with one study including only patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease , one with M. kansasii only and two including patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease . Almost all of the patients who underwent surgery had received antimicrobial treatment before and after surgery. Three studies reported results for patients treated with combined antibiotic and surgical therapy, compared with antibiotic therapy alone . Cure rate of the NTM disease, death, and recurrences were not significantly different between medical and surgical therapy in the three comparative studies that included a total of 296 patients with follow-up data (95 surgical plus medical and 201 medical only). Although there was more culture conversion observed in the patients who underwent surgery, the quality of evidence was very low, due to the small number of patients treated, and the fact that all patients were treated by medical therapy. The desirable anticipated effects were estimated to be moderate. Surgical complications (such as bronchopleural fistula, prolonged air leak, pneumonia) were observed in 7–35% participants. There was no operative mortality and post-operative mortality was reported in 0–9% of patients. In one study that reported outcomes of patients who underwent video assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), culture conversion occurred in 84% of the patients, post-operative complications occurred in 7% of patients and there were no operative or post-operative deaths reported . Undesirable effects were estimated as small and the balance between desirable and undesirable probably favors the intervention. There was no evidence identified for costs, which were estimated as moderate with regard to the duration of the
