HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


and the balance between desirable and undesirable probably favors the intervention. There was no evidence identified for costs, which were estimated as moderate with regard to the duration of the disease. Therefore, surgery was estimated as acceptable to key stakeholders and feasible. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Justification and implementation considerations.: The studies differed by location, the age and gender of patients, and the mycobacterial species involved [M. avium [214, 218, 220, 222], M. kansasii , M. abscessus , M. xenopi or a mix of species[89, 215–217, 219, 220, 223]. Moreover, the studies suffer from multiple potential biases including different reasons for performing surgery, patient selection, and subjective assessment of post-surgical outcomes. Even so, surgical resection was associated with improved treatment outcomes and for most of the patients (85 to 100%), conversion of sputum cultures to negative was observed after surgery. Therapy with antimicrobial agents continued during and after the surgery and the activity of these agents varied with regard to the study and the species involved (e.g. clarithromycin was given in recent studies but not in the older ones). Many experts feel it is desirable to achieve at least smear conversion prior to surgical resection and the panel suggests that surgery be performed by a surgeon experienced in performing surgery on patients with mycobacterial disease . Monitoring for Response to Therapy whether or not a patient is responding to therapy. Chest radiographs or chest computed tomography (CT) imaging may be beneficial for defining a radiographic response to therapy although there can be wide variability in findings given the common occurrence of underlying lung disease. Because the duration of therapy is based on the time of culture conversion, frequent collection of sputum specimens is required in order to determine the recommended treatment duration. The expert panel would consider obtaining sputum specimens for culture every 1–2 months in order to document when sputum cultures become negative. Sputum should be induced with hypertonic saline if spontaneous sputum specimens cannot be collected. Bronchoscopy should only be considered in exceptional circumstances to determine whether culture conversion has occurred. In addition to to determine if the patient is responding to therapy. Monitoring for Adverse Reactions The drugs used to treat NTM pulmonary disease are frequently associated with adverse reactions. A recent randomized clinical trial reported that over 90% of subjects in
