HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, manuscript, author manuscript, author, regimen, manuscript author, therapy, mac, ntm, abscessus, macrolide


Monitoring for Adverse Reactions The drugs used to treat NTM pulmonary disease are frequently associated with adverse reactions. A recent randomized clinical trial reported that over 90% of subjects in each arm reported a treatment emergent adverse reaction . Therefore, educating patients regarding potential reactions and monitoring for them is an important component of management. Rapid identification and management of an adverse reaction is likely to decrease the risk of treatment for the patient and possibly improve the chances of treatment completion. Table 6 lists common adverse reactions associated with the drugs used to treat NTM pulmonary disease and an approach to monitoring. Unfortunately, there are no studies that have identified the optimum frequency or most cost-effective approach to monitoring for drug-related adverse reactions. Monitoring frequency should be individualized based on age, co-morbidities, concurrent drugs, overlapping drug toxicities, and resources. Eur Respir J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 19. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) refers to the measurement of drug concentrations in serum specimens at some point after dosing to determine whether or not a specific target concentration has been obtained (Table 3). There are no randomized trials that have significant reductions in serum drug concentrations of clarithromycin with concurrent use of rifampicin and to a lesser extent with rifabutin . Two studies described the association of serum concentrations of macrolides and treatment outcomes. The first study reported no association between the serum concentration of clarithromycin and treatment outcomes whereas the second study noted a correlation between the peak serum concentration (Cmax) of azithromycin and favorable treatment outcomes when administered daily (250 mg) but not intermittently (500 mg) . Experts would consider performing TDM in situations in which drug malabsorption, drug under-dosing, or clinically important drug–drug interactions are suspected . Examples of situations in which TDM may be useful include patients with delayed sputum culture conversion or treatment failure not explained by nonadherence or drug resistance, patients receiving amikacin or streptomycin therapy and thus at risk of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity, and patients with medical conditions (e.g., reduced renal function) that are suspected of leading to sub-therapeutic or toxic drug concentrations. Research Priorities During the development of this Guideline, research gaps were identified for each of the PICO questions. Not surprisingly, there were many gaps and needs identified related to the treatment of NTM pulmonary disease. Many of the
