Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


ABSTRACT Obesity can be associated with several endocrine alterations arising from changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary hormones axes. These include hypothyroidism, Cushing’s disease, hypogonadism, and growth hormone deficiency. Besides its role in energy storage, adipose tissue has many other important functions that can be mediated through hormones or substances synthesized and released by adipocytes, including leptin and adiponectin. Further, obesity is also a common feature of polycystic ovarian syndrome with hyperinsulinemia being the primary etiological factor. Here, we provide an overview of several endocrine syndromes known to result in obesity and discuss the endocrine role of adipose tissue in conjunction to its association with hypothalamic-pituitary-endocrine axes. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION This chapter will discuss the endocrine role of adipose tissue and how alterations in each of the hypothalamic-pituitary-endocrine axes can occur in association with obesity. Of particular relevance is the possible bidirectionality of the relationships between endocrine changes and obesity: whether they are secondary to obesity or, in some cases, be a contributive factor to the development and/or perpetuation of obesity. The endocrine axes of the human body are dynamic systems; they frequently show changes in response to stress, disease, or other pathological states. For example, during acute and chronic illnesses, and low calorie or starvation states, levels of thyroid, gonadal, and growth hormone are altered, returning to normal as the subject recovers. These hormonal changes are, therefore, thought to be secondary to the disease state and their recovery is reflective of homeostatic responses. Often these "adaptive" changes in hormonal dynamics may not necessarily be appropriate. Likewise, therapeutic measures aimed at restoring "normal" serum level of perturbed hormones offered in hopes of hastening recovery and improve patient outcomes have generally not been shown to be beneficial. The weight gain that leads to obesity is the consequence of a positive energy balance, which can result from an increased energy intake, decreased energy expenditure, or both. This misalignment may be thought of as a failure of the body's homeostatic mechanisms to match energy intake with expenditure. Different obesity phenotypes may have variable health implications. For example, abdominal obesity is considered a more hazardous condition than gluteofemoral, or gynecoid, obesity. In those with abdominal obesity, accumulation of intraperitoneal fat (omental and visceral fat) carries greater health risk than the subcutaneous compartment. Therefore, when discussing complications of and metabolic abnormalities associated
