Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


In those with abdominal obesity, accumulation of intraperitoneal fat (omental and visceral fat) carries greater health risk than the subcutaneous compartment. Therefore, when discussing complications of and metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity, different obesity phenotypes are recognized to carry different degrees of cardiometabolic risk. Our understanding of the physiology of adipose tissue has greatly advanced in the last decade and extensive research has been dedicated to the study of the interactions between the adipose tissue and other bodily systems, in particular the central nervous system. New hormones have been discovered with potentially important roles in energy balance and food intake. The roles of many of these newly discovered hormones have not been fully elucidated in humans, but the future holds promise in not only improving our knowledge of the pathophysiology of obesity but also in developing novel therapeutic approaches to complement our currently, rather limited, pharmacological arsenal. ADIPOSE TISSUE AS AN ENDOCRINE ORGAN Adipose Tissue Adipose tissue has many important functions other than energy storage that are mediated through hormones or substances synthesized and released by adipocytes. These substances, termed "adipocytokines," act on distant targets in an endocrine fashion or locally in paracrine and autocrine fashions. In the following paragraphs, we shall discuss a few of the important adipocytokines secreted from “white" fat. For further characterizations of other types of adipose tissue, including "brown" and “pink” fat, see the Endotext chapter ( 1 ). Leptin The hormone leptin (from the Greek word ''leptos'' meaning ''thin'') is a 167-amino acid peptide hormone encoded by the ob (obesity) gene and secreted by white adipocytes. Its discovery in 1994, has greatly improved our understanding of how adipose tissue "communicates" with other systems in the body, in particular with the central nervous system (CNS). Following release into the circulation, leptin crosses the blood–brain barrier and binds to presynaptic GABAergic neurons of the hypothalamus of the CNS controlling appetite and energy expenditure ( 2 ). One of leptin’s key roles is thought to be as a signal of inadequate food intake or starvation. For example, leptin levels decline during fasting, low-calorie dieting, and uncontrolled type 1 diabetes. In these situations, the reduced leptin levels stimulate hunger while decreasing energy expenditure and engendering other physiologic adaptations that restore fat stores, and in turn leptin levels, to baseline ( 3 , 4 ). On the other hand, serum concentrations of leptin increase in proportion to increasing adiposity.
