Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


that restore fat stores, and in turn leptin levels, to baseline ( 3 , 4 ). On the other hand, serum concentrations of leptin increase in proportion to increasing adiposity. As a regulatory signal in a homeostatic system, if the leptin receptor is functioning normally, then higher circulating leptin levels should result in decreased energy intake and elevated energy expenditure, but this is not the case when individuals become overweight or obese. Instead, in patients with obesity high leptin levels are associated with low circulating soluble leptin receptors (SLR) consistent with a state of leptin resistance ( 5 ). Leptin must cross the blood–brain barrier (BBB) to reach the hypothalamus and exert its anorexigenic functions. Decreased transport across the blood-brain barrier ( 6 ) and a decreased ability of leptin to activate hypothalamic signaling in diet-induced obesity ( 7 - 9 ) may be crucial in the pathogenesis of leptin resistance. In addition, anatomical and physiological changes that obesity can cause to the hypothalamus include expression of leptin signaling inhibitors, hypothalamic inflammatory signaling and gliosis, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Elevated leptin itself may attenuate downstream leptin action, creating a functional ceiling for leptin action ( 10 ). These changes, together with the blood-brain barrier alterations, contribute to a failure of rising leptin levels to adequately compensate for the positive energy balance and thus promote the state of unwanted weight gain and obesity. Taken together, evidence points to leptin’s primary function as a defense against decreased body weight rather than to limit increases in body weight ( 10 ) Data also suggests that leptin resistance can be a pre-conditioning factor contributing to diet induced obesity. Animal studies show that rats with a pre-existing reduction in leptin sensitivity develop excessive diet-induced obesity without eating more calories or altering their leptin sensitivity ( 11 ). This postulated leptin resistance is a major target in the search for a better understanding of obesity and the development of pharmacological tools to treat this chronic disease. Most people with obesity are hyperleptinemic and show little or no weight loss after leptin treatment. However, recent evidence has indicated that a subset of patients with obesity have low endogenous plasma leptin levels and robustly respond to leptin treatment ( 12 ). These findings have led to a proposed classification of obesity based in leptin secretion and action. Type 1 obesity is associated with low leptin levels and leptin
