Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


( 12 ). These findings have led to a proposed classification of obesity based in leptin secretion and action. Type 1 obesity is associated with low leptin levels and leptin replacement can be an effective treatment in these forms of diabetes and obesity. Examples of patient populations in which this is more likely to be true include children with early onset and severe obesity (congenital leptin deficiency) ( 13 ) and those with generalized non-HIV lipodystrophy in whom recombinant methionyl human leptin has been FDA approved ( 14 , 15 ). Type 2 obesity is associated with leptin resistance, in which case leptin replacement is not optimal and other therapeutic approaches should be pursued ( 12 ). Leptin plays a significant permissive role in the physiological regulation of several neuroendocrine axes, including the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal, thyroid, growth hormone, and adrenal axes ( 16 , 17 ). Leptin regulates reproductive function by altering the sensitivity of the pituitary gland to GnRH and acting at the ovary to alter follicular and luteal steroidogenesis, proliferation, and apoptosis ( 17 ). Thus, leptin serves as a putative signal that links metabolic status with the reproductive axis. Leptin receptors are also present in peripheral organs, such as the liver, skeletal muscles, pancreatic beta cells, and even adipose cells, indicating endocrine, autocrine, and paracrine roles of leptin in energy regulation. Leptin signaling in these organs is thought to mediate important metabolic effects. For example, leptin has been implicated in glucose and lipid metabolism as an insulin-sensitizer ( 18 ). It has been shown to decrease glucagon synthesis and secretion, decrease hepatic glucose production, increase insulin hepatic extraction, decrease lipogenesis in the adipose tissue, and increase lipolysis among multiple other beneficial effects on insulin and lipids metabolism ( 19 ). Other identified links between leptin and biological systems include expression of leptin by placenta and in fetal tissues. In this context, leptin is thought to be important for placentation, maternal-fetal nutrition, and stimulating hematogenesis and angiogenesis in the regulation of fetal growth and development ( 20 ). On the other hand, the pathological expansion of white adipose tissue during expression of obesity and subsequent increases in cytokines and leptin have been implicated in worsening local and systemic inflammation, sustained proliferative signaling, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, angiogenesis, and cellular energetics ( 21 ) in association with increased risk of endometrial, kidney, and breast cancers ( 21 , 22 ). Adiponectin Adiponectin
