Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


sustained proliferative signaling, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, angiogenesis, and cellular energetics ( 21 ) in association with increased risk of endometrial, kidney, and breast cancers ( 21 , 22 ). Adiponectin Adiponectin is another important adipocytokine that influences insulin sensitivity and atherogenesis. Adiponectin mediates its effect through binding to receptors AdipoR1 and AdipoR2, leading to activation of adenosine monophosphate dependent kinase, PPAR-α, and other yet-unidentified signaling pathways ( 23 ). Lower levels of adiponectin in obesity have been associated with insulin resistance ( 24 ), dyslipidemia ( 25 ), and atherosclerosis ( 26 ) in humans. With weight loss, plasma adiponectin levels significantly increase in parallel with improvements in insulin sensitivity ( 27 ). In a study with 2258 children with overweight or obesity, independent of the degree of obesity, leptin, adiponectin, and the leptin/adiponectin (L/A) ratio were associated with insulin resistance and other cardiometabolic comorbidities (hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia), but the L/A ratio exhibited stronger associations than the respective adipokines ( 28 ). Genetic analysis of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the adiponectin locus have identified in humans a haplotype that, in presence of reduced adiponectin and obesity might alter metabolic profile posing risk towards type 2 diabetes. Presence of +10211T/G and +276G/T SNP are associated with increased fasting plasma glucose, body mass index (BMI), and hypertriglyceridemia ( 29 ). Recently, adiponectin was found to enhance exosome biogenesis and secretion, leading to a decrease in cellular ceramides, the excess of which is known to cause insulin resistance and cardiovascular disease phenotypes ( 30 ). Adiponectin has been shown to reduce the action of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) ( 31 ), favorably modulate natural killer cell function ( 32 ) and other immune regulatory molecules ( 33 ), and improve dyslipidemia ( 34 ) and other risk factors of cardiovascular disease ( 31 ). In addition to an anti-atherogenic effect, adiponectin may also have a variety of anti-tumor effects. This is thought to be mediated, in part, through inhibition of leptin-induced tumor proliferation ( 35 ). It retards the aggressiveness of tumors and their metastatic potential. By cancer site and type, high adiponectin levels are associated with a decreased risk of breast, colorectal, and endometrial cancer ( 22 ), whereas hypoadiponectinemia has been associated with increased risk for breast, gastric, lung, and prostate cancers ( 36 - 39 ). A recent study also linked maintenance of the balance
