Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


), whereas hypoadiponectinemia has been associated with increased risk for breast, gastric, lung, and prostate cancers ( 36 - 39 ). A recent study also linked maintenance of the balance between adiponectin and leptin levels with cellular changes in human milk that enhances the protection and decreases the indices of neonatal infection in the breastfeeding infants of women with high BMI values ( 40 ). Chemerin Chemerin, also known as Retinoic Acid Receptor Responder Protein 2, is a newly discovered adipokine secreted from mature adipocytes thought to play an important role in the regulation of adipogenesis as well as macrophage infiltration into adipose tissue ( 41 , 42 ). Overexpression of chemerin in people with obesity correlates with early vascular damage, as chemerin was demonstrated to be a better predictor of intima-media thickening than waist circumference and glycated hemoglobin. Weight loss is associated with a decrease of chemerin level and, like adiponectin, an improvement of all parameters of the metabolic syndrome ( 43 ). Also, a decrease of chemerin is independently associated with the reduction of carotid intima-media thickening and the improvement of insulin sensitivity ( 44 ). Omentin Omentin is an adipokine preferentially produced by visceral adipose tissue that exerts insulin-sensitizing actions ( 45 ). Its expression is reduced in obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes. Omentin is also positively related with adiponectin and high-density lipoprotein levels, and negatively associated with body mass index, waist circumference, insulin resistance, triglyceride, and leptin levels ( 46 ) ( 47 ). Apart from obesity, hyperandrogenism and PCOS per-se seem to have an additional role in omentin levels since omentin-1 was lower in girls with obesity, PCOS, and hyperandrogenism compared to girls with obesity but not PCOS ( 48 ). Omentin has anti-inflammatory, anti-atherogenic, anti-cardiovascular disease, and anti-diabetic properties ( 46 ). Regarding its effects in the cardiovascular system, omentin causes vasodilatation of blood vessels and mitigates C-reactive protein-induced angiogenesis. The ability of omentin to reduce insulin resistance in conjunction with its anti-inflammatory and anti-atherogenic properties makes it a promising therapeutic/diagnostic target ( 49 ). Omentin levels are not significantly different during pregnancy in mothers with diabetes compared to controls. However, significantly lower levels were observed in offspring of the mothers with diabetes, suggesting an increased risk for the development of insulin resistance in later life ( 50 ). Retinol Binding Protein-4 Retinol binding protein-4 (RBP-4) belongs to the lipocalin family that
