Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


diabetes, suggesting an increased risk for the development of insulin resistance in later life ( 50 ). Retinol Binding Protein-4 Retinol binding protein-4 (RBP-4) belongs to the lipocalin family that transports small hydrophobic molecules and is produced primarily in the liver and mature adipocytes ( 51 ). Although the relationship between serum RBP-4 and obesity in humans has not been confirmed yet in population studies, several studies have shown positive correlations between the expression of RBP-4 and BMI and glucose concentration ( 52 ). RBP-4 levels can be reduced by weight loss, consuming a balanced diet, and exercise in association with increased insulin sensitivity ( 53 , 54 ). Visceral Adipose Tissue-Derived Serpin: Serpin A12 (Vaspin) Vaspin is a serine protease inhibitor produced by subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue. Vaspin is also expressed in the skin, hypothalamus, pancreatic islets, and stomach. Vaspin is considered as an anti-atherogenic insulin-sensitizing factor ( 55 ). Fatty Acid-Binding Proteins Fatty acid binding protein A (A-FABP) is an isoform expressed in the adipose tissue and macrophages ( 56 ). It binds to hydrophobic ligands such as long chain fatty acids and facilitates their transport to specific cell compartments. Several studies have shown positive correlations between A-FABP and proinflammatory factors, such as CRP, and may also have significant importance in predicting insulin resistance ( 57 ). Acylation Stimulating Protein Acylation stimulating protein is synthesized and secreted by adipocytes and plays a major role in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis in these same cells, including postprandial clearance of triglycerides ( 58 ). It has been shown to induce glucose-stimulated insulin release from pancreatic beta cells, modulates cytokine synthesis by mononuclear cells, as well as inhibit cytotoxicity of natural killer cells ( 59 ). Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Several components of the renin-angiotensin system (renin, angiotensinogen, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and angiotensin 2 receptors) are expressed by adipose tissue ( 60 ). Recent studies have shown that adipocyte deficiency of angiotensinogen prevents obesity-induced hypertension in male mice ( 61 ). Adipocytes promote obesity-induced increases in systolic blood pressure in male high fat-fed C57BL/6 mice via angiotensin 2 dependent mechanism ( 62 ). Adipocyte angiotensinogen deficiency prevents high fat-induced elevations in plasma angiotensin 2 concentrations and therefore in systolic blood pressure ( 61 ). These results suggest that adipose tissue serves as a major source of angiotensin 2 in the development of obesity-related hypertension. Other Factors Secreted by Adipose Tissue Other proteins
