Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


61 ). These results suggest that adipose tissue serves as a major source of angiotensin 2 in the development of obesity-related hypertension. Other Factors Secreted by Adipose Tissue Other proteins secreted by adipose tissue include plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) ( 63 ) as well as complement factors adipsin, apelin, and pten, which may have roles in the pathophysiology or the progression of coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes ( 64 , 65 ). Circulating levels of Interleukin-6 (IL-6) are significantly higher in patients with overweight and obesity ( 66 ). Interleukin-6 is released by macrophages and T-cells in the adipose tissue ( 67 ) and has been implicated in regulating insulin signaling in peripheral tissues by promoting insulin-dependent hepatic glycogen synthesis and glucose uptake in adipocytes ( 68 ). Recent studies show that IL-6 deficient mice develop late-onset obesity as well as disturbed glucose metabolism ( 69 ). The mechanisms underlying the effect of IL-6 on body fat and metabolism are not completely understood. However, IL-6 may exert central effects to decrease fat mass because of increased energy expenditure. Administration of IL-6 to the CNS has, for instance, been shown to induce energy expenditure and reduce fat mass more effectively than peripheral treatment ( 69 ). It has been suggested that IL-6 potentiates the action of leptin providing a possible mechanism for its anti-obesity effect ( 70 ). In addition, IL-6 has been postulated to play an etiologic role in the increased risk of thromboembolism observed in patients with obesity ( 71 ). Summary Adipose tissue is an extremely active organ with multiple roles, including endocrine, paracrine, and autocrine, in human physiology and disease. How these roles are performed and their contribution to the health or risk of disease will likely be elucidated as more discoveries continue to shed light on the mechanism of the complex interaction between adipocytes and other body tissues. OBESITY AND HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY AXES Obesity and Sex Hormones Not only is obesity associated with alterations in sex hormone levels but sex hormones may conversely influence expression of different obesity phenotypes. One of the best examples of this is the relationship between obesity and androgen levels in men and women and the roles played by sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and gonadotropins ( 72 - 74 ). SEX STEROID AND SHBG Most circulating testosterone and estrogen are bound to proteins, SHBG and albumin. Although a portion of the
