Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


globulin (SHBG) and gonadotropins ( 72 - 74 ). SEX STEROID AND SHBG Most circulating testosterone and estrogen are bound to proteins, SHBG and albumin. Although a portion of the bound sex hormones may be available for use by the body target cells, only about 2% of circulating sex steroids are unbound, or free, and constitute the bioactive fraction of these hormones. Total hormone levels, therefore, reflect the bound and unbound hormone and are greatly dependent on the serum concentration of SHBG. For example, SHGB levels increase with age and bioactive testosterone levels decrease ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Common Conditions and Medications that Affect Serum Concentrations of SHBG View in own window Increased SHBG Decreased SHBG Older Age Cirrhosis Hyperthyroidism Estrogens Obesity Androgens Hypothyroidism Glucocorticoids Growth hormone Insulin OBESITY AND ANDROGENS IN MEN Testosterone should be measured in the morning when serum concentrations peak and we recommend repeating an abnormal measurement for confirmation. Evidence indicates that testosterone (T) deficiency in men induces adiposity and, at the same time, increased adiposity induces hypogonadism ( 72 ). An obesity-associated decline in SHBG might partially explain the observed fall in T levels ( 74 , 75 ). However, an increased BMI is associated with low measured, or calculated, free- and bioavailable-testosterone levels as well. In a metanalysis of sixty-eight studies including a total of 19,996 patients with obesity, prevalence of hypogonadism ranged from 22.9 to 78.8% and from 0 to 51.5% depending on whether low total testosterone or low free testosterone was used to define hypogonadism, respectively. Pooled prevalence of hypogonadism when measuring total testosterone or free testosterone was 42.8% and 32.7%, respectively ( 76 ). While the specific pathogenic mechanisms linking obesity with low testosterone levels are not completely understood, both secondary (hypogonadotropic) and, to a minor degree, primary hypogonadism (testicular failure) have been described. Other potentially contributing factors include development of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and increased adipokines ( 77 , 78 ). Obstructive sleep apnea predisposes to male obesity and secondary hypogonadism (MOSH) through reductions in luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse amplitude and reduced mean serum levels of LH and T in men. Obstructive sleep apnea may also disrupt the association between a rise in serum T levels and the appearance of first REM sleep ( 79 , 80 ). At the testicular level, studies by Wagner et al have shown that obesity lowers the number of testosterone producing
