Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


the appearance of first REM sleep ( 79 , 80 ). At the testicular level, studies by Wagner et al have shown that obesity lowers the number of testosterone producing Leydig cells and promotes destruction of existing ones by increasing levels of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF alpha) and cells (macrophages) ( 81 ). In both the short and long term, obesity was shown to lower intra testicular levels of testosterone by way of increasing serum leptin and estradiol levels and inhibiting the expression of the gene for cytochrome p450 of the cholesterol side chain cleavage enzyme (Cyp11a1) ( 81 ). Whether testosterone treatment in (MOSH) is beneficial has long been controversial. Only those with low free T levels and signs or symptoms of hypogonadism should be considered androgen deficient. Considering the limited number of rigorous testosterone therapy trials that have shown beneficial effects, the modest amplitude of these effects, and unresolved safety issues, testosterone therapy is currently not advocated in the prevention or reversal of obesity-associated metabolic disturbances ( 82 ). On the other hand, true hypogonadism in men can promote increased fat mass, which in turn may worsen the hypogonadal state. Low testosterone levels lead to a reduction in muscle mass and an increase in adipose tissue within abdominal depots, especially visceral adipose tissue (VAT) that can be reversed with testosterone therapy ( 83 , 84 ). As adiposity increases, there is a further raise in aromatase activity that is associated with an even greater conversion of T to estradiol (often termed the 'testosterone-estradiol shunt'), which is thought to decreased GnRH secretion ( 85 ). This further decreases T levels that in turn further increases the preferential deposition of fat within abdominal depots: a 'hypogonadal-obesity cycle' ( 86 , 87 ). Individuals with obesity retain the capacity to reverse this gonadotrophic response with weight loss, demonstrating that MOSH is a reversible condition. This has been made evident on several studies in which weight loss normalized T levels ( 88 , 89 ). In summary, obesity is frequently associated with low androgen levels in men and true hypogonadism can worsen adiposity and central fat deposition. The pathogenesis of obesity-related hypogonadism is complex and multifactorial, implicating obesity-related comorbidities and changes in body fat mass itself with its multiple adipokines and inflammatory mediators. Ultimately, these changes are frequently reversible with weight loss and preferred strategies to manage these conditions target lifestyle, anti-obesity medications,
