Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


fat mass itself with its multiple adipokines and inflammatory mediators. Ultimately, these changes are frequently reversible with weight loss and preferred strategies to manage these conditions target lifestyle, anti-obesity medications, and weight-loss surgeries when indicated. OBESITY AND SEX STEROIDS IN WOMEN Increases in body weight and fat tissue are associated with abnormalities of sex steroid levels in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women. It has been shown that women with central obesity have higher circulating androgen levels, even in the absence of a clinical diagnosis of polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) ( 90 , 91 ). These women have higher total and free testosterone levels than normal-weight woman and lower androstenedione and SHBG levels ( 91 ). Some studies examining the co-relationships between the total testosterone levels and phenotypic features of hyperandrogenism, such as hirsutism, found a strong correlation between them, regardless of the assay used for assessment ( 92 ). The timing of menarche is primarily thought to be affected primarily by genetic factors ( 93 , 94 ), but the average age at menarche in US girls has been declining over the past 30 years ( 95 ) in conjunction with changes in nutritional status ( 96 ). A Mendelian randomization study from the United Kingdom linked a higher BMI with early menarche, suggesting a causal relationship between increasing prevalence of childhood obesity and similar trends in the prevalence of early menarche ( 97 ). Studies have also shown that the earlier the onset of menarche, the higher the risk of developing obesity ( 98 ) and other comorbidities in the adult life, independently of BMI, such as: breast cancer, cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and adolescence at-risk behaviors ( 99 - 104 ). Consequently, all-cause mortality has been linked with early menarche ( 105 ). Also, there is evidence that menarche at or before 12 years of age is associated with higher androgens levels even during adulthood, suggesting that hyperandrogenemia may explain, at least in part, the higher incidence of comorbidities among these women. A recent study demonstrated that with each one-year advance in menarcheal age, the probability of having obesity decreased by 22%; interestingly, in this study women with obesity had higher androgens levels ( 106 ). Menarche age also appears to affect offspring. Boys whose mothers with menarche onset ≤13 years at menarche had an adjusted relative risk of obesity 3-fold greater than sons of
