Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


). Menarche age also appears to affect offspring. Boys whose mothers with menarche onset ≤13 years at menarche had an adjusted relative risk of obesity 3-fold greater than sons of mothers with a later menarche onset. The increased obesity risk was not observed in daughters. However, girls who experienced menarche earlier had a less favorable anthropometric profile consisting in a reduced waist and hip circumferences and waist-to-height ratio ( 107 ). Early menarche, therefore, has emerged as a risk of later obesity and related medical problems. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LEPTIN AND SEX HORMONES Leptin participates in the regulation of hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis at multiple levels. Leptin appears to facilitate GnRH secretion indirectly by modulating several interneuron secretory neuropeptides ( 108 , 109 ) and directly by stimulating LH and, to a lesser extent, FSH release. Leptin has a permissive role in timing puberty but is not essential nor is the only trigger for puberty onset, as has been shown in studies ( 110 ) of patients with leptin deficiency and several animal studies ( 111 , 112 ). Kisspeptin play a central role in the modulation of GnRH pulse generator and, thus, downstream regulation of gonadotropins and testosterone secretion in men ( 113 , 114 ). Kisspeptins are mostly distributed in the hypothalamus, dentate gyrus and adrenal cortex. Inactivating mutations of the kisspeptin receptor have been shown to cause hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in men, while an activating mutation is associated with precocious puberty. Data from studies in animals link kisspeptin expression with hyperglycemia, inflammation, leptin and estrogen, factors known to regulate GnRH secretion. It has been hypothesized that decreased endogenous kisspeptin secretion is the common central pathway that links metabolic and endocrine factors in the pathology of T deficiency observed in MOSH and type 2 diabetes ( 113 ). Serum kisspeptin levels are higher in patients with obesity and tend to decrease after weight loss intervention. ( 115 , 116 ). Also, data suggest a higher concentration of serum kisspeptin in women with PCOS irrespective of their BMI but further data are needed to ascertain the role of kisspeptin in PCOS ( 116 ). Kiss1 neurons appear to transmit the regulatory actions of metabolic cues on pubertal maturation. Recently, it has been documented that AMPK and SIRT1 operate as major molecular effectors for the metabolic control of Kiss1 neurons and, thereby, puberty onset. Alterations of these molecular pathways may contribute to the
