Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


documented that AMPK and SIRT1 operate as major molecular effectors for the metabolic control of Kiss1 neurons and, thereby, puberty onset. Alterations of these molecular pathways may contribute to the perturbation of pubertal timing linked to conditions of metabolic stress in humans, such as undernutrition and obesity. As such, it has the potential of becoming a druggable targets for better management of pubertal disorders ( 117 ). Leptin receptors are also widely expressed in the human ovaries ( 118 ) and testes ( 119 ) indicating a direct gonadal regulatory role. Studies by Ma et al. have shown that high-fat diet fed mice produce fewer oocytes compared with control mice receiving a normal diet. Leptin has been noted to act locally within the mice ovarian granulosa cells to reduce estradiol production ( 120 ). These actions are mediated via induction of the neuropeptide cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) in the granulosa cells (GCs), which in turn detrimentally affects intermediate steps of estradiol synthesis including, intracellular cAMP levels, MAPK signaling, and aromatase mRNA expression ( 121 ). In humans undergoing in vitro fertilization, Ma et al. demonstrated that subjects with higher BMI had higher levels of CART mRNA and peptide in follicular fluid ( 121 ). Therefore, in women with obesity, evidence supports a role for leptin as a mediator of infertility at the level of the ovary. As mentioned above, in men with obesity, intra testicular levels of testosterone are lower due to leptin and estradiol inhibition of the expression of the gene for cytochrome p450 of the cholesterol side chain cleavage enzyme (Cyp11a1) ( 81 ). Gregoraszczuk et al exposed porcine ovarian follicles obtained from prepubertal and mature animals to progressively increasing doses of super active human leptin antagonist (SHLA) and measured levels of leptin receptor (ObR), leptin, CYP11A1 and 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17β-HSD), progesterone (P4), and testosterone (T) in the follicles ( 122 ). These experiments showed that SHLA inhibits CYP11A and 17 beta protein expression, subsequently inhibiting leptin, ObR, and hence leptin-mediated follicular P4 and T secretion. Women with obesity and polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), a condition associated with elevated androgen levels and infertility (see also below), were found to have higher levels of leptin (both bound and free form) and lower levels of s-OBR (soluble Leptin receptors) when compared to lean females with PCOS, after adjusting both groups for age, in studies by Rizk, who hypothesized that
