Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


free form) and lower levels of s-OBR (soluble Leptin receptors) when compared to lean females with PCOS, after adjusting both groups for age, in studies by Rizk, who hypothesized that lower s-OBR may have been in response to impaired leptin function ( 123 ). Leptin and its soluble receptor are thus implicated in the pathophysiology of PCOS, may act as a mediator of infertility at the level of the ovary and testes, and that leptin antagonists acting peripherally in gonadal tissues may thus be useful in modifying the physiology of reproduction. OBESITY AND POLYCYSTIC OVARIAN SYNDROME Polycystic ovarian syndrome is a highly prevalent condition of hyperandrogenism frequently associated with obesity. Hence, this disorder has been studied extensively in the context of interactions between sex hormones and obesity. It affects approximately 6-10% of women in reproductive age ( 124 ). About two thirds of women with PCOS are obese and 50-70% of them have insulin resistance (IR) ( 125 ). Adult men have more visceral fat than premenopausal women, in which the body fat is more prominent in the periphery and subcutaneous adipose tissue. This sexual dimorphism is mainly related to the differential effects of androgens and estrogens on adipose tissue ( 126 ). Visceral adipose tissue (VAT) excess is strongly associated with metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance and dyslipidemia ( 127 ). Women with PCOS manifest what has been called "masculinization of the adipose tissue" characterized by increased VAT and even male pattern adipokine gene expression with its associated metabolic complications ( 128 , 129 ). Even though increased VAT plays a significant role in the development of insulin resistance in PCOS, it has been suggested that insulin resistance may represent an intrinsic characteristic of this syndrome, independent of obesity ( 124 ). Interestingly, in PCOS, despite the insulin resistance in other organs, the ovaries remain sensitive to the stimulatory effect of insulin on androgen production ( 130 ). A recent study showed that despite women with PCOS and women with the metabolic syndrome sharing many features, these are different entities, mainly due to the excess of androgens seen in PCOS, which seems the be the main culprit of its multiple co-morbidities ( 131 ) . Anovulation and menstrual irregularities are major features of PCOS in part due to ovarian hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinemia due to IR, and altered paracrine signaling within the ovary, which can disrupt follicle growth ( 124
