Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


irregularities are major features of PCOS in part due to ovarian hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinemia due to IR, and altered paracrine signaling within the ovary, which can disrupt follicle growth ( 124 ). Hyperinsulinemia also decreases hepatic SHBG with a subsequent increase in free androgens levels. In addition, insulin increases the androgens synthesis stimulated by LH and IGF-1. An increased ratio of serum LH to FSH may be seen in about 70% of women with PCOS ( 132 , 133 ). The androgen excess reduces the negative feedback in the hypothalamus causing an enhanced pulsatile release of gonadotropin releasing-hormone (GnRH) which will elevate LH levels and pulse frequency ( 134 ). In summary, obesity is a common feature of PCOS and hyperinsulinemia secondary to insulin resistance of the liver and muscle is believed to be the main etiological factor behind the development of PCOS. Obesity also leads to hyperestrogenism. Weight loss and/or use of insulin sensitizing agents (mainly metformin) improve insulin sensitivity, reduce insulin levels, and improve fertility in women with PCOS but not live births ( 135 , 136 ). Therefore, the role of metformin in improving reproductive outcomes in women with PCOS appears to be limited ( 137 ). Letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, is headed toward replacing clomiphene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator. As the first-choice option for ovulation induction, metabolic treatments such as metformin, troglitazone, or d-chiro-inositol have failed to show promise in improving fertility outcomes. Further studies are needed of the newer agents to treat type 2 diabetes ( 138 ) . A clinical trial in 120 infertile PCOS women showed that when metformin is combined to myoinositol (MI) a significant improvement in live birth rate, menstrual cycle (length and bleeding days), and HOMA index is observed compared to use of metformin alone ( 139 ). Treatment with MI has been useful also in in-vitro fertilization (IVF), as it allows a decrease in the amount of recombinant FSH administered, in the duration of the ovulation induction for follicular development ( 140 , 141 ) and an increase in the clinical pregnancy rate ( 142 ) [45]. OBESITY AND ESTROGENS Estrogens play an important role in body weight, fat distribution, energy expenditure, and metabolism. In healthy premenopausal women, estrogens are mainly synthesized in the ovaries under the regulation of gonadotropins releasing hormones from the pituitary gland. They are also produced in the adipocytes via aromatization from androgenic precursors, which
