Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


are mainly synthesized in the ovaries under the regulation of gonadotropins releasing hormones from the pituitary gland. They are also produced in the adipocytes via aromatization from androgenic precursors, which is especially important in men and post-menopausal women and increase in proportion to the total body adiposity ( 143 , 144 ). Most metabolic effects of estrogens are mediated through estrogen receptor (ER) alpha, whereas most gynecologic actions are exerted through ER beta. Mice of both sexes with a targeted deletion of the ER alpha gene manifest obesity-induced insulin resistance with altered plasma adipokines and cytokines levels and increased adiposity, mainly VAT ( 145 , 146 ). Estrogens have a positive effect in glucose homeostasis, acting as an insulin sensitizer at multiple levels, including skeletal muscle, liver. and adipocytes ( 147 ). Estrogen effects the immune system to decrease inflammation, thus favoring insulin sensitivity ( 148 , 149 ). Pancreatic islet-cells also have estrogens receptors, which when activated improve beta cell function and survival ( 150 ). Estrogen deficiency promotes metabolic dysfunction predisposing to obesity, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes. In rodent models, estrogen has been shown to influence energy intake and energy expenditure via hypothalamic signaling. Estrogen receptor alpha is widely expressed in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), area of the brain that controls food intake, energy and body weight homeostasis. In animal models, the lack of ER alpha in the VMH causes dramatic changes in energy balance leading to increased adiposity ( 147 ). The gynecoid body fat distribution, characterized by increased fat depots into the subcutaneous tissue favoring gluteal/femoral areas and decreased VAT is mediated mainly by estrogens ( 147 ). Visceral fat is augmented in hypoestrogenic states, as seen in menopause. These changes in body fat composition can be prevented by estrogens replacement ( 151 ). Also, estrogen treatment of male-to-female transsexuals significantly increases fat deposition in all subcutaneous fat depots, while having little effect on the visceral fat compartment ( 152 ). Obesity in both men and women is associated with elevated estrogens levels that result from aromatization of androgens in adipocytes ( 86 ). Increased adiposity is a known risk factor for the development and progression of breast cancer and this hyperestrogenic state is associated with increased risk of cancer ( 153 ), while weight loss improves prognosis of patients diagnosed with breast cancer and the reduction in estrogens levels may be, at least
