Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


associated with increased risk of cancer ( 153 ), while weight loss improves prognosis of patients diagnosed with breast cancer and the reduction in estrogens levels may be, at least in part, responsible for this finding ( 154 ). Obesity and Growth Hormone Growth hormone (GH) is secreted by the pituitary gland. Most of GH-promoting effects are mediated by Insulin- like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1), but GH also has effects independent of IGF-1. Serum IGF-1 concentrations represent the most accurate reflection of growth hormone biologic activity. The liver is the major, but not exclusive, source of IGF-1. About 50% of circulating growth hormone is bound to binding proteins. These include a high affinity Growth Hormone Binding Protein (GHBP), which represents the extracellular portion of the GH receptor. IGFs are mostly bound to IGF- Binding Proteins (IGFBPs) with IGF-1 is bound to IGFBP3. Together GH and IGF-1 influence lipids, protein, and glucose metabolism so as to inhibit fat accumulation, promote protein accretion, and alter energy expenditure and body fat/muscle composition. Normally, GH secretion is suppressed as insulin increases in the postprandial period, which permits skeletal muscle glucose uptake promoting glycogenesis and adipogenesis ( 155 ). The opposite changes in hormonal concentrations occur during fasting to facilitate lipolysis and hepatic glucose output ( 156 ). GH secretion from the anterior pituitary is modulated by the hypothalamic GH releasing hormone (GHRH) and follows a pulsatile pattern that is influenced by age, sex, sleep, feeding, physical activity and weight ( 157 ). Obesity is typically accompanied by a decrease in GH levels and increase in GHBP levels. This is the opposite picture to starvation in which GH levels are increased and GHBP levels decreased. An inverse relation exists between GH levels and BMI and percent fat mass, particularly VAT, independently of age or sex ( 158 , 159 ). The reduction in GH levels in obesity is multifactorial and it involves a decreased pituitary release of GH (decreased frequency of GH secretory bursts proportionate to the decree of obesity) and an accelerated GH metabolic clearance rate ( 160 ). Since GH has lipolytic and anabolic properties, it has been postulated that the decline of GH seen in elderly and individuals with obesity may be partly responsible for the progression of metabolic diseases ( 161 ). GH is known to induce insulin resistance (IR). The increased IR seen during puberty and gestational diabetes is, in part,
