Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


responsible for the progression of metabolic diseases ( 161 ). GH is known to induce insulin resistance (IR). The increased IR seen during puberty and gestational diabetes is, in part, attributed to increased GH action ( 162 ). One of the clinical manifestations of acromegaly is glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus. But interestingly, GH deficiency can also be accompanied by increased IR. A recent general population study in Danish adults revealed that both low and high-normal IGF-1 levels are related to IR ( 163 ). There are striking similarities between the metabolic syndrome and untreated adult-onset GH deficiency: increased VAT, IR, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, dyslipidemia and the associated increased risk of premature atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease ( 164 , 165 ). All these observations have led to an increasing interest in investigating the mechanisms behind the decline of GH seen in obesity since it may have important clinical and therapeutic implications. Weight loss is associated with improved stimulated GH response. However there is uncertainty on how much weight loss is required to completely normalize GH secretion ( 166 ). Despite the reduced GH levels seen in obesity, IGF-1 serum levels are not significantly different between those with and without obesity. Studies have reveled mostly normal or slightly low IGF-1 serum levels in individuals with obesity ( 159 , 167 , 168 ). This suggests that lower levels of GH are accompanied by increased peripheral sensitivity to GH accounting for the relatively normal IGF-1 levels. This is supported by data from Maccario et al., who found that the administration of a low dose of rhGH had an enhanced stimulatory effect on IGF-1 secretion in subjects with obesity compared to normal weight subjects ( 169 ). In another study, the same authors showed a normal feedback inhibitory response of the somatotroph to IGF-1 ( 170 ). In addition, decreased GH levels result in up-regulation of GH receptors and increased sensitivity at the liver, as it was shown by higher IGF-1 response to a single GH bolus in subjects with obesity as compared with normal weight individuals ( 171 ). PROPOSED MECHANISMS FOR LOWER GH SECRETION IN OBESITY Hyperinsulinemia that accompanies obesity could be one of the stronger inhibitors of GH secretion by peripheral and central actions. Insulin produces increased peripheral sensitivity to GH, reduced IGFBP-1 levels and increased IGF-1 in spite of decreased GH secretion by the somatotroph. High free IGF-1
