Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


by peripheral and central actions. Insulin produces increased peripheral sensitivity to GH, reduced IGFBP-1 levels and increased IGF-1 in spite of decreased GH secretion by the somatotroph. High free IGF-1 levels in this case exert a negative feedback mechanism on GH secretion. Central effects of insulin were shown in a study where the peak GH secretion after GHRH stimulation was inversely associated with fasting insulin in premenopausal women with obesity ( 172 ). Sex steroid levels may also govern GH activity. It has been shown that testosterone activates the somatotrophic axis in men ( 173 , 174 ) and augments the GH-dependent stimulatory effect on IGF-I production, enhancing protein and energy metabolism ( 175 ). Estrogens, in contrast, cause GH resistance in the liver, leading to a relative reduction of IGF-I production per unit of GH secretion ( 176 ). Other possible mechanisms for the altered GH response in obesity are free fatty acids (FFA) and leptin, both of which are increased in obesity. Lee et al showed that reduction in free fatty acids concentrations in subjects with obesity through use of Acipimox leads to increased GH response to GH-releasing hormone ( 177 ). In animals, leptin has an inhibitory role on GH secretion from the pituitary gland through its effects on GHRH and neuropeptide Y (NPY) at the hypothalamus level ( 178 ). RECOMBINANT GROWTH HORMONE THERAPY IN PATIENTS WITH OBESITY The use of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) in elderly and subjects with visceral obesity results in several mild to moderate anthropometric and metabolic effects such as reduced fat mass, increased lean mass, and improved surrogate markers of cardiovascular disease ( 179 ). Recombinant growth hormone has been extensively studied as a treatment for obesity. A meta-analysis found that rhGH therapy reduces visceral adiposity and increases lean body mass as well as having beneficial changes in lipid profile in adults with obesity, but without inducing significant weight loss. In fact, the observed reductions in abdominal fat mass are modest and similar to what can be achieved by life style interventions ( 180 ). In addition, administration of rhGH was associated with increases in fasting plasma glucose and insulinemia over shorted periods of time ( 181 ). However, the dose of rhGH used in these studies was supraphysiological. Investigations of rhGH in youth have reported favorable outcomes. A pilot study in young adults (18-29 years old) with obesity and
