Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


dose of rhGH used in these studies was supraphysiological. Investigations of rhGH in youth have reported favorable outcomes. A pilot study in young adults (18-29 years old) with obesity and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease suggested that rhGH may have benefits to reduce liver fat content ( 182 ). Also, in boys with obesity (8-18 years old) treatment with rhGH for one-year reduced body mass index standard deviation scores and insulin-like growth factor 1 levels increased. GH treatment also reduced low density lipoprotein cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and alanine aminotransferase when compared with the baseline. ( 183 ). However, further studies of longer duration outcomes, including cardiovascular morbidity and insulin sensitivity, are warranted. In conclusion, obesity is accompanied by a reduction in basal and stimulated GH secretion by the pituitary gland. The reduction in GH does not appear to translate into similar reduction in IGF-1. While some benefits of GH treatment in obesity are seen in body composition, other than in those individuals with documented GH deficiency, these are probably not enough (or greater than was is seen with lifestyle) to outweigh potential long-term side effects and the role of GH replacement in patients with obesity and normal GH axis testing, remains controversial. Obesity and Adrenal Glands Cortisol circulates in the bloodstream mainly bound to Cortisol-Binding Globulin (CGB or transcortin) and less to albumin. About 10% of cortisol is free or unbound and this fraction represents the bioactive portion of the hormone. CBG concentrations can be increased or decreased in several conditions and by some medications ( Table 2 ), thus affecting total cortisol levels in these situations. Table 2. Medical Conditions and Drugs that Affect Cortisol Binding Globulin (CBG) and Total Cortisol Levels View in own window Increase CBG Decrease CBG Estrogens Pregnancy Oral contraceptives Diabetes mellitus Hyperthyroidism Obesity Cirrhosis Testosterone Nephrotic syndrome Hypothyroidism The dynamics of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in obesity have been examined. Patients with Cushing's syndrome display several clinical features that resemble those seen in patients with the metabolic syndrome. These features include redistribution of adipose tissue from peripheral to the truncal region increasing VAT, insulin resistance, impaired glucose homeostasis, hypertension, and lipid abnormalities. These similarities led to the hypothesis that a dysregulation of the HPA axis in the form of "functional hypercortisolism" could potentially be a cause for abdominal obesity and its accompanying metabolic consequences ( 184 ). The serum concentrations of cortisol are generally
