Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


axis in the form of "functional hypercortisolism" could potentially be a cause for abdominal obesity and its accompanying metabolic consequences ( 184 ). The serum concentrations of cortisol are generally normal in obesity ( 185 - 188 ). Salivary cortisol and 24-hour urine free cortisol (UFC) excretion are usually high-normal or sometimes mildly elevated in obesity. A cross-sectional study of subjects with obesity showed a trend to increase salivary cortisol as BMI increased, but the same association was not found with UFC ( 189 ). Other studies in which UFC has been shown to be increased in obesity are due to enhanced cortisol clearance ( 188 , 190 ), with maintenance of normal cortisol levels and circadian appearance in those with obesity through subsequent increases in cortisol production rates ( 188 , 190 , 191 ). It has been demonstrated that high-normal ACTH and cortisol levels in individuals with obesity are associated with cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, insulin resistance and dyslipidemia ( 192 , 193 ). On the other hand, depression and/or alcoholism may slightly increase cortisol levels. These conditions have been described as pseudo-Cushing's syndrome ( 194 ). A pseudo-Cushing's state is characterized by clinical and biochemical features that resemble true Cushing's syndrome but with resolution of the signs and symptoms once the underlying primary condition is eliminated. It is thought that these primary conditions may stimulate CRH release with subsequent activation of the entire HPA axis ( 195 , 196 ). Although serum cortisol is not increased in obesity, it is possible that the local production of cortisol in the fat tissue is increased and this, in turn, could lead to increased local action of cortisol with the subsequent metabolic consequences. Adipose tissue is involved in the metabolism of cortisol through action of the enzyme 11 Beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-1 (11HSD1), which converts cortisone (inactive corticoid) to cortisol (active corticoid) ( 197 ). Whole body 11β-HSD1 reductase activity tends to be higher in obesity (~10%) and is further increased by insulin ( 198 ). It appears that in obesity, more cortisol is derived from cortisone due to the increased activity of this hormone, which could simply be due to increased visceral fat mass. ( 198 ). Some authors provide evidence that cortisol affects zinc metabolism and indicate possible repercussions on insulin signaling that might contribute to the development of resistance to the actions of insulin in obesity. Thus,
