Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


provide evidence that cortisol affects zinc metabolism and indicate possible repercussions on insulin signaling that might contribute to the development of resistance to the actions of insulin in obesity. Thus, alterations in the biochemical parameters of zinc observed in individuals who are obese contribute to the development of disorders in the synthesis, secretion, and action of insulin ( 199 ). Visceral adipose tissue has higher numbers of glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) than subcutaneous tissue ( 200 , 201 ). Glucocorticoids have higher affinity to MR than to GR. It has been shown that MR activation mediates inflammation and dysregulation of adipokines causing insulin resistance and acceleration of the development of metabolic disorder ( 202 ). Interestingly, blockade of the MR improves these outcomes ( 203 , 204 ). In human adipose tissue, MR mRNA levels increase in direct association with BMI and this augmentation is more significant in VAT, whereas GR mRNA levels had no apparent correlation with BMI or fat distribution ( 201 ). Even though evidence for an increased cortisol concentration within the VAT in human obesity is "possible, but unlikely" ( 205 ), it is not surprising that inhibition of 11HSD1 and MR has become a major therapeutic target in metabolic syndrome ( 206 , 207 ). The cortisol response to a variety of stimuli such as ACTH, CRH, or meal ingestion is altered in obesity and by sex. Animal studies showed that estrogens sensitize and androgens diminish corticotropic-response to ACTH ( 208 ). In obesity these sex hormone differences are blunted. One study showed decreased ACTH potency with higher BMI in men ( 208 ) and other studies demonstrated ACTH secretion rates comparatively higher than the cortisol secretion rate in centrally obese premenopausal women; suggesting decreased responsiveness of the adrenal gland to the ACTH stimulation in these subjects ( 209 , 210 ). The same authors showed in a more recent publication, that premenopausal women exhibit diminished ACTH efficacy (maximal cortisol response) and sensitivity (slope of the dose-response curve) ( 211 ). This pattern is similar to what has been described in Cushing's syndrome ( 212 ). Of note, it is important to mention that older studies have revealed increased responsiveness of adrenal glands to exogenous ACTH pharmacologic stimulation ( 213 ), but this finding should not be extrapolated to the effects of endogenous ACTH stimulation. A decrease in the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR)
