Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


glands to exogenous ACTH pharmacologic stimulation ( 213 ), but this finding should not be extrapolated to the effects of endogenous ACTH stimulation. A decrease in the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) response to circulating corticosteroids was suggested by Jessop et al as an explanation for the relative insensitivity to glucocorticoid feedback in obesity ( 214 ). A more recent study showed that MR represent an important pro-adipogenic transcription factor that may mediate both aldosterone and glucocorticoid effects on adipose tissue development. Mineralocorticoid receptor thus may be of pathophysiological relevance to the development of obesity and the metabolic syndrome ( 215 ). The HPA axis is also activated in response to stress along with the sympathetic nervous system, and the sympathoadrenal system. Whether stress-related obesity due to excess and/or dysfunction of cortisol activity is a distinct medical entity remains unclear and there are contradicting findings in the literature. This topic is evidently difficult to investigate due to multiple confounding variables and therefore well-defined longitudinal studies are needed ( 216 ). Finally, when screening overweight and individuals with obesity for Cushing's syndrome it is imperative to follow the Endocrine Society guidelines which recommend diagnosing the disorder only if two screening tests are abnormal ( 196 ). A study of 369 overweight or subjects with obesity with at least two features of Cushing's syndrome found that 25% of these subjects had an abnormal screening test result, but none of them had two positive tests, hence none was found to have Cushing's syndrome ( 217 ). In conclusion, obesity is associated with alterations in the HPA axis that may be a manifestation of a causative effect, adaptive changes to a new homeostatic state or, most likely, a combination of both. And although signs and symptoms of hypercortisolism commonly are also found in patients with central obesity, the finding of an actual case of Cushings disease is very rare in the obese population. Obesity and the Thyroid More than 99% of T4 and T3 circulate bound to transport proteins. Only a very small amount, less than 1%, of thyroid hormone is unbound or free and represents the biologically active fraction of the hormone. Thyroxine Binding Globulin (TBG) is the major transport protein for thyroid hormones and serum TBG concentrations are influenced by several conditions and medications, which result in altered total T4 and T3 concentrations ( Table 3 ). Therefore, when evaluating thyroid function, we measure
