Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


serum TBG concentrations are influenced by several conditions and medications, which result in altered total T4 and T3 concentrations ( Table 3 ). Therefore, when evaluating thyroid function, we measure thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and free T4 (FT4). Free T3 (FT3) can also be measured in selected circumstances, such as hyperthyroidism, although it represents only a small fraction of circulation total thyroid hormone activity. Table 3. Medical Conditions and Drugs that Affect Thyroxine Binding Globulin (TBG) and Total Thyroid Hormone Levels View in own window Increase TBG Decrease TBG Estrogens Pregnancy Hypothyroidism Acute hepatitis Androgens Corticosteroids Systemic illness Nephrotic syndrome Hyperthyroidism Cirrhosis Thyroid dysfunction is frequently associated with changes in body weight and composition, body temperature, energy expenditure, food intake, glucose, and lipids metabolism. Hypothyroidism is linked to weight gain and decreased metabolic rate but there is also a positive association across the normal range between serum levels of TSH and BMI. Some cross-sectional population studies suggest that even a slightly elevated serum TSH might be important in determining an excess of body weight and it can be considered a risk factor for overweight and obesity ( 218 - 221 ). Also, individuals with obesity have an increased incidence of subclinical and overt hypothyroidism. Some studies showed a prevalence of these conditions in morbid obesity as high as almost 20% ( 222 , 223 ). Thyroid-stimulating hormone concentrations has also been associated with the presence of the metabolic syndrome, even when TSH is within normal levels. In a study of 2,760 euthyroid young woman, those with high-normal TSH (2.6-4.5 mIU/L) had higher prevalence of metabolic syndrome than those with low-normal TSH (0.3-2.5 mIU/L) ( 224 ) . However, further investigation is needed to determine whether the relationship between TSH and BMI represents causality (mild thyroid failure leading to obesity) or just adaptive changes (physiologic or pathologic) to a new homeostatic state of increased body weight. Contradicting results from different studies illustrate this controversy. For example, a study published by Marzullo et al. supports the idea that obesity increases susceptibility for thyroid autoimmunity, since in their group of individuals with obesity they found higher rates of positive anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies than in controls ( 225 ). This finding was not observed in other cross-sectional studies that included individuals with severe obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m 2 ). In that study, as compared with controls subjects with severe obesity had higher levels
