Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


in other cross-sectional studies that included individuals with severe obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m 2 ). In that study, as compared with controls subjects with severe obesity had higher levels of TSH (but with lower rates of positive thyroid antibodies than control individuals ( 222 , 223 , 226 ). Data from the NHANES III survey showed no difference in thyroid antibodies positivity among individuals with obesity and the general population ( 227 ). However, a recent metanalysis showed that even after stratification, the obese population had increased risks of overt hypothyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism and was clearly associated with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis but not Graves' disease. In patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, obesity was correlated with positive thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPOAb) levels but not with positive thyroglobulin antibody (TGAb) levels ( 228 ). In a euthyroid population, when comparing metabolically healthy obese (MHO) with metabolically unhealthy obese (MUO) phenotypes, the following findings were reported: FT4 levels were negatively associated with the MUO phenotype, FT3 levels were positively associated with both the MHO and the MUO phenotypes, and TSH levels were positively associated with the metabolically unhealthy, non-obese phenotype ( 229 ). Also, in population studies higher levels of T3, FT3, T4, and TSH are seen in individuals with obesity, probably the result of the reset of their central thyrostat at higher level ( 223 ). The idea that these thyroid function tests (TFTs) changes may reflect a state of thyroid hormone resistance has also been considered. This is supported by the observation of decreased thyroid hormone receptors in circulating mononuclear cells of individuals with obesity ( 230 ) and decreased negative feedback between TSH and peripheral T3 levels. Fat accumulation increases in parallel with TSH and FT3 levels independently of insulin sensitivity and other metabolic parameters. Also, a positive association has been described between FT3 to FT4 ratio and BMI and waist circumference ( 231 ). These findings may result from a high conversion of T4 to T3 due to increased deiodinase activity in the adipose tissue as a compensatory mechanism to increase energy expenditure ( 220 ). On the other hand, during a hypocaloric diet, serum T3 declines significantly, generating changes in the cardiovascular system like those seen in hypothyroidism, suggesting that the decline in T3 may be an adaptive response for energy preservation ( 232 , 233 ). This adaptive decline in T3 may be mediated, in part, by
