Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


suggesting that the decline in T3 may be an adaptive response for energy preservation ( 232 , 233 ). This adaptive decline in T3 may be mediated, in part, by the fall in leptin levels that accompanies weight loss as it can be reversed with leptin administration ( 234 ). Subcutaneous and visceral fat showed reduced thyroid gene expression in subjects with obesity, especially TSH Receptor gene expression. These changes were reversed by major weight loss ( 235 ). After weight loss from bariatric surgery, FT3 and TSH levels were significantly reduced and serum thyroperoxidase antibody (TPOAb) and thyroglobulin antibody (TgAb) levels decreased significantly from 79.3 and 177.1 IU/mL to 57.8 and 66.0 IU/mL, respectively, in participants with positive thyroid antibodies ( 236 ). Also in patients starting with a subclinical hypothyroidism state, weight loss leaded to normalization of TSH levels in most patients and none developed overt hypothyroidism ( 237 ). Furthermore, in children with obesity and overweight without circulating antithyroid antibodies, BMI reductions uniquely predict reductions in TSH, thyroid volume, and improvement in thyroid structure with an altered parenchymal pattern at thyroid ultrasound ( 238 ). Body mass index is directly associated with thyroid volume and the incidence of thyroid nodules. This association appears to be in positive correlation with the degree of insulin resistance ( 221 , 239 , 240 ). Not only is the incidence of benign thyroid abnormalities increased in obesity, but a higher rate of malignancy has also been reported ( 241 , 242 ). Pathway analysis has identified 1,036 genes associated with thyroid cancer (TC) and 534 regulated by obesity. Five out of the 358 obesity-specific genes, FABP4, CFD, GHR, TNFRSF11B, and LTF, had significantly decreased expression in TC patients ( 243 ). Hyperinsulinemia is a common factor found in most studies linking obesity with increased thyroid cancer incidence ( 244 , 245 ). It is not surprising that particularly high percentage of visceral fat mass has a stronger association with thyroid cancer since VAT is highly metabolically active and associated with increased IR. Even though neck circumference as an index of upper-body adiposity, had a positive correlation with thyroid cancer tumor size and lymph node metastasis ( 246 ), other studies do not observe any association between obesity and thyroid cancer aggressive features ( 247 , 248 ). Whether obesity increases the risk of thyroid cancer remains controversial as several authors have
