Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


not observe any association between obesity and thyroid cancer aggressive features ( 247 , 248 ). Whether obesity increases the risk of thyroid cancer remains controversial as several authors have concluded that obesity is associated with greater risk of thyroid cancer ( 249 , 250 ), while others do not ( 251 ). Synthetic thyroid hormones, as well as various other thyroid hormone preparations, have been used as adjunctive measures to induce or facilitate weight loss. A systematic review reported by Kaptein el al ( 252 ) recognized 14 randomized controlled trials and prospective observational studies describing the effects of T3 and T4 therapy in comparison with placebo in euthyroid subjects with obesity during caloric deprivation. Most of these studies had a small sample size, ranging from 5 to 12 treated patients. Thyroid hormone treatment resulted in subclinical hyperthyroidism in most patients and there was no consistent effect on weight loss across the studies. Since the action of thyroid hormone varies depending on the activated receptor, selective thyroid receptor agonists have been developed. In brief, thyroid hormones exert their actions through two major receptors: thyroid receptor alpha (TRA), which mainly mediates T4 effects in bone, skeletal muscle, brain and heart, and thyroid receptor beta (TRB) that regulates TRH/TSH secretion and the metabolic effects of T3 in the liver, such as lowering lipids. Adipose tissue expresses both TRs ( 253 ). Selective TRB agonists are promising drugs for treatment of dyslipidemia and obesity without the toxic effects of thyroid hormones analogs on bones or heart in euthyroid patients. This has been tested in animal studies but there are no clinical trials in humans yet ( 254 - 256 ). CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS As discussed in the previous sections, several endocrine alterations can be identified in association with obesity ( Table 4 ). In most cases, these alterations are reversible with weight loss and, therefore, appear to be a consequence of obesity. Emphasis has been focused on the hypothalamic-pituitary hormones axes and the possibility that some "subclinical" alterations in these axes may be at the origin of increased adiposity. At this time this hypothesis needs further testing. What is true is that the interaction between the adipose tissue and the body is far more complex than once believed, and the future will certainly provide more decisive data on the precise mechanisms of these interactions and their contribution to the development and/or
