Endocrine Changes in Obesity
KEYWORDS: pubmed, obesity, levels, leptin, free, endocrinol, thyroid, insulin, free article, increased, clin, pmc, pmc free, article, hormone


is far more complex than once believed, and the future will certainly provide more decisive data on the precise mechanisms of these interactions and their contribution to the development and/or the maintenance of obesity. Certain endocrine syndromes are known to result in obesity. From the clinical practitioner's perspective it is important to remember these syndromes and to be suspicious should a patient with obesity display one or more of the clinical features seen in these disorders. Hypothyroidism is a common clinical problem and can, of course, occur in patients with obesity and could contribute to the presence of symptoms such as fatigue and inability to concentrate. Hypothyroidism is under-diagnosed in the general population and specifically patients with obesity. Routine screening of patients who present with obesity with a sensitive TSH assay and free T4 is reasonable, although there are no specific guidelines with regards to this. Cushing's syndrome is frequently included in the differential diagnosis of obesity and patients with abdominal obesity have many features in common with patients with authentic Cushing's. However, true Cushing's disease (due to excessive endogenous corticosteroids) is rare. Nevertheless, if there is a reasonable suspicion for this condition, the patient should be screened. Attention should be focused on symptoms and signs that are more specific to Cushing's such as proximal muscle weakness, purple striae, thin and bruised skin, hypokalemia, and osteopenia. Hypogonadism and growth hormone deficiencies are both associated with abdominal obesity. The former is very common and should be kept in mind in males with other symptoms or signs suggestive of androgen deficiency while the latter is usually suspected in the setting of surgery or disease of the hypothalamus-pituitary axis. The treatment of these two conditions can result directly and indirectly (by improving conditioning, muscle strength, and stamina) in weight loss, improved metabolic profile, and improved bone density but is usually reserved for those with true deficiencies, not with low-normal levels. Table 4. Hormonal Changes in Obesity View in own window Adipose tissue as an endocrine organ Type 2 obesity with leptin resistance → Leptin increases Type 1 obesity with congenital leptin deficiency → Leptin decreases Adiponectin decreases Chemerin increases Omentin decreases Retinol Binding Protein increases Angiotensin 2 increases Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) increases Interleukin-6 increases Obesity and the pituitary axes LH pulsatility decreases Total testosterone decreases in men Free testosterone decreases in men SHBG decreases in women and men Androgens increase in women
