Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


randomised, international (46 countries, including 31 centres in the UK) double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group, non-inferiority trial comparing edoxaban with warfarin. It included a total of 21,105 people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and a moderate-to-high risk of stroke, defined as a CHADS score of 2 or more 2 (CHADS is a scoring system that measures risk factors associated with 2 congestive heart failure, hypertension, age, diabetes and stroke). People were randomly assigned to treatment with low-dose edoxaban (30 mg, n=7,034), high-dose edoxaban (60 mg, n=7,035) or warfarin (n=7,036). People randomised to edoxaban who were at increased risk of bleeding because of higher drug exposure (those weighing 60 kg or less, with creatinine clearance 30 to 50 ml/ min, or having concomitant treatment with potent permeability glycoprotein inhibitors) had the dose reduced, either at randomisation or during the study, to 15 mg in the low-dose group and to 30 mg in the high-dose group. The clinical trial results presented below focus on the higher dose treatment arm because this is the recommended dose in the marketing authorisation. This is referred to throughout as the 60 mg/30 mg treatment arm because it included people who were given 30 mg because of clinical factors. The dose in the warfarin group was adjusted to maintain an international normalised ratio [INR] of 2.0 to 3.0, and people in the trial were 'well controlled' on warfarin (median time spent in the therapeutic range [TTR] was 68.4%). 3.2 Patient characteristics were similar between the treatment groups including age, sex, ethnicity, risk factors, CHADS score and renal function. The mean CHADS 2 2 score was 2.8 and approximately 53% of patients had a CHADS score of 3 or 2 more, indicating that the patient population was at a moderate-to-high risk of stroke. The median age of people in the study was 72 years and 62% were male. 3.3 The primary efficacy outcome was time to the first stroke (ischaemic or haemorrhagic) or systemic embolic event. People in the trial continued treatment and were followed up until approximately 672 primary efficacy endpoint events had been collected, which provided 87% power for confirming non-inferiority for each edoxaban regimen. A non-inferiority test using the modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population for the on-treatment period was pre-specified in the statistical analysis plan. To satisfy non-inferiority, the upper boundary of the one-sided 97.5% confidence interval for the hazard ratio of the primary efficacy endpoint comparing edoxaban with
