Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


pre-specified in the statistical analysis plan. To satisfy non-inferiority, the upper boundary of the one-sided 97.5% confidence interval for the hazard ratio of the primary efficacy endpoint comparing edoxaban with warfarin could not exceed 1.38, which was an estimate that preserved at least 50% of the benefit of warfarin over placebo. If edoxaban was shown to be statistically significantly non-inferior to warfarin, a superiority test would be performed using the intent-to-treat (ITT) population and the overall study period. Clinical trial results 3.4 For the primary efficacy outcome (prevention of stroke or systemic embolic event) in the mITT analysis set (on-treatment and overall study period), edoxaban 60 mg/30 mg met the criteria for non-inferiority compared with warfarin. Stroke or a systemic embolic event occurred in 182 people in the edoxaban 60 mg/ 30 mg arm of the trial (1.18% per year) compared with 232 people in the warfarin arm (1.50% per year, hazard ratio [HR] 0.79, 97.5% confidence interval [CI] 0.63 to 0.99, p<0.001 for non-inferiority). In the pre-specified superiority analysis performed in the ITT analysis set (overall study period), the rate of stroke or systemic embolic event was 1.57% per year in the edoxaban 60 mg/30 mg arm compared with 1.80% in the warfarin arm (HR compared with warfarin 0.87; 97.5% CI 0.73 to 1.04, p=0.08 for superiority). Results for the mITT overall study period were consistent with those in the ITT overall study period. 3.5 The company presented results for the analyses of the components of the primary endpoint (stroke and systemic embolism) and the subcomponents of stroke (ischaemic, haemorrhagic, fatal and disabling) for the mITT analysis set (on-treatment period, and overall study period) and the ITT analysis overall study period. For the mITT overall study period, edoxaban was shown to be superior to warfarin for haemorrhagic stroke (p=0.001). The results were similar for the mITT population, the on-treatment period analysis and the ITT population analysis. 3.6 The company presented analyses for the primary efficacy results using the mITT analysis set (overall study period) for subgroups according to risk of stroke (defined by CHADS score) and renal function (creatinine clearance). The 2 subgroup analysis for risk of stroke demonstrated that, compared with warfarin, the hazard ratio for the edoxaban 60 mg/30 mg dose was stable and non-inferior across CHADS scores of 2 to 6. The subgroup analysis for renal function across 2 3 categories of creatinine clearance (normal renal
