Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


non-inferiority in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 was driven largely by a reduction in haemorrhagic stroke events in patients treated with edoxaban, but there was no statistically significant difference between edoxaban and warfarin for any other listed component or subcomponent. 3.10 The ERG commented that the estimate of treatment effect (hazard ratio) for the primary outcome may not be reliable because the assumption of proportional hazards between treatment with edoxaban or warfarin for haemorrhagic stroke (one of the components of the primary outcome) appeared to be violated. The hazard trend in the warfarin group changed sharply at 6 months, in comparison with a smooth hazard trend over time in the edoxaban group. 3.11 The ERG noted that the results of the analysis for centre-level TTR suggested that the efficacy of edoxaban in comparison to warfarin is significantly greater in the subgroup of centres achieving TTR of less than 60%, but this was not consistent across all analysis sets. There was no significant difference in the results from centres with a TTR of less than or greater than 60% when the analysis was conducted using the mITT population and the on-treatment observation period. The ERG therefore suggested that the finding that centre-level TTR may affect the efficacy of edoxaban in comparison to warfarin may be spurious. 3.12 The ERG stated that the health-related quality of life data provided during the clarification process were difficult to interpret because of the low response rate and incomplete analysis. The ERG therefore suggested that it was difficult to draw any firm conclusions about any differences in patients' experiences that are attributable to the choice of treatment. Adverse effects of treatment 3.13 The company presented the results of the safety analyses, which included all people who had at least 1 dose of study drug for the on-treatment period in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. In the principal safety analysis for the edoxaban 60 mg/ 30 mg arm compared with warfarin, the company stated that edoxaban had a significantly reduced rate of major bleeding (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.71 to 0.91; p<0.001) and of several secondary bleeding endpoints including intracranial, fatal, clinically relevant non-major and life-threatening bleeds (p≤0.01 for all comparisons). However, the company highlighted that major gastrointestinal bleeding occurred slightly more frequently in the edoxaban 60 mg/30 mg arm than in the warfarin arm (annualised rate of 1.51% compared with 1.23%, respectively; HR 1.23 [1.02 to 1.50]; p=0.03). 3.14 The
