Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


more frequently in the edoxaban 60 mg/30 mg arm than in the warfarin arm (annualised rate of 1.51% compared with 1.23%, respectively; HR 1.23 [1.02 to 1.50]; p=0.03). 3.14 The company stated that the 5 most frequent treatment-emergent adverse events in the edoxaban or warfarin groups were urinary tract infections, nasopharyngitis, bronchitis, dizziness and peripheral oedema. The company presented subgroup analyses for the primary safety outcome by centre-level TTR and by risk of stroke (as defined by CHADS ), which were consistent with the 2 overall population. Network meta-analysis 3.15 The company did not find any head-to-head studies that compared edoxaban with rivaroxaban, dabigatran etexilate or apixaban so it did a network meta-analysis to estimate the relative efficacy and safety of edoxaban for treating atrial fibrillation, that included 4 trials: ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, and 3 trials of other newer oral anticoagulants (apixaban 5 mg twice-daily [ARISTOTLE]; dabigatran etexilate 150 mg twice-daily or 110 mg twice-daily [RE-LY]; and rivaroxaban 20 mg once-daily [ROCKET-AF]). All 4 RCTs had a warfarin treatment arm. Because of significant differences in the patient characteristics and trial design between the 4 trials (for example, ARISTOTLE and RE-LY included people with a CHADS2 score of 1 or more, whereas the CHADS2 score was 2 or more in both ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 and ROCKET-AF) only data from patients with a CHADS score of 2 or more from RE-LY and ARISTOTLE were used in the network 2 meta-analyses. 3.16 The results of the meta-analysis demonstrated that for the composite endpoint of stroke and systemic embolism, efficacy was similar for high-dose edoxaban compared to other newer oral anticoagulants, but edoxaban significantly reduced major bleeding risk by 24%, 28%, and 17% compared to rivaroxaban, dabigatran etexilate 150 mg and dabigatran etexilate 110 mg, respectively. Major bleeding rates were similar between high-dose edoxaban and apixaban. Evidence Review Group's comments on the network meta-analysis 3.17 The ERG considered that the key characteristics of the trials (study population, design, outcome measures; and effect modifiers such as age, disease severity, and duration of follow-up) included in the network meta-analyses were sufficiently similar to justify combining the results. The company's approach used annualised event rates and the ERG considered that this approach minimised any potential bias resulting from differences in trial duration, which ranged from 1.8 years in ARISTOTLE (apixaban) to 2.8 years in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 (edoxaban). 3.18 The ERG noted that in addition to the
