Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


from differences in trial duration, which ranged from 1.8 years in ARISTOTLE (apixaban) to 2.8 years in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 (edoxaban). 3.18 The ERG noted that in addition to the violation of the proportional hazards assumption for some end points within ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, it was also violated within trials of the other 3 newer oral anticoagulants, and in the warfarin groups of the 4 trials included in the evidence network. The ERG highlighted that this meant the hazard ratios from the network meta-analysis were not reliable and should not be used to inform the company's economic model. Cost effectiveness 3.19 The company developed a Markov cohort model to compare edoxaban with warfarin, apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran etexilate for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 1 or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age 75 years or more, diabetes, previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack, and a CHADS 2 score of at least 2 (the baseline characteristics of ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48). The model consisted of 18 health states (patients entering the model with 'stable AF'), with 1-month cycles and a 30-year (remaining lifetime) time horizon from a starting age of 71 years. The company conducted the analysis from the perspective of the NHS and personal social services, and discounted costs and health effects at an annual rate of 3.5%. A half-cycle correction was applied to both costs and QALYs (with the exception of drug costs). The model design was based on previous economic analyses that were submitted to NICE (for example, apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non- valvular atrial fibrillation). 3.20 The health states in the company's model were defined by the clinical events considered to have a permanent impact on patients and were assumed to have an initial, as well a long-term, impact on costs, quality of life and mortality. The health states captured the main thrombotic events and adverse events of treatment including haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke (separated into mild, moderate and severe), systemic embolism and myocardial infarction. Health states were further subdivided into an initial health state (in which costs and quality of life associated with the acute event and the case fatality rate were applied in the month after the initial event), and a long-term health state in which ongoing event costs, quality of life and mortality were applied in each monthly
