Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


rate were applied in the month after the initial event), and a long-term health state in which ongoing event costs, quality of life and mortality were applied in each monthly cycle. Events that were considered to have no long-term impact in the model were other intracranial haemorrhage, non-intracranial haemorrhage major bleeds, clinically relevant non-major bleeds, and transient ischaemic attack. In the model, these events incurred costs and a disutility for the length of the event. 3.21 The monthly probability of each clinical outcome for edoxaban was estimated from annual event rates from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. The transition probabilities for the comparators were obtained by applying the hazard ratio from the network meta-analysis for the intervention to the baseline probability. When there were no available data for a clinical outcome, it was assumed that the hazard ratio was equivalent to the hazard ratio estimated in the 'all patients' analysis. If there were no available data in the 'all patients' analysis, the hazard ratio was assumed to be 1. 3.22 In the model, people could permanently stop or switch treatment after an ischaemic stroke or a haemorrhagic stroke. After stopping treatment and switching to a new therapy, the transition probability (of health state and event) did not change to reflect the new therapy. The company assumed that people could not stop or switch treatment for any other reason because there would be no difference between treatment groups. 3.23 The adverse events considered in the company's model were non-intracranial haemorrhage major bleed, clinically relevant non-major bleeds, other intracranial haemorrhage, and transient ischaemic attack (assumed to be transient on clinical advice). ERG comments 3.24 The ERG considered that the assumption of proportionality that underpinned the network meta-analysis had been shown to be violated both within and between trials (see also sections 3.10 and 3.18). The ERG highlighted that this meant the hazard ratios used to inform the company's economic model were therefore unreliable. 3.25 The ERG highlighted that the model predicted that, of a cohort of 1000 people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation having warfarin, there will be 157 stroke events. Using the company's approach to applying the risk of acute-stroke mortality, approximately 15 (9.6%) of these would be fatal, which is substantially less than the 16.8% reported in the study by Janes. The ERG assessed the impact of applying the acute mortality rates reported by Janes to all patients experiencing a stroke (ischaemic stroke
