Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


the 16.8% reported in the study by Janes. The ERG assessed the impact of applying the acute mortality rates reported by Janes to all patients experiencing a stroke (ischaemic stroke and haemorrhagic stroke analysed separately; see sections 3.40 and 3.41). The ERG noted that mortality data from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 were not used in the model and no rationale for this was given by the company. The ERG considered it more appropriate to use mortality data from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. Therefore, in its exploratory analyses, the ERG extracted acute mortality data for ischaemic stroke and haemorrhagic stroke from the edoxaban groups of the trial (see sections 3.40 and 3.41). 3.26 The ERG highlighted that the model overestimated overall survival for both treatment groups compared with ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, and that this potentially underestimated the relative effectiveness of edoxaban compared to warfarin. Utility values 3.27 The baseline quality of life for the health state of stable atrial fibrillation in the company's model (0.78) was taken from a study of patients with atrial fibrillation having warfarin in the UK (Khan, 2004). In the sensitivity analyses, health-related quality of life data from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 were used (0.836). Health-related quality of life declined over time based on an adjustment for cohort aging (-0.00029 per year) to reflect the impact of age and thrombotic events on a patient's quality of life. Utility estimates for mild, moderate and severe stroke were derived from a published study by Gage (1996). The company assumed that patients who have a stroke, myocardial infarction or systemic embolic event experience a permanent decrement to their health-related quality of life. ERG comments 3.28 The ERG noted that the base case utility value for the stable atrial fibrillation health state had been derived from a UK study by Khan which had a modest sample size of 125 patients, with a low response rate, and was designed to assess the effectiveness of an anticoagulation education programme and self-monitoring of patients with atrial fibrillation taking warfarin. The ERG did not consider this to be representative of a general atrial fibrillation population and it preferred the use of EQ-5D data collected in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. 3.29 The ERG highlighted that the age-related utility decrement in the model (-0.00029 per annum) based on self-reported health status of a US population and valued using the UK tariff may not be generalisable to a UK population. The ERG
