Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


of problems including the need for regular monitoring and dose adjustment, and it has multiple food and drug interactions. The Committee heard from the patient and clinical experts that the number of people being prescribed anticoagulation treatment for atrial fibrillation is increasing following publication of the NICE guideline on managing atrial fibrillation. This does not recommend aspirin for the treatment of non-valvular atrial fibrillation, which has led to a higher uptake of both warfarin and the newer oral anticoagulants. The Committee concluded that both warfarin and the newer oral anticoagulants are relevant comparators for edoxaban. The Committee accepted the limitations of warfarin therapy and the considerable impact it may have on people who take it, and recognised the potential benefits of edoxaban for people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Clinical effectiveness 4.2 The Committee considered the clinical-effectiveness data from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, that compared edoxaban with warfarin. It considered that this trial was of good quality and discussed whether the results were generalisable to people with atrial fibrillation in the UK. The Committee noted that ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, like other trials of newer anticoagulants, used CHADS to assess the 2 risk of stroke rather than CHADS -VASc, which is now used in clinical practice, as 2 recommended in the NICE guideline on managing atrial fibrillation. The Committee understood from the clinical expert that the CHADS -VASc scoring 2 system was developed to better define those who would benefit from anticoagulation because a number people with a CHADS score of 1 would still 2 benefit. It also heard that although these people were not included in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, a lower baseline risk of stroke would not be expected to reduce the relative efficacy of the treatment. In clinical practice, edoxaban is expected to be offered in the same place in the treatment pathway as other anticoagulants (that is, to women with a CHADS -VASc score of 2 and above, and to men with a score 2 of 1 or above), while taking bleeding risk into account. The Committee concluded that the trial was well designed and generalisable to clinical practice. 4.3 The Committee considered the results of ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. It noted that the primary efficacy outcome was a composite of stroke (both ischaemic and haemorrhagic) and systemic embolism. However, ischaemic stroke and systemic embolism could be considered direct treatment effects, whereas haemorrhagic stroke was a bleeding outcome and therefore an
