Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


stroke (both ischaemic and haemorrhagic) and systemic embolism. However, ischaemic stroke and systemic embolism could be considered direct treatment effects, whereas haemorrhagic stroke was a bleeding outcome and therefore an adverse event. The Committee noted that for the composite primary outcome, edoxaban was non-inferior to, but not superior to, well-controlled warfarin (which was defined in the trial as a median time in therapeutic range [TTR] of 68.4%). The Committee noted that when the individual components of the primary outcome were considered separately, there was only a statistically significant reduction in haemorrhagic stroke with edoxaban compared with warfarin. The Committee concluded that edoxaban was as clinically effective as warfarin for the primary efficacy outcome of reducing stroke (ischaemic and haemorrhagic) and systemic embolism, and had nearly half the rate of haemorrhagic stroke events compared to warfarin. 4.4 The Committee considered the results of the company's subgroup analyses, which used data from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. It noted that the company presented data for subgroups based on international normalised ratio (INR) control, that compared the efficacy of edoxaban and warfarin in relation to the median TTR for the study centre. One of the analyses showed that the relative benefits of edoxaban compared with warfarin were greater in centres where the centre-level TTR was less than 60%. The Committee noted comments from the company and the Evidence Review Group (ERG) that this was not consistent across all analysis sets. The Committee concluded that there was insufficient evidence to consider different treatment effects according to centre-level TTR. 4.5 The Committee noted that the company's subgroup analyses for risk of stroke (as defined by CHADS score) showed that the hazard ratio for edoxaban compared 2 with warfarin was stable and non-inferior across CHADS scores of 2 to 6. The 2 Committee concluded that there was no biologically plausible reason to indicate that the relative treatment effect would be dependent on the baseline risk of stroke. 4.6 The Committee discussed the subgroup analysis based on renal function, which used 3 categories of creatinine clearance (normal renal function, and mild or moderate impairment). It noted that the results of this analysis suggested a trend towards decreasing efficacy of edoxaban with increasing creatinine clearance (see section 3.6). The Committee heard from a clinical expert that this was likely to be because with better renal function edoxaban is removed by the kidneys more quickly, leading to a reduction in treatment
