Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


heard from a clinical expert that this was likely to be because with better renal function edoxaban is removed by the kidneys more quickly, leading to a reduction in treatment effect. It also heard that this may apply to all newer oral anticoagulants, but data need to be re-evaluated to confirm this. It heard from the clinical experts that the proportion of people with good renal function (measured by creatinine clearance) who would be eligible for treatment with edoxaban was in the region of 5% to 10%, and that these are often younger people. The Committee noted the company's rationale that the results of this sub-group analysis should be interpreted with caution (see section 3.6). It also noted the summary of product characteristics which states that, in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and high creatinine clearance, edoxaban should only be used after careful evaluation of a person's thromboembolic and bleeding risk. The Committee concluded that if edoxaban is used in accordance with the summary of product characteristics, there is no reason to make differential recommendations based on creatinine clearance. 4.7 The Committee considered the adverse events reported in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. It noted that for the primary safety outcome of major bleeding, edoxaban resulted in statistically significantly fewer bleeds than warfarin. Edoxaban also had statistically significantly fewer other bleeding events including fatal, intracranial and clinically relevant non-major bleeds. The Committee recognised the particular importance of the reduction in intracranial bleeding compared with warfarin. It also noted the statistically significantly higher numbers of gastrointestinal bleeds in people treated with edoxaban compared with warfarin. The Committee was aware that this is not unique to edoxaban, and that clinicians are now more experienced in using the newer oral anticoagulants and in managing the adverse events. It also heard from the clinical experts that administration of 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate has been shown to reverse the effects of edoxaban. The Committee concluded that the risk–benefit profile of edoxaban was acceptable. 4.8 The Committee discussed the data for edoxaban compared with rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran etexilate (110 mg twice daily and 150 mg twice daily) and rivaroxaban, that were used in the company's network meta-analysis. The Committee noted that the trials included in the network meta-analysis were not directly comparable; for example, they had different baseline risks of stroke (with different CHADS inclusion criteria and mean CHADS scores) and differences in 2 2 time in the
