Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


were not directly comparable; for example, they had different baseline risks of stroke (with different CHADS inclusion criteria and mean CHADS scores) and differences in 2 2 time in the therapeutic range in the warfarin groups. The Committee also noted the ERG's concerns about the violation of the proportional hazards assumption in data from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48, from the trials of the other 3 newer oral anticoagulants, and in the warfarin groups of the 4 trials included in the network meta-analysis. It understood from the ERG that this meant that the hazard ratios produced by the network meta-analysis were not sufficiently robust to compare the relative clinical effectiveness of the newer oral anticoagulants. The Committee considered the results of the network meta-analysis in the light of the methodological issues and noted that all the newer oral anticoagulants appeared to have comparable efficacy for the composite primary and bleeding outcomes. The Committee concluded that the network meta-analysis results should be interpreted with caution, but edoxaban is unlikely to be different from rivaroxaban, apixaban and dabigatran etexilate in clinical practice. Cost effectiveness 4.9 The Committee considered the company's economic model. It noted that the economic analysis was largely based on the model used in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, which captured the main efficacy and adverse events of treatment. The Committee agreed that the model structure, perspective and time horizon were appropriate, although it questioned the relevance of the inclusion of myocardial infarction. It concluded that the analysis was consistent with the NICE reference case. 4.10 The Committee considered the clinical-effectiveness estimates used in the company's model. It noted that the comparison of edoxaban with warfarin used direct evidence from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 to inform the company's economic model. The Committee was aware of the ERG's concern that the assumption of proportional hazards for edoxaban and warfarin for haemorrhagic stroke (one of the components of the primary outcome) appeared to be violated in ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48. However, the Committee considered that the general modelling approach and the pairwise comparison with warfarin were appropriate. The Committee noted that for the comparison of edoxaban with the other newer oral anticoagulants, hazard ratios obtained from the network meta-analysis were used in the economic model and that these estimates were considered unreliable by the ERG (see section 4.8). The Committee concluded that data
