Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation). The Committee also noted that an INR monitoring cost of £265 was used by the company, and that this fell within a range previously accepted in NICE technology appraisals. The Committee concluded that the costs used in the model were appropriate. 4.13 The Committee considered the cost effectiveness of edoxaban compared with warfarin. It noted that the company's base-case deterministic and probabilistic ICERs for edoxaban compared with warfarin were £12,900 and £16,900 per QALY gained respectively. The Committee noted that the ERG considered the economic model to be robust to all of the company's sensitivity analyses, and to most of those done by the ERG. The Committee further considered the ERG's exploratory analyses. It noted that the change which had the largest single impact on the ICER was applying the hazard ratio from ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 for haemorrhagic stroke (which increased the ICER to £17,100 per QALY gained). The Committee noted that the inclusion of all the ERG's preferred values in the model (see sections 3.40 and 3.41) resulted in a deterministic ICER of £16,000 per QALY gained and a probabilistic ICER of £22,100 per QALY gained. The Committee concluded that taking all of the analyses into account, edoxaban was cost effective compared with warfarin and could be recommended as an alternative to warfarin for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who have 1 or more risk factors for stroke. 4.14 The Committee noted that the cost effectiveness of edoxaban compared with other newer oral anticoagulants was calculated using hazard ratios from the network meta-analysis, which the Committee considered to lack robustness (see section 4.8). In the full incremental analysis edoxaban, dabigatran etexilate 110 mg, apixaban and rivaroxaban were strictly dominated by dabigatran etexilate 150 mg, which had an ICER of £7,645 per additional QALY gained compared to warfarin. However, there were very small differences in QALYs and costs between the newer oral anticoagulants. The Committee concluded that there was insufficient evidence to distinguish between the clinical and cost effectiveness of edoxaban and the newer oral anticoagulants recommended in previous appraisals (apixaban, dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban). Therefore, edoxaban could be recommended as a cost-effective treatment for non-valvular atrial fibrillation in people who have 1 or more risk factors for stroke. 4.15 The Committee concluded that the decision about whether to start treatment with edoxaban should be made after
