Edoxaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: edoxaban, warfarin, stroke, committee, erg, company, people, model, treatment, analysis, fibrillation, noted, atrial fibrillation, atrial, compared


fibrillation in people who have 1 or more risk factors for stroke. 4.15 The Committee concluded that the decision about whether to start treatment with edoxaban should be made after an informed discussion between the clinician and the person about the risks and benefits of edoxaban compared with warfarin, apixaban, dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban. For people considering switching from warfarin to edoxaban, the potential risks and benefits of edoxaban should be considered in the light of their level of international normalised ratio (INR) control. 4.16 The Committee was aware of NICE's position statement with regard to the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) 2014, and in particular the PPRS payment mechanism, when appraising edoxaban. It accepted the conclusion 'that the 2014 PPRS payment mechanism should not, as a matter of course, be regarded as a relevant consideration in its assessment of the cost effectiveness of branded medicines'. The Committee heard nothing to suggest that there is any basis for taking a different view with regard to the relevance of the PPRS to this appraisal of everolimus. It therefore concluded that the PPRS payment mechanism was irrelevant for the consideration of the cost effectiveness of edoxaban. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated care boards, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 3 months of its date of publication. 5.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the final draft guidance. 5.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is available within the period set out in the paragraphs above. This means that, if a patient has non-valvular atrial fibrillation and the healthcare professional responsible for their care thinks that edoxaban is the right treatment, it should be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations.
