The development and application of
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, pseudovirus, cells, protein, peerj, virus, fold, packaging, sars-cov- pseudovirus, pseudoviruses, fold fold, gene, decreases, pbna, plasmid


the study. TheSproteinencasingviralnucleicacidsfromothersourcesmakesuptherecombinant particleknownasSARS-CoV-2pseudovirus(Nieetal.,2020),whosesurfaceproteinsshare a high degree of structural similarity with natural viral proteins. Thus, it still has immunogenicity and can efficiently mediate viral entry into host cells, genes within the pseudovirus are usually defective, but they can replicate in susceptible host cells only for oneround,meaningalowlevelofpathogenicity(Lietal.,2018).Additionally,comparedto live viruses, reporter genes are typically incorporated into pseudoviruses, making it pseudovirusescanreplacehighlypathogenicwild-typevirusesinBSL2laboratories,where  DOI: Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 2/17 they are widely used for drug screening and the development of vaccines. Additionally, invitroinvestigationsusingapseudovirushavealsoyieldedinformationaboutthevirus’s entry method into host cells. Inthisreview,weinvestigatetheresearchonSARS-CoV-2pseudovirusanddescribeits three construction methods and current applications. In particular, we focus on the methods to optimize the production and discoveries in COVID-19 vaccine monitoring, antibodyanddrugdevelopment,andhostcellrange.Thepurposeistoprovidereferences for the application of SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus in the study of COVID-19 pathogenesis and the search for the most effective prevention and treatment methods. SURVEY METHODOLOGY A large number of documents (including clinical trials and reviews) on PubMed through the Internet were searched-which were then categorized and read meticulously. The key words are “SARS-CoV-2”, “SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus”, “packaging system” and “applicationofpseudovirus”.Thefirstaspectoftheinclusioncriteriaisthatthearticlehas complete structure and sufficient materials, and the other is that it contains retrieval keywords. Construction of SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses Classification of SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus packaging systems The vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) packaging system, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) lentivirus packaging system, and murine leukemia viral (MLV) retrovirus packaging system are the most extensively utilized packaging methods for SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus. The main difference between them lies in the different sources of core genomic RNA. The backbone of the VSV pseudovirus packaging system is provided by the replication-deficient VSV pseudovirus (G (cid:1)ΔG-VSV), which contains a luciferase or fluorescent protein reporter motif but lacks the vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (VSV-G)gene(Nieetal.,2020,p.2).TheconstructionofrVSV-SARS-CoV-2pseudovirus is a very complex process, as shown in Fig. 2A, where recombinant poxvirus (Vtf7-3) infects juvenile hamster kidney (BHK-21) cells, expresses T7 RNA polymerase, which is usedtodirectthetranscriptionofthefull-lengthVSVgenomefromtheT7-pVSV-reporter expression plasmid RNA and expresses four VSV proteins (N, P, G, L) (Pattnaik et al., 1992). In the presence of N, P, and L proteins, the T7-pVSV-reporter expression plasmid canreplicateandamplify(Pattnaik&Wertz,1990;Stillman,Rose&Whitt,1995),andthe G protein is expressed on the cell membrane and wrapped around the nucleocapsid to formanenvelopewiththeoutgrowthofpVSV-ΔG,whichisnamedG (cid:1)ΔG-rVSV(Schnell etal.,1996).TherVSV-SARS-CoV-2pseudoviruscanbeobtainedbyinfecting293Tcells that express S protein on the cell membrane after G (cid:1)ΔG-rVSV transfection with the S expression plasmid . This method may leave some VSV residues, whichcanberemovedbyanti-VSV-Gantibodies(Almahboubetal.,2020).293Tcellsare co-transfectedwithtwo,three,orfourplasmidstocreatetheHIV-1pseudoviruspackaging system. As shown in Fig. 2B, 293T cells are co-transfected with an envelope plasmid Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 3/17 Figure 2 Acquisition methods for SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus based on three diûerent packaging systems.
