The development and application of
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, pseudovirus, cells, protein, peerj, virus, fold, packaging, sars-cov- pseudovirus, pseudoviruses, fold fold, gene, decreases, pbna, plasmid


co-transfectedwithtwo,three,orfourplasmidstocreatetheHIV-1pseudoviruspackaging system. As shown in Fig. 2B, 293T cells are co-transfected with an envelope plasmid Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 3/17 Figure 2 Acquisition methods for SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus based on three diûerent packaging systems. (A) VSV packaging system. (B) HIV-1 packaging system. (C) MLV packaging system. Fig- uremodifiedfromServierMedicalArt( Full-size expressing the S protein and an HIV-1 backbone plasmid lacking the gene encoding the HIV envelope glycoprotein env but containing a fluorescent reporter gene to form a dual plasmid system . The three-plasmid system divides the backbone plasmid into a packaging plasmid expressing gag and pol and a transfer plasmid containing the HIV reverse transcriptase gene, the cis-regulatory element required for integration, and the reporter gene . A four-plasmid packaging system, further dividing the packaging plasmid into two plasmids which express gag-pol and rev, dramatically reduces the production of replicable virus and improves safety, but also loses a portion of the viral packaging titer . MLV-SARS-CoV-2-S pseudovirus is made by co-transfecting 293T cells with the MLV Gag-pol packaging vector, the MLVtransfervector expressing thereportergene, andthe Sprotein-encoding plasmid, and the packaging process, is shown in Fig. 2C . Construction of relatively high titer SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus Ingeneral,theyieldofSARS-CoV-2pseudovirusesislowerthantheiractualrequirements andcanincreasebymodificationoftheSprotein.Johnsonetal.(2020)foundthatdeletion of the last 19 amino acids of the cytoplasmic tail of the S protein, D614G and R682Q mutationsallenhancedSARS-CoV-2pseudotypedHIV-1particleproductionanddidnot affecttheneutralizationabilityagainstserum-neutralizingantibodies.Wangetal.(2023b) also reported that deletion of the furan site on the S protein gene increased the pseudovirus’syieldandinfectionefficiency.SARS-CoV-2pseudotypedVSVparticleswith  DOI: Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 4/17 G614 S protein mutation have higher titer than the corresponding D614 pseudovirus . Other pseudo-SARS-CoV-2 system Besides the three packaging systems described above, researchers also constructed other pseudovirussystems.ConstructionofSARS-CoV-2cDNAfragmentinvitro,inwhichthe NdomaingenewasreplacedbyGFPreportergene,producedtheRNAtranscriptofGFP/ Δ N genome. In addition, the N domain gene was transduced by lentivirus to construct Caco-2cellsstablyexpressingtheNgene(Caco-2-N).GFP/ΔNgenomewasinjectedinto Caco-2-NcellstoproduceSARS-CoV-2-GFP/ΔNtrVLP.DuetothelackoftheNgenein thetrVLPgenome,onlyCaco-2-Ncellscanobtainvirusreplicationandcompletethelife cycle of pseudo-SARS-CoV-2 (Ju et al., 2021; Zhang et al., 2022). Ma et al. (2022). constructed rSARS-CoV-2 using the split-virus-genome system. The full-length SARS- CoV-2 cDNA was divided into three parts: ORF1ab gene, S protein gene, and all the remaining structural genes carrying the reporter gene, and cloned into three plasmids respectively.Thesethreeplasmidswereco-transfectedwith293TcellstoconstructrSARS- CoV-2. SARS-COV-2 PSEUDOVIRUS FOR STUDYING VIRUS-HOST INTERACTIONS SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus contains reporter genes that are easy to analyze qualitatively, andthemembraneproteinscanbealteredbygeneeditingtechniquessothatinvestigating the role of these proteins in virus-host interactions can be studied. SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus employed to study the virus invasion mechanisms The entry of SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses into cells can be easily observed by inserting a reporter gene into the S protein pellet. Ma et al. (2021) used a lentivirus packaging technologywithagreencellmembranefluorescentprobe,Dio,tolabeltheviralenvelope and a viral
