The development and application of
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, pseudovirus, cells, protein, peerj, virus, fold, packaging, sars-cov- pseudovirus, pseudoviruses, fold fold, gene, decreases, pbna, plasmid


SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses into cells can be easily observed by inserting a reporter gene into the S protein pellet. Ma et al. (2021) used a lentivirus packaging technologywithagreencellmembranefluorescentprobe,Dio,tolabeltheviralenvelope and a viral core genome carrying the red fluorescent protein mCherry to create a dual-colorSARS-CoV-2pseudovirus.mCherryandDiOco-localizationsignalsindicateda single virus. Fluorescence imaging enables real-time tracking of cell infection by at the single particle level. mCherry and DiO separation shows that the virus core is released fromtheenvelopeintothehostcell’scytoplasmandisusedtotrackhowthepseudovirus penetrates four human respiratory cells. Their research unequivocally shows that endocytosis is the primary mechanism by which the pseudovirus enters host cells (Ma etal.,2021).Thepseudovirusesandcellstreatedwithgeneeditingtechnologyordrugscan explore the mechanisms by which targets on host cells interact with SARS-CoV-2 to aid viral entry. The entrance of SARS-CoV-2 into 293T cells expressing hACE2 needed cathepsin L, according to research by Ou et al. (2020) using pseudovirus and cathepsin inhibitor-treated cells. Using gene editing cells and immunofluorescence labeling, Zhou etal.(2022)discoveredthatSARS-CoV-2pseudovirusinfectionwaslinkedtoendocytosis, whichusesArf6-dependentCD147endocytosistoenterhostcell.Moonetal.(2023)used Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 5/17 dual-reporter pseudovirus, HEK293T-ACE2, and HEK293T-ACE2-TMPRSS2 cells to verify that TMPRSS2-mediated membrane fusion plays a vital role in the SARS-CoV-2 infectionprocess.Lietal.(2023)foundthatproteinargininemethyltransferase5(PRMT5) plays a crucial role in infected cells. SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus showed low infectivity towardstheirconstructofPRMT5knockdownA549cells,andtheinfectionrateofitwas positively correlated with the amount of PRMT5 protein expressed by the host cells (Li et al., 2023). SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus for studying cellular susceptibility SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses packaged with S proteins can mimic the process by which naturalvirusesbindtoSproteincellularreceptorstoentertargetcells(Keetal.,2020).Ma etal.(2021)foundtheinfectionefficiencyoffourdistinctrespiratorycellstoSARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus differed significantly, while VSV-G pseudovirus as a control group did not differsignificantly.ThereasonwasthatSARS-CoV-2infectioneffectivenessonhostcellsis closelyrelatedtotheexpressionofACE2receptorsonthecells,suggestingthatthespecific recognitionofthereceptorbythevirusdeterminesthesusceptibilityofdifferentcells(Ma etal.,2021).Wangetal.(2022b)examinedtheabilityof27mutantpseudovirusestoinfect 20 Hela cells of animal origin, and they found that most mutations favor infection of domestic animals by the virus, and in particular, the T478I and N501Y mutations have beenshowntoinfectchickenandmousecells.TherevelationthatmutationsintheSgene alter the host range and infectivity of SARS-CoV-2 provides a new perspective for the preventing and controlling COVID-19 outbreak . Yi et al. (2020) applied pseudoviruses to study the virus’s susceptibility to brain cells. They found that SARS-CoV-2 readily entered ACE2-expressing neuronal somatic cells , suggestingthatspecificmatureneuralprogenitorcellsexpressingACE2inthebrain,such aschoroidplexusepithelialcells,exhibitstrongsusceptibilitytoSARS-CoV-2pseudovirus . Chen et al. (2023b) observed that the pseudovirus could infect supporting and mesenchymal cells of hACE transgenic mice in vitro and cause severe pathological changes in the germinal tubules in mice in vivo. PSEUDOVIRUS-BASED NEUTRALIZATION ASSAY The pseudovirus-based neutralization assay (PBNA) can simulate SARS-CoV-2 neutralization assays by constructing pseudoviruses with S protein. These pseudoviruses contain reporter genes that express a fluorescent signal only when they infect cells. Thedegreeofsignalreductionispositivelycorrelatedwiththeneutralizingantibodytiter, andtheneutralizingeffectoftheantibodycanbedeterminedbymeasuringthedecreasein reporter gene expression. Nie et al. (2020) constructed pseudoviruses with VSV as the backbone to establish the PBNA, and
