The development and application of
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, pseudovirus, cells, protein, peerj, virus, fold, packaging, sars-cov- pseudovirus, pseudoviruses, fold fold, gene, decreases, pbna, plasmid


express a fluorescent signal only when they infect cells. Thedegreeofsignalreductionispositivelycorrelatedwiththeneutralizingantibodytiter, andtheneutralizingeffectoftheantibodycanbedeterminedbymeasuringthedecreasein reporter gene expression. Nie et al. (2020) constructed pseudoviruses with VSV as the backbone to establish the PBNA, and validated the method in vaccine evaluation and antibody screening with good reproducibility and specificity. Tolah et al. (2021) demonstrated the method’s reliability for detecting neutralizing antibodies with PBNA compared to live virus micro-neutralization assays with a sensitivity of 85.94% and specificityof100%.Thus,thePBNAmethodiseasiertoperform,moreobjective,sensitive, and more accurate than the live virus neutralization test assay. Because the SARS-CoV-2 Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 6/17 variantpseudovirusismorereadilyavailable:itcanbeconstructedbysimplyreplacingthe Spike protein expression plasmid (the Spike coding sequence of the variant), which has a substantial positive effect on the development of vaccines and antibody therapeutics. SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus employed to study the virus invasion mechanisms The immunological effect of the COVID-19 vaccine is assessed by collecting vaccine immune sera for neutralization tests with SARS-CoV-2 to detect neutralizing antibody potency. The virus neutralization assay, which involves natural viruses, remains the gold standardfordeterminingtheimmunologicaleffectsofCOVID-19vaccines.However,this method is not widely used in laboratory conditions, and the source of the virus limits it. Becauseoftheadvantagesofmorereadilyavailableandsaferwide-type(WT)andvariant pseudoviruses,collectionofhumanoranimalseraaftervaccineimmunizationwithSARS- CoV-2 pseudovirus for neutralization inhibition tests is more valuable to assess the antiviralefficacyofthevaccine.Table1summarizestheimmuneefficacyoffourvaccines, BNT162b2 and Ad26. COV2-S, mRNA-1273, and CoronaVac against multiple SARS- CoV-2variations.Ingeneral,theemergenceofvariations,especiallyomicron,reducesthe neutralizing efficacy of the vaccines. Researchers have proposed booster vaccination in responsetotherapidlymutatingvirusesandareworkingtodevelopnewvaccines.Barros- Martins et al. (2021) applied this method to detect that heterologous ChAd/BNT was effective in inducing higher titers of neutralizing antibodies against B.1.1.7, P.1, and B.1.351 variant pseudoviruses compared to the ChAd/ChAd homologous group; Mahasirimongkol et al. (2022) detected neutralizing activity of antibodies against WT, Alpha, and Beta, Delta mutant pseudoviruses in sera following CoronaVac/ChAd heterologous inoculation. Jin et al. (2023) found that the heterologous aerosolized Ad5- nCoV improved the neutralization efficacy against BA.4/5 pseudovirus compared to three-does CoronaVac homologous boosting. PBNA against SARS-CoV-2 WT and variationsarewidelyusedtoevaluatetheviralneutralizationefficacyofimprovedandnew vaccines. Forexample, therVSVvaccine expressingDelta-Sproteinandinfluenza matrix protein(M2e)(Aoetal.,2022),bacterialvectorvaccinecarryingSproteinreceptorbinding domain gene , and multi-epitope vaccine equipped with S and non-S surface protein targets . The improvement method of vaccine is generally to find the Optimizing adjuvant. The immune sera of vaccine with Aluminum salts(Alum)-3M-052asadjuvantshowedhigherantibodyneutralizationefficiencyagainst both B.1. 617.2 and B.2. 12.1 pseudoviruses , and the RBD subunit vaccineassistedbyQS21+3-O-desacyl-4′-monophosphoryllipidAobtainedstrongerthe anti-DeltaandWTpseudovirusinfectionability(Shietal.,2023).Itisalsonecessarytotest the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccine in special populations. PBNA showed that vaccination can obtain anti-SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody for special populations, such as patientswithkidneyfailure,gastrointestinalcancerreceivingsystemicanti-cancertherapy and inborn errors of immunity, but it is usually weaker than ordinary people, so it is necessary to strengthen immunity (Lau et al., 2022;
