The development and application of
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, pseudovirus, cells, protein, peerj, virus, fold, packaging, sars-cov- pseudovirus, pseudoviruses, fold fold, gene, decreases, pbna, plasmid


. CONCLUSIONS Ofcourse,therearelimitationstopseudovirustechnology.First,theenvelopeglycoprotein distributionandconformationofpseudovirusesmaydifferslightlyfromthelivevirus,and it is vitalto increase thediversityof variouspackagingsystems. Second,PBNA cannotbe usedtoquantifyserawithlowneutralizingantibodytitersastheminimumserumdilution for PBNA is 1:25 . Furthermore, there is a risk of reverting to the live virus(Sakumaetal.,2010;Bilska,Tang&Montefiori,2017).So,livevirusdetectionresults are still the gold standard. However, it is undeniable that SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus have been shown to correlate well with live viruses in some areas, and their application has loweredthethresholdofexperimentaltechniquesandgreatlyfacilitatedthestudyofSARS- CoV-2. We expect the development of SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus applications to inspire more enveloped virus drugs and vaccines for highly infectious enveloped viruses, such as Ebola and hantavirus , as well as for emerging infectious diseases, such as monkeypox virus, which appeared in 2022 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors are very thankful to everyone who participated in this study. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DECLARATIONS Funding This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China #1 under Grant (No. 32170119); and the National Natural Science Foundation of China #2 underGrant(No.31870135).Thefundershadnoroleinstudydesign,datacollectionand analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript. Grant Disclosures The following grant information was disclosed by the authors: National Natural Science Foundation of China: 32170119. National Natural Science Foundation of China: 31870135. Competing Interests The authors declare that they have no competing interests. Author Contributions (cid:3) Conglian Tan conceived and designed the experiments, performed the experiments, analyzed the data, prepared figures and/or tables, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the final draft. (cid:3) Nian Wang performed the experiments, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the final draft. Tanetal.(2023),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16234 10/17 (cid:3) ShanshanDenganalyzedthedata,preparedfiguresand/ortables,andapprovedthefinal draft. (cid:3) Xiaoheng Wu analyzed the data, prepared figures and/or tables, and approved the final draft. (cid:3) ChangwuYueanalyzedthedata,authoredorrevieweddraftsofthearticle,andapproved the final draft. (cid:3) Xu Jia conceived and designed the experiments, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the final draft. (cid:3) YuhongLyuconceivedanddesignedtheexperiments,authoredorrevieweddraftsofthe article, and approved the final draft. Data Availability The following information was supplied regarding data availability: Thisarticleisareviewandnoexperimentswereconducted,sonorawdataorcodeare available.
