Correspondence
KEYWORDS: scientists, human, doi, cells, organoids, study, organ, stem, body, research, patients, diseases, regeneration, org, disease


Currently, there are 2 options for men with penile cure of pulmonary diseases in near future and ultimately dysfunction,oneistoconstructpenisfromskinormuscle willsave250,000childrenworldwidethatdieduetoend- cellstakenfromtheirthighorforearm.Thesexualfunction stage pulmonary disease caused by RSV. can be restored by placing a prosthetic, it can be a malleable rod, with the penis remaining in a semi-erect Ministomach:Stomachdiseasesarecommon,onaverage state. The other option is penis transplant from donors 25% of USA population suffers from stomach related with devastating consequences, both physiological and diseasesandgastriccancerisrankedthirdincancer-related psychological. The major drawback of surgeries and deaths.About0.1inchesindiameter,aminiaturestomach transplants is tissue rejection, an immunological conse- resembling human stomach may help biologists to study quencewhenabodyrecognizeswhatisforeign,resultingin howitgrowsandstriketodiseases,particularlycausedby failure to get proper erections. Therefore, scientists are bacteria. The research was carried out at Cincinnati further testing the whole procedure to avoid tissue showntheirconcerninstudyingtheearlydevelopmentof patients own cells. stomach in its infancy, it was not previously possible to study during fetal development but now scientists can Esophagus: The Esophagus is the muscular tube that observe its mimicry in petri dishes, it took scientists connects pharynx with stomach, and is the only pathway 1 month to develop miniature human stomach. The takenbyfoodtoenterstomach.The18,000peopleinthe research started with human pluripotent stem cells. United States are diagnosed with esophageal cancer and other suffer from congenital fatalities, injured by medical Thisminiaturestomachorganoidswhichresemblehuman procedures or diagnosed after swallowing harmful fetalstomachlininganddevelopmentalphaseswasgrown materials. These patients have to go through surgeries, inlimitedsizeduetolackofnutrientsandoxygensupplied often tissue taken from other body parts like intestine is in a petri dish, but this model can help scientist to study used as a replacement for damaged esophageal part, and drug efficiency and diseases like ulcer with a possible the consequences are devastating with patients unable to application of transplant in individuals. swallow solid material. According to research, scientists have successfully grown an esophagus which was trans- Vagina: Vaginal dysfunction, congenital deformation planted in rats and have reported normal function with called Mayer-Rokitansky-Küter-Hauser (MRKH) syn- desirable prospects for human surgeries. drome, which affects between 1 in 1500 female infants. Scientists have successfully conducted vaginal transplants AnothergroupofresearchersfromKarolinskaInstitutetin usingvaginasgrowninlaboratories.Fourgirls,whowere Sweden, also reported the same. Swedish scientists were operated in their 13 to 18 years have reported normal able to implant the organ into lab rats with the same function, who are sexually active now. Researchers are promising results. The exact research was started with Chinese MedicalJournal 2019;132(7) www.cmj.org allogeneic mesenchymal cells (stem cells) which were in the better interest of humanity and will serve people allowedtogrowontoascaffoldfor3weeks(thetimetaken at large. by it to grow). This
