Esfandiari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:819 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: phage, therapy, phage therapy, phages, infections, foot, diabetic, dfus, ulcers, resistance, diabetic foot, studies, aeruginosa, study, bacterial


this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or v e c o m m o n .s o r g / l i c e n s e s / y b - n c - n d / 4 . 0. / Introduction are safe for human use. Lastly, their high specificity, often In 2017, it was estimated that around 476 million adults targeting bacteria at the subspecies level, implies that were living with diabetes mellitus, commonly referred phages are less likely to disrupt the human microbiota to as diabetes, with projections indicating that this . number could rise to 571 million by 2025. About one in Materials and methods three individuals with diabetes is likely to develop a dia- betic foot ulcer (DFU), and approximately 50% of these Research questions ulcers may become infected, leading to what are known The main objective of this study was to explore the effi- as diabetic foot infections (DFIs). While they may start as cacy of phage therapy for treating diabetic foot ulcers superficial conditions, DFIs can progress to more serious until October 29, 2024. complications such as osteomyelitis. Current manage- ment strategies for patients with DFIs primarily involve Search strategy wound care, debridement, antibiotic therapy, and in This systematic review involved an extensive search severe cases, amputation. Treating DFIs can be challeng- across four electronic databases: Web of Science, ing; despite multiple courses of antibiotics, the likelihood Embase, Scopus, and PubMed. The search was limited to of successfully resolving the infection often remains low, original research articles published in English. To inves- and repeated antibiotic use increases the risk of develop- tigate the effectiveness of phage therapy for diabetic foot ing antimicrobial resistance. According to a recent study ulcers, a variety of keywords and medical subject head- conducted in the United Kingdom, one year after diag- ings (MeSH) were employed, including "Phage therapy," nosis, 55% of patients with DFI continued to experience "Bacteriophage Therapy," "Diabetic Foot," "Diabetic Feet, infection and nearly 15% had to undergo amputation [3, "and" Diabetic Ulcer". The search was performed by 10]. The risk of secondary infections has been observed, two researchers independently, while a third researcher with clinical evidence indicating that approximately
