Esfandiari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:819 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: phage, therapy, phage therapy, phages, infections, foot, diabetic, dfus, ulcers, resistance, diabetic foot, studies, aeruginosa, study, bacterial


"and" Diabetic Ulcer". The search was performed by 10]. The risk of secondary infections has been observed, two researchers independently, while a third researcher with clinical evidence indicating that approximately 50% assessed the findings (see Fig. 1). of amputations related to diabetic foot issues are due to infections. Furthermore, it is frequently the intricate Data extraction and critical appraisal biological aspects, that leads to the need for amputation, included the following: authors; publication date; study rather than antibiotic resistance alone . Therefore, it is location; study design; number of relevant reports; very important to develop an alternative treatment strat- microbiological details of the condition; clinical status; egy. Bacteriophage therapy is a good candidate and its and, when available, patient ages and/or prior treatments. effectiveness has been shown in various studies. Additionally, details about the phage therapy, including For more than a century, bacteriophages, or phages, the treatment schedule, administration routes, and any have been explored as a potential treatment for bacterial concurrent therapies (such as antibiotics), were recorded. infections. However, their use has remained limited glob- Treatment outcomes were also noted, including the ally, as antibiotics are the predominant treatment option number of patients categorized as'cured,''improved,'or and effectiveness of phage therapy showed variable out- safety and adverse effects. Data extraction from each comes, often lacking proper control groups and utilizing eligible study was carried out independently by at least crude bacterial lysates that posed safety risks. The emer- two of the three authors, with any discrepancies resolved gence of the antibiotic era in the 1930 s, which saw the through consensus. The discussion section addresses the development of numerous antibiotic classes, played a potential impact of publication bias and selective report- significant role in the decline of phage therapy research ing on the findings. outside of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union . Phage therapy has come back into focus as a Study selection criteria potential remedy for the growing problem of antimicro- The study selection process involved implementing the bial resistance. Global estimates linked millions of deaths inclusion and exclusion criteria outlined in Table 1. The annually to this issue, and projections indicate that these preliminary review focused on the titles and abstracts of numbers will rise unless alternative treatment approaches the articles to pinpoint studies that fulfilled the inclusion are developed and implemented clinically. Within this requirements. For those abstracts that met the criteria, a framework, phage
