Esfandiari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:819 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: phage, therapy, phage therapy, phages, infections, foot, diabetic, dfus, ulcers, resistance, diabetic foot, studies, aeruginosa, study, bacterial


alternative treatment approaches the articles to pinpoint studies that fulfilled the inclusion are developed and implemented clinically. Within this requirements. For those abstracts that met the criteria, a framework, phage therapy presents several compelling thorough examination of the full texts was conducted. advantages. First, phages naturally induce bacterial lysis as part of their viral lifecycle, a mechanism that differs Quality assessment fundamentally from those of all antibiotic classes. Addi- The methodological rigor of the included studies was Fig. 1 Prism of study selection Table 1 Inclusion/exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Original scientific studies Review article English language studies Non-English language articles Studies investigate Efficacy of phage therapy in Diabetic Foot Ulcers In vitro and animal studies Result for quasi-experimental designs. The evaluation revealed heterogeneity in methodological quality across the Studies have shown that phage therapy can be effective selected articles. Predominant strengths observed among against a range of bacteria commonly found in DFUs, the majority of studies included well-defined inclusion including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus criteria and the application of appropriate statistical aureus (S. aureus), Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Entero- methods. Conversely, several limitations were identified, coccus faecalis . Lytic phages, which infect and kill such as potential selection bias and inadequate reporting bacteria, have shown efficacy in treating both planktonic of confounding variables. These methodological varia- and biofilm forms of these pathogens . Importantly, tions were critically considered during data synthesis to the sources suggest that phage therapy can be effective ensure a nuanced and rigorous interpretation of the evi- even in cases where antibiotic treatment has failed. The dence. To determine the quality of the chosen articles, use of phage cocktails, which combine multiple phages, two reviewers independently evaluated the studies, after has been shown to be particularly promising in prevent- which a third researcher reviewed the final results. ing bacterial regrowth and addressing the challenge of phage resistance . In addition to using whole phages, researchers are also exploring the use of phage-derived proteins, such as endolysins and serine proteases, as to maintain function required 18 weeks of treatment . antibacterial agents. These proteins can target specific Nadareishvili et al. present a study involving four cases of bacterial components, enhancing the efficacy of existing surgical infections that were treated with bacteriophages antibiotics or acting as stand-alone therapeutic agents at the Eliava Phage Therapy Center (EPTC) in Tbilisi, . A summary of extracted data from eligible studies is Georgia.
