Esfandiari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:819 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: phage, therapy, phage therapy, phages, infections, foot, diabetic, dfus, ulcers, resistance, diabetic foot, studies, aeruginosa, study, bacterial


treated with bacteriophages antibiotics or acting as stand-alone therapeutic agents at the Eliava Phage Therapy Center (EPTC) in Tbilisi, . A summary of extracted data from eligible studies is Georgia. Each patient suffered from chronic bacterial presented in Table 2. infections that did not respond to conventional antibi- otic therapies. The infections addressed included two Staphylococcus aureus instances of chronic osteomyelitis (one affecting the ster- Fish et al. present a case report highlighting the suc- num and the other the tibia), a diabetic foot ulcer, and a cessful treatment of distal phalangeal osteomyelitis in a post-skin graft infection. For each patient, the research- 63-year-old woman with diabetes utilizing bacteriophage ers carefully selected phage cocktails based on the sensi- therapy. The patient declined both amputation and long- tivity of the isolated bacterial strains. Remarkably, in all injections of a purified staphylococcal bacteriophage improved, and no adverse reactions to the phage therapy (Sb-1) over a seven-week period. Following the treat- were noted. The authors emphasize that this case series ment, the ulcer healed completely, and serial X-rays indi- contributes to the long-standing tradition of successful cated re-ossification of the distal phalanx. Three years phage application for surgical infections in Georgia. They later, although a new ulcer developed in the same area, underscore the advantages of phage therapy, particularly radiographic evaluations revealed no signs of recurrent its ability to target bacteria and its favorable safety profile osteomyelitis . Young et al. present a case series that specifically . Plumet et al. outline the isolation and explores topical phage therapy as an adjunctive treatment characterization of six novel bacteriophages (SAVM01 for ten patients in the UK suffering from severe diabetic to SAVM06) that exhibit significant potential for treating foot infections (DFIs). These patients were at high risk of diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). These phages from waste- amputation despite receiving standard antibiotic treat- water treatment plants specifically target Staphylococcus ment. The phage therapy specifically targeted Staphy- species, the predominant bacteria associated with DFUs. lococcus aureus was well-tolerated with no reported Genomic analysis confirmed that all six phages belong to adverse effects. Clinicians noted that nine out of the ten the Kayvirus genus, known for its lytic activity against patients demonstrated improvement with adding phage staphylococci. Notably, the study established that these therapy. Notably, six patients achieved complete reso- phages are strictly virulent, devoid of any genes linked lution of their infections, likely preventing the need
