Esfandiari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:819 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: phage, therapy, phage therapy, phages, infections, foot, diabetic, dfus, ulcers, resistance, diabetic foot, studies, aeruginosa, study, bacterial


efficacy and safety. Key areas tant P. aeruginosa infections in diabetic foot ulcers . include developing phage cocktails for various DFU- Al-Wrafy et al. examined a phage protein, PA-PP, for its associated bacteria, exploring combinations of phages potential to combat multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas and antibiotics to enhance effectiveness and prevent aeruginosa, specifically the PAR50 strain isolated from resistance, and optimizing phage delivery methods for diabetic foot ulcers. Their research showed that PA-PP better penetration and activity at infection sites. Address- effectively inhibited the growth of PAR50, as confirmed ing these factors could strengthen the evidence for phage by various techniques including spot assays, zymogra- therapy as a critical approach in the face of rising antibi- phy, spectrophotometry, and low-voltage scanning elec- otic resistance. tron microscopy (LV-SEM). Interestingly, PA-PP did not affect another P. aeruginosa strain, PAR21, also isolated Pseudomonas aeruginosa from diabetic foot ulcers. Through LC–MS/MS analysis, Liu et al. investigate the possibilities of using phage PA-PP was identified as a hypothetical protein, PP141_ therapy to treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aerugi- gp30, belonging to the serine protease family. Further nosa) infections in diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). The study studies indicated that PA-PP binds to and interacts with involved 34 patients with DFUs, from whom bacterial the porin proteins present on the outer membrane of the samples were collected and analyzed. P. aeruginosa was PAR50 strain. This interaction with porin proteins likely identified as the most prevalent pathogen cultured from explains the antibacterial properties of PA-PP. Addition- these ulcers. A microbiome analysis of 25 patients con- ally, the study investigated the combined effects of PA-PP firmed that P. aeruginosa was among the two most preva- and the antibiotic piperacillin, revealing that treating lent species. The researchers successfully isolated a lytic PAR50 with PA-PP enhanced the strain's susceptibility P. aeruginosa phage, designated APTC-PA18, from one to piperacillin, hinting at the potential for combination of the patients'samples. APTC-PA18 demonstrated a therapy approaches . broad host range, effectively infecting 7 out of 8 P. aeru- The literature presents a strong argument for the effec- ginosa clinical isolates derived from the DFUs. The study tiveness of phage therapy in addressing diabetic foot revealed that the combination of APTC-PA18 with cipro- ulcers (DFUs), particularly those caused by multidrug- floxacin produced a synergistic effect against both plank- resistant P. aeruginosa . They underscore the success- tonic and biofilm forms of P. aeruginosa. This synergistic ful isolation and characterization
