Esfandiari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2025) 25:819 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: phage, therapy, phage therapy, phages, infections, foot, diabetic, dfus, ulcers, resistance, diabetic foot, studies, aeruginosa, study, bacterial


multidrug- floxacin produced a synergistic effect against both plank- resistant P. aeruginosa . They underscore the success- tonic and biofilm forms of P. aeruginosa. This synergistic ful isolation and characterization of novel phages that interaction was observed in vitro and ex vivo in DFU tis- exhibit robust lytic activity against these pathogens [2, sue samples . Mohamed et al. explore the application 11, 12]. Significantly, the research highlights the additive of bacteriophages to treat P. aeruginosa infections in dia- effects of using phages with antibiotics like ciprofloxa- betic foot ulcers. The researchers obtained 185 pus sam- cin, resulting in improved bacterial eradication in both ples from individuals with diabetic foot ulcers at Zagazig in vitro and ex vivo settings . The ability of phages (27.02%) were found to be P. aeruginosa. Significantly, significant challenge in the treatment of DFUs, is promi- the rate of P. aeruginosa infection rose with age, and nently noted throughout the sources . Moreover, the males experienced these infections more frequently than findings consistently indicate that phage therapy is safe, females. The researchers assessed the sensitivity of the with no reported adverse effects . Nevertheless, the isolated P. aeruginosa strains to various antibiotics. They existing evidence primarily stems from case studies and small case series , which hinders the capacity to Additionally, an extracted endolysin demonstrated a 90% make definitive statements regarding efficacy and safety coverage rate against multidrug-resistant (MDR) E. fae- when compared to the benchmark of large-scale ran- calis isolates, indicating its strong therapeutic potential. domized controlled trials. This dependence on anecdotal However, the study's limitations, such as a small sample evidence presents a significant barrier to the broader size and reliance on in vitro testing, emphasize the need The studies highlight several critical areas for further term effectiveness, and resistance development . exploration in treating diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) using phage therapy. It emphasizes the need for broad-spec- Klebsiella pneumoniae trum phage cocktails to address the polymicrobial nature Jokar et al. explores the therapeutic efficacy of individual of DFUs, focusing on the complex interactions among phages and phage mixtures against MDR Klebsiella pneu- various bacterial species rather than just specific patho- moniae sourced from diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). The gens like S. aureus. The rise of phage resistance calls for a researchers obtained four unique phages (KP1, KP2, KP3, better understanding of the underlying mechanisms and and KP4) from environmental samples and analyzed
