IrJMedSci(2017)186:571–575
KEYWORDS: gastric, breast, cancer, metastatic, breast cancer, perforation, case, vinorelbine, metastasis, carcinoma, fig, ulcer, chemotherapy, pain, review


wascompleted.Thisadmissionwasfurthercomplicatedby history of lower abdominal pain, two day history of no ClosteridiumdifficileandKlebsiellapneumonia.Hormonal bowel motion with a single episode of non-feculent vom- therapy was reintroduced and continued for a further five itus. Radiological imaging demonstrated a mild reduction yearsuntil diseaseprogression inlung andliver metastasis in the size of her metastatic lesions however it was unable and palliative chemotherapy has been reinitiated. IrJMedSci 573 Results This patient developed gastric metastasis to the lesser curvature eight years following her primary breast cancer. This lesion perforated owing to its exquisite chemosensi- tivity. Similarly 3 months later the metastatic lesion at pylorus/D1 was also chemo sensitive; to such an extent its rapidregressioninducedfibrosisresultinginasmallbowel obstruction at D1. Literature review of PubMed and Toxnet confirmed no previously reported cases of vinorelbine induced gastric perforation. Four cases (Non-English literature) of meta- static breast cancer with gastric metastasis presenting with perforation were identified. Three of these cases [2–4], wereinFrench,includingonemale,patientandatleast Fig.3 Fibrinousexudate one ductal primary breast carcinoma . The fourth case , was in Dutch and involved a lobular primary breast carcinoma. Further keyword searches included vinorelbine, side effects and metastatic breast cancer yielding 316 articles. Howeverupon further review ofthe abstracts lessthan ten suitable articles (majority being case reports) were identi- fied. The safety profile of vinorelbine was well tolerated; though rare cases of paralytic ileus/intestinal obstruction, typhlitis, reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syn- drome(RPLS),fatalClostridiumdifficleinfection,SIADH, hand&footsyndrome,pancreatitisandpulmonaryoedema were reported. Discussion The patient in this report was diagnosed with metastatic Fig.4 Hepaticmetastasis breast cancer eight years after initial presentation. Meta- static breast cancer to the gastrointestinal tract is rare , andtumourregistrydatacollectedover18 yearswith2605 ,casesreportsdemonstratesprevalenceof4.5%ILCand 0.2%IDC.MetastaticgastricinvolvementisrarerandTaal etal.,reported83%ofgastricmetastaticcasesinvolved the invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) sub-type. The exact reasoning for this is unknown and postulates include reduced e-cadherins expressions associated with ILC tropism. This symptoms associated with gastric metastasis are non-specific including nausea, vomiting abdominal pain , and early satiety. However in this case, there were none. The four day history of moderate reflux occurred within days of commencing cycle 1 of capecitabine/vi- norelbine and was associated with the ruptured metastatic ulcer. The clinical signs were suggestive of a ruptured duodenal ulcer. Accordingly this provides a significant Fig.5 Pelvicfreefluid challenge in identifying such rare metastasis occurrences. 574 IrJMedSci However radiological imaging suggested a visceral per- Compliancewithethicalstandards foration with laparoscopic laparotomy confirmation. A Funding Nofundingwasrequiredforthisstudy. walled off ruptured ulcer on the lesser gastric curvature was an unexpected finding and remained undisturbed. Conflictofinterest Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenoconflictof This warranted conservative management during her interest. admission. Such
