Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


Mitral regurgitation (MR) is incomplete closure of the mitral valve causing backflow from the left ventricle (LV) into the left atrium during systole. MR can be primary (common causes are mitral valve prolapse and rheumatic fever) or secondary to LV dilation or infarction. Complications include progressive heart failure, arrhythmias, and endocarditis. Symptoms and signs include palpitations, dyspnea, and a holosystolic apical murmur. Diagnosis is by physical examination and echocardiography. Prognosis depends on LV function and etiology, severity, and duration of MR. Patients with mild, asymptomatic MR may be monitored, but progressive or symptomatic MR requires mitral valve repair or replacement. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) Etiology of Mitral Regurgitation Mitral regurgitation, also called mitral insufficiency, may be: Acute or chronic Primary (organic) or secondary (functional) Causes of acute mitral regurgitation include the following: Ischemic papillary muscle dysfunction or rupture Infective endocarditis with rupture of the chordae tendineae Acute rheumatic fever Myxomatous rupture of the chordae tendineae Acute dilation of the left ventricle due to myocarditis or myocardial ischemia Mechanical failure of a prosthetic mitral valve Common causes of chronic mitral regurgitation are intrinsic valve pathology including mitral valve prolapse (primary MR) or distortion of a normal valve by dilatation and impairment of the left ventricle and/or the mitral annulus (secondary MR). Primary (organic) MR pathology is most often mitral valve prolapse or rheumatic heart disease. Less common causes are connective tissue disorders, congenital cleft mitral valve, and radiation-induced heart disease. Secondary (functional) MR occurs when disease of the left ventricle or left atrium (LA) impairs valve function. Ventricular impairment and dilation displace the papillary muscles outward, which tether the otherwise normal leaflets and cause non-coaptation. The causes are myocardial infarction (ischemic chronic secondary MR) or intrinsic myocardial disease (nonischemic chronic secondary MR). One mechanism of secondary mitral regurgitation is atrial functional mitral regurgitation, caused by annular dilatation due to chronic atrial fibrillation with an enlarged left atrium. In the presence of cardiomyopathy, any degree of secondary MR worsens prognosis. In infants and children, causes of MR include LV dysfunction/dilation as in endocardial fibroelastosis or acute myocarditis, a cleft mitral valve with or without an endocardial cushion defect, papillary muscle dysfunction secondary to anomalous left coronary artery arising from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA), and myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve. MR may coexist with mitral stenosis when thickened valvular leaflets do not close normally (see table Typical Echocardiographic Findings
