Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA), and myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve. MR may coexist with mitral stenosis when thickened valvular leaflets do not close normally (see table Typical Echocardiographic Findings in Different Types of Mitral Regurgitation). TABLE Typical Echocardiographic Findings in Different Types of Mitral Regurgitation Mitral Type of Mitral Mitral Leaflet Left Ventricular Regurgitation Regurgitation Motion Function Jet Direction Increased (myxomatous Primary (intrinsic leaflets) Eccentric Initially normal valve pathology) Decreased (rheumatic) Decreased Secondary (non- ischemic or global Central Globally reduced Symmetrically ischemic changes) tented Decreased Secondary (regional Regionally reduced ischemic changes Eccentric (focal scar due to Asymmetrically focal) coronary occlusion) tented 2/11 Mitral Type of Mitral Mitral Leaflet Left Ventricular Regurgitation Regurgitation Motion Function Jet Direction Secondary (atrial functional due to Central Normal Initially normal atrial fibrillation) Pathophysiology of Mitral Regurgitation Acute mitral regurgitation may cause acute pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock or sudden cardiac death. Complications of chronic MR include gradual enlargement of the LA; LV enlargement and eccentric hypertrophy, which initially compensates for regurgitant flow (preserving forward stroke volume) but eventually decompensates (reducing forward stroke volume); atrial fibrillation, which may be further complicated by thromboembolism; and infective endocarditis. Symptoms and Signs of Mitral Regurgitation Acute mitral regurgitation causes the same symptoms and signs as acute heart failure (dyspnea, fatigue, weakness, edema) and cardiogenic shock (hypotension with resultant multisystem organ damage). Specific signs of mitral regurgitation may be absent. Chronic mitral regurgitation is initially asymptomatic. Symptoms develop insidiously as the LA enlarges, pulmonary artery pressure and venous pressure increase, and LV compensation fails. Symptoms include dyspnea, fatigue (due to heart failure), orthopnea, and palpitations (often due to atrial fibrillation). Rarely, patients present with endocarditis (eg, with fever, weight loss, embolic phenomena). Signs develop only when mitral regurgitation becomes moderate or severe (see table Grading of Mitral Regurgitation). Inspection and palpation may detect a brisk apical impulse and sustained left parasternal movement due to systolic expansion of an enlarged LA. An LV impulse that is sustained, enlarged, and displaced downward and to the left suggests LV hypertrophy and dilation. A diffuse precordial lift occurs with severe MR because the LA enlarges, causing anterior cardiac displacement, and secondary pulmonary hypertension causes right ventricular hypertrophy. A regurgitant murmur (or thrill) may also be palpable in severe cases. AUDIO Mitral Regurgitation Murmur Mitral Regurgitation Murmur With Third Heart Sound (S3) On auscultation, the cardinal sign of mitral regurgitation is a holosystolic (pansystolic)
