Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


also be palpable in severe cases. AUDIO Mitral Regurgitation Murmur Mitral Regurgitation Murmur With Third Heart Sound (S3) On auscultation, the cardinal sign of mitral regurgitation is a holosystolic (pansystolic) murmur, heard best at the apex with the diaphragm of the stethoscope when the patient is in the left lateral decubitus position. In mild MR, the systolic murmur may be abbreviated or occur late in systole. The first heart sound (S1) may be soft (or occasionally loud). A third heart sound (S3 gallop) at the apex reflects a dilated LV and severe MR. The murmur begins with S1 in conditions causing leaflet incompetency throughout systole, but it often begins after S1 (eg, when chamber dilation during systole distorts the valve apparatus or when myocardial ischemia or fibrosis alters dynamics). When the murmur begins after S1, it always continues to the second heart sound (S2). The murmur radiates toward the left axilla; intensity may remain the same or vary. If intensity varies, the murmur tends to crescendo in volume up to S2. MR murmurs increase in intensity with handgrip or squatting because peripheral vascular resistance to ventricular ejection increases, augmenting regurgitation into the LA; murmurs decrease in intensity with standing or the Valsalva maneuver. A short rumbling mid-diastolic inflow murmur due to torrential mitral diastolic flow may be heard following an S3. In patients with posterior leaflet prolapse, the murmur may be coarse and radiate to the upper sternum, mimicking aortic stenosis. MR murmurs may be confused with those of tricuspid regurgitation, which can be distinguished because tricuspid regurgitation murmur is augmented during inspiration. Diagnosis of Mitral Regurgitation Echocardiography An ECG and chest radiograph are usually performed initially although findings are not specific for mitral regurgitation. ECG may show LA enlargement and LV hypertrophy with or without ischemia. Sinus rhythm is usually present when MR is acute because the atria have not had time to stretch and undergo remodeling. Chest radiograph in acute MR may show pulmonary edema; abnormalities in cardiac silhouette are not evident unless an underlying chronic disorder is also present. Chest radiograph in chronic MR may show LA and LV enlargement (see image Chest Radiograph (Prosthetic Heart Valve)). It may also show pulmonary vascular congestion and pulmonary edema with heart failure. Diagnosis of mitral regurgitation is suspected clinically and confirmed by echocardiography. Doppler echocardiography is used to detect regurgitant flow and pulmonary hypertension. Two-dimensional or 3-dimensional echocardiography is
