Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


with heart failure. Diagnosis of mitral regurgitation is suspected clinically and confirmed by echocardiography. Doppler echocardiography is used to detect regurgitant flow and pulmonary hypertension. Two-dimensional or 3-dimensional echocardiography is used to evaluate the leaflet morphology and motion; to determine the cause and severity of MR (see table Grading of Mitral Regurgitation), the presence and extent of annular calcification, and the size and function of the LV and LA; and to detect pulmonary hypertension. When it is acute, severe MR may not be apparent on color Doppler echocardiography, but suspicion is raised when acute heart failure is accompanied by hyperdynamic LV systolic function. Mitral Regurgitation VIDEO TABLE Grading of Mitral Regurgitation Parameter Moderate MR Severe MR Vena contracta* 3–7 mm > 7 mm Effective regurgitant 2 2 0.20–0.40 cm > 0.40 cm orifice area Regurgitant volume 30–60 mL > 60 mL Regurgitant fraction 30–50% > 50% * The narrowest diameter of the fluid stream downstream of an abnormal valve orifice; it is slightly smaller than the anatomic valve orifice. MR = mitral regurgitation. If endocarditis or valvular thrombi are suspected, transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) can provide a more detailed view of the mitral valve and LA. TEE, with 3-dimensional imaging when feasible, is also indicated to evaluate the mechanism of MR in more detail when mitral valve repair instead of replacement is being considered. Cardiac catheterization is performed before surgery, mainly to determine whether coronary artery disease (CAD) is present. A prominent systolic c-v wave is seen on pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure) tracings during ventricular systole. Ventriculography can be used to quantify MR. Cardiac MRI can accurately measure regurgitant fraction and determine the cause of dilated myopathy with MR. Periodic exercise testing (stress ECG) is often performed to detect any decrease in exercise tolerance, which would prompt consideration of surgical intervention. Periodic echocardiography is performed to detect progression of MR. 6/11 Phonocardiographic Characteristics of Heart Murmurs Treatment of Mitral Regurgitation Mitral valve repair preferred for primary MR Medical therapy or mitral valve replacement for secondary MR Anticoagulants for patients with atrial fibrillation Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and other vasodilators do not delay LV dilation or MR progression and so have no role in asymptomatic MR with preserved LV function. However, if LV dilation or dysfunction is present, therapy using an angiotensin II receptor blocker, neprilysin inhibitor (eg, sacubitril, combined with the angiotensin II blocker valsartan), aldosterone antagonist,
