Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


LV function. However, if LV dilation or dysfunction is present, therapy using an angiotensin II receptor blocker, neprilysin inhibitor (eg, sacubitril, combined with the angiotensin II blocker valsartan), aldosterone antagonist, and/or 7/11 vasodilating beta-blocker (eg, carvedilol) is indicated. In secondary MR, these medications can reduce the severity of MR and may improve prognosis. If the ECG shows left bundle branch block, then biventricular pacing may be beneficial for secondary MR. Loop diuretics such as furosemide are helpful in patients with exertional or nocturnal dyspnea. Digoxin may reduce symptoms in patients with atrial fibrillation or those in whom valve surgery is not appropriate. Antibiotic prophylaxis is not longer except for patients who have had valve replacement or repair utilizing prosthetic materials (see table Recommended Endocarditis Prophylaxis During Oral-Dental or Respiratory Tract Procedures). Anticoagulants are used to prevent thromboemboli in patients with atrial fibrillation. Indications for intervention Acute mitral regurgitation requires emergency mitral valve repair or replacement with concomitant coronary revascularization as necessary. Pending surgery, nitroprusside or nitroglycerin infusion and an intra-aortic ballon pump may be used to reduce afterload, thus improving forward stroke volume and reducing ventricular and regurgitant volume. Chronic primary mitral regurgitation that is severe needs intervention at the onset of symptoms or decompensation (left ventricular ejection fraction [LVEF] ≤ 60% or LV end-systolic diameter ≥ 40 mm). Even in the absence of these triggers, intervention may be beneficial when surgical risk is low and valve morphology suggests a high likelihood of successful repair. Atrial fibrillation, pulmonary hypertension, flail leaflet, or left atrial dilation alone is not an indication for intervention (1). When the EF falls to < 30%, surgical risk is high, necessitating a careful weighing of risk and benefit. Chronic secondary mitral regurgitation has fewer indications for intervention. Because the initial pathology involves the LV muscle, correction of MR is not as beneficial and should be considered only when significant symptoms persist despite a trial of guideline-directed management and therapy, including biventricular pacing, if indicated. Patients with atrial functional mitral regurgitation may benefit from surgery more than patients with other causes of secondary mitral regurgitation (eg, regional or global ischemic changes) (2). Indications for transcatheter edge-to-edge repair (TEER) are wider (more permissive) than those for other surgical options. For patients undergoing cardiac surgery for other indications, concomitant mitral valve surgery should be considered for a repairable valve with MR that is moderate. However, for secondary MR, the
