Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


options. For patients undergoing cardiac surgery for other indications, concomitant mitral valve surgery should be considered for a repairable valve with MR that is moderate. However, for secondary MR, the value of this practice is unclear. When studied, the addition of mitral valve repair compared with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) alone did not affect LV remodelling or survival, but an excess of adverse events occurred (3). Therefore, only severe secondary MR should be treated when CABG is being performed to treat ischemia. Choice of intervention 8/11 In primary mitral regurgitation, the closer the mitral valve intervention mimics the native valve, the better for LV preservation and mortality. Hence, the order of preference is: 1. Repair with leaflet remodelling and chordal replacement 2. Replacement with chordal preservation 3. Replacement with removal of chordae If mitral valve repair with leaflet remodelling and chordal replacement is not feasible, replacement with a mechanical prosthesis is preferred because tissue valves have reduced longevity in the mitral position. A bioprosthesis is an option for older patients. In secondary mitral regurgitation, mitral valve replacement is preferred over repair with a downsized annuloplasty ring because mitral valve replacement results in less mitral regurgitation and heart failure 2 years after treatment (4). When the mechanism of secondary MR is annular dilation due to atrial fibrillation, valve surgery may be beneficial when symptoms cannot be medically controlled. Another method of repair is transcatheter edge-to-edge repair (TEER) with a device that approximates the mitral leaflets. TEER is an option for patients with severe primary MR and New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III or class IV heart failure symptoms refractory to medical therapy who cannot undergo surgery. In secondary MR, given the lesser benefit of surgery, TEER is indicated even for patients whose surgical risk is not prohibitive if they have NYHA class II or IV symptoms refractory to medical therapy, ejection fraction 20 to 50%, LV end-systolic diameter ≤ 70 mm, pulmonary artery systolic pressure ≤ 70 mm Hg, and an anatomically suitable valve. In carefully selected patients, TEER can reduce symptoms, induce reverse remodelling, and improve clinical outcomes, even though rates of residual and recurrent MR are higher than with surgical repair (5). Clinical success and outcomes depend on careful patient selection and clinical care, so most centers that offer TEER do so through a specialized multidisciplinary heart team (1, 6, 7). In some decompensated patients, prosthetic valve
