Mitral Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: mitral, regurgitation, valve, mitral regurgitation, patients, secondary, mitral valve, heart, left, atrial, murmur, acute, pulmonary, repair, severe


on careful patient selection and clinical care, so most centers that offer TEER do so through a specialized multidisciplinary heart team (1, 6, 7). In some decompensated patients, prosthetic valve implantation markedly depresses ejection fraction because in such patients, ventricular function has become dependent on the afterload reduction of MR. For patients with atrial fibrillation, concomitant procedures such as ablation therapy and surgically occluding the left atrial appendage to reduce the risk of stroke may be beneficial. Anticoagulation Lifelong anticoagulation with warfarin is required in patients with a mechanical valve to prevent thromboembolism. A mitral bioprosthetic valve requires anticoagulation with warfarin for 3 to 6 months postoperatively. Long-term non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants or warfarin can be considered in patients with a bioprosthetic valve and atrial fibrillation (see also Anticoagulation for patients with a prosthetic cardiac valve or native valve disease). Prognosis for Mitral Regurgitation Prognosis of mitral regurgitation varies by duration, severity, and cause. Some MR worsens and eventually becomes severe. Once MR becomes severe, approximately 8% of asymptomatic patients become symptomatic each year thereafter. Approximately 15% of patients with chronic moderate or severe MR require surgical intervention, with surgical intervention being more common in primary versus secondary MR (1). Key Points Common causes of mitral regurgitation (MR) include mitral valve prolapse, rheumatic fever, and left ventricular dilation or infarction. Acute MR may cause acute pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock or sudden cardiac death. Chronic MR causes slowly progressive symptoms of heart failure and, if atrial fibrillation develops, palpitations. Typical heart sounds are a holosystolic murmur that is heard best at the apex, radiates toward the left axilla, increases in intensity with handgrip or squatting, and decreases in intensity with standing or the Valsalva maneuver. Symptomatic patients and those meeting certain echocardiographic criteria benefit from valve replacement or repair.
