Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


particular radiotherapy modalities. We review the available published data on modern radiotherapy techniques for the treatment of pituitary adenomas to provide a rational basis for the selection of radiotherapy technologies. RATIONALE FOR PITUITARY RADIOTHERAPY Traditional practice had been to use post-operative radiotherapy for all patients with a residual non-functioning pituitary adenoma after surgical resection, as it was considered that otherwise most would subsequently progress [ 4 , 5 ]. With improvements in surgical techniques, and the development of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), post-operative radiotherapy is no longer routinely used, even in the presence of residual tumor. The use of post-operative pituitary radiotherapy is now based on a risk assessment. In patients with non-functioning adenomas, radiotherapy is generally withheld until the time of progression, unless there are concerns of significant threat to function (vision) with tumor progression, or the histology raises concerns of earlier recurrence risk (e.g., atypical features, silent corticotroph adenoma). When radiotherapy is used for patients with progressive non-functioning adenomas, tumor control is achieved in over 90% of patients at 10 years, and in 85-92% at 20 years [ 5-13 ]. In patients with functioning adenomas, radiotherapy is used when surgery fails to achieve hormone normalization and/or when medical treatment is insufficient to control hormone secretion or is not considered appropriate, often due to toxicities. Hormone levels decline slowly following radiotherapy, consequently normalization may take from months to years to achieve. The time required to achieve hormone normalization is primarily related to the pre-treatment hormone levels. Nevertheless, despite this temporal delay, the majority of patients will eventually achieve normalization of excess pituitary hormone secretion following radiotherapy [ 14 ]. CURRENT TECHNIQUES OF PITUITARY RADIOTHERAPY The principal aim of pituitary radiotherapy techniques has always been to deliver an effective treatment dose to the target tumor volume while at the same time minimizing the radiation dose delivered to surrounding normal tissues, thereby minimizing the risk of normal tissue damage. Improved radiotherapy treatment precision, with the use of the modern radiotherapy techniques described in this chapter, relies on the increased accuracy in tumor volume delineation achieved by using modern MRI imaging technology. Over the last twenty years there have been a number of developments in techniques for pituitary radiotherapy which have largely amounted to refinements of existing technologies. However, the overall success of modern high precision pituitary radiotherapy techniques is largely a function of the quality of a treatment center’s infrastructure and
