Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


amounted to refinements of existing technologies. However, the overall success of modern high precision pituitary radiotherapy techniques is largely a function of the quality of a treatment center’s infrastructure and its expertise and accuracy in identifying the target tumor volume, rather than of the particular radiotherapy technique that is used to deliver treatment. 3D-Conformal RT Until the last decade, the standard of care for pituitary radiotherapy was three-dimensional (3D) conformal radiotherapy (CRT). CRT uses pre-treatment computed tomography (CT) and MRI imaging for computerized 3D radiotherapy treatment planning. CRT treatment is planned and delivered using a non-invasive method of patient immobilization. The tumor is visualized on unenhanced magnetic resonance imaging co-registered with planning computed tomography (CT). The treatment target is delineated on the MRI scan (in the three orthogonal planes), while radiotherapy dosimetry is calculated using the CT scan data. The treatment target comprises the visible residual tumor and also accounts for any pre-operative extension of disease whilst sparing the optic chiasm where possible after decompression. An isotropic margin of 5-10 mm is added to account for areas of uncertainty in volume delineation, the transsphenoidal surgical route and any set-up variation. The whole pre-operative extent of the tumor is not included within the treatment volume as debulking of large, and particularly cranially extending tumors, often leads to the return of normal anatomical structures to their pre-morbid positions with no residual tumor present. On the other hand, tumors are frequently not removed from the walls of the cavernous sinus, particularly if the sinus is involved, and so the lateral extent of the radiotherapy target does not tend to alter with surgery. The resulting volume outlined on the treatment planning system therefore encompasses both the visible tumor and also any regions of presumed residual tumor. Normal tissue structures adjacent to the pituitary, such as the optic chiasm and optic nerves, the brain stem and the hypothalamus, may also be outlined to aid in treatment planning, and also to enable the calculation and recording of normal tissue dosimetry, although with conventional fractionated radiotherapy all the structures are treated to below the limits of radiation tolerance in terms of structural damage. Figure 1. CT-MRI co-registration for planning purposes. Reproducible patient immobilization is vital for the delivery of safe and accurate CRT. The immobilization system used should be well tolerated and must reliably minimize patient movement during both pre-treatment imaging and treatment delivery itself. The most
