Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


delivery of safe and accurate CRT. The immobilization system used should be well tolerated and must reliably minimize patient movement during both pre-treatment imaging and treatment delivery itself. The most commonly used system for immobilization for CRT is a custom-made closely fitting lightweight thermoplastic mask which is applied and molded directly to the patient’s face in the treatment planning process. The repositioning accuracy of this system is very good at around 3-5mm [ 15 ], and can be improved to 2-3mm, by using a tighter fitting but less comfortable mask [ 16 ]. CT imaging for CRT planning is performed with the patient lying in the radiotherapy treatment position within the immobilization system and co-registered with the MRI ( Figure 1 ) 3D computerized radiotherapy planning is followed by robust quality assurance (QA) procedures to ensure the accuracy of the whole process both before and during treatment. The planning system defines the number, shape, and orientation of radiation beams to achieve uniform dose coverage of the target volume with the lowest possible dose to the surrounding normal tissues. As the dose to the tumor is below the radiation tolerance dose of the surrounding normal tissue structures, no specific measures are generally needed, or taken, during treatment planning to avoid the optic apparatus, hypothalamus, and brain stem. In any case, for many patients requiring pituitary irradiation, some of these entire normal structures lie within, or in close proximity to, the target volume and cannot be avoided without compromising the efficacy of treatment. Localized irradiation is achieved using treatment in multiple beams each shaped to conform to the shape of the tumor using a multileaf collimator (MLC). Traditionally, beam arrangements used for CRT consisted of three fixed beams (an antero-superior beam and two lateral beams) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Example of beam arrangement and dose distribution in a traditional CRT plan (one antero-superior beam and two lateral beams). Intensity-Modulated RT Techniques for varying the radiation dose intensity across a beam, by moving MLC leaves into the beam path, are now standard and are collectively referred to as intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). IMRT is a form of 3D CRT which can spare critical structures, especially within a concave PTV. Although IMRT offers no significant advantage in comparison with CRT for target volume dose coverage [ 17 ], its improved conformality can allow for reduced radiation dose delivery to adjacent normal tissues.
