Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


offers no significant advantage in comparison with CRT for target volume dose coverage [ 17 ], its improved conformality can allow for reduced radiation dose delivery to adjacent normal tissues. This can be of particular use in tumor with suprasellar extension, where the dose delivered to the medial temporal lobes can reduced. The technique of arcing IMRT (described as VMAT or RapidArc) offers a fast way of delivering complex IMRT and is increasingly used as an alternative to fixed-field techniques ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Example of beam arrangement and dose distribution in a static field IMRT plan (left) and in a VMAT plan (right) for the same patient. Note the better conformality of the high radiation dose region to the target volume in comparison with the CRT plan in Figure 2 . Patient immobilization and the imaging required for target volume definition are no different for IMRT treatment than for CRT as described above. Similarly, there are robust QA procedures to ensure the accuracy of IMRT treatment planning and delivery. Stereotactic Radiotherapy Techniques The term “stereotactic” is derived from long-established neurosurgical techniques, and denotes a method of determining the position of a lesion within the brain using an external 3D co-ordinate system based on a method of immobilization, usually an invasive neurosurgical stereotactic head frame [ 18-20 ]. Stereotactic radiotherapy originally referred to radiotherapy treatment delivered to an intracranial target lesion that was located by stereotactic means in a patient immobilized in a neurosurgical stereotactic head frame. Stereotactic radiotherapy was first delivered with a multiheaded cobalt unit described as the gamma-knife (GK) which uses multiple cobalt-60 sources arranged in a hemispherical distribution with collimators to achieve a circumscribed spherical dose distribution of 4-18mm diameter [ 20 ]. Subsequent development of the GK has allowed larger non-spherical tumors to be treated by combining several radiation spheres using a multiple isocenter technique. Due to the invasive nature of the GK stereotactic head frame (surgically fixed to the skull), GK radiation treatment is delivered as a single large dose during one combined treatment planning and delivery session. This single fraction stereotactic radiation technique was termed ‘radiosurgery’ [ 18 ]. The GK radiosurgical procedure aimed to create a non-invasive radiation-based analogue of an open neurosurgical ablation of an intra-cranial target lesion. It should be emphasized, however, that aside from the use of a surgically-fitted stereotactic frame, GK radiosurgery and open neurosurgery are
