Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


an open neurosurgical ablation of an intra-cranial target lesion. It should be emphasized, however, that aside from the use of a surgically-fitted stereotactic frame, GK radiosurgery and open neurosurgery are quite distinct procedures, and GK radiosurgery is a radiotherapeutic rather than a surgical intervention, particularly as the commonly used doses are not “ablative”. Subsequently, linear accelerators (linacs) were adapted to deliver radiosurgery (single fraction radiation) using multiple arcs of rotation, achieving the same dose distribution as that delivered by the GK. With the introduction of non-invasive relocatable stereotactic head frames, which enabled stereotactic radiation to be given in a number of treatment sessions, stereotactic radiotherapy was delivered as fractionated treatment to conventional doses [ 21 , 22 ]. Initially, specifically adapted linacs were required, but the precision of modern linacs is now such that they do not generally require modification for stereotactic radiotherapy. The improved patient immobilization, more accurate tumor target localization using cross-sectional image for treatment planning, and high precision radiation treatment delivery to the tumor target, enabled a reduction in the margins around the radiotherapy target volume (the gross tumor volume (GTV) to planning target volume (PTV) margin), therefore achieving greater sparing of surrounding normal tissues than can be obtained with standard CRT techniques. The miniaturization of a 6MV linear accelerator has allowed for its mounting on a high precision industrial robotic arm, and this has been combined with real time kV imaging for target tracking during treatment to create a robotic frameless stereotactic radiotherapy machine that is commercially known as the Cyberknife (CK) [ 23 ]. The CK uses multiple narrow, low dose rate photon beams, which have to be summated, to create a dose distribution equivalent to that achieved with other techniques. The need to summate contributions from multiple narrow beams results in longer treatment times per fraction than with other techniques and requires that CK treatment be given as a single large fraction (SRS), or as a few large fractions delivered over the course of a week or so (hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy). While the term stereotactic radiotherapy continues to be used, “stereotaxy” as initially used for neurosurgery and subsequently for target localization in radiotherapy is no longer necessary and not in routine use, as modern MR and CT imaging with on treatment image guidance allow for equivalent high-precision treatment delivery. The appropriate modern terminology for the best and most accurate techniques of treatment delivery should
