Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


MR and CT imaging with on treatment image guidance allow for equivalent high-precision treatment delivery. The appropriate modern terminology for the best and most accurate techniques of treatment delivery should be high precision conformal radiotherapy . Nevertheless, the term stereotactic used in conjunction with fractionated treatment (see below), while largely outmoded, remains in use with no clear meaning other than presumably denoting accuracy. Stereotactic localization, however, largely remains the standard of practice with single fraction treatment (GK radiosurgery). Radiotherapy Fractionation TERMINOLOGY The term ‘radiosurgery’ is used for radiation treatment that is given as a single large dose (a single fraction), and the term radiotherapy is used for treatment that is given as multiple, usually daily, small doses over a period of weeks (fractionated treatment). The fractionation of radiation treatment is a mechanism for protecting normal tissues, through recovery between fractions, and permits the delivery of higher total doses of radiation than can be given as single fractions [ 24 ]. Similarly, stereotactic radiotherapy to the pituitary can be given in multiple doses as fractionated stereotactic conformal radiotherapy (SCRT or fSRT), or as a single large dose when it is described as stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). SCRT/fSRT is generally delivered using a linac. SRS has most frequently been delivered using a GK, but can also be delivered using a linac or a robotic arm mounted linac (CK). Treatment given in fewer large fractions is described as hypofractionated RT. BIOLOGICAL RATIONALE The use of single fraction SRS is based on a belief, prevalent in the literature, that there is greater clinical benefit from single fraction rather than fractionated irradiation for pituitary adenomas. This belief was based on radiobiological modelling which defines equivalent radiation doses and fractionation schemes through biologically derived parameters [ 24 , 25 ], mainly from the radiobiology of malignant tumors and some normal tissues. Such models are not validated for single fraction treatments [ 26 ], and the corresponding biological parameters necessary to calculate equivalent radiation doses do not exist for benign tumors. Publications claiming theoretical benefit of single fraction radiosurgery over fractionated irradiation [ 25 ] are based on constants that are not derived from experimental data and may therefore be misleading. The therapeutic effect of radiation on malignant tumors is thought to be due to tumor cell attrition, either as apoptosis, or reproductive cell death, secondary to radiation-induced DNA damage. As a consequence, the time taken for an
