Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


tumors is thought to be due to tumor cell attrition, either as apoptosis, or reproductive cell death, secondary to radiation-induced DNA damage. As a consequence, the time taken for an irradiated tissue to manifest radiotherapy related effects is proportional to the rate of cell proliferation in the tissue. In tissues with rapidly proliferating cells (malignant tumors), radiation effects are expressed either during or immediately after a course of radiotherapy, while in a tissue with a slowly proliferating cell population, such as benign tumors, radiotherapy effects may take many months or years to manifest. It is assumed that the beneficial effects of radiation in pituitary adenomas conform to these same mechanistic principles with the radiation-induced depletion of pituitary adenoma tumor cells, and with the adenoma being considered a slowly proliferating tissue. As benign tumors are rarely grown in culture, the precise mechanism of the observed clinical benefit of irradiation is not elucidated and remains largely theoretical. The surrounding normal brain tissue is also considered to consist largely of slowly proliferating cell populations, although critical cell populations with faster turnover, such as blood vessels, are also present and are affected by radiation. DOSE FRACTIONATION SCHEMES FOR PITUITARY ADENOMAS Conventional CRT and fractionated SCRT are given to total dose of 45 to 50 Gy at 1.8 Gy per fractionation, once a day, five days per week. These treatment doses are below the tolerance of central nervous system neural tissue, and the risk of structural damage due to such treatment is <1% [ 27 , 28 ]. While, theoretically, single large doses of radiation as used in SRS may result in a higher tumor cell kill than the equivalent total dose given over a small number of fractions, this is also true for the normal tissue cell population and leads to normal tissue toxicity which may not be acceptable if it affects critical regions such as optic chiasm [ 28 ]. As most pituitary adenomas requiring radiation treatment lie in close proximity to the optic apparatus, and to the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus, SRS is suitable only for small lesions located away from critical structures, and the optic apparatus should not exceed single doses above 8Gy [ 28 ]. Fractionated SRT, using up to 5-fractions over a week course, is another feasible alternative fractionation scheme delivered by LINACs, Cyberknife or frameless radiosurgery. For larger NFPA with chiasmatic involvement, hypofractionation can allow for
