Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


up to 5-fractions over a week course, is another feasible alternative fractionation scheme delivered by LINACs, Cyberknife or frameless radiosurgery. For larger NFPA with chiasmatic involvement, hypofractionation can allow for safe delivery of enhanced biologically effective doses compared to conventional fractionation. The safety of this scheme has been recently reported in a cohort of NFPA, the majority with abutment or compression of optic chiasm, who had satisfactory local control compared to SRS with acceptable toxicity for visual preservation [ 29 ]. Linac Based SCRT/FSRT For fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy, patients are immobilized in a non-invasive relocatable frame with a relocation accuracy of 1-2mm [ 21 , 22 ], or a precisely fitting thermoplastic mask system with an accuracy of 2-3mm [ 16 ]. Sub-millimeter repositioning accuracy can now be achieved with thermoplastic mask immobilization by means of image guidance techniques which can determine and apply daily online setup corrections [ 30 ]. As for conventional CRT, the GTV is outlined on an MRI scan co-registered with a CT scan. The PTV margin used for SCRT is smaller than for conventional CRT, typically in the region of 3-5mm based on the overall accuracy of the treatment system, the principal determinant of which is the repositioning accuracy of the patient in the immobilization device [ 31 ] and the ability to correct it with on treatment imaging (image guidance). For such precision treatment, accurate localization of the tumor volume is of paramount importance in order to avoid treatment failure due to exclusion of a part of the tumor from the treatment volume. SCRT employs a larger number of radiotherapy beams than conventional CRT (usually 4-6). Each beam is conformed to the shape of the PTV using a narrow leaf MLC (5mm width known as mini MLC, or 3mm width known as micro MLC). MLC leaves can be used to modulate the intensity of the radiation beam during its delivery as in intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). More recently, arc-based or rotational techniques (volumetric modulated arc therapy or VMAT) have been introduced in the clinical practice to overcome some of the limitation of IMRT (complex planning and QA process). The continuous rotation of the radiation source allows the patient to be treated from a full 360° beam angle in a shorter time interval. Fractionated SCRT (fSRT) combines the precision of stereotactic patient positioning and treatment delivery with standard radiotherapy fractionation, which preferentially spares normal tissue. Complete
