Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


beam angle in a shorter time interval. Fractionated SCRT (fSRT) combines the precision of stereotactic patient positioning and treatment delivery with standard radiotherapy fractionation, which preferentially spares normal tissue. Complete avoidance of surrounding normal tissue structures, such as the optic apparatus, is not generally practiced, as the dose fractionation schemes used are below the radiation tolerance doses of the CNS. Nonetheless arc techniques are used to minimize the dose bilaterally to the temporal lobes with the aim of reducing the impact of treatment on patients’ cognitive function. The fractionated SCRT technique is suitable for pituitary adenomas of all sizes, regardless of their relationship to adjacent critical normal tissue structures. Linac Based SRS Linac based SRS can be delivered using either a relocatable or an invasive neurosurgical stereotactic frame. Use of an invasive neurosurgical frame necessitates that the treatment planning and delivery procedures are carried out and completed within a single day. Computerized treatment planning defines the arrangement of the radiation beams, as in SCRT. SRS can be planned either as multiple arcs of rotation, simulating GK SRS treatment, and producing small spherical dose distributions, or as multiple fixed conformal fields. Multiple arc SRS using a linear accelerator, employing multiple isocenters, is a cumbersome and rarely used technique. The use of multiple fixed fields is generally confined to fractionated treatment, although it can also be used for single fraction SRS. Because of the potentially damaging effect of large single fraction radiation doses on normal tissue structures, SRS is only suitable for small pituitary adenomas that are at least 3-5mm away from the optic chiasm. Several dosimetry studies have shown that linear accelerators could deliver the same SRS doses to pituitary tumors as GK, with comparable conformity indices and OAR doses. Linac SRS has the advantage of being available, efficient with a less beam-on time, so could be considered for radiosurgery of pituitary adenomas [ 32 ].. Gamma Knife SRS For GK SRS, patients are immobilized in an invasive neurosurgical stereotactic frame. A relocatable non-invasive stereotactic frame has become available, enabling the delivery of hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy treatment in addition to SRS, and experience with this system is increasing [ 33 , 34 ]. GK SRS delivers a single high dose, in a spherical distribution, of 4-18mm diameter. Larger, non-spherical tumors, which represent the majority of pituitary adenomas, are treated by combining several such spherical dose volumes using a multiple isocenter technique.
