Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


a spherical distribution, of 4-18mm diameter. Larger, non-spherical tumors, which represent the majority of pituitary adenomas, are treated by combining several such spherical dose volumes using a multiple isocenter technique. The appropriate number and distribution of isocenters is defined using a 3D computer planning system which also allows for selective plugging of some of the cobalt source positions to enable shaping of the high dose volume envelope. The use of multiple isocenters results in dose inhomogeneity within the target volume, with small areas of high radiation dose (hot spots) in the regions of overlap of the radiation dose spheres. This may lead to radiation damage if critical normal structures, such as cranial nerves, lie within these hot spots. GK SRS is given to doses of 12 - 35Gy to the tumor margin with doses to the optic chiasm and the other cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus limited to 8-10Gy and 16-18 Gy respectively. royal sinus invasion has been reported as a significant predictor of poor outcomes after surgical resection. Different series have shown good local control using GK for positive residuals within the cavernous sinus after surgical resection [ 35-39 ]. Although the total dose delivered with fractionated meanings of irradiation is largely consistent within different publications (45-50.4 Gy), the range of dose prescriptions between secretory and non-functioning adenomas treated with single fraction SRS tends to be different. The rationale behind this practice is based on the observation that a more rapid hormone normalization was reported in single studies using higher doses to treat secreting tumors [ 40 , 41 ]. In absence of a strong radiobiological model and of prospective randomized studies in support, the relationship between dose and endocrine remission warrants further investigation. Robotic Mounted Linac SRS Cyberknife has been used to treat pituitary adenomas using a variety of dose/fractionation regimens, with a tendency to deliver treatment as hypofractionated radiotherapy in 3 to 5 fractions, rather than as single fraction SRS doses. Proton Therapy Proton beams, heavy charged particles with similar radiobiological effectiveness as photons, have been in use at a small number of centers with the relevant facilities since the late 1960s [ 42 , 43 ]. Proton therapy was initially used in two US centers (Boston, MA, and Loma Linda, CA) and then subsequently in Europe (d’Orsay, France) and Japan (Tsukuba, Japan); these centers have reported the majority of the initial clinical results. The introduction
