Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


(Boston, MA, and Loma Linda, CA) and then subsequently in Europe (d’Orsay, France) and Japan (Tsukuba, Japan); these centers have reported the majority of the initial clinical results. The introduction of proton therapy had been underpinned by planning studies demonstrating, in selected cases, improved dose distribution of protons compared with photons. The principal theoretical advantage of proton therapy over photon therapy is the deposition of energy at a defined depth in tissue (the Bragg peak) with little energy deposition beyond that point [ 44 ]. These properties make the use of protons appealing for tumors lying in close proximity to critical dose-limiting normal tissues, which is a bar to safe dose escalation using conventional photon radiotherapy, or when a reduction of low dose (the low dose radiation “bath” responsible for the late sequelae of radiotherapy) to the normal brain tissues is of particular clinical evidence, as in children. Current indications for the use of protons within the UK Specialized Commissioning Team include the treatment of craniopharyngiomas and pituitary adenomas up to the age of 24 years old based on theoretical reduction in the possible late side effects of brain radiation, such as second malignancy, neuro-cognitive deficits and cerebrovascular disease [ 45 ]. Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) PRRT is a form of internal radiation therapy directed to the tumor tissues expressing peptide receptors using gamma emitting radiopharmaceuticals. It is typically used for neuroendocrine tumors; however, it was investigated as a treatment option for aggressive pituitary tumors refractory to other treatment modalities. Different pituitary tumors express somatostatin receptors and show uptake of radiolabeled somatostatin analogues like 68Ga-DOTATATE. The 2018 guidelines of the European Society of Endocrinology listed PRRT as an alternative treatment option for aggressive pituitary tumors refractory to other lines of treatment including temozolomide [ 46 ].The treatment doses and the type of nucleotide used varied in the available studies, with only small patient numbers being reported [ 47 , 48 ]. CLINICAL OUTCOMES FOLLOWING PITUITARY RADIOTHERAPY The clinical efficacy of radiotherapy for pituitary adenomas should be assessed by overall survival, actuarial tumor control (progression-free survival, PFS), and quality of life. Few publications focused on quality of life assessment after radiotherapy in pituitary tumors [ 49-51 ], while commonly reported endpoints for retrospective studies of radiation treatment for non-functioning pituitary adenomas are local tumor control, and long term morbidity. In patients with functioning pituitary adenomas, the principal endpoint, in addition
