Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


endpoints for retrospective studies of radiation treatment for non-functioning pituitary adenomas are local tumor control, and long term morbidity. In patients with functioning pituitary adenomas, the principal endpoint, in addition to PFS and morbidity, is the rate of normalization of elevated pituitary hormone levels. The rate of pituitary hormone decline after irradiation varies with the type of functioning tumor, and the time to reach normal hormone levels is dependent on the initial pre-treatment hormone levels [ 52 ]. The appropriate comparative measure for each pituitary hormone is the time to reach 50% of the pre-treatment hormone level, and this should be corrected for the confounding effect of medical treatment. Surrogate endpoints such as ‘tumor control rate’ and the ‘proportion of patients achieving normal hormone levels’ do not, of themselves, provide adequate information on the efficacy of different pituitary irradiation techniques and are potentially misleading [ 53 ]. Tumor control rate must be quoted with an indication of the time or duration of follow-up required to achieve the stated level of control. Similarly, the proportion of patients achieving normal hormone levels following treatment is meaningful only when described in terms of the relationship to pre-treatment hormone levels. Due to the use of such surrogate endpoints in published retrospective series, inappropriate and incorrect claims have been made in the literature for superiority of one technique of irradiation over another. Given that the published data on the efficacy of the various available techniques for pituitary irradiation consist entirely of retrospective case-series, the available data inevitably suffer from selection bias. While SCRT is suitable for the treatment of all pituitary tumors, irrespective of size, shape or proximity to critical normal tissue structures, SRS is only suitable for treatment of small tumors away from the optic chiasm. As a result, studies reporting the efficacy of SRS mostly deal with smaller tumors, which are typically associated with lower hormone levels if the adenomas are functioning. Therefore, the reported results of studies of SRS do not necessarily apply to the generality of pituitary adenomas and may give a false impression of greater efficacy if only more favorable cases are treated. THE EFFICACY AND TOXICITIES OF TREATMENT Conventional RT and CRT The efficacy of modern stereotactic pituitary radiotherapy and pituitary radiosurgical techniques must be assessed in the light of the results achieved with standard treatment, which is conventional conformal radiotherapy. Large and mature case series provide data on
