Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


known that radiotherapy can lead to vascular injury [ 78 ], it is not at present clear how much of the excess stroke risk following RT is attributable to radiotherapy, and how much may be due to other potential causes including the metabolic and cardiovascular consequences of hypopituitarism, the effects of associated endocrine syndromes, and the consequences of surgery. In a retrospective cohort study of 342 patients treated with pituitary surgery and post-operative RT, 31 patients died from stroke after a median follow-up interval of 21 years (range, 2-33) [ 77 ] and in all cases the probable location of the stroke lesion was within the irradiated volume. Comparison of stroke patients with matched control patients without stroke drawn from the same cohort showed no significant differences in radiotherapy-dependent variables with the exception of the pre-treatment duration of symptoms of hypopituitarism. This suggests that untreated hormone deficiency may be a significant factor in the pathogenesis of stroke in patients treated for pituitary adenoma, rather than or in addition to treatment with radiotherapy. It is likely that the cause of stroke in patients treated with RT for pituitary adenoma is multi-factorial, and the relative contributions of the various possible contributory factors remains to be determined. Second Brain Tumor Intracranial radiotherapy is associated with the development of second, radiation-induced, brain tumors. The cumulative incidence of gliomas and meningiomas following radiotherapy for pituitary adenomas in retrospective case series is reported to be in the region of 2% at 20 years [ 77 , 79-81 ]. A large retrospective study of patients who received radiotherapy for pituitary and sellar lesions has shown a relative risk of 3.34 (95% confidence interval 1.06-10.6) for development of malignant brain tumors and 4.06 (95% confidence interval 1.51-10.9) for development of meningiomas in comparison with patients who did not receive radiotherapy. Rates were higher in those treated with radiotherapy at a younger age, and there was no difference in incidence rates between conventional or stereotactic radiotherapy ( 70 ). In another large retrospective cohort of more than 3600 patients from six adult endocrinology registries, incidence of secondary brain tumors was compared between irradiated and non-irradiated patients with pituitary adenomas and craniopharyngiomas. The relative risk of secondary brain tumors for irradiated patients was 2·18 (95% CI 1·31-3·62, p<0·0001). Cumulative probability of second brain tumor was 4% for the irradiated and 2·1% for the controls at 20 years. Radiotherapy exposure and
