Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


irradiated patients was 2·18 (95% CI 1·31-3·62, p<0·0001). Cumulative probability of second brain tumor was 4% for the irradiated and 2·1% for the controls at 20 years. Radiotherapy exposure and older age at pituitary tumor detection were associated with increased risk of second brain tumor [ 82 ]. Cognitive Deficit Radiotherapy treatment to significant volumes of normal brain in children is associated with subsequent neuro-cognitive impairment [ 27 ]. However, the evidence for the effect of radiotherapy treatment to small volumes of brain on neuro-cognitive function in adults is weak [ 27 ]. The effect of pituitary radiotherapy on neuro-cognitive function is particularly difficult to discern as this cannot be differentiated from the effect of other treatment interventions, and from the effects of the tumor itself [ 83-85 ]. A retrospective study of 84 patients following transsphenoidal surgery, of whom 39 received post-operative radiotherapy, compared neuro-cognitive function with a large reference sample, considered to be representative of normal population without pituitary disease. While the pituitary cohort had lower scores on the tests of both memory and executive function in comparison with the reference sample, patients who had received radiotherapy showed no significant difference compared to patients treated with surgery alone [ 86 ]. A dosimetric study did not find a correlation between radiotherapy dose to the hippocampus and pre-frontal cortex (brain regions known to be important in memory and executive function) and conformal technique of irradiation with cognitive performance [ 87 ]. Stereotactic Conformal Radiotherapy (SCRT/FSRT) SCRT achieves tumor control and normalization of pituitary hormone hypersecretion at rates similar to the best reports following conventional RT. Longer duration follow-up is required to demonstrate the presumed lower incidence of long-term morbidity following SCRT compared to conventional RT. The results from reported studies of SCRT are summarized below. TUMOR CONTROL SCRT data for 1166 patients with either non-functioning or functioning pituitary adenomas have been reported in 21 studies to date ( Table 2 ) [ 14 , 17 , 55 , 64 , 88-105 ]. Analysis of published data up to 2020 shows that, at a corrected median follow-up of 56 months (range 9-152 months), tumor control was achieved in 96% of patients. The 5-year actuarial PFS of 92 patients (67 non-functioning, 25 functioning) treated at The Royal Marsden Hospital was 97% [ 93 ]. These results are similar to the results seen in patient cohorts treated with conventional RT ( Table
