Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


98.1 TC 0 1.9 Romero-Gameros et al., 2023 [ 199 ] GH 57 48 45.6% HN 0 24.5 TC: Tumor Control; HN: hormone normalization. Proton Beam Therapy An early study, published in 1989, of proton beam therapy for pituitary adenomas attempted to compare the effectiveness of this treatment modality to RT/CRT [ 200 ]. Follow-up after CRT in 17 patients and after proton therapy in 13 patients found a similar reduction of GH levels in both groups and the small number of patients does not allow for any statistically meaningful comparison. Nevertheless, treatment related side effects, including new hypopituitarism and oculomotor palsies, were more frequent in proton therapy group. Since the efficacy of both pituitary irradiation methods were similar, but proton therapy was associated with a higher incidence of serious side effects, the authors concluded that RT/CRT is the preferred treatment modality [ 200 ]. In a study from 2006, of 47 patients treated with fractionated proton therapy for both non-functioning and functioning pituitary adenomas reported tumor stabilization in 41 (87%) patients after a minimum 6-month follow-up; 1 patient developed temporal lobe necrosis, 3 developed new significant visual deficits, and 11 developed new hypopituitarism [ 201 ]. These are disappointing results suggesting considerably worse outcome both in terms of efficacy and toxicity than seen with photon irradiation. A study of proton beam stereotactic radiosurgery in 22 patients with acromegaly reported normalization of GH in 59% after a median of 42 months. New pituitary deficiency was reported in 38% of patients, but no visual complications were reported [ 43 ]. The same group reported on the biochemical response in a larger population of secreting adenomas (74 ACTH-secreting, 50 GH-secreting, 9 PRL-secreting, 8 Nelson’s syndromes, 3 TSH-secreting) treated with the same technique. The study included 27 patients previously irradiated (14 pts) or treated with fractionated proton beam radiotherapy. At a median follow-up of 52 months, 42% of patients did not achieve endocrine control with patients with acromegaly having the longer time to biochemical response (49% at 5 years). The risk of developing hypopituitarism was 62% at 5 years and four patients (3%) experienced post treatment temporal lobe seizures, with associated temporal lobe changes on imaging (1 month to 9 years from proton treatment). [ 202 ]). An evidence-based review of proton therapy from ASTRO’s emerging technology committee examined the evidence for proton therapy across multiple tumor sites and concluded that currently available
