Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


treatment). [ 202 ]). An evidence-based review of proton therapy from ASTRO’s emerging technology committee examined the evidence for proton therapy across multiple tumor sites and concluded that currently available evidence provides only limited indications for proton therapy [ 203 ]). The report recommended that robust prospective clinical trials be conducted to determine the appropriate clinical indications for proton therapy. In the present context, the available published reports of proton therapy for pituitary adenoma demonstrate disappointing efficacy and increased toxicity relative to much more readily available photon-based treatment. Also, in dosimetric comparisons, proton beam did not provide superior dose coverage advantage over photon radiation with comparable doses to OARs with both modalities [ 204 ]. Therefore, it seems difficult to justify proton therapy to the pituitary outside of the context of a clinical trial. RE-IRRADIATION FOR RECURRENT DISEASE Re-irradiation for progression of pituitary adenoma after previous pituitary radiotherapy is considered to be associated with a high risk of radiation-induced damage due to the presumed cumulative effect of radiation to the optic apparatus, the cranial nerves, and the normal brain tissues. However, re-irradiation using fractionated conventional or stereotactic techniques is feasible, with acceptable toxicity [ 53 ], provided that there has been at least a 3-4 year gap following primary radiotherapy treatment to doses below radiation tolerance of the CNS (which is the case for the conventional dose of 45Gy delivered at <1.8Gy per fraction). GK SRS has also been used to re-irradiate small recurrent lesions, particularly if they are not in close proximity to the optic apparatus [ 205 ]. While the current impression is that late toxicity following pituitary re-irradiation is uncommon, a high incidence of adverse side effects (13% radiation induced optic neuropathy and 13% of temporal lobe necrosis) was reported in a series of 15 patients re-irradiated with both single fraction and fractionated approaches (median time from previous RT 5.8 years) [ 206 ]. Nonetheless, there are at present insufficient long-term data to demonstrate the safety of pituitary re-irradiation for recurrent disease, although the use of high precision techniques and fractionation should theoretically reduce late toxicity. With the lack of consensus, variations in the management of pituitary recurrences are discussed in MDT meetings and decisions vary based on expertise and scope of practicing physicians. For example, in a survey study for Canadian neurosurgeons and radiation oncologists, it was observed that physicians newer to practice had a greater
