Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


on expertise and scope of practicing physicians. For example, in a survey study for Canadian neurosurgeons and radiation oncologists, it was observed that physicians newer to practice had a greater tendency to advocate for stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) or re-resection (54.5% and 36.4%, respectively), as compared to older surgeons who showed a higher propensity (22.2%) to advocate for observation. The presence of cavernous sinus extension encouraged radiation oncologists to offer earlier radiotherapy sooner (61.4%), compared to 40% of neurosurgeons [ 207 ]. OUTLOOK The techniques of pituitary radiotherapy have gradually evolved over a number of decades with apparent choice between different technologies. All technologies share the aim of concentrating the radiation dose to the tumor with minimal dose to surrounding tissue and the irradiation is given in one, few or many fractions. There has been a lack of randomized comparative studies comparing the techniques to date. Systematic review of case series reported in the literature assessing the efficacy and toxicity provides a reasonably objective assessment of the techniques. While prospective randomized trials would provide the best objective comparative information, the beliefs of practitioners in particular treatment modalities, vested interests in technologies, and general difficulty of conducting studies in diseases with such long natural history make such comparative trials an unlikely prospect. This is compounded by the fact that new radiotherapy technologies continue to be introduced into clinical practice without the need for establishing efficacy as demanded for new drugs. Therefore, controversy will persist with regard to the appropriate and optimal methods for treating pituitary adenomas using radiation, and that all of the treatment modalities described here will continue in clinical use for the foreseeable future despite systematic reviews suggesting that some of the techniques may be less effective and potentially more toxic. Conformal techniques of fractionated pituitary radiotherapy are standard practice, with many centers able to offer the additional accuracy of higher precision radiotherapy previously termed stereotactic but currently part of mainstream high-precision RT. Successful application of high-precision treatment is highly dependent on expertise in accurate target definition using modern MR imaging, on the precision of the immobilization system based on an exhaustive quality assurance program, and on infrastructure particularly in the form of expertise of staff in complex techniques of treatment planning and delivery. It seems most likely that it is the available expertise at all levels of staff in a treatment center that is the principal determinant of the
