Radiotherapy for Pituitary Tumors
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, radiotherapy, treatment, adenomas, patients, pituitary adenomas, radiosurgery, years, stereotactic, tumor, gamma, radiation, knife, srs


treatment planning and delivery. It seems most likely that it is the available expertise at all levels of staff in a treatment center that is the principal determinant of the success of pituitary radiotherapy rather than the choice of equipment and the precise treatment technique that is used. SUMMARY Fractionated radiotherapy is an effective treatment for pituitary adenomas, able to achieve excellent disease control and normalization of hormone levels. While the overall safety profile of this treatment modality is favorable, it is not devoid of side effects and it should only be employed when the risks from the disease itself are considered to outweigh the risks from the treatment. The balance of risks should take into account not only the early consequences of the disease and treatment, measured in terms of disease control and immediate morbidity, but also the long-term effects, particularly in terms of the influence of treatment on survival and quality of life, both of which are less well defined. Residual pituitary adenomas, most of which have an indolent natural history, pose little threat to function, unless they lie close to the optic apparatus, or unless they destructively invade adjacent structures, which is an uncommon event. The risks of residual adenoma are therefore often minimal, and in the absence of progression or hormone hypersecretion, there is currently little justification for adjuvant radiation, whether in the form of fractionated or single fraction treatment. However, a policy of postoperative surveillance does require a program of close monitoring, usually in the form of annual MR imaging, and proceeding to timely irradiation if necessary, and certainly well before the need for further surgery. The aim of radiation treatment is to arrest tumor growth without the risks of re-operation. For functioning tumors radiation treatment is generally offered to patients with persistent hormone elevation that is not decreasing at the expected rate following previous intervention of surgery and medical therapy. This usually means persistent hormone elevation in patients with acromegaly, Cushing’s disease, and other functioning adenomas, regardless of how far the actual hormone level is from normal, as the aim in most cases is to achieve normalization. In patients with acromegaly treated with somatostatin analogues, the expense and inconvenience of protracted systemic treatment also warrants early radiation treatment to allow for the withdrawal of medical treatment. The alternative is to continue medical management indefinitely without radiotherapy. It is not clear at present which policy
