CLINICALMICROBIOLOGYREVIEWS,Oct.1998,p.604–613 Vol.11,No.4
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, prostatic, prostate, bacterial, chronic, culture, patients, bacteria, infection, idiopathic, pcr, positive, chronic idiopathic, specimens, men


environmental stresses, host suscepti- bacterial prostatitis and prostatodynia are still controversial. microbiologists and treating physicians who face this tangled intooneandreferredtoaschronicidiopathicprostatitis.Ad- scenariowhenconfrontedwithpatientssufferingfromchronic ditionally,ourprimaryfocuswillbeonrecentfindings(1990s) idiopathicprostatitismustobjectivelyquantitateanddefinethe ratherthanonthehistoricalliteratureaboutprostatitis. process that has led to the illness. Because cryptic organisms, whether intra- or extracellular, are ubiquitous, proving their SPECIMENCOLLECTIONAND roleindiseaserequiresmorethanthemeredemonstrationof BACTERIOLOGICCULTURE their presence. Quantifying and identifying the cells that are and it is often impossible to satisfy Koch’s postulates. The bacterialprostatitiswhentheinfectiousagent(s)islocalizedto conceptofnormalmicrobiotaisastatisticalonethatisderived theprostategland(i.e.,segmentedcultures).Thetechniquefor from the immunocompetence of most of the population. It is obtaining segmented cultures of the male lower urinary tract unwise to dismiss the pathogenic capacities of any “benign” was first described in 1968 by Meares and Stamey (44). This microbeinapatientwithamysteriousillness.Thispreceptis method(althoughrarelyusedtodayinclinicalpractice)isstill particularlyrelevantforpatientswithchronicidiopathicpros- considered by many to be the “gold standard” for localizing tatitis. Bacteriologic advances, which include the use of spe- infection to the prostate gland. The sampling conditions re- cialized culture media and stains, electron microscopy, and quire a sufficiently full bladder, and the samples must be col- PCR for amplifying microbial sequences in tissues and body lectedbyusingrigorousaseptictechniques.Thefirststepofthe fluids, have revealed an increasing number of previously uni- examination must not be preceded by urethral swabbing. All dentifiableorganismsinavarietyofpathologicconditions(19, urine samples must have a well-defined volume. Prostatic se- 58,59).Thepresenttrendtowardusingsequence-basediden- cretionsareobtainedbyasystematicmassageofeachlobeof tificationofdifficult-to-cultureandnonculturableorganismsin the prostate gland. Bacterial prostatitis is confirmed by the chronicidiopathicprostatitiswillultimatelyachievethisend. presenceofbacteriaintheprostaticsecretionsandintheVB (voided bladder) postprostatic massage urine sample in num- AcuteandChronicBacterialProstatitis bersgreatlyexceedingthebacterialcountsoftheVB 1 andVB 2 urinespecimens.Thetraditionalcriterionfordiagnosingchronic Bacterial infection of the prostate gland may occur as a bacterial prostatitis is a 10-fold increase in the concentration of result of ascending urethral infection or by reflux of infected culturablemicroorganismswhenthebacterialcountofthepost- urineintoprostaticductsemptyingintotheposteriorurethra. massageurinesampleorexpressedprostaticsecretionsampleis Other possible routes of infection include invasion of rectal comparedwiththatofthefirst-void(VB )urinesample(43,44). bacteria through direct extension or by lymphogenous or he- The segmented-culture technique is not widely used in primary matogenousspread(43).Thereisanassociationbetweenbac- caresettings,andevenmosturologistsappeartohaveabandoned terial prostatitis and urinary tract infection (UTI), including theprocedurebecauseofitslaborintensityandoverallcosts.In host responses that result in excessive numbers of polymor- 1997,Nickel(46)proposedasimpleandcost-effectivescreenfor phonuclearleukocytesandmacrophagesintheprostaticsecre- prostatitis which involves the culture and microscopic examina- tions. It has been demonstrated that positive cultures (seg- tion of urine before and after prostatic massage. This pre- and mented cultures [see Specimen Collection and Bacteriologic postmassagetest(PPMT)wasappliedtoaseriesof53patientsas Culture,below])canlocalizetheetiologicagent(s)tothepros- wellas59patientsforwhomsegmented-cultureresultswereavail- taticsecretions.Whenthepatienthasacutebacterialprostati- ablefromtheliterature.Intheseselectedpopulations,thePPMT tis, there is an abrupt onset of fever and genitourinary and aloneledtothesamediagnosisin102patients(91.1%).Within constitutionalsignsandsymptoms.Chronicbacterialprostati- the expected limitations of this retrospective review, the calcu- tisisamoresubtleillness,whichischaracterizedbyrelapsing, lated sensitivity and specificity of the PPMT were both 91%. recurrent UTI and persistence of bacteria in the prostatic Basedonthesefindings,thismethodwarrantsfurtherinvestiga- secretorysystemdespitemultiplecoursesofantibacterialther- tionandmaymotivateresearcherstoreviewtheirprostatitisdata apy(43).Athirdsyndrome,chronicidiopathicprostatitis(some- and stimulate discussion. Importantly, physicians might then be
