CLINICALMICROBIOLOGYREVIEWS,Oct.1998,p.604–613 Vol.11,No.4
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, prostatic, prostate, bacterial, chronic, culture, patients, bacteria, infection, idiopathic, pcr, positive, chronic idiopathic, specimens, men


genes were more likely to cytoprotectiveproperties,whichcanprotectbacteriafromex- VOL.11,1998 PROSTATITIS 607 FIG. 1. Fluorescentacridineorangestainofdifficult-to-growcoryneformsfromexpressedprostaticsecretions.Magnification,31,000. posuretootherwisebactericidallevelsofantibiotics,andhence fastidious bacteria in cultures, leukocyte counts of expressed can lead to recrudescent infections resistant to therapy (53). prostaticsecretionsweredetermined.The25subjectswithin- Therefore, antimicrobial treatment failures of organisms pro- flamed prostatic secretions were more likely to have any type ducingextracellularslimemightresultfromthevirulentprop- of positive bacteria culture (P 5 0.01), positive cultures for ertiesofcoagulase-negativestaphylococciorotherbacteria. anaerobic bacteria (P 5 0.03), higher total bacterial counts The patients in the study by Lowentritt et al. described (P 5 0.02), and more bacterial species isolated (P 5 0.02) in above (38) were diagnosed with chronic idiopathic prostatitis prostate biopsy cultures than were the 60 men without ex- clinicallyandmicroscopically.Theyhadnoninflammatoryand pressedprostaticsecretioninflammation.Thisgroupofinves- minimallyinflammatoryintraprostaticdisease,asindicatedby tigators also developed a symptom index for patients with dromemayinvolveatypeofhostimmunedeficiency.Wedren evaluation of these patients and interpretation of their labo- etal.(72)reportedonseveralnonbacterialprostatitispatients ratoryresults(31). inwhomleukocyteshaddiminishedphagocyticactivityagainst autologousbacterialisolates,suggestingthatthereexistsase- Difficult-to-CultureCoryneformsinExpressed lectiveprocessinvolvingprostaticpathogensandspecifichost ProstaticSecretions defenses.Similarly,Sanchis-Bayarrietal.(62)concludedthat coagulase-negative staphylococci, particularly Staphylococcus Domingue et al. in 1997 (18) reported that difficult-to-cul- haemolyticus, can function as opportunistic pathogens in im- ture coryneforms were missed by routine culture of EPS on munodepressedhosts. blood agar but that careful microscopic observation and cul- In 1997, Berger et al. (5) suggested that bacterial coloni- tureofEPSonenrichedmediarevealedthepresenceofthese zation and invasion of the prostate may be associated with pleomorphic bacteria. Direct Gram staining of EPS showed inflammatoryprostatitisincertaincases.Theyexaminedthe gram-variable pleomorphic coccobacillary rods that did not relationship of genitourinary infection to inflammatory pros- grow on routine media within 72 h at 35°C. The presence of tatitis in 85 patients without bacteriuria. Cultures of the ure- thesepleomorphicswollenrodswerealsoshownbyfluorescent thra,urine,andtransperinealprostatebiopsyspecimenswere acridine orange staining (Fig. 1). Culture of the EPS demon- performed.Inadditiontospecificallytargetingcommensaland strated numerous rod-like forms on culture media enriched 608 DOMINGUE AND HELLSTROM CLIN.MICROBIOL.REV. with yeast extract and horse serum and incubated for at least correlated with EPS by Western immunoblotting. IgA was 72 h under 5% CO at 35°C. EPS inoculated into tryptose measured in the EPS of 192 subjects, including 92 patients broth demonstrated the presence of gram-variable rod forms showing symptoms of chronic idiopathic prostatitis. These in- (microscopically) and, when subcultured to routine and spe- vestigators also looked for the presence of anti-heat shock cialized media, produced the slow-growing bacilli on routine protein (HSP; 60 kDa) IgA. Anti-C. trachomatis IgA in EPS and enriched solid media (incubated aerobically, anaerobi- wasfoundin44(26%)of169subjectsandin29%ofthosewith cally, or under 5% CO for 72 h). From a representative morethan10WBC/high-powerfield(hpf)(20of69subjects). subject,theroutinecultureinitiallygrew200coloniesfromthe Of patients with greater than 10 WBC/hpf, 38.5% had anti- EPSand100coloniesfromthevoidedbladderurine(VB )of HSP IgA; this is
