CLINICALMICROBIOLOGYREVIEWS,Oct.1998,p.604–613 Vol.11,No.4
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, prostatic, prostate, bacterial, chronic, culture, patients, bacteria, infection, idiopathic, pcr, positive, chronic idiopathic, specimens, men


wasfoundin44(26%)of169subjectsandin29%ofthosewith cally, or under 5% CO for 72 h). From a representative morethan10WBC/high-powerfield(hpf)(20of69subjects). subject,theroutinecultureinitiallygrew200coloniesfromthe Of patients with greater than 10 WBC/hpf, 38.5% had anti- EPSand100coloniesfromthevoidedbladderurine(VB )of HSP IgA; this is in contrast to 0% for the group with 5 to 9 S. epidermidis. A subculture of the tryptose broth inocul 3 ated WBC/hpf. Immunologic data of the 69 subjects with .10 with EPS grew ,100 colonies of other staphylococci (Staphy- WBC/hpf suggested that 20 of these subjects had chronic id- lococcus hominis/warneri) in addition to S. epidermidis. Bio- iopathic prostatitis caused by C. trachomatis. From the data chemicalidentificationofthedifficult-to-culturerodsrevealed presented, it was not possible to determine whether some of twodifferentspeciesofCorynebacterium:Corynebacteriumgroup the 44 subjects positive for anti-chlamydia IgA were control ANF and C. minitussimum. Antibiotic susceptibility studies subjects without symptoms. In a prospective study of C. tra- showedthatCorynebacteriumgroupANFwasresistanttoam- chomatis antibodies in the serum and ejaculate of male pa- picillin,erythromycin,penicillin,oxacillin,nalidixicacid,nitro- tientswithoutacuteurethritis,Ludwigetal.(39)reportedthe furantoin,tobramycin,andbactrimwhileC.minutissimumwas prevalence of chlamydial antibodies by using a genus-specific resistant only to oxacillin and nalidixic acid. PCR studies to immunofluorescence test in 101 men. The results were com- be of value to determine the frequency of these organisms in demonstration of chlamydial DNA by PCR in the ejaculate, prostaticspecimensthatarenegativebyconventionalculture. andsignsofgenitalinflammationbycountingperoxidase-pos- Domingueetal.(18)suggestedthatcrypticcoryneformscould itive leukocytes and elastase level in semen. Serum-specific behiddenetiologicagentsinchronicidiopathicprostatitisand IgG and IgA antibodies were found in 26 and 15% of men, that they are often missed or overlooked in routine clinical respectively;seminalIgGandIgAantibodieswerepresentin6 microbiologylaboratories.Anewcoryneformspecies,Coryne- and 7% of men, respectively. Serum-specific antibodies were bacteriumseminalesp.nov.,wasreportedbyRiegeletal.(60) notassociatedwiththeclinicaldiagnosisofinfectionnorwith tobeassociatedwithgenitalinfectionsinmalepatients.These C. trachomatis cell culture, PCR findings, peroxidase-positive investigatorsstudied12coryneformisolateshavingsimilarbio- leukocytes,orthepolymorphonuclearleukocyte-elastaselevel. chemicalprofileswhichdidnotpermittheirassignmenttoany These investigators concluded that serum antibodies are not recognized taxa. Human semen was the source of seven of useful in detecting a chlamydial infection. Seminal plasma urethra, urine, and blood specimens from adult males. These infection, positive cell culture, polymorphonuclear leukocyte- bacteriawerefoundinsignificantquantities(104to105CFU/ elastaselevels,orWBCinsemen.However,asignificantcor- ml) in semen specimens from infertile male patients with a relation was found for positive C. trachomatis PCR in the diagnosis of prostatitis. The bacterial strains had characteris- ejaculate(P,0.001forIgG,P,0.05forIgA,P,0.001when ticsofthegenusCorynebacterium(60%G1CintheDNA,and combined). This group concluded that although seminal anti- corynemycolicacids,meso-diaminopimelicacid,arabinose,and bodies may be more useful in detecting ascended or occult galactoseinthecellwall).QuantitativeDNA-DNAhybridiza- chlamydial infection, their significance remains unclear and tions involving the S1 nuclease procedure and phylogenies theirabsencedoesnotexcludechlamydialinfection.Neverthe- basedoncomparisonsofalmost-completesmall-subunitrDNA less, the uncertain role of this organism in chronic prostatitis sequencesconfirmedthatthesestrainsconstituteasinglenew warrantsfurtherresearch,especiallyintothebiologicalsignif- specieswithinthegenusCorynebacterium.All12strainsshowed icanceoflocallyderivedIgA. similar phenotypic features, i.e., good on growth on sheep ApreliminaryreportpublishedbyKadaretal.(27)demon- blood agar, in contrast to poor growth on the same medium strateddetectionofC.trachomatisinchronicprostatitisbyin supplementedwith1%Tween80;apositiveCAMPtestinthe
