CLINICALMICROBIOLOGYREVIEWS,Oct.1998,p.604–613 Vol.11,No.4
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, prostatic, prostate, bacterial, chronic, culture, patients, bacteria, infection, idiopathic, pcr, positive, chronic idiopathic, specimens, men


costly reagents than are needed for culture. It will also be of value to use PCR primers that dis- ParasiticProstatitis tinguish between biovars when considering the biological sig- Parasitic prostatitis is rare in the United States and else- where.Anexcellentchapteronparasiticdiseasesofthegeni- biovars may be associated with different diseases of the geni- tourinary system, documenting the role of various parasites, tourinarysystem(i.e.,isthereaprostatitis-specificbiovar?). hasbeenwrittenbySmithandvonLichtenberg(68). OTHER,LESSCOMMONTYPESOFPROSTATITIS FungalProstatitis MycobacterialInfection Fungalprostatitisisconfirmedbymeansofprostatichistol- ogy and culture of prostatic fluid and tissue. Granulomatous Mycobacterial infection of the prostate causes granuloma- prostatitiscausedbyfungiisassociatedwithsystemicmycoses tousprostatitis.Thisconditionmayoccurasasequelaofmil- (coccidiodomycosis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, paracoc- iarytuberculosis.Recoveryoftheorganismfromprostaticfluid cidiodomycosis,blastomycosis,andcandidiasis)(43).Aspergil- cultures confirms the diagnosis (43). In a review of the diag- lis prostatitis is rare overall but is more common in patients nostic and therapeutic aspects of prostatic abscess in patients withimmunodeficiencies.AcaseofAspergillisprostatitisasso- with AIDS, Galbis et al. (24) and Rivas-Escudero (61) re- ciated with pulmonary tuberculosis after corticosteroid treat- ported on a patient with AIDS and prostatic abscess due to ment for retroperitoneal fibrosis as a complication of methy- tuberculosis in 1997. The incidence of granulomatous pros- sergide therapy was reported by Cherasse et al. in 1997 (11). tatitis and acid-fast bacilli (AFB) after intravesical bacillus CryptococcalprostatitisinapatientwithBehcet’sdiseasewas Calmette-Gu´erin (BCG) therapy was recently published by reported by Fuse et al. (23). The 55-year-old man presented LaFontaineetal.(37).Thesepatientswerepartofagroupof with acute urinary retention due to Cryptococcus neoformans over100patientsundergoingradicalcystoprostatectomy.Gran- infection of the prostate. The disease was localized to the ulomatous prostatitis was identified in 9 of 12 patients from prostate and successfully treated only with fluconazole. The thisgroupwhohadreceivedBCGtreatment;AFBwereiden- patient remained well without evidence of systemic or local tified in 7 of 9 patients with granulomatous prostatitis. It infection at 32 months. Prostatic sequestration of C. neofor- seems that the pathologic consequence of granuloma pros- mans in an immunocompromised patient treated for crypto- tatitiswithAFBiscommonafterintravesicalBCGtherapy. coccalmeningoencephalitiswasreportedbyNdimbieetal.in Theseincidencesarefargreaterthanthereportedincidence 1994 (45). Although the patient was successfully treated for ofsymptomaticgranulomatousprostatitis.Inanassessment cryptococcal meningoencephalitis with amphotericin B and ofthepathologicfindingsofgranulomatousprostatitisbyOp- 5-flucytosine, he died from other sequelae of AIDS 2 years penheimer et al. (54), 94 cases of granulomatous prostatitis later. Cryptococci were found neither in the central nervous were found in 25,852 (incidence, 0.36%) men who consecu- system nor in other anatomic sites. The autopsy files yielded tively underwent needle biopsy; clinical correlations were ob- sevenothercasesofmenwithahistoryofcryptococcalmenin- tained for 75 men. The cases were categorized as nonspecific goencephalitis. These authors emphasized the possibility that (77.7%), infectious (18.1%), or indeterminate (4.3%) granu- theprostatesequestersC.neoformans,therebycontributingto Allthepatientswithinfectiousgranulomatousprostatitishada tococci must be cultured either from the prostate or from a history of prior
