CLINICALMICROBIOLOGYREVIEWS,Oct.1998,p.604–613 Vol.11,No.4
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, prostatic, prostate, bacterial, chronic, culture, patients, bacteria, infection, idiopathic, pcr, positive, chronic idiopathic, specimens, men


ANTIBIOTICPHARMACOKINETICSINPROSTATITIS Therearefewliteraturereportsonviralprostatitis.Dobleet Treatmentfailuresarenotuncommoninprostatitis.Nickel al. in 1991 (16) described a case of herpes simplex virus iso- et al. (47) hypothesized that altered pharmacokinetics in the lated from the prostatic fluid of a patient with symptoms of inflamed prostate gland might account for the treatment fail- prostatodynia.Thedemonstrationofcytomegalovirus(CMV) ure of clinically diagnosed chronic bacterial prostatitis. These intissuewithinthemalegenitaltractinanAIDSpatientdying investigatorsusedaratmodelofchronicbacterialprostatitisto of disseminated CMV infection was first reported by Benson investigate the presence of any pharmacokinetic differences andSmithin1992(4).AnothercasereportonCMVprostatitis thatmayexistbetweenthenoninflamedandinflamedprostate andareviewoftheliteraturewaspublishedin1994byMcKay glands. The rat prostate glands were infected with a strain of et al. (41). In this case, a patient undergoing chemotherapy E.coliK-235(K1:O8:AC:H7).After7daysofnorfloxacinther- for multiple myeloma was found to have CMV prostatitis. apy,60%oftheanimalswithawell-establishedbacterialpros- The findings of a hypoechoic prostatic lesion on ultrasound tatitis were cured (36 animals per group), compared with a and a slightly elevated prostatic specific antigen level (4.6 spontaneous cure rate of 10% in the group with nontreated ng/ml) prompted a prostate biopsy. Immunohistochemical prostatitis (36 animals per group). The norfloxacin levels did staining demonstrated CMV within the prostate. Although notchangesignificantlybetweentheinfectedandnoninfected prostate glands. These investigators concluded that failure of this virus is a common pathogen in immunosuppressed pa- norfloxacintherapyinchronicbacterialprostatitismaynotbe tients,itspresenceinthemalegenitaltractisrelativelyrare. duetosignificantlyalterednorfloxacinpharmacokineticsinthe chronically inflamed prostate gland but, rather, may have been due to the difficulty in eradicating bacteria protected PROSTATITISINBENIGNPROSTATICHYPERPLASIA within infection-induced microcolonies and biofilms (40, 49, 50). Nickel et al. (48, 51–53) have previously implicated mi- Bedalovetal.in1994(3)reportedtheincidenceofprostati- crocoloniesandbiofilmsinanimalmodelsofchronicprostati- tisinbenignprostatichyperplasia(BPH).Theseinvestigators tis and demonstrated the similarities to chronic prostatitis in concludedthatpatientswithgram-negativeprostatitishadthe humans. largestnumberofcomplicationsandthelongestperiodofpost- While it is always difficult to definitively extrapolate from operative hospitalization. The incidence of prostatitis in their animal models, it is the contention of these researchers that studywas90.3%.Tissuewasobtainedbytransurethralprosta- failureofantibiotictherapyofchronicprostatitisisprobablya tectomy. Gram-positive microorganisms were isolated in 32.8% resultofthelocalmicroenvironmentsurroundingthefocaland of the tissue samples, and Staphylococcus epidermidis was protected small bacterial biofilms buried within the prostate found in 26.6% of the tissue specimens from BPH patients. gland. Their conclusions support the more recent molecular Gram-negative microorganisms were isolated in 30.8% of tis- and cultural data implicating bacteria as a cause of chronic sue specimens from BPH patients, and fungi were found in idiopathicprostatitis. 2.9%. In 27.9% of the tissue samples, a microorganism could notbeisolated,althoughpathohistologicexaminationdemon- stratedevidenceofprostatitis.Preoperativeandpostoperative ISNONBACTERIALPROSTATITISCAUSEDBYA antibiotictherapyreducedtheincidenceofpostoperativecom- CHEMICALINFLAMMATORYREACTION INTHEPROSTATE? plications and shortened the period of hospitalization of pa- tientswithsignificantgram-negativebacteriuriabeforetheop- Persson and Ronquist (56) studied the EPS of 56 patients eration(BPHpatientswithgram-negativeprostatitis). withnonbacterialprostatitistofindwhetherurinerefluxinthe VOL.11,1998 PROSTATITIS 611 prostaticductswasresponsibleforincreasedconcentrationsof autoimmune response to RAG in normal receptors. The in- creatinine,urate,andWBC.Theyreportedarelationshipbe- vestigators concluded that their results support the involve- tweenpain,estimatedinaccordancewithascoringscale,and mentofPDCintheinductionofautoimmuneprostatitis,mod- WBC
