Case report
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, patient, acute, case, acute pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridaemia, use, bmj, medical, day, episode, report, pain, oral, history


Case report OCP- driven hypertriglyceridaemia and recurrent acute pancreatitis Samriddha Thapa,1 Akhil Allakky,1 Anjani Turaga 2 1Internal Medicine, Lower Bucks SUMMARY This highlights the critical need for collaborative 2Surgery, Gandhi Medical woman with metabolic syndrome presented with her third episode of acute pancreatitis within a span of Padmarao Nagar, India CASE PRESENTATION 4 months. Due to unavailability, plasmapheresis could not be performed, and the patient was managed A young, obese female patient with a medical Correspondence to history of Crohn’s disease, polycystic ovarian Dr Anjani Turaga; solely with pharmacological therapy. Initial evaluation syndrome (PCOS) and two prior episodes of acute anjani. turagaa@ gmail. com revealed abdominal pain, tenderness and elevated pancreatitis presented to the emergency department laboratory markers. CT scan findings indicated pancreatic Accepted 18 September 2023 and peripancreatic oedema. Further investigations with progressively worsening, diffuse abdominal pain for 8 hours. She reported that the pain was at highlighted the presence of hypertriglyceridaemia 10/10 in intensity and was also radiating to the back and hypocalcaemia. As the patient was using oral and worsened on movement and was also associ- contraceptive pills (OCP), it was crucial to consider ated with chills, nausea and three episodes of non- their potential role in causing hypertriglyceridaemia. bloody and non- bilious vomiting. She remarked Consequently, the patient was advised to discontinue that this pain was similar to the pain she experi- OCP use. Despite the lack of plasmapheresis, intensive enced during her two acute pancreatitis episodes. medical management, including medication and She was afebrile, had a pulse rate of 98 beats lifestyle modifications, showed positive results. This per minute, a respiratory rate of 21 breaths per case underscores the importance of recognising the minute and an elevated blood pressure reading association between OCP, hypertriglyceridaemia and of 168/92 mm Hg. On physical examination, the recurrent pancreatitis in patients with metabolic patient exhibited tenderness in the epigastric region syndrome. and mild guarding while the remainder of her phys- ical examination findings appeared benign. Eliciting further history at this point revealed that BACKGROUND the patient underwent a cholecystectomy (removal Recurrent acute pancreatitis, characterised by a of the gallbladder) after her second episode of third episode within 4 months, presents a chal- acute pancreatitis due to suspected gallstones. She lenging and worrisome clinical scenario. Accurate also had a surgery for bowel resection. Her medi- identification of the underlying cause is para- cation list of interest stated that she used
