Case report
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, patient, acute, case, acute pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridaemia, use, bmj, medical, day, episode, report, pain, oral, history


lenging and worrisome clinical scenario. Accurate also had a surgery for bowel resection. Her medi- identification of the underlying cause is para- cation list of interest stated that she used omepra- mount to mitigate further morbidity and enhance zole 20 mg daily and ustekinumab (Stelara) 90 mg/ the patient’s quality of life. The approximate mL subcutaneous injection every 8 weeks for main- estimates of incidence rates for acute pancreatitis tenance therapy of Crohn’s disease and combined (AP) and CP (chronic pancreatitis) in the USA are oral contraceptive pills (OCP) (Norethindrone- 40–50 and 4–5 per 100 000 population per year, ethinyl estradiol 1 mg–20 μg) for management respectively.1 of PCOS which she has been using for 4 months. Common causes of recurrent acute pancre- The oral contraceptives were initiated a week after atitis include gallstones, alcohol consumption her second episode of acute pancreatitis. Further and genetic mutations in the SPINK1 and PRSS1 questioning regarding the timeline of her pancre- genes. The genetic basis of this condition is not atitis events revealed that her first episode of acute solely explained by Mendelian inheritance but pancreatitis occurred 4 months ago for which she involves a complex interplay between various was treated in an acute care clinic and discharged environmental and genetic factors.2 home at night. The second episode occurred shortly Here, we present a case involving a young after the first episode, approximately 2 weeks later, woman who experienced a third episode of acute for which she was hospitalised and underwent pancreatitis, necessitating urgent medical atten- surgery at a different medical centre. Pertinent © BMJ Publishing Group tion. The initial evaluation encountered certain biochemical investigation results from the second Limited 2023. No commercial re- use. See rights and limitations in terms of diagnosis, underscoring episode have been tabulated in table 1. permissions. Published by BMJ. the significance of comprehensive and meticulous Family history was significant for ulcerative assessment of the patient’s medical history. The colitis in the mother, but there was no indication To cite: Thapa S, Allakky A, primary objective was to alleviate the patient’s of hereditary pancreatitis or early- onset coronary Turaga A. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e257067. clinical symptoms while concurrently conducting heart disease. The patient denied the use of illicit doi:- a thorough investigation to identify the under- substances, alcohol, or tobacco, except for occa- 257067 lying cause. sional medical marijuana use once a week. Thapa S, et al. BMJ
