Case report
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, patient, acute, case, acute pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridaemia, use, bmj, medical, day, episode, report, pain, oral, history


doi:- a thorough investigation to identify the under- substances, alcohol, or tobacco, except for occa- 257067 lying cause. sional medical marijuana use once a week. Thapa S, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e257067. doi: 1 Case report The patient’s history of Crohn’s disease prompted consid- Table 1 Tabulated laboratory results on admission during second eration of bowel obstruction, as it can present with similar episode of acute pancreatitis symptoms to acute pancreatitis. However, the absence of Lab test Result findings such as distended loops of bowel or signs of bowel Glucose 106 mg/dL wall thickening on the CT scan, apart from raised lactate, Lactic acid 24 mmol/L made bowel obstruction less likely. AST (aspartate aminotransferase) 102 U/L Furthermore, given the persistent leucocytosis and ALT (alanine transaminase) 194 U/L neutrophilia, the possibility of an abscess was entertained. However, this was ruled out after obtaining the report of Alkaline phosphatase 167 U/L the abdominal CT scan, which did not indicate the presence Amylase 211 U/L of an abscess. Lipase >2000 U/L Based on the patient’s acute presentation and medical Triglycerides 255 mg/dL history, a provisional diagnosis of acute pancreatitis was initially considered based on the fulfilment of the Atlanta criteria for diagnosis. These criteria include the presence INVESTIGATIONS of abdominal pain, elevated serum amylase and/or lipase On the provisional suspicion, a battery of tests were ordered levels, and evidence of pancreatitis on imaging studies. along with a CT scan of the abdomen. The relevant results from the labs have been tabulated in table 2. The CT findings from the CT scan showed no ductal dila- TREATMENT tation, severe pancreatic and peripancreatic oedema and focal Treatment began by avoiding any oral intake. In order to peritonitis. There was no evidence of abscess formation, pseudo- correct the worsening hypocalcaemia, the patient received cyst or intraductal stones. Liver showed persistent fatty infiltra- calcium gluconate intravenously at a dose of 1 g per day for tion. No evidence of colonic pathology was noted either. This a total duration of 3 days. To address the hyperglycaemia, can be observed in figure 1 circled in red. an insulin regimen was initiated, consisting of intravenous Repeat laboratory test results from the next morning revealed insulin therapy at a rate of nine units per hour, along with a significant impairment and a discovery. The patient had wors- subcutaneous administration of insulin lispro on a sliding ening hypocalcaemia at 5.7 mg/dL
