Case report
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, patient, acute, case, acute pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridaemia, use, bmj, medical, day, episode, report, pain, oral, history


of nine units per hour, along with a significant impairment and a discovery. The patient had wors- subcutaneous administration of insulin lispro on a sliding ening hypocalcaemia at 5.7 mg/dL (normal range 8.5–10.2 mg/ scale as hyperglycaemia is a commonly observed complica- dL) and hypertriglyceridaemia with triglyceride (TG) levels tion in cases of acute pancreatitis. In addition to treating greater than 1000 mg/dL. The machines at our facility could only hyperglycaemia, insulin is also a proven therapeutic inter- read up to 1000 mg/dL so the actual TG level was unknown but vention in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia- induced higher than 1000 mg/dL. pancreatitis who have worrisome features and for whom These clues from the investigations aided in finding a prob- plasmapheresis is indicated but unavailable to combat able cause for this episode of pancreatitis and the patient was potential hypoglycaemia from the continuous insulin, 5% shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) her laboratory values dextrose along with lactated Ringer’s solution was infused were trended over the next few days and have been depicted in daily which also managed her fluid status. table 3. To address the persistent leucocytosis and neutrophilia, the patient was started on piperacillin- tazobactam at a DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS dosage of 3.375 g every 6 hours. Additionally, prophylactic We considered the possibility of ovarian torsion due to the measures against deep vein thrombosis were implemented, patient’s history of PCOS, which can present with acute-o nset with subcutaneous administration of heparin at a dosage of abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. However, the absence of 5000 units every 8 hours. relevant imaging findings and adnexal tenderness aided in ruling It should be noted that due to the unavailability of plasmapher- out ovarian torsion as a differential diagnosis. esis at the institution, the patient’s management was solely reliant on pharmacological interventions and fluid administration. These therapeutic strategies were implemented with Table 2 Tabulated laboratory results on admission the aim of addressing the immediate medical needs of the patient and managing the associated complications associ- Lab test Result ated with acute pancreatitis. WCC 17.80 x 10∧9/L Neutrophils 13.4 Haematocrit 35% OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP Sodium 129 mmol/L The patient exhibited a favourable response to the intensive Chloride 97 mmol/L medical management provided in the ICU, demonstrating BUN (Blood Urea Nitrogen)/creatinine ratio 26 notable clinical and biochemical improvement. Within 36 hours of admission, a significant reduction in abdominal Albumin 2.0 g/dL pain was reported
