Case report
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, patient, acute, case, acute pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridaemia, use, bmj, medical, day, episode, report, pain, oral, history


10.8 – – – Hypertriglyceridaemia was observed in the laboratory report from Lactic acid (mmol/L) – 2.4 2.1 – – day 2, strongly suggesting it as the probable cause of her acute pancre- BUN(Blood Urea 26 – 12.0 10.0 – atitis. Previous studies have reported that hypertriglyceridaemia can Nitrogen)/creatinine lead to recurrent acute pancreatitis in up to 5% of cases.1 3 The ratio presence of metabolic syndrome, as defined by the National Choles- Lipase (U/L) 1634 – 357 210 – terol Education Program (NCEP) Adult treatment plan - III (ATP Note: ‘–’ indicates that the data are not available or not provided for that specific day. III criteria),4 further supports the suspicion of hypertriglyceridaemia. Thapa S, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e257067. doi: 3 Case report Notably, the patient met four out of five criteria, including waist circumference, blood pressure, fasting TG level and fasting high- density lipoprotein level. Learning points While specific data regarding the patient’s previous episodes of pancreatitis were limited, her history of cholecystectomy suggested ► Hypertriglyceridaemia is an uncommon but important cause that one of the prior episodes may have been attributed to gallbladder of recurrent acute pancreatitis accounting for up to 5% of stones, which account for 10%–30% of recurrent acute pancreatitis cases. cases.1 Although the patient was not taking any medications directly ► Oral contraceptive pills have been associated with an linked to pancreatitis, the use of OCPs has been associated with an increased risk of hypertriglyceridaemia and subsequent increased risk of hypertriglyceridaemia and subsequent pancreatitis.3 pancreatitis. Several published cases have hypothesised the use of birth control ► Regular insulin infusion is an effective therapy in pills as an indirect mechanism leading to pancreatitis.5–7 hypertriglyceridaemia pancreatitis when plasmapheresis is Contraceptive-i nduced hypertriglyceridaemia is attributed to the unavailable. effects of oestrogen on hepatic TG lipase and lipoprotein lipase ► Primary care physicians need to perform regular monitoring activity, resulting in elevated levels of low and intermediate-d ensity of lipid profiles in patients with metabolic syndrome and prior triglycerides and cholesterol. Supporting evidence from studies history of pancreatitis, especially when considering the use of conducted by Naz et al8 and Stumpf et al9 demonstrated statistically oral contraceptive pills. significant differences in TG levels between users and non-u sers of OCPs, further highlighting the impact of OCP use on lipid metabo- Contributors The following authors were responsible for drafting of the text, lism and the potential contribution
