Case report
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, patient, acute, case, acute pancreatitis, hypertriglyceridaemia, use, bmj, medical, day, episode, report, pain, oral, history


non-u sers of OCPs, further highlighting the impact of OCP use on lipid metabo- Contributors The following authors were responsible for drafting of the text, lism and the potential contribution of oestrogen-m ediated mecha- nisms in altering TG levels. diagrams and algorithms, and critical revision for important intellectual content: We believe that it is also important to highlight that insulin is ST was the physician leading the patient care and treatment and was responsible an effective regimen in situations where plasmapheresis is unavail- for diagnosis. He has also contributed towards the manuscript by proof- reading able. In the case of this patient, the treatment modality continued and making necessary edits. AA was participating in patient care and treatment with infusion of regular insulin with close monitoring of her blood along with ST and also aided in literature review and manuscript preparation and drafting of text. AT aided in manuscript preparation and proof- reading, verifying glucose and TG levels. The efficacy of this regimen has been shown the investigations and procurement of relevant data and patient care during the to be effective in accordance to a study published in 2018.10 process. The following authors gave final approval of the manuscript: ST, AA and Although studies have reported that pancreatitis due to hyper- AT. triglyceridaemia carries a worse prognosis and higher morbidity Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any compared with other causes of pancreatitis, our patient demonstrated funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. a relatively favourable and rapid recovery. Healthcare professionals Competing interests None declared. should be vigilant about secondary causes of hypertriglyceridaemia Patient consent for publication Consent obtained directly from patient(s). in individuals predisposed to pancreatitis, and regular check-u ps are essential to ensure appropriate control of lipid profiles, particularly Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. prior to initiating birth control pill use. Case reports provide a valuable learning resource for the scientific community and can indicate areas of interest for future research. They should not be used in isolation Patient’s perspective to guide treatment choices or public health policy. I woke up that morning with this weird feeling of unease. It’s ORCID iD like my body just knew that something was about to go wrong. Anjani Turaga I tried to start my day with my coffee, and I ended up throwing up after 2
