Hypothyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, hypothyroidism, women, tsh, risk, disease, subclinical, trimester, thyroid function, thyroid disease, positive, function, subclinical hypothyroidism, hypothyroidism pregnancy


CLINICAL RECOGNITION The prevalence of overt and subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy is 0.3-0.5% and 2-3% respectively. Overt hypothyroidism in pregnancy may present classically but is often subtle and difficult to distinguish from the symptoms of normal pregnancy. A high index of suspicion is therefore required, especially in women with a predisposition to thyroid disease such as a personal or family history of thyroid disease, the presence of goiter or the co-existence of other autoimmune disorders like type 1 diabetes. Subclinical hypothyroidism (high TSH with normal FT4) accounts for the majority of cases. Isolated hypo-thyroxinemia (FT4 below the trimester specific reference range without elevation of TSH) occurs in about an equal number of cases. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Although endemic iodine deficiency (areas where the ambient urinary iodine concentration is less than 50µg/liter) is the most common cause of hypothyroidism worldwide, the main cause in iodine-replete populations is chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. Other causes include post-surgical or post-radioiodine ablation. Adverse effects on mother and child range from anemia in pregnancy to miscarriage, or if pregnancy is continued, preterm birth with its consequences ( table 1 ). Even in an iodine sufficient area maternal thyroid dysfunction (hypothyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism or hypothyroxinemia) during pregnancy results in neuro-intellectual impairment of the child; hence maternal thyroid hormones are required through gestation for proper fetal brain development. Specific effects will depend on when maternal hormone deficiency occurs during pregnancy. Low maternal thyroid hormone concentrations in early gestation can be associated with significant decrements of IQ of young children. A significant decrement in IQ has also been reported in children born to euthyroid mothers with circulating anti TPO antibodies, but this is not an established association as yet. Table 1. Adverse Outcomes of Pregnancy with Maternal Hypothyroidism View in own window Infertility Miscarriage Increased fetal death rate Anemia in pregnancy Preeclampsia Abruptio placenta Postpartum hemorrhage Preterm birth Low birth weight Increased neonatal respiratory distress Impaired neurointellectual child development DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Hypothyroidism is diagnosed on the basis of a low FT4 or TT4 and high TSH. In pregnancy there are changes in the ranges of both these hormones requiring the use of gestational trimester-specific reference ranges. Thyroid antibody testing (thyroid peroxidase antibody) confirms the autoimmune nature of hypothyroidism and may also identify antibody positive women who are at risk of postpartum thyroiditis. Subclinical hypothyroidism is diagnosed when TSH is above the reference range while the T4 level is normal. The TSH
