Hypothyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, hypothyroidism, women, tsh, risk, disease, subclinical, trimester, thyroid function, thyroid disease, positive, function, subclinical hypothyroidism, hypothyroidism pregnancy


identify antibody positive women who are at risk of postpartum thyroiditis. Subclinical hypothyroidism is diagnosed when TSH is above the reference range while the T4 level is normal. The TSH level is difficult to interpret during the 1 st trimester due to the weak thyromimetic action of hCG. Isolated hypothyroxinemia occurs most frequently in the 3 rd trimester. The clinical significance is not clear as it may arise due to hemodilution. Table 2. Etiology and Diagnosis of Hypothyroidism During Pregnancy View in own window Autoimmune thyroiditis: Positive thyroid antibody test (TPOAb) Iodine deficiency: Low urinary iodine, Goiter Post-surgical: History of Graves’ disease, toxic nodular goiter, thyroid cancer, benign goiter Table 3. Patients at Risk of Thyroid Dysfunction (American Thyroid Association Case Finding Criteria) View in own window 1. Age >30 years 2. History of thyroid dysfunction or positive thyroid antibodies 3. Type 1 diabetes or other autoimmune disorders 4. Head or neck radiation 5. Use of drugs that affect thyroid function 6. Administration of iodinated contrast materials 7. Goiter or symptoms or signs of thyroid dysfunction 8. Residents in areas of moderate to severe iodine deficiency 9. Multiple prior pregnancies (> 2) 10. Previous pregnancy loss, preterm delivery, or infertility 11. Family history of thyroid disease 12. Morbid obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m2) THERAPY Women with overt hypothyroidism in pregnancy should be treated with levothyroxine, but there is no consensus regarding treatment for women with subclinical hypothyroidism or isolated hypothyroxinemia. Treatment should be considered in women with subclinical hypothyroidism if they have TSH concentrations above 10 mU/L, positive thyroid antibodies, or other risk factors for thyroid disease such as goiter, personal or family history of thyroid autoimmunity, or type 1 diabetes ( table 3 ). Women with infertility or recurrent pregnancy loss could also be treated on the basis that treatment could potentially improve live delivery rates. Treatment of isolated hypothyroxinemia is controversial and is probably not indicated in the 3 rd trimester. In women not receiving T4 who may have risk factors for thyroid disease (e.g. personal or family history of an autoimmune disorder, positive thyroid antibodies, Type 1 DM, prior pre-term delivery, possible iodine deficiency, or neck irradiation) thyroid function should be measured pre-conception. If the TSH is above the laboratory reference range, the test should be confirmed, and supplemental thyroxine therapy should be considered, especially if thyroid antibodies or other risk factors for thyroid disease are present
