Hypothyroidism in Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, hypothyroidism, women, tsh, risk, disease, subclinical, trimester, thyroid function, thyroid disease, positive, function, subclinical hypothyroidism, hypothyroidism pregnancy


above the laboratory reference range, the test should be confirmed, and supplemental thyroxine therapy should be considered, especially if thyroid antibodies or other risk factors for thyroid disease are present ( table 3 ). Women with thyroid autoimmunity who are euthyroid in the early stages of pregnancy are at risk of developing hypothyroidism and should be monitored for elevation of TSH above the normal range for pregnancy. Women receiving T4 for hypothyroidism before pregnancy should have thyroid function checked to maintain TSH levels not higher than 2.5mIU/L in the first trimester and not higher than 3.0mIU/L in subsequent trimesters. As soon as pregnancy is confirmed T4 dose should be increased by 30-50% and TFTs checked every 4 weeks. Note that TSH level is difficult to interpret in the 1 st trimester due to HCG action. Not all women require an increase in T4 dosage in pregnancy. Women who are newly diagnosed to be hypothyroid in pregnancy should receive 100µg T4 daily and the dose adjusted after 4 weeks to the optimal level. In summary, women with overt hypothyroidism or with subclinical hypothyroidism who are TPO antibody positive should be treated with oral levothyroxine. Screening Because of the proven adverse effects of hypothyroidism on pregnancy, and the failure of testing only women at “high risk” of hypothyroidism (defined above) to detect more than 50% of thyroid problems, a case can be made for screening all women for thyroid function in early pregnancy with administration of levothyroxine in women with subnormal thyroid function. Another recommended approach is to screen only women at “high risk”. However, the issue remains unsettled. FOLLOW-UP In women with previously treated Graves’ hyperthyroidism who are receiving thyroxine for post ablative hypothyroidism the Thyroid Stimulating Hormone Receptor Antibodies (TRAbs) assay may be positive even many years later. The woman should be counselled if another pregnancy is planned to guard against fetal or neonatal hyperthyroidism due to transplacental passage of maternal TRAb. Before a further pregnancy thyroid function should be checked in order to keep the TSH less than 2.5mIU/l. When first pregnant the woman should increase T4 dose by 25-50% (usually by 50 micrograms per day) and then have a further thyroid function test 4 weeks later and at least in every trimester thereafter. About 25% do not require an increase in T4 dose. GUIDELINE Alexander EK, Pearce EN, Brent GA, Brown RS, Chen H, Dosiou C, Grobman WA,
