Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


ABSTRACT Since the symptoms of hypogonadism are nonspecific, and the signs of testosterone deficiency can be subtle and slow to develop, the assessment of testicular function relies heavily on laboratory testing. The laboratory diagnosis of hypogonadism is based on a consistent and unequivocally low serum total testosterone level measured in blood samples obtained in the early morning, but normal ranges vary with different methods and among laboratories. Moreover, many men who present with adult onset testosterone deficiency have a low level of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes. In these men, tests for the free (or non-SHBG/bioavailable) testosterone fraction testosterone) are helpful for an accurate diagnosis. If testosterone deficiency is confirmed, the next step is to differentiate between primary and secondary hypogonadism by measuring LH and FSH. With many disorders, however, both the testes and the hypothalamic-pituitary unit are affected. Other tests such as estradiol, inhibin-B, and Mullerian inhibitory hormone, and provocative endocrine tests using hCG, GnRH or its analogs, or antiandrogens or antiestrogens, and semen analysis in the subfertile male are discussed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The evaluation of men for suspected hypogonadism begins with a detailed medical history and a careful physical examination. Laboratory tests are an essential component of almost all evaluations, and proper interpretation of the results obtained requires an understanding of methodology as well as an awareness of the impact of endocrine rhythms, age, race, body composition, drug exposure, co-morbidities, other illnesses, and nutrition on tests of endocrine testicular function. Endocrinologists rely on clinical laboratories to provide accurate and precise, and in some cases highly sensitive assays for accurate diagnoses. We expect the reference ranges to be based on large normal control populations, and for some assays, normative data must be stratified by age. Unfortunately, these expectations are not always fulfilled. Endocrinologists should examine the protocols for each assay, and discuss them with the laboratory director. In recognition of these potential shortcomings, the U.S. Endocrine Society has spearheaded efforts towards standardizing the methods by which testosterone assays are validated ( 1 ), and several societies have provided guidelines and recommendations to physicians who order and interpret the results of androgen assays ( 2 - 4 ). The College of American Pathologists and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control have voluntary Hormone Standardization Programs to
