Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


and interpret the results of androgen assays ( 2 - 4 ). The College of American Pathologists and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control have voluntary Hormone Standardization Programs to help clinical, research, and public health laboratories maintain and enhance the quality and comparability of their results. TESTOSTERONE Testosterone, the major androgen in men, is necessary for fetal male sexual differentiation, pubertal development, and the maintenance of adult secondary sex characteristics and spermatogenesis. Testosterone regulates gene expression in most extra-genital tissues, including muscle and bone, and modulates the immune system. The testes are the source of more than 95% of the circulating testosterone in men although the adrenal cortex produces large amounts of the testosterone precursor steroids, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and androstenedione. Following birth, there is a period of activation of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse generator that stimulates testosterone secretion to peak levels of 200-300 ng/dl (7-10.5 nmol/L) at ages 1-2 months and lasts until age 4-6 months, and is often called mini-puberty ( 5 ). Thereafter, GnRH secretion declines, causing a fall in testosterone to very low levels until puberty begins. LH and testosterone testing at mini-puberty provides an opportunity to confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 6 ). In early puberty, LH and testosterone secretion increase dramatically during sleep which gradually transitions to sustained secretion throughout the day and night ( 7 ). The nocturnal rise in testosterone levels in early puberty can be used clinically to evaluate boys with delayed puberty because it may precede pubertal testis growth, and indicates that puberty has begun. Figure 1 illustrates age-specific median values and ranges for testosterone in morning blood samples from 138 boys ( 8 ). Figure 1. Serum testosterone levels (median and range) by LC-MS in leftover samples from blood checks before minor surgery or for the exclusion of endocrine diseases. Data from Kulle et al ( 8 ). To convert total testosterone levels to nmol/L, multiply by 0.0347 Hypothalamic neurons that express kisspeptin, neurokinin-B, and dynorphin, are thought to activate and up-regulate GnRH and initiate pubertal development ( 9 ). Adult testosterone levels are usually achieved by age 16 years, and generally range from 300-1000 ng/dL (10-35 nmol/L). The secretion of testosterone is periodic with oscillations occurring over hours, days, and months. Frequent sampling of peripheral blood in adult men reveals small frequent moment-to-moment fluctuations ( 10 ) whereas spermatic venous blood sampling reveals robust episodes
