Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


occurring over hours, days, and months. Frequent sampling of peripheral blood in adult men reveals small frequent moment-to-moment fluctuations ( 10 ) whereas spermatic venous blood sampling reveals robust episodes of testosterone secretion occurring about once per hour ( 11 ). Presumably because of this rapid pulse frequency and a plasma half-life of 60-90 min, only small testosterone fluctuations are generally observed in peripheral blood. Therefore. a single blood sample is usually an adequate assessment of testosterone production on a given day. There is a substantial diurnal variation in testosterone levels in adult men, however, with highest levels in the early morning, followed by a progressive decline throughout the day, reaching lowest levels in the evening ( Figure 2 ). Thus, the time of day of blood sampling is an important consideration, and a blood sample drawn in the morning between 0800 and 1000h is recommended because reference ranges are generally based on morning values. Nadir evening levels in young men are generally 15-20% lower than morning values although the differences can be as great as 50% ( 12 ). The diurnal testosterone rhythm is blunted as men grow older ( 13 ) as well as in young men with primary testicular failure. On the other hand, the diurnal variation in testosterone is exaggerated in hypogonadal men with hyperprolactinemia ( 14 ), much like normal adolescents. There may be a seasonable variation in testosterone as well ( 15 ). Figure 2. 24-hour testosterone concentration profiles in eugonadal men (n=5), untreated hypogonadal men with PRL-producing pituitary adenomas, and men with testicular failure (n=5). Adapted from Winters, SJ ( 14 ). To convert total testosterone levels to nmol/L, multiply by 0.0347. There is also a slight decline in testosterone levels following a meal ( 16 ), so that some authors suggest obtaining a fasting level. In general, the results of one abnormal test should be confirmed. In one study in which multiple blood samples were taken from middle-aged men over one year, there was a relatively good correlation (r=0.85) between the plasma testosterone level in the first sample and the mean value of seven subsequent samples; however, as many as 15% of men were misclassified, with either low or normal values that were not reproducible ( 17 ). Testosterone deficiency can be an obvious clinical diagnosis, and laboratory tests are often merely confirmatory; however, the diagnosis of hypogonadism is sometimes less straightforward.
