Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


were not reproducible ( 17 ). Testosterone deficiency can be an obvious clinical diagnosis, and laboratory tests are often merely confirmatory; however, the diagnosis of hypogonadism is sometimes less straightforward. Experts and international guidelines state that the diagnosis of hypogonadism requires the presence of symptoms of hypogonadism as well as a low serum testosterone level. Symptoms of hypogonadism lack specificity, however, and are subjective. Thus, the diagnosis by laboratory testing may be more objective and less controversial. On the other hand, as discussed below, laboratory test results may be inconsistent and suffer from methodological flaws. While men with low testosterone levels tend to have symptoms of hypogonadism ( 18 ), many studies have shown that symptoms are often unrelated to testosterone levels, and many men with low testosterone levels do not complain of symptoms ( 19 , 20 ). The level of total testosterone in serum is the best single test to screen for hypogonadism because methodology has been optimized and normative data are widely available. While early assays extracted plasma steroids into organic solvents and separated them by column chromatography, those research methods generated radioactive waste and are too costly for clinical purposes. Currently most hospital laboratories use automated platforms with either a competitive or proportional two-site format. These platforms use small sample volumes to avoid matrix effects, and a monoclonal antibody with a chemi-luminescent label for detection. The accuracy of the result is highly dependent on the affinity and specificity of the antibody used, and the survey result summarized in Figure 3 demonstrates that platform immunoassays continue to provide variable results with a coefficient of variation (SD/mean) among methods of 12% at a potency of 256 ng/dL which is close to the lower limit of the usual reference range for normal men. Nevertheless, when the manufacturer provides a reference range which is based on a large number of samples, and results are age-adjusted, automated assays are probably sufficient for most clinical purposes in adult men. Assay modifications have reduced the impact of hemolysis, icterus, and lipemia on measured results. Figure 3. Total testosterone levels (±SD) in a proficiency sample (Y-04) distributed by the College of American Pathologists, and assayed using 14 different instruments in 1556 participating laboratories in 2018. The mean (±SD) value was 256 ± 51 ng/dL. The most frequent method (#6) was used by 353 laboratories. Method #4 is mass spectrometry, and was 7% lower than
