Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


2018. The mean (±SD) value was 256 ± 51 ng/dL. The most frequent method (#6) was used by 353 laboratories. Method #4 is mass spectrometry, and was 7% lower than the mean of all methods. To convert total testosterone levels to nmol/L multiply by 0.0347 There is a positive bias at low values in most immunoassays so that automated assays are not recommended for clinical purposes in women and children. Reference laboratories are increasingly employing liquid chromatography (LC) - tandem mass spectrometry (MS) methods ( 21 , 22 ). This approach combines the resolution of chromatography with the specificity of MS, and is now viewed as a gold standard. Larger aliquots of serum are extracted with organic solvents, steroid hormones are separated by chromatography, in some assays following derivatization, and values are determined by peak area integration of testosterone-containing fractions of the column eluate. Accuracy is gained by adding an internal standard as a stable isotope of the same compound being measured in order to correct for procedural losses. LC-MS accurately detects testosterone concentrations as low as 1.0 ng/dL ( 23 , 24 ). In the 2018 CAP survey ( Figure 3 ), the coefficient of variation for the high range sample (419 ng/dL) was 10%, and was a very respectable 11% for both the mid- range (245 ng/dL) and low-range (72 ng/dL) samples among those laboratories (n=35) that used LC-MS methodology. The equipment needed is costly, however, and each LC-MS assay requires substantial analytical development and optimization, as well as highly trained personnel. While one study of men ages 40-80 who self-reported good or excellent health found no age-related change in total testosterone levels ( 25 ), most cross-sectional and longitudinal studies have found that testosterone levels peak in the third decade, and decline as men grow older (e.g. ( 26 , 27 ). Therefore, most reference laboratories present results for testosterone as a function of age. Small differences based on race and ethnicity have been found ( 28 ). One reference range for total testosterone levels in normal volunteers assayed by high-turbulence flow liquid chromatography (HTLC)-MS ( 22 ) is shown in Table 1 . The decline in total testosterone in this study was roughly 0.4% per year beyond age 20, and mean T levels were 31% lower in men older than age 80 compared to men in their 20’s . Table 1. Impact of Age on Total
