Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


SHBG levels from birth to old age in males and females. Redrawn from Elmlinger et al ( 30 ). A cross-sectional analysis of the impact of age on SHBG levels in males and females is shown in Figure 4 . There is an increase following birth to peak values at ages 4-5 years followed by a decline that is greater in males than females ( 30 ). SHBG levels in adult male plasma range from 20-100 nmol/L, and rise slightly in old age ( 28 ); analysis by race revealed higher levels among younger AA males ( 31 ). In normal men, SHBG binds 40-60% of the circulating testosterone with high affinity, and the level of SHBG is a major determinant of the total testosterone level ( Figure 5 ). Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the SHBG gene influence the affinity of SHBG for testosterone and affect the level in plasma ( 32 ). Figure 5. Levels of SHBG and total testosterone in 28 normal men whose BMI ranged from 23-40 kg/m 2 . From Winters SJ et al ( 33 ). Various clinical conditions are associated with reduced or increased SHBG levels, and thereby tend to lower or increase total testosterone concentrations ( Table 3 ). High SHBG levels in men with HepC or hyperthyroidism may lead to very high total testosterone levels, and can be a diagnostic dilemma. Serum SHBG levels are low in obesity ( 34 ), in T2DM or the Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) ( 35 ). In fact, low SHBG is frequently used as a biomarker in epidemiology studies to predict the development of the MetS as well as type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 36 ). SHBG levels rise with weight loss ( 37 ) and when insulin resistance improves even without weight loss, e.g. with exercise. The molecular mechanism linking low levels of SHBG with insulin resistance and obesity is partly through hyperinsulinemia ( 38 , 39 ) and through liver fat and cytokines which together regulate the transcription factor HNF4 alpha, a proximate activator of the SHBG promoter ( 40 , 41 ) and at least 50% of genes expressed in liver. Table 3. Factors that Influence the Level of SHBG in Plasma View in own window Increase Decrease hyperthyroidism hypothyroidism hepatitis C insulin resistance/NAFLD GH deficiency growth hormone excess alcoholic cirrhosis glucocorticoids acute intermittent porphyria androgens first generation anticonvulsants progestins estrogens, certain SERMS nephrotic
