Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


own window Increase Decrease hyperthyroidism hypothyroidism hepatitis C insulin resistance/NAFLD GH deficiency growth hormone excess alcoholic cirrhosis glucocorticoids acute intermittent porphyria androgens first generation anticonvulsants progestins estrogens, certain SERMS nephrotic syndrome mitotane genetic polymorphisms thinness obesity genetic polymorphisms FREE AND NON-SHBG (BIOAVAILABLE) TESTOSTERONE The free hormone hypothesis proposes that the biological activity of a hormone is engendered by its unbound (free) but not its high affinity protein-bound concentration in plasma. The hypothesis remains controversial, and was recently reviewed for testosterone ( 42 ). While some authors propose that there is little extra benefit in measuring free testosterone, my view is that the total testosterone level is sometimes inadequate to determine whether testosterone deficiency or excess is present. This occurs with a borderline value, or when the clinical findings and the total testosterone concentration do not agree. I encounter this conundrum most often in obese men, those with type 2 diabetes, NAFLD, or the Metabolic Syndrome among whom total testosterone levels are generally low, and who present because they have symptoms consistent with hypogonadism. In the Boston Area Community Health (BACH) Survey, 57% of men younger than age 50 with low total testosterone levels reported “normal” sexual function compared to 33% of those with low free testosterone levels ( 19 ). Likewise, the European Male Aging Study found that men age 40-79 with low free but normal total testosterone levels more often had symptoms and signs of sexual dysfunction while men with low total but normal free testosterone concentrations were more obese but had physical or sexual symptom scores that were similar to men with normal values ( 20 ). Thus, free testosterone seemed to be more closely aligned with the symptoms and signs of adult hypogonadism than was the total testosterone level. In older men, on the other hand, the total testosterone level may be within the normal range while free testosterones decline more dramatically. The total testosterone level may also be elevated, as in men with hyperthyroidism, hepatitis-C, and patients treated with first generation anticonvulsants. Each of these situations occurs primarily because the primary condition is associated with a decrease or increase in the circulating SHBG level. Therefore, an assessment of free or non-SHBG bound testosterone may assist in the accurate diagnosis of androgen deficiency. This approach stems from the hypothesis that the bioactivity of circulating testosterone is due to the small percentage (1-4%) of total testosterone that circulates
