Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


the accurate diagnosis of androgen deficiency. This approach stems from the hypothesis that the bioactivity of circulating testosterone is due to the small percentage (1-4%) of total testosterone that circulates unbound (free testosterone) as well as the 40-50% of testosterone that circulates loosely bound to albumin and is often designated as “bioavailable-testosterone” (non-SHBG testosterone). The dissociation of albumin-bound testosterone is very rapid, and a short dissociation time is thought to allow the albumin-bound fraction to be available for uptake by cells ( 43 ). However, there is considerable debate as to which method for estimating free testosterone most accurately reflects testosterone production ( 42 , 44 ). Equilibrium dialysis is the benchmark reference method for measuring free testosterone. With the two-step approach, the free testosterone concentration is calculated from the product of the total testosterone level and the percentage that is determined to be free. H 3 -testosterone is added to the serum sample, and is allowed to partition between two compartments, one containing the tracer and serum sample, and the second containing buffer or an albumin solution. The compartments are separated by a semi-permeable membrane with a low-molecular weight cut-off. The protein-bound testosterone is retained while unbound testosterone, including H 3 -testosterone, crosses the membrane. It may take several hours to reach equilibrium, and using centrifugal ultrafiltration accelerates dialysis by forcing the unbound steroid thorough the membrane. Overall, the result is dependent on the accuracy of the total testosterone assay, and there is potential error due to temperature effects, sample dilution, and tracer impurities, among other problems. This assay is limited to reference laboratories. Liquid chromatograph tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) can reliably measure hormone concentrations as low 1 pg/mL, and has been adapted for the measurement of free testosterone. With this approach, equilibrium dialysis of undiluted serum is performed against buffer overnight at 37C, or more rapidly using ultracentrifugation cartridges, and (free) testosterone is measured directly in the low molecular weight dialysate by LC-MS ( 45 ). Many reference laboratories have embraced this approach but it remains too complex and costly for most hospital laboratories. A published reference range using the two-step equilibrium dialysis method ( Table 4 ) reveals that free testosterone levels decline as men grow older with a difference of 36% between the youngest and oldest reference groups. Thus, the percentage change in free testosterone by this method with age (0.6%/year) exceeds the rate of decline
