Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


free testosterone index (FAI, free androgen index) represents the ratio: total testosterone/SHBG (both in units of nmol/L). This value is easy to calculate, and may be valid in serum samples from women but is not valid in men ( 50 ) because most of the SHBG in men is bound to testosterone. Like the calculated free testosterone, and BAT, the FAI is dependent on accurate values for testosterone and SHBG. Direct Free Testosterone The direct free testosterone assay was developed as a single-step, non-extraction method in which an 125 I-labeled testosterone analog competes with unbound testosterone in plasma for binding to a testosterone-specific antiserum that has been immobilized on a polypropylene assay tube. The basis for the test is that the analog has a low affinity for SHBG and for albumin. Values for normal men with this method, as a percentage of the total testosterone (0.2-0.64%), are substantially lower than the 1.0-4.0% determined by other methods. While this difference alone does not cause a problem if adequate reference ranges are available, it immediately prompted speculation concerning the accuracy of the method. Subsequent studies revealed that analog free testosterone assay results are positively correlated with the level of SHBG, much like total testosterone ( 33 ), and that free testosterone is un-measurable by analog assays in a dialysate of normal adult male serum ( 51 ) . Thus, the free testosterone level determined with analog assays appears to provide essentially the same information as the total testosterone level, is often misleading (tends to over diagnose hypogonadism), and is not recommended . The 2018 College of American Pathologists survey revealed that only 7% of participating laboratories continue to use this method, and it is has nearly disappeared from research articles related to testosterone. Testosterone in Saliva The level of testosterone in saliva is positively correlated with the plasma free testosterone concentration. Salivary samples are easily collected, usually by a non-stimulated drool. Both extraction and non-extraction immunoassay methods are available although LC-MS is being increasingly employed ( 44 ). Usual values in adult men are 150-500 pmol/L (40-145 pg/ml). Salivary testosterone assays are a useful research tool for field studies and other settings in which blood sampling is impossible or impractical. While androgens are stable for a few days in untreated saliva, method artifacts may occur, and careful assay validation and quality control are essential. Salivary testosterone assays have not been recommended for
