Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


are stable for a few days in untreated saliva, method artifacts may occur, and careful assay validation and quality control are essential. Salivary testosterone assays have not been recommended for clinical purposes. Cell-Based Reporter Bioassays Cell-based reporter bioassays have been developed to analyze androgen bioactivity in biological samples. A stable cell line is created by transfection with plasmids encoding the human androgen receptor and a reporter system containing an androgen-responsive gene such as the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)-luciferase reporter. When cells are stimulated with androgens, luciferase activity is increased dose-dependently ( 52 ), These assays remain investigational. DIHYDROTESTOSTERONE 5 alpha reduction of testosterone to the more potent androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) is essential for fetal male genital development. T is converted to DHT by at least two steroid 5α-reductase (5AR) isoenzymes, 5AR types 1 and 2. 5AR-1 is found in liver, skin, brain, ovary, prostate, and testis whereas 5AR-2 is expressed in prostate, seminal vesicle, epididymis and skin. Approximately 20% of the circulating DHT in men is secreted by the testes, and the remainder is derived from the bioconversion of testosterone in tissues. Because of a high level of expression of 5AR-2 in prostate, testosterone is effectively converted to DHT in that tissue, in which the level of DHT exceeds the peripheral blood concentration by 5-10-fold. The concentration of DHT in adult male serum is only about 10% of the value for testosterone, however. Therefore, an assay with negligible cross-reactivity with testosterone is needed for an accurate result. An LC-MS method is now used by most reference laboratories. With gradient elution, the separation is totally complete ( 53 ). Patients with 5α-reductase deficiency type 2 have ambiguous genitalia, and are generally detected as neonates, although a few patients have only microphallus or cryptorchidism. A rise in testosterone but not DHT following hCG stimulation, producing a ratio of more than 10:1, is characteristic in most of these patients ( 54 ). However, DHT production by 5AR1 can reduce the reliability of the ratio for diagnosis ( 55 ). The diagnosis is most often made by urinary steroid profiling by GC-MS, together with mutational analysis. DHT levels are often measured in epidemiological studies and in clinical research on prostate cancer and its treatments, and testosterone treatment results in a dose-dependent increase in serum DHT concentrations ( 56 ). Yet DHT levels are probably not useful in most clinical situations. ESTRADIOL AND ESTRONE
