Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


treatments, and testosterone treatment results in a dose-dependent increase in serum DHT concentrations ( 56 ). Yet DHT levels are probably not useful in most clinical situations. ESTRADIOL AND ESTRONE Estrogens are important male hormones. They regulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis, influence the function of the testes and prostate, increase growth hormone and IGF-1 secretion, modify lipid metabolism and other hepatic proteins, and play an important role in male skeletal health, body fat, and perhaps sexual functioning ( 57 , 58 ). Serum levels of estradiol and estrone are often measured in men with gynecomastia ( 59 ) or with unexplained gonadotropin deficiency. These conditions are rarely, but occasionally, due to estrogen-producing tumors, or to acquired ( 60 ) or genetic ( 61 ) abnormalities in which estrogen production is increased. Moreover, the accurate measurement of estradiol may be helpful when SERMs, aromatase inhibitors, or hCG are used are used to increase testosterone levels, and in research on the role of estrogens in males ( 58 , 62 ). Estradiol is produced from testosterone, and estrone is produced from androstenedione, by aromatase P450, the product of the CYP19 gene. This enzyme is expressed in Leydig cells and in the adrenal cortex, as well as in adipose- and skin-stromal cells, aortic smooth muscle cells, kidney, skeletal muscle cells, and the brain. The promoter sequences of the P450 aromatase genes are tissue-specific, but the translated protein appears to be the same in all tissues. Increased aromatase expression in adipose and skin stroma with obesity is the most common cause for mild estrogen excess in men. Interestingly, most studies of the age-associated decline in testosterone levels do not find a parallel fall in plasma estradiol levels perhaps because of increasing aromatase activity and fat mass as men grow older ( 63 ). Because of low levels in males, traditional immunoassays for estrogens employed large volumes of plasma (2-5 ml) that were extracted with organic solvents. Because those assays are time-consuming and expensive to perform, non-radioactive automated methods that were optimized for the higher values normally found in pre-menopausal women were employed. However, the very small sample volumes used in automated assays may produce unexpectedly high values. Results for estradiol in male plasma determined in platform assays are unreliable. The lack of agreement between laboratories is shown in Figure 6 which depicts the results for the low potency proficiency sample (mean 199 pg/mL) distributed in
