Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


platform assays are unreliable. The lack of agreement between laboratories is shown in Figure 6 which depicts the results for the low potency proficiency sample (mean 199 pg/mL) distributed in 2018 by the College of American Pathologists to 1450 participating laboratories. While many assays produced similar results, overall values ranged from 151 to 415 pg/ml (554-1523 pmol/L), with a coefficient of variation of 33%, compared to the goal of ±12.5%. The mean value of the sample far exceeds normal levels in males, however, and testing at a lower potency would no doubt have produced even more dramatic differences. Figure 6. Estradiol levels (±SD) in a mid-range proficiency sample (Y-05) distributed by the College of American Pathologists assayed using 15 different instruments in 1499 participating laboratories in 2018. The most frequently used (#6) was used by 341 laboratories. Mass spectrometry assays (n=11) are represented in column 4. Mass spectrometry assays for estradiol and estrone, with a limit of detection of 1 pg/ml, have replaced conventional radio-immunoassays in most reference laboratories ( 24 ), and are highly recommended. The result with LC-MS is lower than with many immunoassays which presumably also detect interfering substances. Moreover, the between laboratory coefficient of variation for laboratories using MS methods (column 4) was also acceptably low at 10.3%. Most of the circulating estradiol in men is loosely bound to albumin or is unbound ( 64 ), and only about 20% is thought to be bound to SHBG. Therefore, the serum level of SHBG was not predicted to appreciably influence the actions of estradiol. Measurement of free estradiol may be useful, however ( 65 ). In a series of studies, calculated non-SHBG-bound estradiol levels correlated more strongly with low bone mineral density and with indexes of high bone turnover in older men than did levels of total estradiol ( 66 ). On the other hand, increased mortality over 12 years of follow-up was seen among those with either low or high total as well as calculated free estradiol levels at baseline when compared to those in the middle tertile ( 67 ). Akin to testosterone, non-SHBG (bioavailable) estradiol levels can be determined by ammonium sulfate precipitation using 3 H-estradiol, or by equilibrium dialysis with or without using LC-MS. Estimated levels are < 1 pg/mL. Calculated values require an accurate total estradiol assay, affinity constants are less certain than for testosterone, and the influence of testosterone and other
