Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


LC-MS. Estimated levels are < 1 pg/mL. Calculated values require an accurate total estradiol assay, affinity constants are less certain than for testosterone, and the influence of testosterone and other steroids that also bind SHBG on the calculated estradiol level is no doubt important. Age-specific free estradiol levels were reported but total estradiol was measured using an electro-chemiluminescence immunoassay ( 68 ); results using LC-MS methods are needed. GONADOTROPINS FSH and LH, together with TSH and hCG, form a closely related family of heterodimeric glycoprotein hormones. Each consists of a common α-subunit that is non-covalently linked to a specific β-subunit. The α–β dimer is held together by a ‘seatbelt’ structure formed by the C-terminal amino acids of the β-subunit wrapped around the α-subunit. Both subunits have asparagine-linked carbohydrate chains (2 for human α-subunit, 2 for FSH-β, and 1 for LH-β). The oligosaccharides project from the peptide skeleton, and by shielding of epitopes and altering the tertiary structure of the hormone, the sugars may impact receptor activation and bioactivity as well as antibody binding. Glycosylation also prolongs hormone clearance. Most laboratories utilize fully automated, commercial assay systems for peptide hormones including LH and FSH. Detection is generally by chemiluminescence, avoiding the use of radioactive tracers. Many assays achieve specificity by utilizing a biotinylated monoclonal antibody to the α-subunit as a capture antibody. A second monoclonal antibody to the β-subunit is labeled with an organic ester that produces chemiluminescence in the presence of hydrogen peroxide (indicator antibody). Various pituitary and recombinant preparations are used for the standard curve but most assays are calibrated in terms of IU/L of International Reference Preparations (IRP) of highly purified human LH and FSH. The various standards have differing sugar sequences and branch patterns producing some variation in results between laboratories and assays, however, differences are relatively small. When defined as a level of precision of replicate determinations of <10%, the sensitivity of these assays approximates 0.1 U/L. Figure 7. Serum LH and FSH levels in normal males measured by an ICMA assay. Redrawn from Resende et al. ( 69 ). Figure 7 shows mean levels of LH and FSH across the stages of pubertal development in boys measured with an automated ICMA ( 69 ). Values with an immunofluometric assay were slightly higher. FSH levels tend to exceed LH before puberty in boys, and both gonadotropins rise progressively during puberty with substantial overlap among the various
