Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


with an immunofluometric assay were slightly higher. FSH levels tend to exceed LH before puberty in boys, and both gonadotropins rise progressively during puberty with substantial overlap among the various pubertal stages. Prepubertal children have low amplitude but discrete pulsatile patterns of LH secretion that are amplified during sleep as puberty begins ( 70 ) . In adult men, LH is released in robust pulses every 1-2 h throughout the day and night with within subject variation in pulse height and between-pulse interval ( Figure 8 ). In part because of pulsatility , the normal range for LH is wide, with typical ranges for adult men in terms of 2 nd IRP of 1.6–8.0 IU/L for LH and 1.3–8.4 IU/L for FSH. Because of this pulsatility, pooling of 3 samples taken 20–30 min apart may provide a more accurate estimate of a person’s LH value than does a single sample. Figure 8. Pulsatile patterns of LH secretion. Blood samples were drawn every 10 min for 12h starting at 0800 h from a 32-year-old normal man whose testosterone level was 474 ng/dL. Winters, SJ (unpublished). Men with elevated levels of LH and FSH generally have testicular damage. Testes are usually small, there is oligo or azoospermia, and testosterone levels are low. Circulating estradiol levels are generally normal, however, in part because testicular aromatase is stimulated by the high level of LH. In some men with high LH and FSH levels, testosterone levels remain normal, sometimes because of elevated SHBG. The term “mild” or “compensated” hypogonadism is often applied ( 71 ). The diagnosis of gonadotroph adenoma is sometimes entertained, but long-standing infertility and small testes are a clue to the correct diagnosis. Much like the controversy surrounding thyroid hormone replacement in individuals with “subclinical” hypothyroidism, men with compensated hypogonadism who are not seeking fertility, mighty be viewed as candidates for testosterone replacement even though testosterone levels are within the reference range. This is often the case in teenagers with Klinefelter syndrome ( 72 ). As men grow older, there is a decrease in sperm quality, the testes tend to be smaller, and there are fewer germ cells with more hyalinization and thickening of the tunica albuginea. Inhibin-B levels fall and FSH levels are often elevated. Mean LH levels also rise, but most often remain within the reference range ( 73 ). Men treated with SERMs or aromatase inhibitors ( 74 ),
