Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


levels are often elevated. Mean LH levels also rise, but most often remain within the reference range ( 73 ). Men treated with SERMs or aromatase inhibitors ( 74 ), and the rare men with inactivating mutations of the estrogen receptor-α ( 75 ) often have elevated LH and normal or elevated testosterone levels. These findings imply that estradiol is a major mediator of testicular negative feedback control of GnRH-LH secretion. Elevated LH and testosterone levels are also characteristic of men with androgen insensitivity syndromes ( 76 ) and men treated with anti-androgens ( 77 ), and reveal that there is additional negative feedback control of gonadotropins through the androgen receptor. FSH levels may be increased selectively because FSH production is regulated not only by GnRH and gonadal steroids but also by a paracrine control mechanism that involves pituitary activin and follistatin, and gonadal inhibin (see below). When Sertoli cells fail to function normally, inhibin-B production declines, and the paracrine effects of pituitary activin stimulation of FSH-β gene expression is unopposed. Most men with high FSH levels have small testes and oligo- or azoospermia ( 78 ); however, FSH levels may sometimes be within the reference range (note that in some instances the reference range for FSH may be too high and some experts feel that the upper level for FSH is 8IU/L) in infertile men with severe damage to the germinal epithelium ( 79 ) who may have either normal sized or small testes. In these cases, testicular biopsy is sometimes needed for a definitive diagnosis which is most often maturation arrest at the primary spermatocyte stage. An elevated serum FSH level may rarely indicate an FSH-producing pituitary adenoma ( 80 ). These tumors are generally macroadenomas that present with headache and a visual disturbance, and often co-secrete free α- s ubunit. The testes may occasionally enlarge ( 81 ). The LH level is usually suppressed even when the tumors are LH-β immunoreactive, and testosterone levels are generally low. LH secretion by a pituitary tumor is very rare ( 82 , 83 ). Most pituitary adenomas that are immunoreactive for LH or FSH are clinically silent with little or no hormone secretion. The diagnosis of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) is based upon finding a low serum testosterone level with inappropriately low/normal LH and FSH concentrations. It is important to verify testosterone deficiency since a low SHBG level may result in
