Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


based upon finding a low serum testosterone level with inappropriately low/normal LH and FSH concentrations. It is important to verify testosterone deficiency since a low SHBG level may result in the misdiagnosis of testosterone deficiency, and low LH may overlap with the reference range because of the pulsatile nature of LH secretion. Thus, the diagnosis of secondary hypogonadism ( 84 ) is sometimes problematic. The differential diagnosis of true hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is broad, and includes congenital HH due to a variety of genetic mutations including Kallmann syndrome ( 85 ), and acquired disorders such as prolactinoma, other sellar and suprasellar tumors or cysts, infiltrative diseases and vascular causes, iron overload, head trauma and others. HH in childhood limits pubertal development while in adults HH results in the regression of secondary sexual characteristics, albeit slowly. Isolated deficiency of FSH due to inactivating mutation in the FSH-β gene is a rare disorder ( 86 - 88 ). Affected men have been azoospermic, with borderline or low testosterone and increased LH levels. Pathological examination revealed narrowed seminiferous tubules, decreased Sertoli cell numbers, absence or aplasia of germ cells, and Leydig cell hyperplasia. Most mutations disrupt the ability of the mutant FSH- β to combine with the alpha-subunit. The low testosterone and increased LH levels may be explained by impaired signaling from the dysfunctional seminiferous tubules to Leydig cells ( 89 ). A few hypogonadal men with inactivating mutations of the LH-β gene have also been described ( 90 - 92 ). Immunoreactive LH may be present or absent in serum depending on the nature of the mutation, but if present is bioinactive ( 92 ). Testosterone is low, and FSH is increased. As placental hCG, rather than LH, stimulates male sexual differentiation, affected males have a normal male phenotype at birth while bioactive LH deficiency results in testosterone deficiency, and prevents normal puberty. Two-site assays can occasionally be "too specific". Polymorphisms that affect immunoassay detection by monoclonal antibodies may lead to misdiagnoses. For example, there is a relatively common polymorphism in the LH-β gene that is characterized by two point mutations in codons 8 and 15 resulting in two amino acid substitutions and an extra glycosylation site ( 88 ). Even though men and women with the LH variant appear to be normal and fertile, the serum LH level is low or undetectable using certain monoclonal antibodies whereas the result with other assays
