Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


and women with the LH variant appear to be normal and fertile, the serum LH level is low or undetectable using certain monoclonal antibodies whereas the result with other assays is normal. Clearly, when a man with a low or undetectable LH with a normal testosterone level is encountered, or a disparity between LH and FSH levels cannot be readily explained, a second assay method should be used. Various glycoforms of LH and FSH with structurally heterogeneous glycans are found in the pituitary and in the circulation, and glycosylation has been shown to influence hormone clearance and biological activity ( 93 ). Both sex steroids and activin have been reported to affect gonadotropin glycosylation. Highly sialylated glycoforms, with an acidic pH, tend to have a longer circulating half-life whereas the more alkaline forms tend to exhibit greater bioactivity in vitro. There is evidence that LH and FSH glycosylation is physiologically important. The ideal immunoassay would detect accurately only the total bioactive LH or FSH in the sample, but clearly this goal is difficult to accomplish. As an alternative approach, in vitro bioassays for LH and FSH can be used to assess the function of the gonadotropins. An in vitro bioassay based on the production of testosterone by cultured mouse or rat Leydig cells ( 94 ) was developed to assess LH function, and the production of estradiol by rat granulosa cells or immature Sertoli cells can be used to assay FSH bioactivity ( 95 ). Bioassays based on cAMP production by cell lines stably expressing gonadotropin receptors, with quantification using cAMP-responsive promoters linked to a luciferase reporter, have also been developed ( 34 ). While useful for the study of the biological properties of recombinant or purified proteins, the clinical use of these assays is limited by the nonspecific effects of serum. In fact, many findings reported in patients using in vitro LH bioassays were found subsequently to be methodological artifacts. Glycoprotein α-Subunit Glycoprotein α-subunit is secreted in bursts that coincide with LH secretory episodes, implying pre-eminent regulation by GnRH ( 96 ) Accordingly, serum α-subunit levels increase at puberty ( 97 ) and are elevated in men with testicular failure and in postmenopausal women. α-Subunit is also expressed in thyrotrophs, and levels are increased in patients with primary hypothyroidism ( 98 ). Figure 9. Pulsatile patterns of α-subunit secretion. Blood samples were drawn every 10 min for 12h starting
