Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


thyrotrophs, and levels are increased in patients with primary hypothyroidism ( 98 ). Figure 9. Pulsatile patterns of α-subunit secretion. Blood samples were drawn every 10 min for 12h starting at 0800 h from a 32-year-old normal man whose testosterone level was 474 ng/dL. Winters, SJ (unpublished) α-Subunit levels are low, but measurable, in normal children and in patients with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Because peak α-subunit levels after GnRH stimulation tend to be lower in IHH patients than in prepubertal boys, this test has been used to distinguish between these two patient groups, although some overlap occurs ( 99 ). α-Subunit is produced by as many as 20% of pituitary adenomas ( 100 ) often together with FSH or sometimes GH. Because it is cleared by renal excretion, α-subunit levels are high in patients with renal failure ( 101 ) . INSULIN-LIKE FACTOR 3 Insulin-like factor-3 (INSL3) is a peptide hormone member of the relaxin-insulin hormone family that is secreted by Leydig cells following LH stimulation. INSL3 affects testicular descent through effects on the gubernaculum ( 102 ) and plays a role in spermatogonial differentiation. At the time of puberty, INSL3 levels rise in parallel with testosterone ( 103 ). INSL3 concentrations in the blood of normal adult men are approximately 1 ng/mL (0.4-1.5 ng/mL). Patients with Leydig cell dysfunction have lower levels, and the very low concentrations in men with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism increase following hCG administration ( 104 ) but are unaffected by testosterone treatment ( 105 ). INHIBIN-B Inhibin, a glycoprotein hormone produced by the testes as well as the ovaries, is responsible for the selective negative feedback control of FSH secretion, and functions as an intra-gonadal regulator ( 106 ). Most evidence supports the idea that inhibin decreases FSH-β mRNA levels by blocking pituitary activin-stimulated FSH-b transcription ( 107 ). Inhibin is a 32-kDa heterodimer composed of an α-subunit, and one of two β subunits, β A or β B . Inhibin-B (α-β B ) is the form produced by testicular Sertoli cells; inhibin-A (α-β A ), produced by the corpus luteum and placenta, is undetectable in adult male plasma. Higher molecular weight forms of the uncombined inhibin α-subunit that lack bioactivity are released into the circulation in excess of dimeric inhibin-B. The Gen II two site inhibin-B ELISA assay uses a capture antibody raised to a peptide from the βB-subunit, and a biotinylated detection antibody raised
