Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


in excess of dimeric inhibin-B. The Gen II two site inhibin-B ELISA assay uses a capture antibody raised to a peptide from the βB-subunit, and a biotinylated detection antibody raised to a peptide from the inhibin α-subunit ( 108 ). Wells are then incubated with a streptavidin-labeled horseradish peroxidase followed by the substrate tetramethylbenzidine which produces a colorometric signal that is proportional to the amount of inhibin-B in the sample. The assay is not automated and no performance statistics could be located. Older assays were more complex, and added methionine and an oxidation step with hydrogen peroxide to facilitate capture, and heating with sodium dodecyl sulfate solution to enhance specificity. Inhibin-B is produced by the fetal testis and is measurable in serum at term. Levels increase substantially in newborns coincident with the rise in gonadotropins and testosterone (mini-puberty), remain elevated for 2-4 months and then decline ( 109 ). In contrast to barely detectable levels of gonadotropins and testosterone during childhood, however, circulating inhibin-B is readily measurable in sera from prepubertal boys, implying that production is partly gonadotropin-independent. Serum inhibin-B levels increase to adult values at the time of puberty, and decline as men grow older ( 110 ). Serum inhibin levels are partly determined by gonadotropin stimulation ( 111 ) but based on studies in monkeys, also reflect Sertoli cell number ( 112 ). With the updated assay, results for normospermic men were (2.5-95 th percentile) 32-416 with a median value of 174 pg/mL ( 113 ). Figure 10. Inhibin B levels in males in relation to age. Reprinted from Andersson A-M ( 114 ) with permission of the publisher (Elsevier). Although there is no remarkable pulsatile fluctuation in circulating inhibin-B levels, there is a diurnal variation in adult men with the highest values in the morning and nadir values approximately 35% lower in the evening. This diurnal pattern parallels that of testosterone ( 115 ). Inhibin has been extensively studied as a biomarker of spermatogenesis. In keeping with its function to suppress FSH production, circulating inhibin-B levels are inversely correlated with FSH levels in adult men, and are more strongly correlated inversely when values from men with primary testicular failure are included in the analysis ( 111 ). Inhibin-B levels are higher in fertile than infertile men but there is substantial overlap between the groups ( 113 , 116 ). There is also a demonstrable, albeit weak, positive
