Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


Inhibin-B levels are higher in fertile than infertile men but there is substantial overlap between the groups ( 113 , 116 ). There is also a demonstrable, albeit weak, positive correlation with sperm count ( 117 ), and with the germ cell score in testicular biopsy specimens among infertile men ( 118 ). Inhibin-B levels are low in men with testicular failure, and are very low in men with Klinefelter syndrome in whom seminiferous tubules are hyalinized and Sertoli cells are essentially absent ( 119 ). Low but measurable inhibin-B levels in men following chemotherapy ( 120 ) or testicular irradiation ( 121 ), some of whom develop germinal cell aplasia, suggest that germ cell factors regulate SC inhibin production. Low inhibin-B levels predict persistent azoospermia in men with testicular cancer who undergo orchidectomy, chemotherapy and irradiation ( 122 ). Serum inhibin levels changed little in normal men who participated in a male contraceptive clinical trial of testosterone together with a progestin, and developed azoospermia or severe oligospermia ( 123 ). Inhibin-B levels have been studied as a biomarker in the male partners of infertile couples undergoing testicular sperm extraction (TESE) as a predictor of success of intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). While mean inhibin B levels tend to be lower (and FSH higher) in men with no sperm found at TESE, there is no level of inhibin-B that reproducibly predicts either the presence or absence of spermatozoa in TESE samples, or successful in vitro fertilization ( 124 ). Thus, measurement of inhibin-B is not recommended in the decision making for fertility potential among azoospermic men undergoing TESE and ICSI. Further, very large doses of FSH are needed to increase circulating inhibin-B levels in men, so that an FSH stimulation test for inhibin-B is also not helpful in a clinical evaluation of hypospermatogenesis. Inhibin-B levels are reduced in gonadotropin-deficient men ( 125 ). In those with the complete form of congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, values are lower than in men with partial gonadotropin deficiency who have some spontaneous pubertal development. This quantitative difference is partly due to a presumed larger mass of Sertoli cells (as reflected by larger testicular size) in the latter group of men. Low inhibin-B levels have been reported to differentiate boys with constitutional delay of puberty (CDP) from those with congenital hypogonadoptropic hypogonadism (CHH) with 80-100% sensitivity and specificity ( 126 ). While plasma inhibin B concentrations in
