Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


to differentiate boys with constitutional delay of puberty (CDP) from those with congenital hypogonadoptropic hypogonadism (CHH) with 80-100% sensitivity and specificity ( 126 ). While plasma inhibin B concentrations in CHH and CDP may overlap, in one study of boys age 14-18 years with delayed puberty, among those who were genital stage 1 (testis volume ≤ 3ml), inhibin-B levels <35 pg/ml predicted persistent hypogonadism (testosterone levels < 3 nmol/L), and presumably the diagnosis of CHH, after 2 years of follow-up ( 127 ). Inhibin-B is undetectable in most boys with congenital anorchia as in castrates, and is therefore a useful test to help distinguish these patients from boys with intra-abdominal testes ( 128 ). High inhibin-B levels have been reported in a few boys with FSH-producing pituitary tumors ( 129 ), in patients with Sertoli cell tumors ( 130 ) and in boys with McCune Albright syndrome with macro-orchidism and autonomous function of Sertoli cells ( 131 ). Adrenal tumors often express the inhibin α-subunit, and there is one report of high serum dimeric inhibin level in an adult man with an adrenal neoplasm ( 132 ). ANTI- MULLERIAN HORMONE Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH, also known as Mullerian inhibitory hormone) is a 140 KDa homodimeric member of the TGF-β family of growth and differentiation factors ( 133 ). It is produced by fetal Sertoli cells and causes regression of Mullerian structures during male sexual development ( 134 ). AMH production increases in response to FSH and is inhibited by androgens. AMH is readily detectable in the serum of prepubertal boys in concentrations of 10-70 ng/ml, and declines to levels of 2-5 ng/ml with entry into adolescence ( 135 ). AMH remains detectable at low values throughout adulthood ( 104 ) but how AMH functions in males beyond fetal life is uncertain. AMH levels are elevated in untreated men with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and decline following treatment with hCG ( 136 ). AMH is absent from the plasma of most prepubertal boys with congenital anorchia but is generally detectable in boys with bilateral cryptorchidism ( 134 ). Therefore, measuring AMH is useful in evaluating boys with non-palpable gonads. AMH levels are low in men with seminiferous tubular failure but overlap with normal in men with oligospermia, and do not predict testicular sperm retrieval for ICSI ( 137 ). Levels tend be low in obesity ( 138 ), Figure 11. Serum concentrations of
