Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


in men with oligospermia, and do not predict testicular sperm retrieval for ICSI ( 137 ). Levels tend be low in obesity ( 138 ), Figure 11. Serum concentrations of AMH in healthy males from birth (cord blood) to age 69 years. From Aksglaede L et al ( 139 ). Red dots are values from men with bilateral anorchia. Republished with permission of The Endocrine Society. FUNCTIONAL TESTS hCG Stimulation Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) can be used as a test agent to examine Leydig cell steroidogenesis in prepubertal boys who secrete little or no endogenous gonadotropins. A variety of protocols have been used. In one study, serum testosterone levels rose to greater than 300 ng/dL (10.5 nmol/L) in healthy prepubertal boys administered hCG 1500 IU intramuscularly every other day for seven doses. The effect of hCG to increase circulating levels of testosterone, precursor steroids and DHT can be used in conjunction with mutation analysis to help evaluate patients with a 46,XY karyotype who have ambiguous genitalia which may be due to androgen insensitivity, defects in testosterone biosynthesis, or 5α-reductase deficiency ( 140 ). When the basal and hCG-stimulated profile indicates accumulation of steroid precursors upstream of an enzymatic defect, sequencing can be performed to identify the disorder. A raised serum testosterone to DHT ratio would suggest the diagnosis of 5α-reductase deficiency type 2. However, DHT production by 5α-RD1 can reduce the reliability of the ratio for diagnosis ( 55 ). Testosterone levels are generally unaffected by hCG in boys with congenital bilateral anorchia but increase in boys with bilateral intra-abdominal testes ( 141 ). Therefore, this test, together with measurement of inhibin-B and AMH, help establish which boys have intra-abdominal testes and should undergo laparoscopy, and orchidopexy or orchiectomy ( 128 ). Adult men with primary testicular failure have elevated endogenous serum LH concentrations, and hCG will predictably increase serum testosterone levels less in these men than in eugonadal men. In gonadotropin-deficient men, the testosterone response to short-term administration of hCG is also blunted because Leydig cell steroidogenic enzymes are down-regulated. Overall, hCG testing nowadays provides little clinically useful information in either group of adult men. Blockade of Steroid Hormone Biosynthesis and Action Lowering circulating sex steroid levels with pharmacological inhibitors, or blocking steroid hormone action with receptor antagonists, can be used to assess the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular unit as a research tool, and clinically as a treatment for
