Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


inhibitors, or blocking steroid hormone action with receptor antagonists, can be used to assess the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular unit as a research tool, and clinically as a treatment for adult men with adult onset hypogonadism ( 142 ). Ketoconazole, a competitive inhibitor of cytochrome P450 cholesterol side chain cleavage (P450scc) and C17/20 lyase in the biosynthetic pathway to testosterone is used in the treatment of endemic mycoses and off-label in other conditions including Cushing syndrome, but causes a dose-dependent reduction in circulating testosterone and estradiol levels. ( 143 ). Because ketoconazole also lowers cortisol production, glucocorticoids are co-administered with ketoconazole to prevent the symptoms of cortisol deficiency. Estrogens produced by the testes, peripheral tissues, and the CNS play an important role in the physiological feedback regulation of gonadotropin secretion in men. Selective estrogen response modulators (SERMs) bind to estrogen receptors (ER-α and/or ER-β) and exert estrogen-like effects, or inhibit estrogen effects, in a tissue-specific manner. SERMs also have non-classical extra-nuclear (membrane) signaling mechanisms in certain cells. By blocking estradiol negative feedback, most SERMS, such as clomiphene ( 144 ) and tamoxifen, increase plasma LH and FSH levels. Similarly, aromatase inhibitors ( 145 ) such as anastrazole, reduce circulating estradiol levels, and increase LH in men. Dosages of 25 mg/day of clomiphene produced a mean two-fold increase in serum testosterone levels in adult men (Helo 2015). ( 142 )., and while higher doses are more effective, estradiol levels may increase, and gynecomastia and galactorrhea may occur ( 144 ). Two-fold increments in LH were produced by anastrazole 10 mg daily within 3-4 days. Both blocking estrogen negative feedback and decreasing estradiol production increased LH pulse frequency indicating an effect of estradiol on the GnRH pulse generator. A normal response implies functional integrity of GnRH-LH-testosterone pathways; however, responses among normal subjects are variable, and diagnostic tests using SERMS are not thought to be useful clinically. So far, these agents are not FDA-approved for any use in men. Nonsteroidal antiandrogens increase serum LH levels in men by blocking the androgen negative feedback effect on GnRH secretion ( 146 ) and can be used to test GnRH-LH integrity. GnRH Test GnRH is used as a research tool to examine the responsiveness of gonadotrophs to their physiological stimulus. In normal adult men, the intravenous administration of 100 µg of GnRH increases serum LH levels three- to- six-fold while serum FSH levels rise by about
