Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


to their physiological stimulus. In normal adult men, the intravenous administration of 100 µg of GnRH increases serum LH levels three- to- six-fold while serum FSH levels rise by about 50%. Generally, the total and incremental release of LH and FSH following GnRH administration is directly proportional to the basal hormone level, although exceptions do occur. The GnRH test was introduced as a method to diagnose hypogonadism, and to distinguish hypogonadism due to hypothalamic from pituitary disorders. The LH and FSH response to GnRH is subnormal when gonadotrophs are damaged or destroyed by pituitary tumors or by other pathologies. However, the gonadotropin response to stimulation with GnRH is also diminished in patients with GnRH deficiency since GnRH up-regulates its receptor on gonadotrophs, as well as the expression level of each of the gonadotropin subunit genes and thereby LH and FSH production. Thus, the LH response to GnRH stimulation is attenuated in these patients even though the pituitary is essentially normal. Therefore, when evaluating gonadotropin deficient adult men, the GnRH test generally provides little information beyond that of the basal testosterone, LH and FSH levels, and is not recommended for clinical purposes. GnRH analog (naferelin, leuprolide, buserelin, triptorelin) testing may help distinguish prepubertal boys with constitutional delay of puberty (CDP) from those with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 147 - 149 ). These agents bind the GnRH receptor with higher affinity and have a longer circulating half-life than does native GnRH. The LH and testosterone responses at 4h and 24h in boys with CDP generally exceed those of HH. In one study, prepubertal boys age 13.7-17.5 years with testicular volume ≤ 4ml whose LH level at 4h following 0.1 mg sc triptorelin exceeded 5.3 U/L all progressed to testicular enlargement, testis size ≥ 8 ml, over 18 months. Those boys with lower LH basal ≤ 2U/L and stimulated ≤5.3 mIU/ml values did not progress to this level. The CHH group also had low levels of inhibin-B (<111 pg/ml) at baseline ( 127 ). Thus, the test seems to be of use in evaluating prepubertal boys with delayed puberty. In patients with CHH who are homozygotes or compound heterozygotes for mutations of the GnRH receptor gene, GnRH binding to its receptor may be either absent or reduced in affinity, or receptor signal transduction may be impaired, and the LH response to GnRH stimulation in these patients may be absent or reduced. The LH
