Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


either absent or reduced in affinity, or receptor signal transduction may be impaired, and the LH response to GnRH stimulation in these patients may be absent or reduced. The LH response in those with partial hypogonadotropic hypogonadism overlaps with the normal response ( 150 ), and while these tests are helpful so far there is no gold-standard diagnostic test to fully differentiate boys with CHH from those with CDP. SEMEN ANALYSIS Laboratory testing for men who present for an evaluation of infertility begins with the semen analysis ( 151 ). Most laboratories report the semen volume, the sperm density (million/mL), motility (% with progressive motion on the microscopic slide), and the sperm morphology (% with oval-shaped sperm heads), and follow WHO guidelines in their methods and reports ( 152 ). The test helps predict fertility potential but is not a test of fertility since there is substantial overlap between results for fertile and infertile men ( 153 ). Moreover, lack of complete adherence to standardized methods, and insufficiently skilled laboratory staff, may substantially limit the diagnostic value of the semen analysis. The sample can be collected by masturbation, or by interrupted intercourse, generally after 2-3 days of abstinence from ejaculation. Most of the sperm are in the first portion of the ejaculate so it is important to collect a complete sample. Condom collection is less desirable since condoms contain spermicides, but if so, the sample should be immediately placed into a sterile jar. It is important to analyze the sample within 60 min of collection, as motility decreases over time. In cold climates, the sample should be kept warm in transit by holding it within outer clothing adjacent to the body. Even with optimized collection methods, there is a physiological day-to-day variation in sperm production, so 2-3 samples may provide more insight that a single sample. A man can be considered to be sterile if there are no sperm in the ejaculate (azoospermia). Table 6. WHO Guidelines for an Adequate Semen Analysis View in own window Semen volume ≥1.4 mL Sperm concentration ≥15 million/mL Total sperm output ≥40 million sperm Sperm progressive (total) motility ≥32 (≥40%) Sperm morphology ≥4% GENETIC TESTING Assisted reproductive techniques have enabled azoospermic and severely oligospermic (<5 million/mL) men to reproduce. Therefore, there is a need to identify and discuss the consequences of possible mutations with the infertile couples. Genetic abnormalities are found in 3% to
