Laboratory Assessment of Testicular Function
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, pubmed, levels, clinical, free, endocrinology, serum, journal, hormone, clinical endocrinology, fsh, total, metabolism, low


(<5 million/mL) men to reproduce. Therefore, there is a need to identify and discuss the consequences of possible mutations with the infertile couples. Genetic abnormalities are found in 3% to 5% of men with severe oligosperma, and 14% to 19% of men with non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA). The peripheral blood karyotype should be analyzed in these men unless there is a likely cause for hypospermatogenesis (e.g. cancer chemotherapy or orchitis). Of those with azoospermia, 2/3 have Klinefelter syndrome (47,XXY and mosaics) ( 154 ). Rarely, azoospermic men have a 46,XX chromosome constitution with Y-chromosome material detectable on the X-chromosome by FISH analysis using an antibody to the transcription factor encoded by the SRY gene. In studies of various ethnic groups, 4-15% of men with idiopathic non-obstructive azoospermic and 1–10% of men with severe oligospermia have microdeletions of the AZF regions of the Y chromosome ( 155 , 156 ). Thresholds of 0.5-5 million sperm/mL have been suggested for genetic testing for higher specificity and overall lower cost ( 157 ) although some authors would like to see all infertile men tested. Microdeletions (undetectable in standard karyotypes; YCMD) are detected by PCR and may partially or completely eliminate the azoospermia factor ( AZF)a or the AZFb/c region including genes that are important for spermatogenesis. YCMD are detected by PCR. Couples are counselled that male offspring will inherit the AZF microdeletion, and will be at risk for infertility. In azoospermic men Y deletion testing is essential prior to considering surgical sperm retrieval because AZFa , AZFb or AZFB+c deletion are associated with very severe spermatogenic defects such as germ cell arrest or Sertoli cell only syndrome with an essentially zero prospect of success ( 160 ). On the other hand, even azoospermic men with AZFc deletions have ~ 50% chance of surgical sperm recovery ( 160 ). Obstructive azoospermia may be recognized by a low-volume ejaculate with low pH. The testes of these men are generally normal in size, and FSH and inhibin-B levels are in the reference range. Obstruction can be demonstrated by ultrasound ( 158 ). If bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) is found, approximately 75% of men will have cystic fibrosis, sometimes with little respiratory or pancreatic disease ( 159 ). When Cystic Fibrosis is diagnosed by genetic testing, the next step is to screen the female partner for Cystic Fibrosis gene abnormalities in order to assess the
