Restrictive cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, restrictive, restrictive cardiomyopathy, disease, amyloidosis, heart, patients, symptoms, normal, cardiac, history, common, hemochromatosis, include, myocardial


Synonyms and keywords: Infiltrative cardiomyopathy; RCM; stiff heart; stiffening of the heart; heart stiffening; stiffened heart Overview Restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCMP) is a rare form among other cardiomyopathies, characterized by increased stiffness of the ventricles in the presence of normal diastolic volume and normal ventricular wall thickness. It may be classified into primary i.e EMF(endomyocardial fibrosis),Loffler’s endocarditis, Idiopathic restrictive cardiomyopathy and secondary i.e, infiltrative diseases(e.g., amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, and radiation carditis) and storage diseases (e.g., hemochromatosis, glycogen storage disorders, and Fabry’s disease). Cardiac amyloidosis is the most common cause of restrictive cardiomyopathy. Mainly due to deposition of amyloid fibrils in the extracellular space and misfolding into β-pleated sheets which are antiparallel to each other making them resistant to proteolysis, and also cause oxidative stress as a result leading to myocardial damage. Sarcoidosis characterized by noncaseating granulomas formation in various tissues including heart and hemochromatosis due to excessive accumulation of iron within the cells of various organs liver, pancreas, heart, and several endocrine glands leading to cirrhosis, diabetes, heart failure, skin pigmentation is also the common causes. Cardiac genes for desmin, α-actin, troponin I and troponin T are involved in the pathogenesis of restrictive cardiomyopathy. Restrictive cardiomyopathy should be differentiated from dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure. Restrictive cardiomyopathy is very rare among all other types and accounts for approximately 5% of all cases. Its prevalence varies depending on regionality, ethnicity, age, and gender. Amyloidosis affects men and women equally. The wild-type transthyretin amyloidosis is most often found in the elderly population. Common complications of restrictive cardiomyopathy include thromboembolism, rhythm abnormalities(dysrhythmias), cardiac cirrhosis, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension. Common symptoms include dyspnea, fatigue, palpitations, syncope. Jugular venous distension is noted sometimes with Kussmaul sign and Hepatojugular reflux.S3 and S4 gallops seen. ECG shows Low QRS voltages, conduction disturbances, nonspecific ST abnormalities. Transmitral spectral Doppler often shows restrictive filling pattern and Ejection fraction (EF) is normal. The main purpose of treatment in restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is to reduce symptoms by decreasing the elevated filling pressures without significantly lowering the cardiac output.Pharmacologic therapy may include Beta blockers, Amiodarone, Cardioselective [[calcium channel blockers], Diuretics, Anticoagulants for patients with atrial fibrillation, Melphalan (for antiplasma cell therapy in systemic amyloidosis), Chemotherapy (in amyloidosis). Other approaches like Pacemaker implantation and endomyocardectomy are also available. Historical Perspective • In 1957 for the first time Brigden coined the term ‘cardiomyopathy’ to describe group of uncommon, non-coronary myocardial diseases.[1][2][3] • But later
