Restrictive cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, restrictive, restrictive cardiomyopathy, disease, amyloidosis, heart, patients, symptoms, normal, cardiac, history, common, hemochromatosis, include, myocardial


and endomyocardectomy are also available. Historical Perspective • In 1957 for the first time Brigden coined the term ‘cardiomyopathy’ to describe group of uncommon, non-coronary myocardial diseases.[1][2][3] • But later in 1961 Goodwin redefined cardiomyopathies as “myocardial diseases of unknown cause”. Infact he is the one who put them into 3 seperate entities “dilated, hypertrophic and restrictive”, which we are still using today. • In 1980 World Health Organization (WHO) and International Society and Federation of Cardiology (ISFC) combinedly published a classification which included the three subgroups proposed by Goodwin. Classification • There is no established system for the classification of restrictive cardiomyopathy[4] [5][6][7][8] • It may be classified into: • Primary • EMF(endomyocardial fibrosis) • Loffler’s endocarditis • Idiopathic restrictive cardiomyopathy • Secondary • Infiltrative diseases(e.g., amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, and radiation carditis) • Storage diseases (e.g., hemochromatosis, glycogen storage disorders, and Fabry’s disease) Pathophysiology Pathogenesis • The exact pathogenesis of restrictive cardiomyopathy is not completely understood[4]. • Mainly characterized by impaired ventricular filling and reduced diastolic volume of one or both ventricles, with either normal or near-normal systolic function. • Hemodynamic abnormalities constitute the main pathological aspect of restrictive cardiomyopathy. • The primary abnormality of restrictive cardiomyopathy is impaired myocardial relaxation along with interstitial fibrosis as well as calcifications. • Restrictive filling can been seen which is due to higher diastolic pressure. Cardiac Amyloidosis • It is the most common cause of restrictive cardiomyopathy(RCM). OK 1/8 • Mainly due to deposition of amyloid fibrils in the extracellular space and misfolding into β-pleated sheets which are antiparallel to each other making them resistant to proteolysis, and also cause oxidative stress as a result leading to myocardial damage. Sarcoidosis • Characterised by noncaseating granulomas formation in various tissues including heart. • The usual location is basal septum, AV node, bundle of His, the ventricular free walls, and papillary muscles. • Formation of granuloma includes 3 histological stages: edema, granulomatous infiltration, and fibrosis. Hemochromatosis • Due to excessive accumulation of iron within the cells of various organs liver, pancreas, heart, and several endocrine glands leading to cirrhosis, diabetes, heart failure, skin pigmentation. Genetics Genes involved in the pathogenesis of restrictive cardiomyopathy include[9][10][11][12]: • Cardiac genes for desmin, α-actin, troponin I and troponin T. • Missense mutation (D190H) in the region of the cTnI gene (TNNI3). • De novo mutations (R192H and K178E) in the TNNI3 gene. • Mutations in the α-cardiac actin (ACTC),
