Restrictive cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, restrictive, restrictive cardiomyopathy, disease, amyloidosis, heart, patients, symptoms, normal, cardiac, history, common, hemochromatosis, include, myocardial


count (CBC) with peripheral smear helping to establish eosinophilia in hypereosinophilic syndromes, serum iron concentrations, total iron-binding capacity and ferritin levels in hemocromatosis, immunoglobulin free light κ, λ chain testing, and serum and urine immunofixation in amyloidosis, etc. Electrocardiogram Shown below is an example of restrictive cardiomyopathy with low voltage and flipped anterior T waves. X-ray A chest X-ray may show atrial dilatation most of the times. Echocardiography and Ultrasound Echocardiography may be helpful in the diagnosis of restrictive cardiomyopathy. Findings on an echocardiography suggestive of restrictive cardiomyopathy include: • Normal or increased wall thickness • Transmitral spectral Doppler often shows restrictive filling pattern. • Marked left or biatrial dilatation usually as a consequence of chronically elevated filling pressures. • Ejection fraction (EF) is normal or near normal. • The main purpose of echo is the differential diagnosis between constrictive pericarditis(CP) and resrictive cardiomyopathy(RCM). • Both present as heart failure with normal-sized ventricles and preserved EF, dilated atria, and doppler findings of increased filling pressure often seen in restrictive cardiomyopathy. CT scan MRI • Magnetic Resonance imaging and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) is very helpful in providing information about anatomic structures, perfusion, ventricular function, as well as tissue characterization.[29][30] • Late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) depending on the pattern of scar formation can help the doctor in establishing the diagnosis to specific subtypes of restrictive cardiomyopathy(RCM). • MRI can also quantify the myocardial iron load in patients with haemochromatosis or thalassemia who receive transfusions. Other Imaging Findings • Radionuclide imaging using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), or positron emission tomography (PET), is also used for the diagnostic work-up of amyloidosis.[31][32][33][34] • An increased myocardial uptake of Tc-99m pyrophosphate or Tc-99m 3,3-diphosphono-1,2-propanodicarboxylic acid helps to identify patients with familial transthyretin-related amyloidosis(ATTR) and also it can differentiate them from those with light chain amyloid(AL). • Radionuclide imaging with 18fluorodeoxyglucose- (FDG-) PET is recently being used to assist in the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis. • Decrease in myocardial perfusion with enhanced 18FDG uptake is consistent with inflammation, while decreased perfusion with reduced 18FDG uptake is associated with scarring. Other Diagnostic Studies Treatment Medical Therapy • Restrictive cardiomyopathy has no definitive treatment. But However, the ones directed at individual causes have been proven to be effective.[14][4][35][36] • The main purpose of treatment in restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is to reduce symptoms by decreasing the elevated filling pressures without significantly lowering the cardiac output. • Pharmacologic therapy
