Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


and/or growth hormone deficiency. Assess for scoliosis at each visit until skeletal maturity. Monitor for signs/symptoms of precocious or delayed puberty at each visit in childhood and adolescence. Refer to endocrinologist between the ages of two to three years (or earlier if there are concerns about growth) to monitor growth velocity. Monitor for ocular issues every six to 12 months as directed by ophthalmologist. Hearing evaluation every two to three years, or as clinically indicated. Echocardiogram every two to three years up to age 20 years in those who have an initial cardiac evaluation that is normal. Echocardiogram every three to five years in individuals older than age 20 years who have no previous heart disease found. Annual dermatologic evaluation. DXA scan in early adulthood. Reassess platelet count for evidence of thrombocytopenia in those who have evidence of easy bruising or bleeding. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Avoid overexposure to heat, strenuous activity, and dehydration. In individuals with evidence of peripheral neuropathy, avoid drugs with a neurotoxic effect. Pregnancy management: A pregnant female suspected of having CFC syndrome warrants high-risk obstetric care and/or maternal hypertension. Genetic counseling CFC syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. The majority of individuals with CFC syndrome reported to date have the disorder as the result of a de novo BRAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, or KRAS pathogenic variant. However, instances of familial recurrence of CFC have been reported. Each child of an individual with CFC syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the BRAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, or KRAS pathogenic variant. Once the CFC syndrome-causing pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing for CFC are possible. Diagnosis Cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome is one the RASopathies: a group of syndromes having overlapping clinical features resulting from a common pathogenetic mechanism [Tidyman & Rauen 2009a]. No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria have been established. The diagnosis of CFC syndrome is suspected by clinical findings and confirmed by molecular genetic testing. Suggestive Findings Cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome should be suspected in individuals with the following clinical features: • Dysmorphic facial features (see Figure 1) as outlined in Clinical Characteristics. The face is triangular in shape and overall may be more coarse than in Noonan syndrome (a clinically similar condition o ften confused with CFC syndrome), but usually not as coarse as is typically seen in Costello syndrome. • Cardiac
