Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


more coarse than in Noonan syndrome (a clinically similar condition o ften confused with CFC syndrome), but usually not as coarse as is typically seen in Costello syndrome. • Cardiac anomalies and rhythm disturbance, including pulmonic stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, septal defects, and heart valve anomalies • Severe feeding issues (gastroesophageal reflux disease, aspiration, vomiting, and oral aversion) and poor growth with relative macrocephaly • Ectodermal findings, such as xerosis; sparse, curly, and woolly or brittle hair; and dystrophic nails • Lymphedema and/or chylothorax Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 3 • Eye anomalies, including strabismus, nystagmus, and/or optic nerve hypoplasia • Hypotonia • Developmental delay and cognitive impairment (mild to severe) • Seizure disorder • Cryptorchidism in males Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of CFC syndrome is established in a proband with suggestive findings by the identification of a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in BRAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, or KRAS by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this section is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous variant of uncertain significance in one of the genes does not establish or rule out the diagnosis of the disorder. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing) depending on the phenotype. Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved, whereas genomic testing does not. Individuals with the distinctive findings described in Suggestive Findings are likely to be diagnosed using gene-targeted testing (see Option 1), whereas those in whom the diagnosis of CFC syndrome or another RASopathy has not been considered are more likely to be diagnosed using genomic testing (see Option 2). Option 1 A RASopathy multigene panel that includes some or all of the genes listed in Table 1 and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not
