Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/ duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. tests can be found here. Option 2 Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be found here. 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Children with CFC syndrome A. Three young children with BRAF pathogenic variants. Ages are 2.5, 2, and 2 years. B. Two boys, age 12 and eight years, with MAP2K2 pathogenic variants. C. Two boys age six years, with BRAF pathogenic variants. Courtesy of CFC International Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in Cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) Syndrome Proportion of Probands with a Pathogenic Variant 4 Detectable by Proportion of CFC Syndrome Method Gene 1, 2 Attributed to Pathogenic Variants in Gene 3 Sequence analysis 5 Gene-targeted deletion/ duplication analysis 6 BRAF ~75% ~100% 7 Single deletion reported 8 KRAS <2% ~100% 7 Unknown 9 MAP2K1 ~100% 7 Unknown 9 ~25% Several deletions have been MAP2K2 ~100% 7 reported, 10 but may not cause CFC syndrome. 11 Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 5 Table 1. continued from previous page. Proportion of Probands with a Pathogenic Variant 4 Detectable by Proportion of CFC Syndrome Method Gene 1, 2 Attributed to Pathogenic Variants in Gene 3 Sequence analysis 5 Gene-targeted deletion/ duplication analysis 6 Unknown 12 NA NA = not applicable 1. Genes are listed in alphabetic order. 2. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 3. Rauen 4. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in these genes. 5. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include small intragenic deletions/insertions and missense, nonsense, and splice site variants; typically, exon or whole-gene 6. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and a gene-targeted microarray designed to detect single-exon
