Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


delay ● Seizures ● Behavioral issues ● Neonatal chylothorax &/or lymphedema ● Otolaryngologic issues ● Most commonly recurrent otitis media Urogenital anomalies ● Most commonly cryptorchidism in males Malignancy ● Hematologic issue ● Immunologic issues ● Dysmorphic features (see Figure 1) are often helpful in making the diagnosis. By late adolescence to early adulthood, the craniofacial appearance becomes less like that seen in Noonan syndrome. Dysmorphic features in CFC syndrome can include: • Relative macrocephaly • Triangular facies • Bitemporal narrowing • High anterior hairline • Hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges • Widely spaced eyes • Telecanthus • Downslanted palpebral fissures • Epicanthal folds • Ptosis • Short nose with depressed bridge and anteverted nares • Ear lobe creases • Low-set ears that may be posteriorly rotated • Deep philtrum • Cupid's bow configuration of the upper lip • High-arched palate • Relative micrognathia Cardiac issues occur in approximately 75%-80% of individuals. Cardiac abnormalities, when present, typically present at birth, although hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and rhythm disturbances may manifest later in life. Cardiac findings can include the following: Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 7 • Pulmonic stenosis • Atrial septal defects and/or ventricular septal defects • Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy • Heart valve anomalies (mitral valve dysplasia, tricuspid valve dysplasia, and bicuspid aortic valve) • Rhythm disturbances Gastrointestinal/feeding issues. Most affected individuals have severe feeding issues, which can contribute to poor growth. Many children require nasogastric or gastrostomy tube feeding, while some undergo a Nissen fundoplication procedure for severe gastroesophageal reflux. Oral feedings are typically achieved in early childhood. Constipation is typically reported and continues to be an issue throughout childhood and adolescence. Later in childhood, feeding difficulties and hypotonia often improve. Other issues may include the following: • Aspiration or swallowing problems, which may improve with age • Recurrent vomiting, which may be association with gastroesophageal reflux disease or malrotation • Oral aversion • Dysmotility • Intestinal malrotation • Umbilical and inguinal hernia Poor growth affects most individuals with CFC syndrome. Growth parameters may be normal at birth, with appropriate birth weight and length; however, weight and length may drop to below the fifth centile during early infancy, while head circumference typically remains within the normal range, resulting in relative macrocephaly. Ectodermal findings. All individuals with CFC syndrome will develop dermatologic issues. With age, the dryness of the skin and the follicular hyperkeratosis tend to improve, allowing hair to grow on the face and scalp
