Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


with CFC syndrome will develop dermatologic issues. With age, the dryness of the skin and the follicular hyperkeratosis tend to improve, allowing hair to grow on the face and scalp [Roberts et al 2006]; however, palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and lymphedema may become more severe. Nevi, when present, increase in number over time [Siegel et al 2011]. Individuals with CFC syndrome have been known to develop severe skin infections. • Skin findings can include the following: ⚬ Xerosis ⚬ Hyperkeratosis of arms, legs, and face ⚬ Keratosis pilaris ⚬ Ichthyosis ⚬ Ulerythema ophryogenes ⚬ Eczema ⚬ Hemangiomas ⚬ Café au lait macules ⚬ Erythema, both on the face or generalized ⚬ Pigmented moles that may be progressive in number ⚬ Palmoplantar hyperkeratosis over pressure zones • Hair may be sparse to absent, but affected individuals may have normal eyelashes and eyebrows. Hair can be curly; fine or thick; and/or woolly or brittle. • Nails may be dystrophic; flat and broad nails; and/or fast growing. Developmental delay (DD) and intellectual disability (ID). The vast majority of children, if not all, have some form of neurologic abnormality, neurocognitive delay, or learning issues. Overall, developmental delay typically ranges from mild to profound, although some individuals have IQs in the normal range. Developmental delay may be less obvious in mildly or moderately affected individuals, but speech and motor delays and difficulty walking become apparent in those who are more severely affected. 8 GeneReviews ® • The vast majority of affected individuals have hypotonia due to a skeletal muscle myopathy, causing motor delays. The average age of walking in those who become ambulatory is around three years; however, many never achieve this goal. • A significant number of affected individuals remain nonverbal. In those who develop verbal language skills, the first word is said on average by age two years. • Some young adults participate in assisted living programs and may have supervised employment. Other neurologic/neurodevelopmental features • Hypotonia. Global hypotonia is typically evident in the newborn period. Delayed motor skills, muscle weakness, and decreased muscle bulk is commonly present. As children grow older, muscle weakness appears to gradually improve, although individuals still may have gross motor delays. • Seizures. More than 50% of individuals with CFC syndrome develop a seizure disorder. Seizure types may include complex partial seizures, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, absence seizures, and/or infantile spasms. Most seizures begin in infancy or early childhood [Yoon et
