Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


syndrome develop a seizure disorder. Seizure types may include complex partial seizures, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, absence seizures, and/or infantile spasms. Most seizures begin in infancy or early childhood [Yoon et al 2007, Pierpont et al 2022]; however, a seizure disorder may develop later in childhood as well. Seizures may require polytherapy and can be refractory to therapy (see Treatment of Manifestations). • Head MRI findings may include Chiari I malformation, ventriculomegaly, hydrocephalus, prominent Virchow-Robin spaces, abnormal myelination, and structural anomalies. • Neuropathy may occur and is typically underreported. Musculoskeletal pain is not uncommon and may be acute or chronic [Leoni et al 2019]. • Neurobehavioral issues are common and may include irritability, short attention span, stubbornness, and obsessive and/or aggressive behaviors. Anxiety is commonly reported. Autism may also be seen in individuals with CFC syndrome. Eye abnormalities are present in most individuals and may result in decreased vision and acuity. Findings may include the following: • Strabismus • Nystagmus • Optic nerve hypoplasia • Astigmatism • Myopia • Hyperopia Musculoskeletal. The vast majority of affected individuals have musculoskeletal findings including a paucity of muscle mass, skeletal myopathy, and lax joints [Tidyman et al 2011]. Orthopedic issues can include pectus deformity, pes planus, hip dysplasia, scoliosis, kyphosis, gait disturbances, and/or joint contractures of the elbow, knee, and/or hip. Contractures may be progressive and require surgical intervention. Many affected individuals require ambulatory assistance. Bone mineral density may also be reduced [Stevenson et al 2011]. Neonatal lymphatic issues. Chylothorax and lymphedema have been reported at birth, although the natural history of these findings has not been reported. Peripheral edema in older individuals may occur. Otolaryngologic issues. Many affected children experience recurrent otitis media and are found to have narrow external auditory canals. Many require pressure equalization tubes. Hyperacusis and hearing loss have been reported. Renal/urogenital anomalies occur in up to 33% of individuals, with cryptorchidism in males being the most common. Renal cysts and stones as well as hydronephrosis and hydroureter can also occur. Bladder, uterine, and cervical abnormalities, though rare, have been reported. Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 9 Less common features • Endocrinology. Although the vast majority of affected children have not been formally tested, some have true growth hormone deficiency. Affected individuals are also at risk for the development of growth hormone resistance. Both delayed puberty and precocious puberty may occur in males and females. Hypothyroidism has also been reported. • Respiratory/sleep. Laryngotracheal
