Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


also at risk for the development of growth hormone resistance. Both delayed puberty and precocious puberty may occur in males and females. Hypothyroidism has also been reported. • Respiratory/sleep. Laryngotracheal abnormalities such as laryngotracheomalacia and laryngeal cl efts have been reported. Sleep issues are common and may include poor sleeping patterns, night sweating, sleep apnea, and/or night terrors. • Bleeding diathesis has rarely been reported, including a case of von Willebrand disorder as well as a rare case of transient thrombocytopenia in a newborn. • Malignancy. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia has been reported in a few individuals [Niihori et al 2006, Makita et al 2007, Rauen et al 2010]. Hepatoblastoma was reported in an immunocompromised individual [Al-Rahawan et al 2007]. Other reported malignancies include non-Hodgkin lymphoma in one individual [Ohtake et al 2011] and large B cell lymphoma in one individual [Rauen et al 2010]. Phenotype Correlations by Gene BRAF • Pulmonic stenosis is more common in individuals with CFC syndrome due to a pathogenic variant in BRAF. Approximately 50% of individuals with BRAF-related CFC syndrome have pulmonic stenosis [Allanson et al 2011]. • The frequency of seizures is higher among individuals with BRAF-related CFC syndrome compared to those with MAP2K2-related CFC syndrome [Pierpont et al 2022]. MAP2K1. The frequency of seizures is higher among individuals with MAP2K1-related CFC syndrome comparted to those with MAP2K2-related CFC syndrome [Pierpont et al 2022]. MAP2K2. Individuals with MAP2K2-related CFC syndrome have a lower risk of severe neurodevelopmental delay and epilepsy than individuals with MAP2K1-related CFC syndrome [Pierpont et al 2022]. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations No genotype-phenotype correlations have been identified for specific pathogenic variants in BRAF, KRAS, MAP2K1, or MAP2K2. Nomenclature Blumberg et al at the March of Dimes Birth Defects Conference reported three individuals with intellectual disability who also had characteristic craniofacial dysmorphology, ectodermal anomalies, and cardiac defects. These three persons, along with five others, were subsequently reported by Reynolds et al , who designated this new disorder cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome. Also, Baraitser & Patton reported on a Noonan syndrome-like short stature syndrome with ectodermal anomalies that was presumed to be the same entity. Prevalence Hundreds of individuals with CFC syndrome have been reported in the literature. Overall prevalence is not known; prevalence in Japan is estimated at one in 810,000 [Abe et al 2012]. 10 GeneReviews ® Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated
