Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


estimated at one in 810,000 [Abe et al 2012]. 10 GeneReviews ® Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in MAP2K2. Other phenotypes associated with germline pathogenic variants in BRAF, KRAS, and MAP2K1 are summarized in Table 3. Table 3. Allelic Disorders Due to Germline Pathogenic Variants Gene Disorder While individuals with a clinical diagnosis of either Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines or Noonan syndrome have BRAF been reported in the medical literature to be associated with pathogenic variants in BRAF, 1 the author feels strongly that a pathogenic variant in BRAF molecularly defines CFC syndrome. Noonan syndrome (See Differential Diagnosis.) KRAS RAS-associated autoimmune leukoproliferative disorder (OMIM 614470) Noonan syndrome (See Differential Diagnosis.) MAP2K1 The author feels strongly that a pathogenic variant in MAP2K1 molecularly defines CFC syndrome. 1. Sarkozy et al Differential Diagnosis Costello syndrome. By definition, individuals identified as having a heterozygous HRAS pathogenic variant have the diagnosis of Costello syndrome. Costello syndrome is characterized by the following: • Slow growth in infancy as a result of severe postnatal feeding difficulties • Short stature • Developmental delay or intellectual disability • Coarse facial features (full lips, large mouth, full nasal tip) • Hair that may be curly, sparse, and fine with synophrys, trichomegaly, and abnormalities of the scalp hair shafts • Loose, soft skin with deep palmar and plantar creases • Papillomata of the face and perianal region • Diffuse hypotonia and joint laxity with ulnar deviation of the wrists and fingers • Tight Achilles (calcaneal) tendons • Cardiac involvement including cardiac hypertrophy (usually typical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy [HCM]), congenital heart defect (usually valvar pulmonic stenosis), and arrhythmia (usually supraventricular tachycardia, especially chaotic atrial rhythm / multifocal atrial tachycardia or ectopic atrial tachycardia) • Relative or absolute macrocephaly (typically). Postnatal cerebellar overgrowth can result in the development of a Chiari I malformation with associated anomalies including hydrocephalus or syringomyelia. Individuals with Costello syndrome are at an approximately 15% lifetime risk for malignant tumors including rhabdomyosarcoma and neuroblastoma in young children and transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder in adolescents and young adults. Although BRAF pathogenic variants have been identified in individuals with a Costello syndrome-like clinical diagnosis was consistent with cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome. Costello syndrome and CFC Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 11 based on phenotypic features alone. The author feels strongly that individuals with BRAF pathogenic
