Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


syndrome-like clinical diagnosis was consistent with cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome. Costello syndrome and CFC Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 11 based on phenotypic features alone. The author feels strongly that individuals with BRAF pathogenic variants have the diagnosis of CFC syndrome, even if they have features that may be present in Costello syndrome or have phenotypic overlap with Noonan syndrome (see following). Noonan syndrome is characterized by the following: • Characteristic facies that includes features similar to CFC, such as triangular facies, macrocephaly, broad forehead, downslanting palpebral fissures, short nose with depressed nasal bridge and anteverted nares, a high-arched palate, and low-set, posteriorly rotated ears. • Short stature. Although birth length is usually normal, final adult height approaches the lower limit of normal. • Congenital heart defect. Congenital heart disease occurs in 50%-80% of individuals. Pulmonary valve stenosis, often with dysplasia, is the most common heart defect and is found in 25%-71% of individuals. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, found in 20%-29% of individuals, may be present at birth or develop in infancy or childhood. Other structural defects include atrial and ventricular septal defects, branch pulmonary artery stenosis, and tetralogy of Fallot. • Developmental delay of variable degree. Up to one third of affected individuals have mild intellectual disability. • Other findings can include broad or webbed neck, unusual chest shape with superior pectus carinatum and inferior pectus excavatum, cryptorchidism, varied coagulation defects, lymphatic dysplasias, and ocular abnormalities. More than ten genes are known to be associated with Noonan syndrome. More commonly involved genes include PTPN11, SOS1, RIT1, and RAF1. Pathogenic variants in KRAS (associated with <5% of Noonan syndrome) are also known to be associated with CFC syndrome; see Genetically Related Disorders. Craniofacial findings in CFC syndrome are reminiscent of those described in Noonan syndrome (macrocephaly, broad forehead, bitemporal narrowing, hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges, downslanting palpebral fissure s with ptosis, short nose with depressed nasal bridge and anteverted nares, low-set ears with prominent helices that may be posteriorly rotated, and high-arched palate), underscoring the importance of molecular genetic testing to establish the correct diagnosis. Noonan syndrome is most often inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. While many individuals with autosomal dominant Noonan syndrome have a de novo pathogenic variant, an affected parent is recognized in 30%-75% of families. Noonan syndrome caused by pathogenic variants in LZTR1 can be inherited in either an autosomal dominant or an autosomal recessive manner. Management Clinical practice guidelines for cardiofaciocutaneous
