Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


prior to any spinal surgery to assess for Chiari malformation and/or spinal abnormalities [Pierpont et al 2014]. 4. Evaluation for bleeding issues should be done prior to any invasive or surgical procedure [Pierpont et al 2014]. 5. Periodic echocardiogram and electrocardiogram are necessary throughout life, as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and rhythm disturbances may develop later in life. Agents/Circumstances to Avoid Individuals with CFC syndrome report heat intolerance; therefore, overexposure to heat and strenuous activity should be avoided. Hydrate as needed. In individuals with evidence of peripheral neuropathy, drugs with a neurotoxic effect should be avoided, per standard supportive treatment according to the individual's neurologist or rehabilitation medicine specialist. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Pregnancy Management A pregnant female suspected of having CFC syndrome warrants high-risk obstetric care from a trained hypertension. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome 19 Mode of Inheritance Cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • The majority of individuals with CFC syndrome reported to date have the disorder as the result of a de novo BRAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, or KRAS pathogenic variant. • Individuals diagnosed with CFC syndrome may have an affected parent; instances of familial recurrence of CFC are increasingly reported in the medical literature [Rauen et al 2010, Stark et al 2012, Rauen et al 2021]. Therefore, it is critical that the parents of the proband are examined for signs of CFC syndrome and the medical history of the parents obtained. • Molecular genetic testing for the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is recommended for the parents of
