Bookshelf_NBK1186
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cfc, individuals, pathogenic, cfc syndrome, issues, variants, cardiofaciocutaneous, pathogenic variants, testing, braf, variant, growth, genetic, pathogenic variant


signs of CFC syndrome and the medical history of the parents obtained. • Molecular genetic testing for the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is recommended for the parents of the proband to confirm their genetic status and to allow reliable recurrence risk counseling. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism [Geoghegan et al 2018]. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ cells only. • The family history of some individuals diagnosed with CFC syndrome may appear to be negative because of failure to recognize the disorder in family members. Therefore, an apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed unless molecular genetic testing has demonstrated that neither parent is heterozygous for the pathogenic variant identified in the proband. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of a proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband has the pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%. • If the CFC-causing pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Geoghegan et al 2018]. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with CFC syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the BRAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, or KRAS pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has the CFC syndrome-causing pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are affected and to
