A woman in her 50s with acute chest pain
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, ecg, acute, pain, waves, normal, pericardial, elevation, cath, stage, day, missing, suggesting, present, consistent


A woman in her 50s with no significant past medical history experienced acute anterior chest pain that woke her from sleep and radiated to her back. She described it as “stabbing”, 8/10, constant, and associated with nausea. She denied preceding symptoms or recent illnesses. Here is her triage ECG during active pain: What do you think? This ECG was recorded 30 minutes later with ongoing pain. The physician was worried about possible acute coronary occlusion and activated the cath lab. The angiogram showed no significant coronary disease. First troponin I was 10 ng/L. Second troponin was 23 ng/L. Echocardiogram showed normal EF, no wall motion abnormalities, no pericardial effusion. Here is the ECG the next day. She was given colchicine and discharged. She returned with similar symptoms about 1 month later. Repeat echocardiogram revealed a small pericardial effusion. Cardiac MRI was read as: Acute pericarditis with signs of early constrictive physiology. The pericardium is diffusely thickened. There is diffuse late gadolinium enhancement of parietal and visceral layers consistent with pericardial inflammation. There is a small circumferential effusion, no tamponade physiology. Mild septal bounce demonstrates ventricular interdependence. IVC dilated to 2.9 cm with <50% collapse, suggesting early constrictive physiology. No myocardial LGE to suggest myocarditis or infarction. Two troponins were <6 ng/L. She was treated with colchicine and ibuprofen. Rheumatologic and infectious workups were negative. ECG recorded on day 4 of hospitalization. ECG recorded on day 6 of hospitalization. She was diagnosed with recurrent idiopathic pericarditis and discharged. Here is her ECG 6 months later, without symptoms. The “four stages of pericarditis on ECG” are taught as: Stage 1: widespread STE and PR depression Stage 2: ST segments return to baseline with T-wave flattening Stage 3: T-wave inversion Stage 4: Normalization This patient fulfills the classic sequence. Actual pericarditis is rare compared to normal variant baseline ST elevation. The harm of missing OMI is far greater than the harm of mislabeling pericarditis. “You diagnose pericarditis at your peril.” Medicine is humbling. I included pericarditis in the differential but thought pure pericarditis was unlikely. I suspected acute LCx occlusion. For clarity, I reproduced the initial ECG. The ECG shows sinus rhythm ~90 bpm, normal intervals and axis, and extensive ST elevation. A 50-something woman awakened from sleep with severe new chest pain should be assumed to be having acute MI until proven otherwise. Findings suggesting acute MI: * Q waves present in
