J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459
KEYWORDS: cells, hours, crypts, mucosa, changes, fig, crypt, culture, explants, cell, tissue, vitro, epithelial, medium, colonic


J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459 With 7figures Printedin GreatBritain Crypt regeneration in adult human colonic mucosa during prolonged organ culture P. V. SENIOR*, C. J. PRITCHETTt, J. P. SUNTER*, D. R. APPLETON* AND A. J. WATSON* Departments of*Pathology, t Surgery and $ Medical Statistics, University ofNewcastle upon Tyne (Accepted28 April 1981) INTRODUCTION Samples of human colonic mucosa from normal individuals and from patients withvarious non-neoplastic diseasesofthelargebowel havebeen studied previously inshorttermorganculture, i.e. upto48hours, usinghistochemical, biochemical and cytokinetic techniques (Eastwood & Trier, 1973a, b; MacDermott, Donaldson & Trier, 1974; Trier, 1976; Neutra, Grand &Trier, 1977). Althoughneoplasticmucosa has been maintained in vitro for long periods (Roller, Owen & Heidelberger, 1966; Kalus, 1972), there have been, until recently, few reports of attempts to culture non-neoplastic mucosa for more than a day or two. Johansen (1970), however, maintained such tissue for 90 hours and found significant degeneration in the later stages ofculture. Hodges & Melcher (1976) described a supplemented medium, based on Way- mouth MB752/1, designed to prolong the survival in vitro of specimens containing bothepithelial andconnective tissueelements. Theseworkerspostulatedthatnormal collagenmetabolism is anessentialrequirementforsuccessfullongtermmaintenance ofsuchtissues. They found thatincorporation ofascorbicacid, ferrous sulphate and hydrocortisone intothemediumenhanced thepreservation offetal mousemandible. Although the precise role ofhydrocortisone in collagen metabolism is uncertain, its ability toinhibit therelease oflysosomal enzymes mayhelp to reducetissuedamage. Defries & Franks (1977) successfully used this medium, with the addition of fetal calf serum, to culture rings of adult mouse colon for several months. The tissue adaptedwelltotheculturesystem, assumingastableformslightlydifferentfromthat in vivo. Using a different culture system Autrup et al. (1978) succeeded in maintaining human colonicmucosa forupto 20days. Theseworkersobtainedgoodpreservation ofthe mucosa during the first 48 hours, but this was followedby slowly progressive changes in the crypts: the amount of cytoplasmic mucin in the crypt epithelium diminished, with loss ofgoblet cell structure, and eventually disappeared; thecrypts became shorter and the surviving epithelial cells assumed a cuboidal or pseudo- squamous appearance. Despite these changes, the capability for DNA and protein synthesis was retained even in the later stages ofculture. Later modifications to this system (Autrup, 1980) haveextended the period duringwhich nearnormal structure is maintained for up to fourteen days. Wehaveusedtheorganculturesystem ofHodges & Melcher (1976) to investigate in detail the sequence of morphological changes occurring in adult human colonic 460 P. V. SENIOR AND OTHERS mucosa maintained in vitro for up to fourteen days. Multiple samples have been taken from each specimen of colon and the histological changes have been moni- tored daily.
