J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459
KEYWORDS: cells, hours, crypts, mucosa, changes, fig, crypt, culture, explants, cell, tissue, vitro, epithelial, medium, colonic


AND OTHERS mucosa maintained in vitro for up to fourteen days. Multiple samples have been taken from each specimen of colon and the histological changes have been moni- tored daily. In our system, the crypts underwent profound degenerative changes in theearly stages ofculture, butwewishto drawattentionto theremarkableregenera- tive changes which ensued. These changes suggest that the control and maintenance ofnormal colonic mucosal structure is innate rather than extrinsic. MATERIALS AND METHODS Samples of human colonic and rectal mucosa were obtained from surgical re- sections of colorectal cancer. From an apparently unaffected area remote from the tumour, a specimen of mucosa was dissected free with fine iris scissors. A sheet of tissue so obtained was 1 mm thick or less and therefore ideal for organ culture. The sheet of mucosa was then gently spread on a cork board and explants of 2x 1 mm were cut with a razor blade. These explants were transferred, luminal surfaceupper- most, to the support phase which consisted of either 3-0,um pore- size cellulose acetate filters (Millipore) or 0-2,um polycarbonate membranes (Nucleopore). The cultures were incubated at 37 °C at the gas-medium interface. Initially, Trowell jars were used , but subsequent cultures were set up in sterile, disposable, vented plastic petri dishes (Sterilin). The cellulose acetate filters were supported on wire grids or squares ofsurgical Gelfoam sponge (Upjohn) hydrated with medium; the polycarbonate membranes floated unsupported, bearing up to four explants. The medium was that of Hodges & Melcher (1976) consisting of: Waymouth MB752/1 (Gibco); 300jug/ml ascorbic acid (Sigma), 3 0 ptg/ml hydrocortisone-21- sodium succinate (Sigma) and 0 45 ,ag/ml ferrous sulphate (BDH) with the addition of 100 units/ml penicillin-streptomycin solution (Gibco), 100 units/ml mycostatin suspension (Gibco) and 10-15% fetal calfserum (Gibco). The medium was changed after 24 hours and thereafter 48 hourly. The gas phase, consisting of 95% 02 and 5% C02, was renewed every 24 hours. To detect DNA synthesis, the explants were incubated under the same conditions in an identical medium, to which 6,uCi/ml tritiated thymidine (The Radiochemical Centre) had been added, for onehourprior tofixation inbufferedformol-saline.The explants were embedded in paraffin wax and sectioned vertically at a thickness of 3 ,am; sections were stained with haematoxylin and eosin or with PAS following amylasedigestion; orweresubmittedtoautoradiographyusingthedippingtechnique withK5 nuclearemulsion(Ilford). Forthelatterprocedure, theslidesweredeveloped after two weeks' exposure at room temperature and then stained with haematoxylin andlightlycounterstainedwitheosin. The gut contains a wide variety of micro-organisms whose growth in the culture
