J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459
KEYWORDS: cells, hours, crypts, mucosa, changes, fig, crypt, culture, explants, cell, tissue, vitro, epithelial, medium, colonic


withK5 nuclearemulsion(Ilford). Forthelatterprocedure, theslidesweredeveloped after two weeks' exposure at room temperature and then stained with haematoxylin andlightlycounterstainedwitheosin. The gut contains a wide variety of micro-organisms whose growth in the culture medium must be inhibited, by added antibiotics, without inflicting damage on the specimen. In an attempt to reduce the frequency of contamination of cultures by growth of gut bacteria, a series of eight specimens was first incubated at room temperature for 5 to 10 minutes in a medium containing 500units/ml ofpenicillin- streptomycin solution (Gibco) and 500 units/ml of mycostatin suspension (Gibco). Regeneration ofcolonic crypts in vitro 461 I11§5ig !S11a - 4 - Fig. 1. A typical sample of adult colorectal mucosa prepared for organ culture. Straight, perpendicular, unbranched crypts lie close together and exten'd downwards to the muscularis mucosae which forms the base oftheexplant. The liningepithelium consists mainly ofgoblet cells although, in this instancde, simplecolumnarcells predominate at theupperend; thesingle layerofsurfaceepithelialcells isderived from theupwardmigratingcryptcells. H &E. x200. RESULTS Nineteen surgical resection specimens were used as a source of explants. The explants from seven of these specimens became contaminated -by gross bacterial overgrowth within the first 48 hours, in two instances despite pre-treatmenit with high doses ofantibiotics. Ofthe twelve remaining series ofexpla'nts whichmwere free from obvious contamination, five nevertheless showed significant dege'neration within the first 48 hours and became denuded of epithelial cells within 72 hours; three ofthese five had been pre-treated with high doses ofantibiotics.In theremain- ing seven explant series, it was possible to observe the sequence-ofchanges' for up to fourteen days. Four explants per series were sampled at 24 or 48,hourly intervals. Throughout the period ofculture the explants were covered by a thick mantle of mucus within which the increasing number of necrotic cells O'bserved during the first 72 hours suggested that migration and shedding ofcrypt cellswerecontinuing. The normal histological structure ofthe mucosa (Fig. 1) was well preserved during the first 48 hours though some progressive depletion of cytoplasmic mucin from crypt cells was evident (Fig. 2). Thereafter, the chronology of the changes varied considerably between explants from different specimens and even from the same specimen. After 48 hours, the number of crypt cells decreased, with those in the 462 P. V. SENIOR AND OTHERS Fig. 2.After48hoursinculture, thecryptcellsshowextensive depletionofcytoplasmicmucin andgobletcellsaresparse.Mitoticactivity(arrowed)canbeseen inthebasal twothirdsofthe crypts. In the surface layer ofmucin, shed epithelial cells with pyknotic nuclei can be seen. H &E. x200. upper third of the crypt becoming flattened along the crypt
