J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459
KEYWORDS: cells, hours, crypts, mucosa, changes, fig, crypt, culture, explants, cell, tissue, vitro, epithelial, medium, colonic


inthebasal twothirdsofthe crypts. In the surface layer ofmucin, shed epithelial cells with pyknotic nuclei can be seen. H &E. x200. upper third of the crypt becoming flattened along the crypt axis (Fig. 3). In some cases these uppermost cells were apparently lost, leaving discrete acini or solid cell clusters in the lamina propria; these seemed to be discontinuous with the surface epithelial layer (Fig. 4) although it was possible that the pericryptal fibrocellular sheath persisted. This change occurred as early as 72 hours and by 96 hours most explants had reached this stage. Explants from two specimens, however, did not show this degree of crypt degeneration, the changes proceeding no further than those illustrated in Figure 3. During the period from about 48 hours to the time of maximum. crypt degeneration between 72 and 96 hours, cell proliferation, as re- flected bynmitotic activity and the uptake of tritiated thymidine, was considerably depressed, but appeared not to cease completely. After the crypts had degenerated to the stages shown in Figures 3 and 4, the remnants displayed intense proliferative activity,mitoticfiguresandtritiatedthymidine-labelledcellsbeingevidentthroughout the explant; this led to progressive repopulation ofthe crypts between 120 and 144 hours (Fig. 5). These newly formed cells produced a monolayer epithelial lining to Regeneration ofcolonic crypts in vitro 463 Fig. 3. After72hoursinculture, cryptsareshortened, thenumberofcellspercryptisreduced andthenormalcolumnarformislostalthoughmitosesarestillevident.Towardstheupperend ofthecrypts, theliningcellsbecomeelongatedalongtheplaneofthecryptaxis. H &E. x300. the reconstituted crypts, possibly guided to the surface by the persisting pericryptal fibrocellular sheaths. By 186 hours, the crypts were lined by apparently well- differentiated columnar epithelial cells (Fig. 6), but, as observed after 48 hours of culture (Fig. 2), there was little intracytoplasmic mucin and few goblet cells were apparent. At this time cell proliferation was still proceeding throughout the explant, with heavy labelling ofcrypt cells and numerous mitoses in the basal two thirds of the crypts. In four cultures successfully maintained beyond 186 hours, mucin-filled goblet cells reappeared after about 264 hours (Fig. 7) and this state persisted until the cultures were terminated at 336 hours. DISCUSSION It is not clear why some specimens maintained free from obvious contamination nevertheless failed to survivein organculture, although thepre-treatment ofthree of them with high doses ofantibiotics may have had a direct toxic effect. In the course of the surgical procedure, there is a variable 'warm ischaemic time' prior to the transfer of the specimen to ice cold balanced salt solution; during this period, irreversible damage may beinflicted on the mucosa
