J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459
KEYWORDS: cells, hours, crypts, mucosa, changes, fig, crypt, culture, explants, cell, tissue, vitro, epithelial, medium, colonic


characteristics of columnar epithelial cellswithbasallysituatednuclei.This,togetherwiththelaterappearanceof goblet cells, suggests that the control of cell differentiation is also intrinsic. Thus, although various hormones (Johnsen et al. 1974; Chang & Hoff, 1980; Sharp et al. 1980), bile acids (Deschner & Raicht, 1979), cyclic nucleotides (Tutton & Barkla, 1980), the bulk and composition of the diet (Dowling & Booth, 1967; Levine, Steiger & Deren, 1974; Lehnert, 1979) and the activity of the autonomic nervous system (Lachat & Goncalves, 1978) have all been shown to affect cell proliferation in the gut of intact animals to a greater or lesser degree, our findings suggest that these may simply be modulators ofa sophisticated local control mechanism. Outgrowth of epithelial cells and connective tissue from the explants was not P. V. SENIOR AND OTHERS 6,v Fig.6.Regeneratedcryptsafter186hoursinculture.Thecryptsarelinedbywellformedcolumnar cellswithbasallysituatednuclei,buttherearenogobletcells.Mitoticfigurescanbeseenandthe appearance generallyresembles thatfoundafter48 hours inculture(cf. Fig. 2). H &E. x350. observed. In common with Autrup (1980), we found that the type ofsupport phase used affected the behaviour of the explant in culture. With polycarbonate mem- branes, a single cell layer ofepithelium covered the underside ofthe explant in the later stages ofculture, whereas this effect was never observed withcellulose acetate filters. Thisphenomenon, which did notappear toaffectsurvival,seemstoberelated to the intimacy ofcontact between the explants and the support. The residual epithelial formations shown in Figure 3 are capable of intense proliferative activity and may comprise the functional stem cell compartment, possibly augmented by potential stem cells (Withers, 1976; Wright, 1978). Thus, it appears that long term culture of human colonic mucosa is achievable under the correct culture conditions, and that the behaviour of the tissue in vitro can be manipulated by varying the composition of the medium. It has yet to be evaluated how long the regenerated mucosa will survive and whether a steady state between cell proliferation and cell loss can be achieved in the regenerated crypts. Clearly, suchasystemwill haveauseful roleinthestudyofmucosal functionbothin normal and diseased mucosae, and in evaluating the tissue response to carcinogens, Regeneration ofcolonic crypts in vitro 467 7 91 0w W;XI Fig. 7. After264hoursinculture, well-formed gobletcellsareagainseenandtheappearances arevirtually indistinguishablefromthepreculturemucosa(cf. Fig. 1). H &E. x350. drugs and presumed trophic factors. A considerable advantage of the in vitro approach is that it isolates the tissue from systemic influences which render difficult the interpretation ofresults obtained in vivo. SUMMARY Usingasystemdesignedtopreserve, in vitro, boththeepithelialandtheconnective tissue elements, we havemaintained adult colonic mucosa in organcultureforupto 336 hours and haveinvestigated the sequential morphological changes which occur. During the
