J.Anat. (1982), 134, 3, pp. 459-469 459
KEYWORDS: cells, hours, crypts, mucosa, changes, fig, crypt, culture, explants, cell, tissue, vitro, epithelial, medium, colonic


ofresults obtained in vivo. SUMMARY Usingasystemdesignedtopreserve, in vitro, boththeepithelialandtheconnective tissue elements, we havemaintained adult colonic mucosa in organcultureforupto 336 hours and haveinvestigated the sequential morphological changes which occur. During the first 48 hours, normal micro-architecture is preserved, but there is pro- gressive loss of cytoplasmic mucin from crypt cells. Subsequently, accelerated degenerative changes develop; cells are lost from the crypts and, because cell pro- liferation in the crypt is reduced, these lost cells are not replaced. Foratime, the crypts arerepresented bydiscrete acinar formations or clusters of cells inthelamina propria, apparentlydiscontinuouswiththeintactsurfaceepithelial layer. These remnants manifest intense proliferative activity during the period between 72 and 96 hours after explantation,leadingtothe restorationofwellformed crypts lined by columnar epithelial cells between 120 and 144 hours; differentiation of goblet cells ensues and this state of virtually normal structure persists until the termination ofculture between 186 and 336 hours. It is concluded that the determination ofnormal crypt structure and ofcrypt-cell differentiation is governed by intrinsic control mechanisms although these may be 468 P. V. SENIOR AND OTHERS subject to extrinsic modulation. Whether or not the degeneration phase can be eliminated, it is clear that long term culture of adult human colonic mucosa is possible. Such a system may be useful in the study of mucosal function and of mucosal response to drugs, carcinogens and trophic factors. This work was supported by a grant from the North of England Council of the Cancer Campaign for Research. Mr C. J. Pritchett is in receipt ofa Prophit Scholar- ship from the Royal College of Surgeons. We are grateful to Mrs E. Wallace and Mrs S. Robinson for technical assistance, to Miss E. Wark and Miss Y. Allen for typing the manuscript, and to the Surgeons of the Royal Victoria Infirmary and Newcastle General Hospital for providing material.
