Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


1 Recommendations 1.1 Stents should be used routinely when percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the clinically appropriate procedure for people with stable angina. For recommendations on drug-eluting stents for people with unstable angina, non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) or ST-segment- elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), see recommendation 1.1.18 and recommendation 1.2.18 in NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes. [2020] 1.2 This recommendation has been replaced by NICE's technology appraisal guidance on drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease. [2008] 1.3 This recommendation has been replaced by NICE's technology appraisal guidance on drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease. [2008] 1.4 This recommendation has been replaced by NICE's technology appraisal guidance on drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease. [2008] 1.5 This guidance specifically relates to the present clinical indications for PCI and excludes conditions (such as many cases of stable angina) that are adequately managed with standard drug therapy. [2003] 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 CAD is by far the most common cause of heart disease, resulting from the narrowing of coronary arteries ('stenosis') caused by deposition of atherosclerotic plaque. Coronary artery stenosis may be asymptomatic or may lead to angina, a chest pain that may be severe enough to restrict or prevent exertion. A critical reduction of the blood supply to the heart may result in MI or death. 2.2 CAD causes about 2,100 deaths annually per million of the population in England and Wales (about 110,000 deaths in total), 1 of the highest rates in the world. CAD is also the cause of considerable morbidity and loss of ability to lead a normal life. Approximately 1.4 million people in England and Wales suffer from angina, the most common form of such morbidity. 2.3 Stenotic lesions are categorised as A, B1, B2 and C. A denotes a relatively short (less than 10 mm) and easily accessible lesion. C denotes lesions that: are relatively long (greater than 20 mm); may be less accessible, tortuous and/or have side branches; and may be totally occluded. 2.4 CAD may affect 1 or more arteries, which may be of different calibres. Occlusion may be partial or total. 2.5 The symptoms and health risks that are associated with a stenosed artery may be treated medically – by modification of risk factors (for example, smoking, hyperlipidaemia, obesity and hyperglycaemia) and/or by drug treatment (for example, beta-adrenergic blockers, nitrates, calcium channel blockers,
