Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


artery may be treated medically – by modification of risk factors (for example, smoking, hyperlipidaemia, obesity and hyperglycaemia) and/or by drug treatment (for example, beta-adrenergic blockers, nitrates, calcium channel blockers, antiplatelet agents and statins). 2.6 If these medical treatments fail or are inappropriate, 2 invasive therapies are available. The first, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), involves major cardiac surgery. The second, so-called balloon angioplasty, or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), involves a non-surgical widening from within the artery using a balloon catheter. When inflated, the balloon increases the calibre of the artery. 2.7 Recently, most PTCA procedures have involved the use of stents. Stents are thin wire-mesh structures that act as permanent prosthetic linings to keep the artery inflated and maintain its patency. PCI is a generic term to encompass PTCA with or without adjunct techniques such as stenting. 2.8 For disease in a single artery, PCI with a stent has been the more frequent treatment; for disease in 2 arteries, patient numbers for PCI with a stent and CABG have been similar; and for more than 2 affected arteries, CABG has been used much more frequently. 2.9 The major problem with PCI is restenosis of the artery, which has 3 main causes. The first, recoil of the artery, happens when the balloon is deflated. It usually occurs immediately or within 24 hours of completion of the procedure, and may require emergency CABG. Stents essentially eliminate recoil of the artery. The 2 subsequent problems, mostly arising during the first 6 months, are contraction of the adventitia secondary to an injury reaction (3 to 6 months), and proliferation of smooth muscle cells within the arterial wall (4 to 6 months). A repeat procedure is consequently required in approximately 20% of patients with simple lesions. This rate of reintervention is much higher (up to 50%) for arteries of small calibre, saphenous vein grafts, long lesions, total occlusions and in people with diabetes. 2.10 Recent advances in stent technology have reduced some of the problems of restenosis, as well as lowering the cost of stents. In addition, the use of antiplatelet drugs and other therapeutic strategies to prevent thrombosis have improved long-term outcomes. 2.11 One of the main criteria for assessing the clinical effectiveness of PTCA with stents compared with standard PTCA (without stents) is the ability to reduce the incidence of subsequent attacks of angina as well as major adverse coronary events
