Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


BMS versus CABG; and BMS versus DES. 4.1.2 Assessment of the relative clinical effectiveness of stents considers the likelihood of restenosis discovered on follow-up and the requirement for repeat intervention (revascularisation). Repeat intervention may occur: (i) because of a requirement of the trial protocol, specifying a repeat angiographic examination at a predetermined interval (so-called 'protocol-driven' reintervention); or (ii) following a recurrence of symptomatic angina in the patient (that is, 'clinically driven' reintervention). The frequency of protocol-driven reinterventions is higher than that of clinically driven reinterventions, because angiography is usually mandatory at 6 months in the trial protocol whereas in clinical practice it is carried out only after recurrence of symptoms. Accordingly, the absolute differences observed between the treatment and control arms of clinical trials are likely to be higher than would be expected to occur in clinical practice. PCI with BMS versus PCI (without stents) 4.1.3 Fifty randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were analysed comparing the use of PCI with BMS versus PCI without stents. Because of differences in, and completeness of, the reporting of these trials, the number of trials on which meta-analyses are based is a subset of these 50 trials. In a meta-analysis comprising 12 trials involving 5,700 patients with non-specified ischaemic heart disease, where a composite endpoint of revascularisation, MI or death (MACE) was reported, the MACE rate was statistically significantly different at 6 months' follow-up: 23.0% for the PCI without stents group versus 15.4% for the PCI with BMS group, with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.66 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.45 to 1.90). The difference was smaller after 12 months' follow-up but still statistically significant. Of the above 12 trials, 7, involving 3,500 patients, reported data for 12-months' follow-up: the MACE rate was 22.0% for the PCI without stents group versus 18.9% for the PCI with stents group (OR 1.33; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.58). 4.1.4 Differences in MACE rates were due almost entirely to differences in the rate of restenosis. For the outcomes of acute MI and deaths, for which individual trials were not powered to detect statistically significant differences, meta-analyses showed that while both of these sets of events occurred less frequently in those treated with PCI using BMS than in PCI without stents, in neither case was the result statistically significant. 4.1.5 Overall, the results of the RCTs showed that the use of PCI with BMS has significant advantages over the use
