Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


Cost effectiveness 4.2.1 The most recent evidence of cost effectiveness comes from models supplied by 4 manufacturers and 1 from the Assessment Group, including an addendum. The manufacturer models show that PCIs with a BMS are cost effective compared with PCIs without stents and also compared with CABG. However, these models are relatively short-run, ranging from 6 months to 2 years. The manufacturers of the Cypher and of the Taxus stents each provided a model which examined the cost effectiveness of their own DES compared with the corresponding BMS. Each of these models showed that the DES is cost effective compared with the corresponding BMS. The Assessment Group's model showed that the Cypher and Taxus stents, as a group, are cost effective compared with BMS. PCI with BMS versus PCI without stents 4.2.2 For patients with moderate or severe angina, PCI has been shown to be a cost- effective alternative to conventional medical treatment. Since the previous appraisal in 2000 of PCI with BMS versus PCI without stents, several further studies have demonstrated the cost effectiveness of stents in a number of patient populations and clinical settings, including elective stenting and stenting immediately following an acute MI. PCI with BMS versus CABG 4.2.3 Comparative data on PCI using BMS versus CABG are available for only 3 years of follow-up. There are no data beyond 3 years and little data from years 2 to 3. The best available data are up to 2 years. Long-term models are needed to determine cost effectiveness because most patients who have stents fitted live longer than 5 years, and it is impossible to give a proper answer to the question of cost effectiveness by taking a short-term perspective. 4.2.4 The Assessment Group's model extrapolates the results to 5 years based on the currently available 3-year data. However, the extrapolation is very sensitive to the functional form chosen for the survival curve of patients who have undergone either stenting or CABG. 4.2.5 The benefits and disadvantages of PCIs using BMS compared with CABG, in terms of quality-of-life differences, derive from stents being a less invasive procedure on one hand but having higher rates of restenosis on the other. Neither of these 2 effects, in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), has been estimated to be very great, which means that if there was any appreciable difference in mortality between the 2 therapies, this factor would determine
