Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), has been estimated to be very great, which means that if there was any appreciable difference in mortality between the 2 therapies, this factor would determine which of the therapies had the greater benefits. However, none of the meta- analyses from the trials shows any mortality benefit from PCI with either BMS or DES compared with CABG in the first 2 years. Hence, all the measurable benefits from using stents rather than CABG derive from an increase in the quality of life. Since stenting is considerably cheaper than CABG, under the 2-year models, it is therefore more cost effective, and indeed, dominates CABG. 4.2.6 The Assessment Group's model, however, estimated a survival benefit for CABG over PCI using BMS of the order of 0.05 QALYs per patient, after the model was extrapolated to 5 years. This benefit would be enough to make CABG the preferred technology (in terms of both clinical and cost effectiveness) for patients who were candidates for both stents and CABG. The clinician consultees to the appraisal process, however, vigorously challenged this, stating that previous studies had not reached this conclusion. BMS versus DES 4.2.7 The quality-of-life component of the QALY differences between BMS and DES is small, because it relates only to the extent of the differences in restenosis rates. No differences in mortality have been demonstrated. Thus, the greatest benefits of DES over BMS will occur for categories of patients for whom the absolute differences in restenosis rates are greatest. 4.2.8 The addendum to the Assessment Report showed that, for single-vessel disease, PCI using a DES was estimated to be cost-saving compared with PCI using a BMS at 12 months for patients with diabetes and long lesions; the estimated cost per QALY for patients without diabetes and long lesions was £15,000 and, for all patients with narrow vessels, it was £16,000. These estimates were derived from patient-level data derived from the TAXUS II trial. For the total population of patients with single-vessel disease, the cost per QALY was £94,000. This estimate was derived from registry data. 4.2.9 These estimates are sensitive to 5 factors: • the percentage point reduction in the risk of revascularisation • the price differential between BMS and DES • the proportion of repeat interventions needing CABG • the disutility caused by recurrent symptoms • the average waiting time for repeat intervention. 4.2.10 There are no RCT data
