Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


DES • the proportion of repeat interventions needing CABG • the disutility caused by recurrent symptoms • the average waiting time for repeat intervention. 4.2.10 There are no RCT data for 2-vessel disease. The estimated incremental cost per QALY for 2-vessel disease gained from PCI using a DES compared with PCI using a BMS for all non-diabetic patients is £195,000. This estimate is derived from registry data. 4.3 Consideration of the evidence 4.3.1 The Committee reviewed the evidence available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of PCIs using a BMS and DES, having considered evidence on the nature of the condition and the value placed by users on the benefits of BMS and DES from clinical experts and those who represent patients with angina. It was also mindful of the need to ensure that its advice took account of the efficient use of NHS resources. PCI with BMS versus PCI without stents 4.3.2 The Committee considered that no new evidence had been found since the previous appraisal to change its view that where PCI is being undertaken, the use of stents is likely to be both clinically and cost effective. BMS versus DES 4.3.3 The Committee noted that there were no head-to-head trials of the sirolimus- eluting Cypher stent and the paclitaxel-eluting Taxus stent, and the clinical experts advised that there was no evidence that would allow them to favour 1 of these drug-eluting agents over the other. 4.3.4 The Committee considered that, for single-vessel disease, restenosis rates were in general low using a BMS in the majority of patients requiring PCI, and that, therefore, the routine use of a DES was not justified. However, this was not the case for patients presenting with either small-calibre arteries (less than 3 mm) or long lesions (greater than 15 mm); in these patients, the risk of restenosis using a BMS was considerably higher, and the absolute reduction in restenosis rates would justify the use of a DES. 4.3.5 The Committee considered the risk factors predicting the likelihood of higher rates of restenosis after the use of a BMS. It was persuaded that the main determinants of risk were the target vessel calibre and the complexity of the arterial lesion, in particular the length of the stenosis. It recognised that the combination of small-vessel disease and long lesions was particularly prevalent in patients with CAD who also had diabetes. Whilst, in general, patients
