Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


length of the stenosis. It recognised that the combination of small-vessel disease and long lesions was particularly prevalent in patients with CAD who also had diabetes. Whilst, in general, patients with diabetes have higher restenosis rates than those without diabetes following PCI with a BMS, the Review Group's analysis indicated that these higher rates arise predominantly from the fact that a much higher proportion of patients with diabetes needing PCI have disease of small-calibre arteries and long lesions than is true for the general population of patients requiring PCI. 4.3.6 The Committee discussed how the RCTs comparing BMS with DES relate to current clinical practice. In particular, in the trials, the decision to reintervene following an initial PCI with stent procedure was often made on the basis of protocol-driven angiographic examinations at certain fixed times (for example at 6 months), rather than in response to the recurrence of clinical symptoms. It is likely that the trials would encourage reintervention that might not be required in clinical practice, where routine re-angiography is not usual. Thus, the Committee was aware that the difference in restenosis rates between BMS and DES identified in the trials could overestimate the extent of the difference that would actually be seen in clinical practice. The addendum to the Assessment Report attempted to correct for this potential overestimate of the benefit of DES versus BMS. The Committee decided that, whether or not the correction factor was applied, the guidance in section 1 would not be materially affected. 4.3.7 The Committee considered PCI with a DES for more than 1 target vessel in a person with symptomatic coronary disease. It was aware that the evidence from the RCTs relates to the use of DES in single-vessel disease. However, the experts indicated that treatment of more than 1 vessel in an individual patient during PCI might be required. This is because, despite additional investigations, it is frequently difficult to determine which of several vessels identified at angiography is the most likely cause of the patient's symptoms. The Committee considered that the risk of a need for future intervention following an initial PCI is likely to be dependent on the degree of stenosis of any of the affected vessels. The appropriateness of a DES or BMS for each diseased artery in turn would therefore depend on considering the artery's characteristics in isolation from those of other diseased arteries. It was therefore
