Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


of a DES or BMS for each diseased artery in turn would therefore depend on considering the artery's characteristics in isolation from those of other diseased arteries. It was therefore persuaded that planned treatment of more than 1 vessel in a single patient should be based on the requirements laid out in the guidance for a single vessel. 4.3.8 The Committee discussed the use of DES with regard to coronary artery vein grafts and for more complex situations such as bifurcation lesions, but noted that there was no robust evidence in this area at present. 4.3.9 The Committee noted statements from some manufacturers that restenosis rates using a BMS of recent design were low compared with those of other BMS, and were comparable with those of the CE-marked DES. The cost-effectiveness calculations were not based on evidence comparing these stents with other BMS or with DES in head-to-head trials. The Committee considered that this evidence was not sufficient to affect its recommendations in section 1. It would, however, wish to include further evidence on new developments in BMS design as part of the next review of the use of coronary stents. PCI with BMS versus CABG 4.3.10 Having reviewed the Assessment Group's model and the submissions from manufacturers, together with the views of cardiologist consultees, the Committee concluded that the guidance offered in 2000 should be maintained. While it was clear that models with outcomes up to 2 years favoured stents in terms of cost effectiveness, the conclusions to be drawn from longer-term models depended critically on whether a survival advantage accrues to CABG. The Committee concluded that no convincing case had been made on this matter. Its considerations ranged over what may happen to patients requiring 1 or other of these procedures in different age ranges, and whether the conclusions about the most appropriate procedure would be the same for younger patients (who are more likely to need a repeat procedure) as for older ones. In none of the cases considered was there sufficient evidence of effect to be able to reach any conclusion. 5 Recommendations for further research 5.1 Ongoing trials for paclitaxel-eluting stents include TAXUS I (follow-up of a small initial study of slow-release formulation versus BMS in patients with either previously untreated lesions or restenosis), TAXUS II (follow-up of a larger study of both slow- and moderate-release formulations versus BMS in patients with previously untreated lesions),
