Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


the total number of arteries requiring a DES in the UK is unknown, it could be as high as one-third of all stents. Based on this proportion, the additional cost of DES without offsets would be between £6 and £7.2 million per year, assuming the use of about 12,000 DES stents costing an additional £500 to £600 each. 6.2 If the use of drug-eluting stents reduced the restenosis rate by about 10 percentage points, then the additional capacity generated could be used to increase the number of new stent procedures. This would have the effect of offsetting the cost of the BMS by about £4 million per year. Such cost savings, however, will often only be realised in the form of additional capacity. 7 Implementation and audit 7.1 Clinicians carrying out PCIs should review their current practice and policies to take account of the guidance set out in section 1. 7.2 Local guidelines, protocols or care pathways that refer to PCIs and/or stents should incorporate the guidance. 7.3 To measure compliance locally with the guidance, the following criteria could be used. Further details on suggestions for audit are presented in appendix C. 7.4 Stents are used routinely in PCIs carried out in patients with stable or unstable angina or acute MI. 7.5 A Cypher or a Taxus stent is used in PCI for people with symptomatic CAD in whom the target artery is less than 3 mm in calibre or in which the lesion to be stented is longer than 15 mm, except if an individual has had an MI in the preceding 24 hours or has angiographic evidence of thrombus in the target artery. If more than 1 artery is to have a stent inserted, the same considerations apply to each artery. 7.6 Local clinical audits on the care of patients with CAD also could include measurement of compliance with national standards, including standards in the National Service Framework for coronary heart disease. 8 Appraisal Committee members and NICE project team Appraisal Committee members The Appraisal Committee is a standing advisory committee of NICE. Its members are appointed for a 3-year term. A list of the Committee members who took part in the discussions for this appraisal appears below. The Appraisal Committee meets 3 times a month except in December, when there are no meetings. The Committee membership is split into 3 branches, with the chair, vice-chair and a
