Guidance on the use of coronary artery stents
KEYWORDS: bms, des, pci, stents, patients, restenosis, trials, committee, artery, versus, stent, cabg, months, appraisal, rate


deliberations. They gave their expert personal view on coronary artery stents by attending the initial Committee discussion and/or providing written evidence to the Committee. They were also invited to comment on the ACD. • Dr Mark de Belder, Assistant Secretary, British Cardiac Society and Consultant Cardiologist, The James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough • Dr Derek Connolly, Consultant Cardiologist, Heart UK and Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust AND Honorary Clinical Senior Lecturer, University of Birmingham • Dr A H Gershlick, Consultant Cardiologist, Department of Cardiology, Glenfield Hospital NHS Trust, Leicester • Mr S Livesey, Consultant Cardiac Surgeon, Southampton General Hospital • Professor M Rothman, Consultant Cardiologist, London Chest Hospital Appendix C Detail on criteria for audit of the use of coronary artery stents Possible objectives for an audit An audit could be carried out to ensure that stents are being used appropriately in patients undergoing PCIs. Local clinical audits could also confirm that PCI is the clinically appropriate procedure for patients included in the audit. Possible patients to be included in the audit An audit could include all patients having a PCI for stable or unstable angina, acute MI or symptomatic CAD in a suitable time period, for example, 3 months. Measures that could be used as a basis for audit Table 1 Measures that could be used in an audit of stents Criterion Standard Exception Definition of terms 1. Stents are used when a 100% of PCI is performed in an Clinicians will individuals individual having any of the need to agree having a PCI for following: None locally on any stable or a. stable angina or exceptions for unstable angina b. unstable angina or audit purposes. or acute MI c. acute MI Criterion Standard Exception Definition of terms 2. A Cypher or a Taxus stent A. The individual is used in a PCI for an has had an MI in Clinicians will individual with symptomatic 100% of the preceding 24 need to agree CAD when either of the individuals hours locally on any following occurs: having a PCI for B. The individual other exceptions a. the target artery is < 3 mm symptomatic has angiographic for audit in calibre or CAD evidence of purposes. b. the lesion to be stented is thrombus in the longer than 15 mm target artery Calculation of compliance Compliance (%) with each measure described in table 1 is calculated as follows. [Number
