GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, gut, brain, microbiota, barrier, lymphatic, intestinal, cells, immune, disease, function, gut microbiota, cns, vessels, blood


GUT MICROBES 2024, VOL. 16, NO. 1, 2387800 REVIEW Microbiota–gut–brain axis: interplay between microbiota, barrier function and lymphatic system Miaomiao Zhuanga, Xun Zhangb, and Jun Cai a,c Diseases, Beijing, China ABSTRACT ARTICLE HISTORY The human gastrointestinal tract, boasting the most diverse microbial community, harbors approxi- Received 27 February 2024 mately 100 trillion microorganisms comprising viruses, bacteria, fungi, and archaea. The profound Revised 16 May 2024 genetic and metabolic capabilities of the gut microbiome underlie its involvement in nearly every Accepted 30 July 2024 KEYWORDS recognition of microbiota – gut – brain axis, referring to the bidirectional communication network Microbiota-gut-brain-axis; between gut microbes and their host, has led to a surge in interdisciplinary research. This review begins lacteal; intestinal barrier; with an overview of the current understandings regarding the influence of gut microbes on intestinal blood brain barrier; and blood-brain barrier integrity. Subsequently, we discuss the mechanisms of the microbiota – gut – lymphatic system brain axis, examining the role of gut microbiota-related neural transmission, metabolites, gut hormones and immunity. We propose the concept of microbiota-mediated multi-barrier modulation in the potential treatment in gastrointestinal and neurological disorders. Furthermore, the role of lymphatic network in the development and maintenance of barrier function is discussed, providing insights into lesser-known conduits of communication between the microbial ecosystem within the gut and the brain. In the final section, we conclude by describing the ongoing frontiers in understanding of the microbiota – gut – brain axis’s impact on human health and disease. Introduction microbiota community modulates the organ-specific environment remains research hotspot of present and The human body hosts a rich ecosystem of microor- future studies. ganisms, such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi, collec- tively referred to as the microbiota.1 The human Barriers extending beyond the gut epithelial bar- rier, spanning the MGBA, are emerging as novel gastrointestinal (GI) tract contains trillions of micro- pathways facilitating communication between the organisms that exist symbiotically with the host due to gut microbiome and the brain. Disruption of the a tolerant, regulatory cell- rich intestinal immune system. The central nervous system (CNS), compris- barrier integrity contributes a variety of gastroin- ing the brain and spinal cord, governs vital functions testinal and neurological diseases. For decades, our such as respiration, heart rate, movement, sensation, understanding of barriers has shifted from perceiv- cognition, and reasoning, making it arguably the most ing them as rigidly impermeable cellular structures crucial of all organ
