GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, gut, brain, microbiota, barrier, lymphatic, intestinal, cells, immune, disease, function, gut microbiota, cns, vessels, blood


abundance of resident micro- microorganisms. Functionally, intestinal micro- organisms. The mucus layer not only limits the biota plays a pivotal role in modulating intestinal exposure of epithelial cells from pathogens and barrier permeability and preserving the integrity of the gut microbiota, also acting as a nutrient source the enteric nervous system (ENS).3,4 and a colonization niche for the microbiota.6 Disruption of this layer is associated with initiation of inflammatory responses, leading to intestinal The gut barrier inflammatory disorders such as Crohn’s disease The term “gut barrier” refers to a physiological and ulcerative colitis.7 The second layer of defense barrier system located within the intestines. It is is provided by the monolayer of tightly sealed primarily composed of the intestinal mucosa epithelial cells that line the gut lumen. The gut Figure 1. Illustration of gastrointestinal barrier. A layer of mucus, secreted by epithelial cells, coats the luminal side of the gut epithelium. The gut endothelial barrier comprises gut epithelial cells, tightly sealed by junctional complexes consisting of tight and adherens junctions. Within the gut epithelium are specialized cells, including enteroendocrine cells, which secrete gut hormones and serve as a crucial link in the communication between the central and enteric nervous systems. The gut vascular barrier is composed of fenestrated epithelium, also sealed by junctional complexes of tight and adherens junctions. Beneath the villus, intestinal lymphatic capillaries (lacteals) are situated, which drain into the mesenteric collecting vessels and the thoracic duct. This structure form a semipermissive barrier for lipid absorption and focal immune surveillance. This figure was created with BioRender ( GUT MICROBES 3 epithelial barrier function is modulated by enteric macromolecules. Interstitial fluid drains into glia, resembling the way astrocytes in neurovascu- blind‐ended, permeable lymphatic capillaries lar unit (NVU), indicating the revolutionary simi- forming lymph; lymphatic collecting vessels trans- larity of gastrointestinal and blood – brain barrier port lymph through lymph nodes to the thoracic (BBB) function.8 The gut vascular barrier is the duct and back into blood circulation. third layer of the intestinal barrier, which closely Lymphatic vessel development follows interacts with endothelial cells, glial cells and peri- a stepwise, highly conserved, and precisely regu- cytes and regulates the translocation of intestinal lated program mediated by biochemical and content, such as bacteria, other microorganisms, mechanical signaling pathways. These vessels gra- toxins, proteins, bacterial metabolites, cytokines, dually acquire specialized network characteristics immune and inflammatory cells, into the systemic in response to
