GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, gut, brain, microbiota, barrier, lymphatic, intestinal, cells, immune, disease, function, gut microbiota, cns, vessels, blood


toxins, or tissue-derived toxins may potentially translocate to the lymphatic system, Gut lymphatic vessel: new conduit in gut barrier aiming to uncover potential intervention points General organization of lymphatic system at the initial stages of this potentially life- The lymphatic system, running parallel to the threatening process. Therefore, it is imperative blood circulation, is essential for maintaining to attain a comprehensive understanding of the fluid homeostasis, facilitating lipid absorption, influence of gut microbiota on the development and orchestrating immune responses in the body. and maintenance of lacteals. Meanwhile, knowl- It consists of an extensive network of lymphatic edge regarding the two-way relationship between vessels that serve as conduits for transporting lymphatic function and gut microbiota remains lymph fluid, immune cells, and various an area requiring further investigation. 4 M. ZHUANG ET AL. Crosstalk between microbiota and lacteals the least colonized segment of the intestine.35 The maturation of lacteals is governed by two dis- Intestinal bacterial infection could profoundly tinct yet paradoxically opposing mechanisms. remodel the intestinal environment by disrupting During development, lacteals undergo extension of lymphatic-mediated communication between to increase the draining surface area exposed to tissues and the immune system. Acute infection the villus interstitial space, facilitating maximal of Yersinia pseudotuberculosis in the intestine permeability to accommodate the entry and passive leads to leakage of the mesenteric lymphatics in diffusion of chylomicrons through the lacteals. the mesenteric adipose tissue, compromising the Simultaneously, lacteals serve as a secondary line tolerance and protective immune function in the of defense against pathogens infiltrating the muco- canonical mucosal and mesenteric lymph node.36 sal epithelium. According to the “lymph-based bac- terial translocation” theory, submucosal dendritic cells containing captured bacteria are transported Gut microbiota and the brain barrier through lacteals to the first mesenteric lymph node The gut microbiota intricately influence brain devel- before triggering an immune response, posing opment, function and behavior through neuroendo- a potential risk for uncontrolled dissemination of crine, immune pathways, and production of pathogens through mesenteric lymphatics.24–26 neuroactive substances, metabolites, and hormones Therefore a dynamic balance is reached between in the blood and lymphatic system.37 While the host the final density and composition of host micro- hormonal status, diet, lifestyle habits, and circadian biota and the adult lacteals’ shape and cycle also dynamically alter the biodiversity of the functionality. gut microbiota.38–41 Though the gut and brain are Dysfunction of the lymphatic network may lead anatomically separated, mounting evidence revealed to
