GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, gut, brain, microbiota, barrier, lymphatic, intestinal, cells, immune, disease, function, gut microbiota, cns, vessels, blood


of Lymphatics Disease phenotype references Alzheimer’s Disease Involvement in waste clearance from the brain; potential Dysfunctional lymphatic pathways contribute to the 102,107,108 role in pathology and therapeutics. accumulation of toxic proteins and disease progression. Therapeutic strategies targeting lymphatic function hold promise in alleviating pathology and decelerating disease advancement. Parkinson’s Disease Accumulation of alpha-synuclein in meningeal lymphatics; Enlarged deep cervical lymph nodes (dCLNs) and reduced 109,110 potential role in disease propagation. perfusion wete observed, attributed to increased macrophage activation, along with exacerbated motor and sensory dysfunction. Aging Decreased lymphatic function with age, impaired drainage Dural T cells increase toward non-sinus regions and exhibit 111,112 of waste and immune cells. enhanced IFN-γ expression in aging mice. Age- associated B cells from the blood accumulate in the dura, displaying an antigen-experienced pattern and differentiating into plasma cells. Experimental Inflammatory processes and immune surveillance within Bone marrow-derived myeloid cells in the dura infiltrate 113–116 Autoimmune the CNS. the CNS parenchyma during EAE, showing regulatory Encephalomyelitis phenotypes. Disease- and tissue-specific transcriptional (EAE) changes were observed in leptomeningeal myeloid populations in EAE mice. Multiple Sclerosis Inflammation-induced dysfunction of meningeal Inflammation disrupts the normal functioning of meningeal 117–119 (MS) lymphatics; impaired drainage of cerebrospinal fluid. lymphatics, impairing the drainage of CSF and metabolic waste from the CNS and contributing to the accumulation of inflammatory mediators and neurotoxic substances, exacerbating neuroinflammation and neuronal damage. Traumatic Brain Subarachnoid clot clearance, and erythrocyte drainage to Meningeal lymphatic activation and expansion participates 120–123 Injury and Stroke dCLNs; activation of meningeal lymphatics post-injury; in the clearance of immune cells, debris, and fluid from involvement in immune response and debris clearance. the CNS after stroke. Strategies aimed at modulating lymphatic function to enhance lymphatic drainage could reduce intracerebral hematoma volume, promote neuroprotection, tissue repair, and functional recovery post-stroke. Figure 2. The microbiota-gut-brain axis. The bidirectional communication between the brain and gut microbiota is mediated by several pathways including the immune system, neuroendocrine system, ENS, circulatory system, and vagus nerve. Microbiota can promote production of essential metabolites, neurotransmitters, and other neuroactive compounds that influence the gut epithelial barrier and brain barrier. Different types of microbial metabolites have been shown to modulate barrier function by blood circulation (arrows). Alterations in gut microbiota have been linked to the development of autism spectrum disorders, anxiety, depressive-like behavior, impaired physical performance, and motivation, as well as neurodegenerative diseases. Recent research also suggesting the potential for microbiota to traverse
