GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: doi, gut, brain, microbiota, barrier, lymphatic, intestinal, cells, immune, disease, function, gut microbiota, cns, vessels, blood


to the development of autism spectrum disorders, anxiety, depressive-like behavior, impaired physical performance, and motivation, as well as neurodegenerative diseases. Recent research also suggesting the potential for microbiota to traverse the lymphatic system, serving as a secret pathway, linking the gut and the brain, may contribute to the development of disease. This figure was created with BioRender ( GUT MICROBES 9 lymphatic vessels may potentially enhance auto- transplantation, and modulation in lymphatics are immune neuroinflammatory conditions like currently under active investigation for optimizing route seems to be an effective intervention Nevertheless, critical questions and uncertainties practice.127 remain unanswered regarding the MGBA, and lim- The lymphatic network connects the MGBA itations of preclinical models continue to obscure impacting immune cells or metabolites that are translational insights. Firstly, the wide variation in transported to CNS area. Lymphatic network that gut microbial profiles between individuals poses links CNS with draining lymph nodes and enables challenges as individual microbes may exhibit bacterial-metabolite-associated neurotransmission dual roles, capable of both benefiting and harming mental medicine. Numerous diseases are asso- existing animal models are primarily observed in ciated with deranged blood vessel endothelial rodent models and hindering successful bench-to- barrier function, increased permeability, and extra- bedside translation. Appropriate animal models, vasation into the microenvironment surrounding coupled with advanced technologies like single- lymphatic vessels. It is conceivable that the micro- cell sequencing and computational methodologies, biota might exert its effect on the initiation or are required to capitalize on the potential of manip- progression of CNS disease through lymphatic net- ulating the MGBA in disease. Understanding the work in a direct or indirect manner (Figure 2). role of this co-evolution of hosts and their micro- biota provides new therapeutic insights in field of gastrointestinal, neurodevelopmental, neurodegen- Conclusions erative, and cerebrovascular diseases. The MGBA serves as a significant bidirectional communication network, presenting an actionable Acknowledgments target for mitigating the development and progres- The figures were made using Biorender.com (accessed on 27th sion in gastrointestinal and neurological diseases. February 2024). Intestinal barriers and BBB constitute dynamic and adaptive structures crucial for facilitating key aspects of communication. Dysbiosis compromises Disclosure statement the integrity of both the intestinal barrier and BBB, with recent evidence implicating the meningeal No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s). barrier as well. We explore the structural and func- tional similarities among barriers, while acknowl- edging their individual peculiarities crucial for Funding their respective functions
