Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lyme, disease, lyme disease, tick-borne, children, borrelia, microti, pcr, babesia, multiplex, infection, dis, infections, pathogens, study


MAJOR ARTICLE Multiplex High-Definition Polymerase Chain Reaction Assay for the Diagnosis of Tick-borne Infections in Children Lise E. Nigrovic,1, Desiree N. Neville,2Laura Chapman,3Fran Balamuth,4Michael N. Levas,5Amy D. Thompson,6Anupam B. Kharbanda,7Derek Gerstbrein,8 John A. Branda,9and Blake W. Buchan,8for Pedi Lyme Net MA, USA Background. Ixodes scapularis ticks can carry Borrelia species as well as other pathogens that cause human disease. The uncertainty about the optimal approach to diagnosis. Methods. We enrolled children aged 1–21 years presenting to 1 of 8 Pedi Lyme Net emergency departments for evaluation of Lyme disease. We selected cases with serologically or clinically diagnosed Lyme disease (erythema migrans or early neurologic disease) matched by symptoms, age, gender, and center to control subjects without Lyme disease. We tested whole blood samples collected at the time of diagnosis using a multiplex high-definition polymerase chain reaction (HDPCR) panel to identify 9 bacterial or protozoan pathogens associated with human disease. We compared the frequency of tick-borne coinfections in children with Lyme disease to matched controls. Results. Of the 612 selected samples, 594 (97.1%) had an interpretable multiplex HDPCR result. We identified the following non-Borrelia tick-borne infections: Anaplasma phagocytophilum (2), Ehrlichia chaffeensis (1), and Babesia microti (12). Children with Lyme disease were more likely to have another tick-borne pathogen identified than matched controls (15/297 [5.1%] Lyme cases vs 0/297 [0%]; difference, 5.1% [95% confidence interval, 2.7%–8.2%]). Conclusions. Although a substantial minority of children with Lyme disease had another tick-borne pathogen identified, either first-line Lyme disease antibiotics provided adequate treatment or the coinfection was subclinical and did not require specific treatment. Further studies are needed to establish the optimal approach to testing for tick-borne coinfections in children. Keywords. children; coinfections; Lyme disease; tick-borne infection. Over the past 2 decades, Lyme disease incidence has increased to burgdorferi can also carry 1 or more other pathogens , includ- nearly half a million new cases each year in the United States [1– ing other Borrelia species as well as additional bacteria, virus- 3]. Borrelia burgdorferi, the primary causative agent of Lyme dis- es, or parasites [5–9]. Rapid and accurate detection of tick-borne ness. The Ixodes scapularis or black-legged tick that transmits B decision making and allow for timely and targeted treatment. The approach to evaluation for tick-borne infections that complicate or mimic Lyme disease varies considerably. Received 05 December 2022; editorial decision 28 February 2023; accepted 16 March 2023; Currently available diagnostics frequently measure the host
