Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lyme, disease, lyme disease, tick-borne, children, borrelia, microti, pcr, babesia, multiplex, infection, dis, infections, pathogens, study


multiplex high-definition PCR (HDPCR) tick-borne pathogen Diasorin VlsE; Branda Laboratory, Massachusetts General of identification of non-Borrelia tick-borne coinfections on pa- sified according to stage: early (a single EM lesion), early dis- tient management. seminated (multiple EM lesions, headache, and facial nerve palsy), or late (arthritis). Children without EM lesions who had negative 2-tier Lyme disease serology were classified as METHODS controls. Pedi Lyme Net Cohort Nested Case-Control Study We assembled a prospective cohort of children presenting for eval- For this study, we conducted a case-control study nested within uation of potential Lyme disease between June 2015 and December the larger Pedi Lyme Net prospective cohort using patients with 2021 to 1 of 8 Pedi Lyme Net emergency departments located in 3 an available whole blood research sample. We selected cases geographic regions: Northeast (Boston Children’s Hospital from each participating center with early Lyme disease (a single EM lesion), Lyme meningitis, or Lyme facial palsy. For each [Providence, Rhode Island]); Mid-Atlantic (Nemours Children’s Lyme disease case, we selected a control with similar symptoms (meningitis of facial palsy), matched for age group (1–7 years, Philadelphia [Philadelphia, Pennsylvania], and Children’s 8–12 years, 13–18 years, or 19–21 years), gender, and partici- pating center. Children with a single EM lesion were matched (Children’s Wisconsin [Milwaukee, Wisconsin] and Minnesota to a control with a recognized recent tick bite without signs Children’s [Minneapolis and St Paul, Minnesota]). or symptoms of infection. Patient Consent Statement Multiplex HDPCR Test When available, study staff approached potentially eligible chil- Research biosamples were frozen at −80°C after collection dren year-round to obtain written informed consent for partic- and shipped in batches from the enrolling sites to the ipation with assent when appropriate. The institutional review Pediatric Lyme Disease biobank at Boston Children’s with permission for data sharing and material transfer. blood samples from the selected case and the control patients to our laboratory collaborator (Buchan Laboratory, Children’s Wisconsin, Milwaukee) who performed the re- Data Collection search use–only multiplex HDPCR Tick-borne Panel ical providers as well as subjects and families, including demo- and 1 protozoan distinct tick-borne pathogens or pathogen graphics, symptoms, and duration. We defined peak Lyme groups (Table 1). A 200-µL portion of each whole blood speci- season between June and October. After collection of clinical blood men was subjected to total nucleic acid extraction using the tests, we obtained research biosamples (serum and whole blood), EMAG assay (bioMérieux), eluted into
