Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lyme, disease, lyme disease, tick-borne, children, borrelia, microti, pcr, babesia, multiplex, infection, dis, infections, pathogens, study


October. After collection of clinical blood men was subjected to total nucleic acid extraction using the tests, we obtained research biosamples (serum and whole blood), EMAG assay (bioMérieux), eluted into 50 µL of buffer, and which were initially processed at the participating study site, stored analyzed using the research use–only multiplex HDPCR at −80°C, and batch shipped to the Pediatric Lyme Disease bio- Tick-borne Panel (Chroma Code). Real-time amplification bank at Boston Children’s Hospital . Approximately 1 month and detection of each assay target was conducted using the after enrollment, study staff reviewed the medical record and per- ABI 7500 FastDx thermocycler (Applied BioSystems) with formed telephone follow-up to determine test results, treatment, 96-well PCR plate format in accordance with manufacturer’s and complications as well as clinical outcome. All data were col- instructions for use. Each plate contained both positive and lected prospectively using Research Electronic Data Capture negative controls, as well as 5 calibrators to ensure quality (REDCap) housed at Harvard University. and accuracy of results. 2 • OFID • Nigrovic et al Table 1. Species or Groups of Tick-borne Pathogens Detected by the Table 2. Multiplex High-Definition Polymerase Chain Reaction Results Multiplex High-Definition Polymerase Chain Reaction Panel for Patients With Lyme Disease and Matched Controls Pathogen Lyme Clinical Bacterial species Disease Mimic % Difference Anaplasma phagocytophilum Species (n = 297)a (n = 297)a (95% CI) Borrelia miyamotoia Any Borrelia species 12 (4.0) 1 (0.3) 3.7% (1.4%–6.6%) Borrelia group 1 (Lyme-causing Borrelia spp): B burgdorferi, B mayonii Group 1: 10 1 Borrelia group 2 (relapsing fever Borrelia spp): B hermsii, B parkeri, B Lyme-causing turicatae Group 2: 2 0 Ehrlichia chaffeensis Relapsing fever Ehrlichia ewingii Non-Borrelia 15 (5.1) 0 (0) 5.1% (2.7%–8.2%) Ehrlichia muris eauclarensis pathogens Rickettsia spp Anaplasma 2 0 Protozoa species phagocytophilum Babesia microti Babesia microti 12 0 Ehrlichia species 1 0 aBorrelia miyamotoi is specifically identified and differentiated from other relapsing fever “Borrelia group 2” based on detection of species-specific glpQ sequence. E chaffeensis 1 0 Other relapsing fever group Borrelia species (Borrelia group 2) are detected based E ewingii 0 0 on the gene BH0214B sequence, which is not present in B miyamotoi but not E muris 0 0 further differentiated. Rickettsia spp 0 0 No pathogen 270 (90.9) 296 (99.7) −8.8% (−12.6% to 5.6%) detected For the children found to have a non-Borrelia tick-borne in- Data are presented as No. (%) unless otherwise indicated.
