Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lyme, disease, lyme disease, tick-borne, children, borrelia, microti, pcr, babesia, multiplex, infection, dis, infections, pathogens, study


the Upper Midwest . Interestingly, the 6% coinfection rate in these adults was similar to that observed in our multicenter DISCUSSION pediatric cohort. ly diagnosed Lyme disease had non-Borrelia tick-borne infec- shares a similar geographic distribution to Lyme disease. The tions identified by the multiplex HDPCR panel, whereas pathogen can be identified either by examination of peripheral none of the matched controls had these infections identified. blood whole blood smear or PCR assay . The preferred an- Reliance on traditional diagnostic methods may lead to under- tibiotic treatment for nonsevere babesiosis includes atova- diagnosis of tick-borne coinfections. However, currently rec- quone plus azithromycin, while first-line Lyme disease ommended first-line antibiotic treatments active for Lyme antibiotics (eg, amoxicillin, doxycycline, or ceftriaxone) are 4 • OFID • Nigrovic et al not active against Babesia. While babesiosis can be a serious in- Anaplasma, are effectively treated with doxycycline, a first-line fection in older adults or those with a compromised immune therapy for Lyme disease . Babesia requires targeted antibi- system, most immunocompetent patients, especially children, otic therapy but typically causes subclinical infection in previ- logic evidence of B microti infection was not associated with Lyme disease had any other tick-borne infection identified. more severe symptoms than Lyme disease alone . Our Routine use of molecular panels in the initial assessment of chil- study patients with B microti identified did not demonstrate dren with a potential tick-borne infection would add costs with- clinical evidence of babesiosis and all recovered without target- out clear benefit given the relatively low positivity rate. Available ed antibiotic therapy. clinical algorithms to limit utilization of molecular diagnostics infections varies considerably. Serologic tests rely on detection need further evaluation before widespread implementation, es- of the human host’s immune response to infection and may pecially for children. Our findings suggest that multiplex take weeks to develop. Therefore, early in infection, serologic HDPCR or other molecular tick-borne panels should be reserved due to prior infection or cross-reactivity . Direct pathogen tation or immunodeficiency (eg, splenectomy) or who have in- detection tests such as PCR identify the infecting pathogen adequate response to initial therapy. rather than relying on host response to infection. Consistent Our study has several limitations. First, we selected cases and with previous evaluations , the B burgdorferi blood controls from the larger Pedi Lyme Net cohort. Although we PCR assay had inadequate sensitivity to be utilized clinically matched by symptoms,
