Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lyme, disease, lyme disease, tick-borne, children, borrelia, microti, pcr, babesia, multiplex, infection, dis, infections, pathogens, study


with previous evaluations , the B burgdorferi blood controls from the larger Pedi Lyme Net cohort. Although we PCR assay had inadequate sensitivity to be utilized clinically matched by symptoms, demographics, and participating cen- for evaluation of patients with potential Lyme disease. ter, we were unable to match by time of presentation. Similarly, Rickettsiae species infections are frequently limited Therefore, controls may have differed from cases in ways that to the vascular endothelium with few organisms circulating could have influenced the risk of tick-borne coinfection. free in the bloodstream, which limits the sensitivity utility of Second, we were limited to the pathogens included in the mul- PCR for these pathogens. However, blood PCR is both a sensi- tiplex panel and did not have an independent diagnostic gold tive and specific diagnostic for other non-Borrelia tick-borne standard for the non–Lyme disease tick-borne infections. pathogens and is recommended for the diagnosis of acute infec- Therefore, we may have failed to identify some pathogens in- tions . Previous evaluations of the multiplex HDPCR cluding viruses with our molecular panel. Third, antibiotics panel utilized in our study demonstrated that this panel per- could render PCR assays falsely negative. However, only a mi- formed similarly to individual PCR assays with a 97.4%– nority of children received antibiotics active against tick-borne 100% positive agreement and a 98.9%–100% negative agree- pathogens prior to research sample collection. Fourth, all study ment, compared with validated single PCR assays . enrollment sites were located in urban areas. However, many The ability to evaluate for multiple pathogens with a single as- families bypass local care sites to seek care for their children say provides a widely adaptable and easy-to-implement testing at regional pediatric centers . Fifth, we only performed strategy for the majority of hospital laboratories without the short-term clinical follow-up (1 month after enrollment) and need for additional instrumentation or specialized training. may not have identified subtle symptoms in children with an However, this panel has some important limitations, including identified coinfection. Last, although coinfection risk may the inability to distinguish between Borrelia species associated vary between regions in the United States, the small number with Lyme disease (B burgdorferi and B mayonii), and does not of coinfections identified limits our ability to identify geo- detect tick-borne viral pathogens (ie, Powassan virus). In addi- graphic predictors of infection. tion, specimens with very low concentration of B microti may be misclassified
