Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: lyme, disease, lyme disease, tick-borne, children, borrelia, microti, pcr, babesia, multiplex, infection, dis, infections, pathogens, study


our ability to identify geo- detect tick-borne viral pathogens (ie, Powassan virus). In addi- graphic predictors of infection. tion, specimens with very low concentration of B microti may be misclassified as positive for relapsing fever–causing CONCLUSIONS Borrelia species (Borrelia group 2) . This characteristic of the HDPCR test utilized could explain the 2 children who test- A substantial minority of children with acute Lyme disease ed positive for relapsing fever “Borrelia group 2” targets who have an unrecognized tick-borne infection, although current did not have documented travel to regions endemic for ticks therapies directed toward the primary agent of Lyme disease that transmit these bacterial species. Further sequence analysis may be adequate. Clinical use of multiplex molecular tick- of the resulting amplicon would be necessary to definitively re- borne panels should be reserved for atypical Lyme disease cases solve these 2 unexpected results. or when initial response to therapy is inadequate. Larger studies Treating clinicians evaluating a patient for Lyme disease must are needed to identify clinical and geographic risks of tick- decide whether also to evaluate for other tick-borne infections. borne coinfection to further guide clinical decision making Two of the tick-borne coinfections identified, Erlichia and and ensure appropriate utilization of tick-borne illness testing. Multiplex PCR for Tick-borne Infections • OFID • 5 Notes 13. Buchan BW, Jobe DA, Mashock M, et al. Evaluation of a novel multiplex high- Acknowledgments. We gratefully acknowledge the participation of our definition PCR assay for detection of tick-borne pathogens in whole-blood spec- imens. J Clin Microbiol 2019; 57:e00513-19. 14. Nigrovic LE, Lewander DP, Balamuth F, et al. The Lyme disease polymerase chain investigator in this study. reaction test has low sensitivity. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis 2020; 20:310–3. Disclaimer. The funder had no role in the research conduct or results 15. Kingry LC, Anacker M, Pritt B, et al. Surveillance for and discovery of Borrelia interpretation. species in US patients suspected of tickborne illness. Clin Infect Dis 2018; 66: Financial support. This work was supported by a grant from the 1864–71. Emergency Medicine Foundation (to L. E. N.) and the Global Lyme 16. Shakir SM, Mansfield CR, Hays ED, Couturier MR, Hillyard DR. Evaluation of a Alliance (to L. E. N.). novel high-definition PCR multiplex assay for simultaneous detection of tick- Potential conflicts of interest. L. E. N. has consulted for Adaptive borne pathogens in human clinical specimens. J Clin Microbiol 2020; 58: Biosciences
