Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


mammalian brain maturation are qualitatively different. They influence many developmental processes, usually during limited time windows. They are required for the timely synchronization of seemingly independent events and facilitate the transition between the fetal and postnatal stages ( 7 , 8 ), similarly to promoting amphibian metamorphosis ( 9 , 10 ). Thyroid hormone deficiency during critical transition periods may lead to irreversible brain damage, the consequences of which depend on the severity and duration of the deficiency, and most importantly its time of onset ( 11 - 15 ). Most basic studies have been carried out in rodents, and the use of knockout and knockin mice has facilitated our understanding of thyroid hormone action in the brain. However, it is important to be aware of species specificities which make it difficult to extrapolate the results to humans. The timing of development in relation to birth among mammals presents substantial differences, even if the sequence of events might be similar ( 16 - 18 ). The web resource www.translatingtime.org ( 19 ) provides tools to compare neurodevelopmental time across species. As an approximation, the newborn rat may be compared with a second-trimester human fetus, and the maturation of a newborn human cerebral cortex to that of a 12-13-day old rat pup ( 20 ). Recent developments using human cerebral organoids and transcriptomic analysis of human brain fetuses ( 21 - 25 ) open a new era in the understanding thyroid hormone action in the human brain. For integrative reviews on molecular and evolutionary aspects and the effects of thyroid hormones on the brain see ( 26 - 29 ). A recently published book offers more detailed information on the subjects discussed in the present article within the context of thyroid pathophysiology ( 30 ). Whenever possible, this chapter focuses on observations in humans. Gene and protein notations follow the HUGO nomenclature ( http://www.genenames.org ): Gene and mRNA names are written in italics: all letters are uppercase for human genes (e.g., NRGN ), while only the first letter is uppercase for rodent genes (e.g., Nrgn ). Full protein names are written in lowercase (e.g., neurogranin), whereas protein symbols are written in uppercase non-italic letters for both humans and rodents (e.g., NRGN). The thyroid hormone receptor proteins follow conventional naming as TRα1, TRβ1, and TRβ2. STRUCTURAL DEFECTS CAUSED BY THYROID HORMONE DEFICIENCY As an approach to understanding how thyroid hormones influence brain
