Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


The thyroid hormone receptor proteins follow conventional naming as TRα1, TRβ1, and TRβ2. STRUCTURAL DEFECTS CAUSED BY THYROID HORMONE DEFICIENCY As an approach to understanding how thyroid hormones influence brain development, the changes caused by thyroid hormone deprivation are informative. In rats, perinatal hypothyroidism causes reduced myelination and diverse structural defects (for a classical review on this topic, see ( 31 ). A reduction of the neuropil causes increased cell density in the cerebral cortex ( 32 , 33 ). Reduction in total cell numbers of regions with significant neurogenesis during the postnatal period, such as the olfactory bulb and the granular layers of the hippocampus and cerebellum ( 33 - 35 ). Transient structures show retarded disappearance. An important example is the subplate, a transient structure of the cortex involved in the organization of thalamic afferents to the cortex ( 36 ). In the cerebellum, regression of the external granular, or germinal layer, is retarded by a few days ( 37 ). The Cajal-Retzius cells, formed early during cortical development and involved in the regulation of the inside-out migration of neurons have a delayed appearance ( Fig. 1 left panel) ( 38 ). The GABAergic interneurons have altered distribution and connectivity, and the parvalbumin subclass is reduced in number ( 39 - 42 ). The maturation of several types of neurons is compromised, with stunted dendritic and/or axonal growth and maturation, for example cholinergic cells ( 43 ), cerebellar Purkinje cells ( Fig. 1 central panel) ( 44 , 45 ), and cortex layer V pyramidal cells ( 46 , 47 ). Changes in dendritic spine number are also observed in the cortex and hippocampus after adult-onset hypothyroidism and are reversible with thyroxine treatment ( 48 , 49 ). Hypothyroidism also causes delayed and poor deposition of myelin ( 50 - 53 ), whereas hyperthyroidism accelerates myelination ( 54 ). After prolonged neonatal hypothyroidism, the number of myelinated axons in adult rats is abnormally low in hypothyroid animals, although most of the myelinated axons appear to have a normal thickness of the myelin sheath ( Fig. 1 , right panel). Fig. 1. Examples of the effects of hypothyroidism on developmental timing, cell differentiation, and cell migration. Left panel: In the cortical plate, hypothyroidism of fetal onset reduced the number of Cajal-Retzius cells, Reln mRNA (reelin), and reelin protein at P0. Normal amounts of reelin were present in the cortex
