Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


the cortical plate, hypothyroidism of fetal onset reduced the number of Cajal-Retzius cells, Reln mRNA (reelin), and reelin protein at P0. Normal amounts of reelin were present in the cortex at P5, indicating that thyroid hormones control the timing of Reln expression (from ( 38 ). Central panel: Neonatal hypothyroidism causes arrested Purkinje cell differentiation (upper panels), and delayed disappearance of the external (germinal) granular layer due to delayed migration of granular cells. The right panel shows a permanent myelin deficit in hypothyroidism. Myelin staining of the anterior commissure of adult rats with fetal/neonatal-onset hypothyroidism and their respective euthyroid controls shows a thinner and paler commissure in the hypothyroid rats. Electron microscope imaging reveals that a higher proportion of axons of hypothyroid rats were of lower diameter and unmyelinated (from ( 55 ). Less information is available on how hypothyroidism affects the structure of the human brain. Post mortem examination in two cases of deficient thyroid hormone transport to the brain caused by MCT8 deficiency, revealed anatomical changes compatible with brain hypothyroidism ( 56 ) ( Fig. 2 ): delayed and altered maturation of the neocortex and cerebellum, delayed myelination, altered neuronal differentiation with lower expression of neurofilaments, reduced axon calibers and reduced synaptogenesis with reduced synaptophysin expression. Specific cellular changes included a reduced number of Cajal-Retzius cells and parvalbumin interneurons in the cortex. Cerebellar Purkinje cells had a normal morphology in contrast to the usual finding in hypothyroid rodents. These findings indicate that it is possible to extrapolate, but with caution, the brain lesions observed in hypothyroid rodents to humans. Fig. 2. MCT8 mutations cause anatomical changes compatible with cerebral hypothyroidism already during fetal stages. The left upper panels show staining of the cortex with neurofilament (brown color) in a control fetus (a) and a fetus with a MCT8 mutation (b). The normal cortex shows staining of Cajal-Retzius cells, which were absent in the MCT8 fetus. The left lower panels show staining of the cerebellum with anti-myelin basic protein. The normal fetus (c) shows immunoreactivity, which is not present in the MCT8 fetus (d). The right panels correspond to an 11-years old boy with MCT8 mutation (panels f, h, k l, n) and control of the same age (panels e, g, i, j, m). Panels e, f: cross-section of the pyramidal track stained with neurofilament; in the MCT8-mutated patient the axonal diameter is smaller than in the control. Panels
