Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


e, g, i, j, m). Panels e, f: cross-section of the pyramidal track stained with neurofilament; in the MCT8-mutated patient the axonal diameter is smaller than in the control. Panels g, h: staining of the cortex with anti-parvalbumin antibody shows that parvalbumin interneurons are present in the normal cortex but not in the MCT8 cortex. Panels i-l: cerebellar staining for myelin basic protein (i, j) and myelin (k, l). Panels m. n: cerebellar staining for synaptophysin showing the presence of synaptic boutons around the body of a Purkinje cell in the control (m) but not in the patient (n). Data from ( 56 ). THYROID HORMONES IN THE DEVELOPING BRAIN Maternal and Fetal Thyroid Hormones The relative roles of the maternal and fetal thyroid hormones on brain development is a most important question. Fetal brain thyroid hormones depend on the transplacental passage of the maternal hormones and the onset of fetal thyroid function. In rodents, the onset of active fetal thyroid secretion occurs at E17.5, but thyroid hormones are present earlier in the embryos, a few days after implantation. This hormone is of maternal origin, as T4 and T3 cross the placenta ( 57 - 62 ). In normal rats at term, the maternal T4 accounts for about 17.5% of the total extra-thyroidal fetal thyroxine pool ( 63 ). However, in the fetal brain the concentrations of T4 and T3 are low before the onset of fetal thyroid function, and rapidly increase several-fold from E18 to E21 ( 64 ). In humans, Vulsma et al. ( 65 ) demonstrated the transplacental passage of T4 by showing that in neonates with thyroid agenesis or a total organification defect, T4 was present in cord serum at 30-50% of the normal concentration. The only possible origin of this T4 was maternal. Transfer of T4 from the mother to the fetus protects the fetal brain in congenital hypothyroidism, preventing neurological damage before birth, and making it possible that early postnatal treatment is effective ( 66 ). The importance of maternal hormones becomes apparent in situations where protection does not take place. This occurs in the combined maternal and fetal thyroid failure, as in feto-maternal PIT-1 deficiency ( 67 ), or the presence of high titers of antibodies blocking the TSH receptor ( 68 ). In these cases, mothers and neonates had extremely low thyroid hormones. The infants suffered profound developmental delays, permanent sensorineural deafness,
