Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


titers of antibodies blocking the TSH receptor ( 68 ). In these cases, mothers and neonates had extremely low thyroid hormones. The infants suffered profound developmental delays, permanent sensorineural deafness, and irreversible neuromotor impairment. MATERNAL AND FETAL THYROID HORMONES IN RODENTS If thyroid hormones from the mother offer protection to the brain in cases of fetal thyroid failure, one could then ask about the relevance of maternal thyroid hormones for brain development in the presence of a normal fetal thyroid gland, or before the gland becomes functional. If maternal thyroid hormones contribute to fetal brain development, then alterations of maternal thyroid physiology might have consequences on the fetal brain. A relevant question is whether the isolated failure of the mother’s thyroid gland causes thyroid hormone deficiency in the fetal brain. Thyroidectomy in pregnant rats, a situation of maternal hypothyroidism with intact fetal thyroid, causes a reduction in the total extra-thyroidal T4 and T3 of the fetuses and developmental delays, but at E21 there was no reduction of T4 and T3 in the brain compared to fetuses from control dams ( 58 ). In these experiments, fetal thyroid activity compensated for any possible reduction of brain thyroid hormones caused by maternal thyroidectomy. Other studies ( 69 ), confirmed that thyroidectomy of the dams did not alter the concentrations of T4 and T3 in the E21 fetal cerebral cortex. This is in contrast to fetuses from dams treated with methyl-mercapto-imidazole (methimazole), which had greatly reduced brain T4 and T3 concentrations caused by the combined maternal and fetal hypothyroidism. Microarray analysis of the fetal cerebral cortex successfully identified many genes with altered expression in the methimazole-induced, combined maternal and fetal hypothyroidism. However, no changes in gene expression could be observed in fetuses from thyroidectomized mothers ( 69 ), in which the fetal thyroid function is normal. The conclusion emanating from the comparison of these two models is that fetal brain gene expression in the rat at term is under predominant control of the fetal thyroid gland. In contrast to these studies, the offspring from rat dams thyroidectomized at day 16 of pregnancy showed altered cortical lamination and other structural defects when analyzed at P40 ( 36 ). The bulk microarray studies of the cortex might have failed to identify subtle, layer-specific changes of gene expression requiring time to transduce into structural alterations. Other studies support the effect of maternal thyroid hormones before the
