Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


cortex might have failed to identify subtle, layer-specific changes of gene expression requiring time to transduce into structural alterations. Other studies support the effect of maternal thyroid hormones before the onset of fetal thyroid function. Transient maternal hypothyroidism of pregnant rats, from E12 to E15, caused the aberrant location of cells in the neocortex and hippocampus of the offspring, associated with audiogenic seizures when analyzed at 40 days of age ( 70 ). Moderate thyroid hormone deficiency during pregnancy caused neuronal ectopias in the corpus callosum of the progeny ( 71 ). Thus, although the fetal thyroid gland exerts the main control on fetal brain development, there is experimental support for subtle actions of maternal thyroid hormone before the onset of fetal thyroid function. These actions do not have yet a correlate in terms of defined molecular events, and the possibility remains that they reflect indirect effects of systemic hypothyroidism rather than direct actions of the hormones on neural targets ( 72 ). MATERNAL AND FETAL THYROID HORMONES IN HUMANS Early studies on the human fetal thyroid gland development showed that colloid formation, iodide concentration, and synthesis of thyroglobulin and T4 could be demonstrated by gestation week (GW) 11 ( 73 , 74 ). Gene expression studies showed that the genes encoding thyroid transcription factors, thyroglobulin, thyroid peroxidase, and the TSH receptor are expressed already by GW7, and that the sodium-iodide symporter is strongly upregulated by GW10 ( 75 ). From GW11, serum total and free T4 and T3 increase with time ( Fig 3 ) ( 76 , 77 ). T4 increases during the second trimester reaching maternal concentrations by GW36 ( 78 ). T3 is very low during the second trimester and increases during the third trimester. In contrast, T4 and T3 increase in the cerebral cortex during the second trimester. Not shown in the figure are data ( 79 ) showing that plasma T4 accumulates in the choroid plexus, but T3 remains undetectable, which means that circulating T3 contributes little, if any, to cortical T3. Thus, cortex T3 is originated by T4 deiodination by DIO2, expressed in the cortex from GW7 ( 80 ). It is uncertain to what extent the maternal hormones contribute to the fetal hormone pool in the presence of a normally active fetal thyroid gland. Supporting the contribution of maternal hormones in a situation of normality, its interruption might explain the relative hypothyroxinemia
