Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


hormone pool in the presence of a normally active fetal thyroid gland. Supporting the contribution of maternal hormones in a situation of normality, its interruption might explain the relative hypothyroxinemia of premature babies ( 81 ). From GW5-6 T4 is present in the coelomic fluid in low amounts, but in a high proportion as free hormone. The amniotic fluid contains T4 and T3 from GW10-12 ( 82 , 83 ). Fig. 3. Developmental events in the human fetal cortex and changes of thyroid hormone concentrations and nuclear receptors. The lower part of the figure shows the approximate timing of developmental events, the formation of the neural tube; the start of neurogenesis on GW5-6; the formation of the preplate, with the first neurons, the Cajal-Retzius cells in the marginal zone, and the subplate cells; the preplate split, when the first projection neurons migrate and start filling the space between the Cajal-Retzius and the subplate cells, leading to the formation of the subplate and the cortical plate; the appearance of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), neuronal inside-out migration leading to the six-layered (6L) cortex, and gliogenesis with the appearance of astroglial cells and oligodendrocytes. The vertical gray band marks the onset of thyroid gland function. Data on serum thyroid hormone concentrations are from ( 77 ). Data on cortex thyroid hormone concentrations are from ( 79 ). Data on T3 nuclear receptor are from ( 84 ). The recognition of the transplacental passage of thyroid hormones raised the question of the role of maternal T4 on fetal brain development ( 85 ). The implication is that maternal T4 exerts actions on the fetal brain before onset of the fetal thyroid gland, and even complements the fetal hormones after midgestation ( 86 ). Reports are indicating adverse effects of hypothyroxinemia on cognition and behavior of the progeny ( 87 - 89 ), or no effects ( 90 ). The issue is unsettled, mainly due to disparities in methodological approaches and the presence of compounding factors. Among these, the definition of hypothyroxinemia, the presence or not of hypothyroidism, iodine deficiency as the main cause of hypothyroxinemia ( 91 ), environmental pollutants, and indirect effects of hypothyroxinemia through complications of pregnancy ( 92 - 95 ). Clinical trials involving treatment of hypothyroxinemic pregnant women with T4 gave no clear answers yet ( 96 - 98 ). Transport of Thyroid Hormones into the Brain Other chapters of
