Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


Clinical trials involving treatment of hypothyroxinemic pregnant women with T4 gave no clear answers yet ( 96 - 98 ). Transport of Thyroid Hormones into the Brain Other chapters of this book describe in detail the issue of thyroid hormone transport ( 99 ). This section contains only a few specificities concerning transport in the brain. The crucial role of transporters in the brain is to facilitate that T4 and T3 from the circulation cross the brain barriers ( 100 - 104 ). There are two main barriers in the mature brain: the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier ( 105 , 106 ). The presence of tight junctions between endothelial vascular cells or choroid plexus epithelial cells forms barriers that hamper paracellular transport. Crossing these barriers requires transporters at the luminal and abluminal sides of the plasma membrane, facilitating the influx and efflux of the transported solutes. The gradient concentration of the free solutes determines the flux direction. The BBB surface is 5000-fold larger than that of the blood-CSF barrier ( 107 ). The larger exchange surface and the short distance of individual neurons from microvessels (8-20 µm ( 105 )) make the BBB the most relevant site of transport from the blood to the brain parenchyma. Tight junctions between vascular endothelial cells, i.e., the BBB proper, are present in rodents by E15-E16 ( 108 , 109 ), and in humans by GW12 ( 106 ) ( Fig. 3 ). Fig. 4. Thyroid hormone transport and metabolism in the rodent brain. MCT8 in the blood-brain barrier facilitates the transport of circulating T4 and T3 to the brain parenchyma, and OATP1C1 the transfer of T4. T4 in the astrocytes is converted to T3 by DIO2, providing additional T3 to nearby neural cells. DIO3 in neurons degrades T3 to T2 and T4 to rT3. Modified with permission from ( 110 ). Further maturation and consolidation require the presence of pericytes and astrocytes in the vascular unit ( 111 ). Immunoreactive MCT8 is present at GW12 in the human fetal brain endothelial cells ( 103 ), possibly highlighting the importance of MCT8-mediated transport at a time when the BBB starts limiting the entry of solutes to the brain. MCT8 was also present in other barriers such as the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier, the transient outer cerebrospinal fluid-brain barrier, and the ependymocytes. These findings suggest the presence of alternative routes by which
