Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


E, Dio2 : in euthyroid rats (panel A) Dio2 is distributed all over the brain especially in the upper layers of the cortex, the hippocampus, the thalamic ventromedial nucleus, with increased expression in hypothyroid rats (panel B). The median eminence, infundibulum, and walls of the 3 rd ventricle show high expression in tanycytes, a specialized type of glial cells (panel C). Dio2 increases in hypothyroidism also in this region (panel D). In the rest of the brain, Dio2 is expressed in the astrocytes as shown in panel E after GFAP counterstaining of the in-situ hybridization. Panels F-H; Dio3 expression in the mouse at P0: Selective expression in the accumbens nucleus and the anterior pole of the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (Acb/BST, panel F), BST, median and medial preoptic nuclei (MnPO and MPO, panel G) and amygdala (panel H). Panels A, B, and E ( 121 , 122 ). Panels C and D are adapted from ( 123 ). Panels F,G,H are from ( 126 ). Astrocytes, which exceed by tenfold the number of neurons, supply T3 to other neural cells by DIO2 deiodination of T4 ( Fig. 3 ) ( 121 , 122 , 127 ). It is unknown whether astrocytes release T3 to the extracellular fluid or transfer the T3 to neurons through direct membrane contact. Retrograde axonal transport from the T3 released by astrocytes in the tripartite synapse—formed by astrocytes and the pre- and post-synaptic neurons—is possible ( 128 ). In rodents, the majority of astrocytes arise during the first postnatal week, and Dio2 expression and DIO2 activity increase accordingly. Tanycytes are specialized glial cells lining the walls of the 3 rd ventricle and are the cause for the high hypothalamic DIO2 activity ( 129 ). Tanycytes in the median eminence form a blood-hypothalamus barrier, which is modulated in response to metabolic factors, thereby controlling the access of blood-borne substances to the arcuate nucleus ( 130 ). These cells are linked to the central control of feeding, body weight, and energy balance, and may act as stem cells to produce hypothalamic neurons ( 131 ). The rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus does not express Dio2 , and T3 generated in astrocytes or tanycytes might control TRH production in this nucleus ( 132 ). It is estimated that in Dio2 -expressing tissues, such as the brain, brown adipose tissue, and pituitary, 50% or more of T3 derives from local
