Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


Data from ( 145 ). In this experiment, they infused increasing doses of T4 or T3 to hypothyroid pregnant rats and then measured the resulting concentrations of T3 in the hypothyroid fetal brain. After T4 infusion to the mother, the fetal brain T3 concentration increased, reaching a normal concentration with a relatively low dose of T4. In contrast, it was difficult to increase T3 in the fetal brain after T3 infusion only over a wide dose range. DIO2-dependent generation of T3 in the fetal brain from maternal T4 also occurs in euthyroid pregnant mice ( 146 ). The reason why the fetal rodent brain is not permeable to T3 is unknown. One possibility would be lack of expression of the T4 and T3 transporter MCT8, but the fetal brain expresses high concentrations of MCT8, even larger than in the postnatal period ( 147 ). One possible mechanism would be a selective T3 degradation by DIO3 after crossing the brain barriers. Different cellular transport routes for T4 and T3 could be involved in the selectivity of this mechanism. Retrograde axonal transport of T3 avoids the DIO3-degradation pathway, which takes place at the inner side of the neuronal plasma membrane ( 128 ). Knocking down Dio3 increases the sensitivity of the fetal and postnatal mouse brain to thyroid hormones ( 148 - 150 ). STUDIES IN HUMANS In the developing human cerebral cortex, DIO2 mRNA and DIO2 activity are present already by GW7-GW8 ( 80 ). The relative expression of DIO2 and DIO3 is an important determinant of the T3 concentrations as development proceeds and has a strong regional component, as shown by Kester et al. ( 79 ) ( Fig. 7 ). Fig. 7. T3 concentrations in the fetal cortex and cerebellum respectively, at different gestation weeks. Original data from ( 79 ). These authors measured T4 and T3 concentrations and deiodinase activities in several brain regions from GW12 through GW20 in human fetuses. The cerebral cortex showed a progressive increase in T3 concentration correlating with an increased T4 concentration and DIO2 activity, as was shown in Fig. 3 (see above). Given that T4 postranslationally inhibits DIO2 activity, their parallel increase indicates increased DIO2 transcription. DIO3 activity in the cortex was very low, near the limit of detection. The cerebellum showed a completely different picture: T3 was very low, and DIO3 activity was the highest among all regions. The difference between
