Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


very low, near the limit of detection. The cerebellum showed a completely different picture: T3 was very low, and DIO3 activity was the highest among all regions. The difference between the cortex and the cerebellum supports the notion that the relative expression of DIO2 and DIO3 regulates the asynchronous regional responsiveness to thyroid hormones during brain development. These changes occur in parallel to the accumulation of the nuclear receptor ( 84 ), indicating an increased sensitivity of the cortex to thyroid hormones from GW12 onwards ( Fig. 3 ). This occurs after the preplate split, i.e., when the first migrating neurons start the formation of the cortical plate overlapping the period of neurogenesis and cell migration, at a time when there are no astrocytes, the cells expressing DIO2 , which are formed after the start of gliogenesis around GW25, ( 151 ). What cells then express DIO2 during neurogenesis? The radial glial cells (RG) express DIO2 before astrocytes are formed ( 103 ). RG cells are the universal stem cells from which all neural cells derive ( 152 ). RG cells are present in the ventricular zone (ventricular radial glia, or vRG) in contact with the ventricular surface via an apical process and with the brain surface via a basal process. In addition to their role as progenitors, they serve as a scaffold for neuronal migration. During neurogenesis some RG cells lose the apical process and accumulate in the subventricular zone generating the outer radial glia (oRG). The oRG has a high proliferating activity and is responsible for the enlargement of the subventricular zone and cortex expansion of primate species ( 153 ) ( Fig. 8 ). We showed that these cells express DIO2 and the T4 transporter SLCO1C1 (OATP1C1) ( Fig. 9 ( 125 )). Furthermore, their expression is tightly correlated indicating that the oRG is the origin of the T3 formed locally in the human cortex at midgestation. These findings have been recently confirmed and extended by Salas-Lucia et. al ( 25 ), by showing that neural stem cells in human cerebral organoids express DIO2 and DIO2 activity is important in promoting neurogenesis. Fig. 8: A scheme representing a cross-section of the human fetal cerebral cortex at GW18-19. MZ, marginal zone; CP, cortical plate; IZ, intermediate zone; OSVZ, outer subventricular zone; ISVZ, inner subventricular zone; VZ, ventricular zone. In red, the ventricular or apical radial glia, with their
