Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


MZ, marginal zone; CP, cortical plate; IZ, intermediate zone; OSVZ, outer subventricular zone; ISVZ, inner subventricular zone; VZ, ventricular zone. In red, the ventricular or apical radial glia, with their bodies located in the ventricular zone, extending an apical process to the ventricular Surface and a basal process to the surface of the brain. In green, the outer radial glia, lacking the apical process. Migrating neurons arrive at the cortical plate along the radial glial processes. In yellow, intermediate progenitors in the internal subventricular zone. Drawing reproduced with permission from ( 153 ). The locally produced T3 appears involved in neurogenesis by acting directly on the oRG ( 25 ) or it could act on the newly formed neurons, which already express THRA ( 154 ), or interneurons expressing THRA and/or THRB ( 125 ) to regulate their migration and terminal differentiation. T4 likely reach the oRG through their basal processes from cortical vessels expressing MCT8. On the other hand, the ventricular radial glia could get T4 earlier from their apical processes in contact with the CSF. After the onset of gliogenesis, astrocytes express DIO2 ( 103 , 125 ) and are the major source of brain T3 during development. In contrast to the restricted pattern of SLCO1C1 expression, encoding OATP1C1, SLC16A2 , encoding MCT8, is widely expressed in most cell types ( Fig. 9 ). Fig. 9. Single-cell transcriptome profiling of DIO2 , SLCO1C1 , SLC16A2 , THRA , and THRB expression ( 125 ). In color are bulk cell clusters obtained using Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection plots from the single-cell RNA sequencing datasets of human fetuses at GW17-18 by Polioudakis et al. ( 22 ). Endo: endothelial cells, DIV: proliferating cells, ExM-U: excitatory neurons upper cortex enriched, InCGE: interneurons from the caudal ganglionic eminence, InMGE: interneurons from the medial ganglionic eminence, IP: intermediate progenitors, Mg: microglia, Neu: excitatory projection neurons, OPC: oligodendrocyte precursor cells, oRG: outer radial glial cells, Per: pericytes, vRG: ventricular radial glial cells. Blue dots represent single cells. DIO2 and SLCO1C1 are coexpressed in the outer radial glial cells. DIO2 is also expressed in scatter neurons including interneurons. THYROID HORMONE RECEPTORS IN THE BRAIN Fréderic Flamant has recently published a short article on thyroid hormone receptors on occasion of the 40 th birthday of the cloning of the receptor genes ( 155 ). The same author has published extensive reviews discussing in detail the
