Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


hormone receptors on occasion of the 40 th birthday of the cloning of the receptor genes ( 155 ). The same author has published extensive reviews discussing in detail the relative roles of the receptor isoforms on developing and adult brain, using mouse genetic models ( 156 , 157 ). Two different genes THRA and THRB encode two receptor types, alpha TRα1) and beta (TRβ1 and TRβ2), respectively. THRA also encodes TRα2, which does not bind T3 and is not a T3 receptor. Its function has been a mystery since its discovery. Recently, Graham William and coworkers have proposed that THRA splicing is a way of regulating the amount of TRα1, which represents another layer in the regulation of cellular T3 responsiveness which is essential for the evolution of placental mammals (15 th Annual International Workshop on Resistance to Thyroid Hormone and Thyroid Hormone Action, Athens, Greece, September 10-13, 2024). The cellular and regional complexity of the brain and its asynchronous maturation requires a previous understanding of the ontogeny and patterns of expression of the receptors to understand their physiological role. The low number of receptor molecules per nucleus, and the relative lack of specificity of receptor antibodies have precluded their use to analyze receptor expression by conventional immunohistochemistry. Analysis of the regional and cellular expression requires in situ hybridization histochemistry. This technique provides data on receptor mRNA expression that may not accurately reflect the concentration of the receptor protein ( 158 , 159 ). Studies on receptor protein concentration used T3 binding assays in nuclei isolated from whole brain or brain regions, with a sensitivity of about 100-200 molecules/nucleus. Binding assays detect indistinctly the TRα1 and TRβ subtypes, but discrimination between TRα1 and TRβ1 may be possible to some extent using a combination of T3 binding and immunoprecipitation, or by competitive binding assays using the acetic acid derivative triac. TRα1 has the same affinity for triac as for T3, and TRβ1 up to ten-fold higher affinity for triac than for T3 ( 160 ). Receptor expression studies have also used knock-in mice in which the receptor protein was tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) ( 154 ), or with hemagglutinin epitopes ( 159 ). There are discrepancies between the cellular abundance of receptor-encoded mRNAs and the corresponding receptor proteins ( 158 ). At the mRNA level, all receptor isoforms are present in the rodent brain. Apart from the highly
