Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


cellular abundance of receptor-encoded mRNAs and the corresponding receptor proteins ( 158 ). At the mRNA level, all receptor isoforms are present in the rodent brain. Apart from the highly abundant, non-receptor encoding, Thra2 transcript, the predominant receptor isoform mRNA is Thra1 , widely distributed in the CNS from E14 to adulthood ( 159 , 161 - 163 ). From E19 to P0, Thra1 is present in the outer part of the cerebral cortex and the hippocampal CA1 field. During the late fetal stage, Thra1 is present in the piriform cortex, superior colliculus, pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus, and the granular layer of the dentate gyrus. In adult rodents, Thra1 expression is prominent in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, striatum, and olfactory bulb. Knock-in mice studies with green fluorescent protein-tagged TRα1 ( 154 ) showed that most neurons express the TRα1-GFP as they become postmitotic, and in tanycytes of the third ventricle, with low expression in astrocytes. In the cerebellum, the conjugated protein was present in migrating granule cells of the molecular layer and mature granule cells of the internal granule cell layer but not in the proliferating cells of the external germinal layer (also known as the external granular layer). Juvenile, but not adult, Purkinje cells expressed TRα1-GFP. In the study by Minakhina et al. ( 159 ) the hemagglutinin-tagged TRα1 was the predominant receptor subtype in the mouse brain, and TRα2 concentration was five-ten-fold higher. In cultured cells T3 receptors are present in neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, sensory neurons, Schwann cells, and microglia ( 164 - 167 ). Primary cultures of mouse astrocytes, which respond transcriptionally to T3, express Thra and Thrb ( 8 ). Receptor-specific actions can be demonstrated on some genes such as Dio3 , which is induced by T3 specifically through TRα1 (168-171). Thrb1 expression during rodent development is low during the fetal period and increases during the postnatal period and through adulthood. Between E17 and E20, only low levels are present in the brain, especially in the hippocampal pyramidal layer. On P0, an increase occurs in the accumbens, striatum, and hippocampus. From around P7 Thrb1 appears in the cerebral cortex. The patterns of expression of Thra1 and Thrb1 overlap ( Fig. 10 ), but in some cells, one of the isoforms is predominant. Fig. 10: T3 receptor mRNA expression in the mouse brain, by in situ hybridization with Thra1 and Thrb1 -specific probes. In
