Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


in some cells, one of the isoforms is predominant. Fig. 10: T3 receptor mRNA expression in the mouse brain, by in situ hybridization with Thra1 and Thrb1 -specific probes. In the cerebrum (left panels) there is an overlapping distribution of both receptor subtypes, with some differences in the hippocampus, amygdala, and hypothalamus. In the cerebellum (right panels) Thra1 is expressed in the granular layer (left upper panel), whereas Thrb1 is expressed in the Purkinje cell layer. As an example, in the cerebellum, differentiated granular cells express Thra1 while Purkinje cells express Thrb1 . Thrb2 , which is abundant in the pituitary, is also expressed in cone photoreceptors and the hypothalamus ( 172 - 174 ). During fetal stages, low levels of Thrb2 are present in the striatum ( 161 ). The web resource of the Allan Brain Institute ( https://celltypes.brain-map.org/rnaseq/mouse_ctx-hip_smart-seq ) provides a tool to explore the specific distribution of Thra1 and Thrb during mouse development. Ontogeny of Thyroid Hormone Receptors in the Developing Brain The T3 receptor protein is detected for the first time in the rat brain at E13.5-E14.5 and then increases, reaching stable concentrations from E17 to P0 ( 175 ). In close agreement, studies in knock-in mice expressing a conjugated Thra1-green fluorescent protein detected the receptor at E13.5 in the cortical plate (154). This date marks the onset of brain responsiveness to thyroid hormones in rats ( 150 ). The receptor increases at birth, and the highest concentrations are reached at P6 ( 176 , 177 ), but receptor occupancy is maximal at P15 ( 178 ). In the human brain, the receptor protein quantified by nuclear binding assays, and receptor mRNAs by PCR, are detected at the end of the first trimester ( 80 , 84 , 179 ). The receptor protein, with a binding profile typical of TRβ1, is present at low levels in the fetus around GW10 and increases in concentration 10-fold up to GW18 ( Fig. 3 ( 84 )) during neurogenesis and neuron migration. At these stages, subsets of CALB2 (calretinin) and SST (somatostatin) interneurons selectively express THRB mRNA ( Fig. 9 ( 125 )) in contrast to the ubiquitous distribution of THRA mRNA. Occupancy of receptors with the ligand in the brain antecedes the occupancy in other tissues. In the human brain, the T3 ligand is present from at least GW10, at concentrations sufficient to result in approximately 25% occupancy
