Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


24 hours in cells derived from wild-type mice, whereas no response was obtained when the cells were derived from knockout mice for all forms of T3 receptors ( 7 ). This observation argues against a significant role of extragenomic actions of thyroid hormones on gene expression. For many genes, the role of thyroid hormones during development is to regulate the timing of gene expression with a strong regional specificity, as for example, the myelin genes ( Fig. 1 ). In the absence of DIO3, developmental expression of some T3 target genes is accelerated ( 150 ). The response of many target genes is region-dependent and shows partial overlap in different brain areas ( 10 ). Even within the same area, the same gene may be responsive only in a fraction of cells, as shown by Nrgn (RC3/neurogranin ( 194 )). Transcription of thyroid hormone target genes is likely the result of the combinatorial activity of transcription factors, which include the T3 receptor with a relative weight depending on the specific region and developmental period. It also reflects the diversity existing within apparently homogeneous cell types. Thyroid Hormone-Responsive Elements Early studies showed the presence of thyroid hormone-responsive elements in the promoter or intronic regions of thyroid hormone-dependent brain genes. To name a few, the myelin basic protein ( Mbp ( 195 )); the Purkinje cell-specific gene Pcp2 ( 196 ); the calmodulin-binding and PKC substrate RC3/neurogranin (( Nrgn ( 197 )); the prostaglandin D2 synthetase (( Ptgds ( 198 , 199 )); the transcription factor hairless ( Hr ( 200 )); the neuronal cell adhesion molecule ( Ncam ( 201 )); and the early response gene NGFI-A ( 202 ). More recently, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays identified receptor binding sites in the developing mouse cerebellum ( 203 ) or cerebellar cell lines expressing TRα1 or TRβ1 ( 169). Other targets are regulated at the levels of mRNA stability (acetylcholinesterase), protein translation (MAP2 ( 204 )) or mRNA splicing (TAU ( 205 )). Regulation of splicing might be due to a primary action on the transcription of splicing regulators ( 206 ). Genes Responsive to Thyroid Hormones in the Fetal and Postnatal Rodent Brain A great diversity of genes is regulated by thyroid hormone from fetal stages in the rodent brain in vivo ( 207 - 209 ). In the fetal cerebral cortex near birth, thyroid hormone controls the expression of genes
