Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


thyroid hormone from fetal stages in the rodent brain in vivo ( 207 - 209 ). In the fetal cerebral cortex near birth, thyroid hormone controls the expression of genes involved in the biogenesis of the cytoskeleton, cell migration, and branching of neurites. In some studies, a large percentage of the thyroid hormone-dependent genes were related to CAMK4 signaling pathways ( 69 , 210 ). Camk4 is regulated by T3 in cultured primary neurons, but not in the postnatal rat brain in vivo ( 211 ). Results of extensive analysis by RNA-Seq of primary embryonic mouse cerebrocortical cultures disclosed many thyroid hormone targets with roles during cortical development ( 7 , 26 ). The responsiveness of the fetal brain to thyroid hormones increases in Dio3 knockout mice ( 148 , 150 ). Many of the thyroid hormone-regulated genes identified during the postnatal period in the rodent brain are sensitive to the hormone only during a time window that spans the first 2-3 weeks after birth. Many of these genes are not sensitive to thyroid hormone in the fetal or adult brain, possibly due to a DIO3-related mechanism ( 150 ). Chatonnet et al. ( 10 ) performed an analysis of the published data on thyroid hormone action on gene expression in the brain and cultured cells and arrived at a list of at least 37 genes consistently found in different studies as T3 targets. Some of them are candidates for transcriptional regulation because they contain a thyroid hormone-responsive element. These genes include Adamtsl4 , Dbp , Fos , Hr , Kcna1 , Klf9 , Scd1 , Stat5a , and Txnip . Additional genes found to be regulated transcriptionally by T3 in several independent studies are Shh , Hr , Dbp , Gbp3 , and Nrgn . In our RNA-Seq studies of primary cerebrocortical cells ( 6 , 7 ), T3 up- or down-regulated many genes 24 hours after treatment. T3 was active in the presence of cycloheximide on 371 genes, indicating an effect on transcription. No response to T3 occurred in similar cells from Thra and Thrb knockout mice, as expected for receptor-mediated actions. Additionally, 106 of the T3-responsive genes in the presence of cycloheximide contained T3-responsive elements ( 169 ). It is estimated that in these cultures - composed of a highly heterogeneous mixture of neurons and astrocytes - T3 regulates approximately 2% of all expressed genes, reflecting the
