Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


). It is estimated that in these cultures - composed of a highly heterogeneous mixture of neurons and astrocytes - T3 regulates approximately 2% of all expressed genes, reflecting the aggregated individual response of many different cell types. Brain deprivation of thyroid hormones caused by systemic hypothyroidism causes larger changes of gene expression than compound inactivation of the Mct8 and Oatp1c1 or Mct8 and Dio2 genes. In the combined MCT8 and OATP1C1 deficiency, the transport of T4 and T3 is severely compromised, resulting in isolated brain hypothyroidism with low tissue T4 and T3 ( 72 ). In the combined MCT8 and DIO2 deficiency, the transport of T3 and the generation of local T3 from T4 are blocked, leading also to brain hypothyroidism buy with normal T4 and low T3. Contrary to what would be expected, the changes in gene expression do not completely overlap in these two models of brain hypothyroidism, which also differ from systemic hypothyroidism. The latter causes altered expression of about twice the number of genes in the cerebral cortex and the striatum than the local cerebral hypothyroidism of the double knockouts. One reason is that systemic hypothyroidism causes many effects on gene expression that are secondary to other actions of T3 elsewhere in the body. When transcriptionally regulated genes were compared, similar profiles were found in the three conditions. In systemic hypothyroidism, among the transcriptional targets of T3, the genes with highest decrease in expression in the cortex were Kcnj10 , Hr , Ky , Cyp11a1 , Nefm , Npt , Stac2 , Hcrtr1 , Shh , Prlr , Sema7a , and with highest increase in expression, Aldh1a3 , Adamts18 , Ntf3 , Mc4r , Dio2 , Trhr . In the striatum, the most affected genes were Prlr , Cyp11a1 , Cnr1 , Sema7a , Gls2 , Shh , Igsf9 , Enpp2 , Gdf10 , Arg2 , Nefm , and Cyp26b1 , Syt10 , Trhr , Mc4r , Dio2 , Gabra5 , respectively Interactions with Glucocorticoids and Retinoids The interactions of thyroid hormones with other hormonal systems ( 212 ) might be relevant to their actions on neural cells. In primary cerebrocortical cultures, one of the most significant processes regulated by T3 was the control of G-protein-coupled receptor activity ( 7 ), estimated to be important in the transition from fetal type to adult-type gene expression. A detailed analysis of these interactions is beyond the scope
