Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


G-protein-coupled receptor activity ( 7 ), estimated to be important in the transition from fetal type to adult-type gene expression. A detailed analysis of these interactions is beyond the scope of this chapter, and only one example is mentioned related to the crosstalk with glucocorticoids and retinoid signaling pathways. T3 controls the expression of several enzymes involved in retinoic acid (RA) metabolism: the RA synthesizing enzymes ALDH1A1 and ALDH1A3, and the degrading enzyme CYP26B1 ( 170 ). The final effect on RA concentrations depends on the relative expression of each of the enzymes, which have developmental and regional variations, and on glucocorticoid signaling. Aldh1a1 is upregulated by T3, preferentially through TRα1, and glucocorticoids potentiated the effect of T3. Additionally, T3 controls the expression of Nr3c1 , the glucocorticoid receptor. Aldh1a3 is downregulated by T3 in primary cells and increases in expression in hypothyroidism as indicated in the previous paragraph. On the other hand, Cyp26b1 is upregulated by T3 in primary cells and is downregulated in the hypothyroid cortex but upregulated in the hypothyroid striatum. By increasing ALDH1A1, especially in the presence of glucocorticoids, T3 will increase RA concentrations, whereas acting on ALDH1A3 and CYP26B1, T3 will reduce RA concentrations. A recent study on Dio3 knockout mice has found evidence for these interactions ( 150 ). Actions on Gene Expression in the Adult Brain In adult subjects, thyroid hormones influence mood and behavior, and thyroid dysfunction affects neurotransmitter systems ( 213 ) often leading to psychiatric disorders ( 214 ). High doses of T4 improve mood in bipolar depression ( 215 , 216 ). In the adult rat striatum, administration of a large single T3 dose leads to up-regulation of 149 genes and down-regulation of 88 genes ( 217 ). Physiological doses of T3 given for several days to hypothyroid animals led to up-regulation of 18 genes, and down-regulation of just one gene. Therefore, acute large doses of thyroid hormone cause large changes in gene expression, with more modest changes with lower doses. Some of the regulated genes are related to circadian rhythms and wakefulness, with one of them ( Dbp or D-site binding protein) proposed as a candidate gene in bipolar disorders ( 218 ), and likely to be regulated directly by TRα1 ( 219 ). Many other genes were involved in striatal physiology as components of several signaling pathways. Fig. 11 shows a putative model of T3 action on
