Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


directly by TRα1 ( 219 ). Many other genes were involved in striatal physiology as components of several signaling pathways. Fig. 11 shows a putative model of T3 action on the adult striatum. Fig. 11: Regulation of gene expression by thyroid hormones in the adult striatum. Signaling pathways are schematically represented and the main groups of regulated genes are shown in numerals. 1: G-protein coupled receptor signaling ( Cnr1 , Rgs9 , Rasd2, Rasgrp1 ). 2: Ca2+/calmodulin pathway ( Nrgn ); MAPK pathways ( Map2k3 , Fos ). 4: Early genes ( Nr4a1, Arc, Dusp1, Egr1, Homer ). 5: Ion channels ( Scn4b ). Abbreviations: VDCC, voltage-dependent sodium channels, NMDA, N-methyl-D-aspartate, D1 and D2, dopamine receptors 1 and 2, PLC, phospholipase c. From ( 217 ). A focus on T3 action in an area of the adult mouse motor cortex—the secondary motor cortex, M2—involved in exploratory activity and decision-making, revealed that T3 induces circuit remodeling and behavioral changes that can be linked to an action of T3 on the expression of a reduced set of genes in glutamatergic neurons, with a critical role played by Robo3 ( 220 ). ACTIONS OF THYROID HORMONES ON SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENTAL EVENTS There are several possible approaches for studying the role of thyroid hormones on brain development. One way would be to analyze the effects of hypothyroidism and thyroid hormone treatment on the development of the cerebral cortex, the striatum, the cerebellum, the hippocampus, and other regions. Another way is to analyze common events occurring in the different brain regions, such as neurogenesis, cell migration, and differentiation, among others. In this review, we have opted for this second approach, with a focus on the T3 regulation of genes involved in these processes. Reviews on the cerebral cortex, and the cerebellum are available ( 26 , 27 , 29 ). Neurogenesis Generation of neurons, or neurogenesis, starts in humans around GW5 ( Fig. 3 ), and in mice around embryonic day 10 (E10). The bulk of neurogenesis takes place until GW25 or E16/17 respectively, partially overlapping gliogenesis. The granular cell layers of the hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and cerebellum continue accumulating neurons postnatally, a reason why they are especially sensitive to thyroid function. At the onset of neurogenesis, the neuroepithelial cells sequentially express Pax6 , Neurog1/2 , and NeuroD , undergoing glutamatergic identity, and under the influence of FGF10 undergo a fast transition to radial glia (
