Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


neurogenesis, the neuroepithelial cells sequentially express Pax6 , Neurog1/2 , and NeuroD , undergoing glutamatergic identity, and under the influence of FGF10 undergo a fast transition to radial glia ( 26 , 152 ). These cells remain attached by an apical process to the ventricular surface and elongate as the embryonic brain epithelium thickens, adopting a bipolar morphology ( Fig. 8 ). In the cortex, the elongated basal process reaches the pia providing a scaffold for cell migration ( 221 - 223 ). In addition to this structural and supportive function, the radial glia is the universal cortical stem cell that generates all neurons and glia, directly or through intermediate precursors ( 152 ). In primates, enlargement of the cortex is due to the accumulation of a population of radial glial cells, the outer radial glia, which lose the apical process and accumulate in the outer part of an enlarged subventricular zone ( Fig. 8 ). Human-specific changes occur with further enlargement of the cortex over the great apes ( 224 ). The outer radial glia cells express DIO2 and the T4 transporter OATP1C1, and are therefore the putative origin of cortical T3, as explained above. The role of thyroid hormones on proliferation and differentiation of neural precursors in the embryonic neurogenic areas has been shown during tadpole premetamorphosis ( 225 ) and concerning the effects of maternal thyroid hormones ( 191 , 226 , 227 ). NeuroD , mentioned above, is sensitive to thyroid hormones in the cerebellum ( 228 ), and THRA1 mutations cause abnormal proliferation and adhesion of human cortical progenitors ( 229 ). Iodine deficiency in rats affects hippocampal radial glial cells ( 230 ). The first neurons originating in the preplate at the early stage of cortical development, the Cajal-Retzius cells, and the subplate cells, are sensitive to thyroid hormones in rodents and in humans ( 26 , 38 , 56 , 210 ). Limited neurogenesis also occurs in the adult brain, related in humans to neuropsychiatric conditions, cognitive deficits, and depression. Adult neurogenesis takes place in two structures: the subventricular zone, located underneath the surface of the lateral ventricles, and the subgranular zone, adjacent to the granular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. The subventricular zone generates olfactory bulb interneurons in adult rodents, and in humans provides new interneurons to the adjacent striatum ( 231 ). The subgranular zone generates dentate gyrus granular neurons
