Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


subventricular zone generates olfactory bulb interneurons in adult rodents, and in humans provides new interneurons to the adjacent striatum ( 231 ). The subgranular zone generates dentate gyrus granular neurons in adult rodents and humans ( 232 ). Hypothyroidism and thyroid hormones influence neurogenesis in the rodent subventricular zone and subgranular zone ( 233 - 242 ) Neural Cell Differentiation Thyroid hormone controls the expression of many genes with roles on terminal cell differentiation, such as cell cycle regulators, cytoskeletal proteins, neurotrophins, and neurotrophin receptors, and extracellular matrix proteins. Among the cell cycle regulators, E2F1, p53, cyclins, and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors are regulated by thyroid hormone in cell culture ( 243 - 245 ). Neural cell shape is determined by the cytoskeleton, which consists of microtubules (tubulin), microfilaments (actin), and intermediate filaments, specific for neurons (neurofilaments), glia (glial fibrillary acidic protein), or maturing cells (vimentin, nestin). Tubulins α1 and α2 are downregulated by thyroid hormone, and tubulin β4 is upregulated ( 246 , 247 ). Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are also under thyroid hormone control at a posttranscriptional level. For example, thyroid hormone regulates Map2 protein distribution in the Purkinje cell dendritic tree ( 248 ), and conversion of immature forms of the microtubule-associated protein TAU (MAPT) to mature forms by alternative splicing of the Mapt mRNA ( 205 ). The neurofilament genes Nefh , and Nefm are also under thyroid hormone control in the fetal and postnatal cerebral cortex ( 69 , 114 ). The control of neurotrophin expression might mediate some of the effects of thyroid hormone on differentiation and survival. Interactions between thyroid hormone and nerve growth factor (NGF) are important for the growth and maintenance of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain ( 43 ). Unliganded TRα1 in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, expressing exogenous Thra1 blocks NGF-induced differentiation, and the blockade is released by T3 ( 183 ), suggesting a possible mechanism for the control of differentiation timing. Changes in NGF, NTRK, P75NTR, BDNF, and NTF3 after hypothyroidism have been described ( 249 - 251 ). Astrocytes ( 252 , 253 ) cerebellar Golgi epithelial cells ( 254 ), and microglia ( 167 ) are thyroid hormone targets. Thyroid hormones influence the in vivo expression of astroglial genes encoding tenascin c, laminin, and L1 cell adhesion molecule, with effects on neuronal migration and differentiation, and axonal fasciculation ( 255 - 257 ). In vitro, β-adrenergic receptor antagonists
