Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


genes encoding tenascin c, laminin, and L1 cell adhesion molecule, with effects on neuronal migration and differentiation, and axonal fasciculation ( 255 - 257 ). In vitro, β-adrenergic receptor antagonists block the effect of T3 on astrocyte differentiation ( 258 ). In another study T3 upregulates Arrb1 (arrestin beta1), facilitating endocytosis of β2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) and ERK activation ( 259 ). Differential expression analyses by RNA-Seq using mouse astrocyte primary cultures at two stages of maturation indicate that the response to T3 depends on the stage of astrocyte maturation and the presence of neurons ( 8 ). Some universal target genes are targets of T3 in immature and mature astrocytes, such as Hr, Klf9 and Dbp . Others are responsive only in differentiated astrocytes, such as aquaporin ( Aqp4 ), the glutamate/aspartate transporter ( Slc1a2 ) and the GABA receptor subunit gamma ( Gabarg1 ). These genes increase during the maturation of astrocytes, and T3 facilitates this process. In fully differentiated astrocytes, the main action of T3 appears to be the inhibition of the NOTCH and WNT pathways ( 8 , 30 ). OLIGODENDROCYES Thyroid hormones influence myelination directly through effects on oligodendrocyte differentiation ( 260 , 261 ) and may also have indirect effects by stimulating axonal maturation, which is impaired in hypothyroidism ( Fig. 1 , right panel ( 262 , 263 )). A lower axon diameter prevents reaching the critical size to become myelinated ( 264 ). Low axon diameter might contribute to the hypomyelination observed in patients with Allan-Herndon-Dudley ( Fig. 3 ( 56 )). As thyroid hormones are required for terminal differentiation of oligodendroglial cells, they influence the expression of practically all myelin protein genes, but only during the myelination period. In the rat, this period extends from about the end of the first postnatal week up to the end of the first month, with a strong regional component in parallel with the myelination wave ( 53 , 265 ). The control of myelin gene expression is transient, and in hypothyroidism, there is a developmental delay, but the effect on the myelin content is permanent ( Fig. 1 ). Early studies showed that T3 inhibits proliferation and promotes differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPC) ( 266 , 267 ) through repression of the E2F1 transcription factor ( 268 ). Transcriptomic analysis identified the universal T3-target gene Klf9 as a mediator of the effect of
