Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


( 266 , 267 ) through repression of the E2F1 transcription factor ( 268 ). Transcriptomic analysis identified the universal T3-target gene Klf9 as a mediator of the effect of T3 on OPC differentiation ( 269 ). The transcriptional repressors NCoR and HDAC repress the oligodendrocyte differentiation pathway. T3 relieves this repression and induces Sox10 , needed for the maintenance of the differentiated state ( 270 ). Oligodendrocyte precursor cells express Thra1 and Thrb ( 271 - 273 ), but Thra1 is the predominant receptor gene expressed in the newly formed and myelinating oligodendrocytes. GABAERGIC CELLS Flamant and coworkers studied knockin mice expressing T3 receptor variants with strong dominant negative activity in specific subsets of cells in the striatum and the cerebellum. ( 42 , 155 , 274 ) Their findings suggest a direct action of T3 on GABAergic cells, acting initially on a limited number of genes. This initial action triggers a cascade of events through cell interactions ultimately leading to widespread changes in gene expression and tissue remodeling during development. Neural Cell Migration Thyroid hormone also influences neuronal migration in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. Thyroid hormone deficiency during cortical development leads to less than the normal definition of cortical layers ( 262 , 275 , 276 ). Thyroid hormone influences the maturation of the radial glia, the path along which radial migration occurs in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus ( 230 ). CAJAL-RETZIUS CELLS AND NEURON MIGRATION IN THE CORTEX An important cellular target of thyroid hormone is the Cajal-Retzius cell. These cells are located in the marginal zone, the future cortex layer 1, and are required for proper migration of neurons in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, cortical lamination, and establishment of synaptic connections ( 223 , 277 , 278 ). These cells secrete reelin (RELN), an extracellular matrix protein under thyroid hormone control ( 38 ). RELN function is essential for the inside-out pattern of cerebral cortex development. The protein disabled (DAB), a component of the RELN signaling pathway is also under indirect thyroid hormone control. The Reln and Dab1 genes are not regulated by T3 at the transcriptional level, but other genes expressed in Cajal-Retzius cells are transcriptional targets of T3 in primary neurons: these include Rgs4 , Npnt , Ephb6 , Clstn2 , and Dnmt3a ( 7 , 26 ). Cajal-Retzius cells, therefore, appear to be important and selective cellular
