Thyroid Hormones in Brain Development and Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, brain, hormone, thyroid hormone, cells, expression, free, fetal, article, pmc, pmc free, free article, article pubmed, receptor


in primary neurons: these include Rgs4 , Npnt , Ephb6 , Clstn2 , and Dnmt3a ( 7 , 26 ). Cajal-Retzius cells, therefore, appear to be important and selective cellular targets of thyroid hormones during development. Their number is low in perinatal hypothyroidism in rat pups ( 279 ), and in a human embryo with a mutated MCT8 (( Fig. 2 , ( 56 )). EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX There are many extracellular matrix proteins regulated by thyroid hormones, with actions on cell migration and neuronal differentiation, synaptic plasticity, etc. The extracellular matrix proteins are heterogeneous, comprising laminin, fibronectin, collagen, neurotrophic factors, adhesion molecules, hyaluronan proteins, proteoglycans, and other components. As already mentioned, thyroid hormones regulate negatively tenascin C, laminin, L1 ( 255 - 257 ), and NCAM ( 201 ). In addition to these proteins, regulated by T3 in vivo , T3 regulates many other genes of this heterogeneous group in cultured primary cerebrocortical cells ( 7 ), twenty-five of them at the transcriptional level. Among these, seven have thyroid hormone receptor responsive elements: Adamts2 , Lingo3 , Mfap3l , Bmp1 , Megf10 , Nav2, and Crim1 . The function of these genes and the significance of their regulation have been discussed ( 26 ). CELL MIGRATION IN THE CEREBELLUM In the rodent cerebellum ( 280 , 281 ) thyroid hormones are involved in the late phase of granular cell migration from the external germinal layer (EGL) to the internal granular layer (IGL). This process takes place postnatally in rodents, ending by P20 with the complete disappearance of the EGL. A characteristic feature of the hypothyroid cerebellum is a delay in the migration of granule cells and the persistence of the EGL beyond P20 ( Fig. 1 ). It is unclear how the absence of thyroid hormone interferes with granule cell migration. Cell migration in Thra1 knock-out mice proceeds normally, and there is no effect of hypothyroidism ( 37 ) ( 30 ). This suggests that the migration defect in hypothyroid mice represents a non-physiological action of the unliganded receptor. On the other hand, these cells express Thra1 during the migration period (P7-P19) and not before ( 154 ), which might indicate an action of T3 on granule cell maturation during migration. Several groups have described T3-regulated genes involved in different processes ( 10 , 170 , 282 ). CONCLUSIONS Thyroid hormone actions in the brain are extremely complex with a
