Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770
KEYWORDS: patients, failure, acute, pancreatitis, organ, acute pancreatitis, organ failure, igg, anti-endotoxin, severe, day, permeability, gut, igm, infection


Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770 Quick Response Code: DOI: Association of endotoxaemia & gut permeability with complications of acute pancreatitis: Secondary analysis of data Namrata Singh1, Ujjwal Sonika1, Praneeth Moka1, Brij Sharma1, Vikas Sachdev1, Sushil Kumar Mishra1, Ashish Datt Upadhyay2 & Anoop Saraya1 Received May 11, 2017 Background & objectives: In acute pancreatitis (AP) gut barrier dysfunction is considered as an important predisposing factor leading to increased intestinal permeability (IP). In this study a pooled analysis of data published in our previous four studies on various aspects of gut permeability and endotoxaemia in patients with AP was attempted to find an association between increased IP and severity of disease and associated complications. Methods: This study was a pooled analysis of data of four previously published prospective studies on AP. Gut permeability, assessed by lactulose/mannitol excretion in urine and endotoxin core antibodies type IgG and IgM (EndoCab IgG and IgM) were measured on days zero and seven (D0 and D7) of admission. All patients received standard treatment of AP. We studied whether IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin titres and lactulose-mannitol ratio (LMR) at admission and D7 were associated with organ failure, infection and mortality. AP (n=24) and severe AP (n=180) in the first week, compared to controls (n=15). There was no significant difference in serum IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin levels and LMR at baseline and at D7 among patients with organ failure, infection and mortality. Interpretation & conclusions: Our findings showed that serum IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin titres and LMR at admission and at day 7 were not associated with organ failure, infection, and death of patients with AP. Key words Acute pancreatitis - endotoxaemia - intestinal permeability - mortality - organ failure In acute pancreatitis (AP), mortality during increased intestinal permeability (IP) in severe AP1-6. late phase occurs due to the development of severe AP-induced hypovolaemia due to endothelial barrier pancreatic and peripancreatic infection leading to sepsis leakage and gut arteriovenous shunting causes intestinal and multiorgan dysfunction. An important predisposing ischaemia and reperfusion injury with concomitant factor for infection is gut barrier dysfunction. Both gut barrier dysfunction7. Increase in IP results in experimental and human studies have demonstrated translocation of Gram-negative bacteria (GNB) 764 INDIAN J MED RES, JUNE 2019 An antibody response is stimulated against GNB CTSI >717. Patients with functional dyspepsia who endotoxins attached to the cell wall. Some studies have attended the outpatient clinic
