Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770
KEYWORDS: patients, failure, acute, pancreatitis, organ, acute pancreatitis, organ failure, igg, anti-endotoxin, severe, day, permeability, gut, igm, infection


RES, JUNE 2019 An antibody response is stimulated against GNB CTSI >717. Patients with functional dyspepsia who endotoxins attached to the cell wall. Some studies have attended the outpatient clinic were included as controls noted that endotoxaemia is associated with systemic to estimate the normal values of anti-endotoxins and inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), multiorgan lactulose-mannitol ratio (LMR). failure and high mortality10,11. Management of acute pancreatitis patients: All In our previous study on the role of probiotics patients were treated either in the gastroenterology on gut permeability and endotoxaemia in patients of ward or intensive care unit. Enteral feeding was started AP, no significant trend was identified for an effect early and calorie intake was increased gradually from of probiotics on gut permeability or endotoxaemia 500 to 2000 kcal/day and then continued until the in AP12. However, this study was underpowered patient resumed a near-normal diet. The enteral feed owing to premature study termination. In another was prepared in the hospital kitchen and its tolerability study to determine the non-inferiority of early was monitored by the treating physicians. Antibiotics enteral feeding through nasogastric (NG) compared were started, if (i) fever >38°C for >48 h, (ii) total to nasojejunal (NJ) route on infectious complications leucocyte count >16,000/cumm, (iii) evidence of any in patients with severe AP, infectious complications extra-pancreatic infection, (iv) evidence of gas in were found to be within the non-inferiority limit13. pancreatic bed on CT scan, (v) in the second week of Pain in refeeding, IP and endotoxaemia were illness if patient continued to have features of SIRS, comparable in both groups. We published four or (vi) when any organism was grown in culture of studies12-15 on AP during 2011 to 2014 which looked blood or any of the body fluids. Percutaneous drainage into IP and endotoxaemia in patients with AP. In the of collections was done in the presence of persistent present study, a pooled analysis of data published SIRS or organ failure despite the use of antibiotics in these four studies12-15 was attempted with the for at least 48 h. In patients with organ failure, organ hypothesis that the increased IP leads to severe support systems were used, as needed. Blood cultures disease in patients with AP along with increased were done at least twice a week in all patients with complications and mortality. suspected sepsis. Drain fluid/pus was sent for cultures every alternate day. Endotracheal aspirate/sputum Material
