Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770
KEYWORDS: patients, failure, acute, pancreatitis, organ, acute pancreatitis, organ failure, igg, anti-endotoxin, severe, day, permeability, gut, igm, infection


with increased were done at least twice a week in all patients with complications and mortality. suspected sepsis. Drain fluid/pus was sent for cultures every alternate day. Endotracheal aspirate/sputum Material & Methods was sent for cultures for patients with suspected This study was a secondary pooled data analysis of pneumonia. our four previously conducted prospective studies12-15 between June 2006 and December 2011. Patients of Measurement of intestinal permeability: IP (LMR) and Human Nutrition Unit of the All India Institute of patients on day zero (D0) of their admission with a Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, India, during repeat assessment done on D7. Patients received 50 ml these studies were included for data analysis. Patients of water containing 10 g lactulose and 5 g mannitol who presented with proven or suspected infected either orally or through a nasogastric tube. Urine was pancreatic necrosis and patients who had been put on collected for five hours in a receptacle with 0.2 ml of enteral nutrition before admission were excluded from 2 per cent chlorhexidine to avoid bacterial overgrowth. the analysis. The total urinary volume was measured, and two aliquots of urine (10 ml each) were immediately frozen AP was diagnosed in the presence of at least two to −70°C until analysis. Lactulose was estimated using of the following: (i) Presence of pancreatic pain; (ii) Seliwanoff’s method18. Mannitol was estimated using at least three-fold rise in serum amylase; and (iii) the Corcoran and Page method19. The ratio of above evidence of AP on imaging studies. lactulose and mannitol values was thus computed and The amount of pancreatic necrosis was graded as defined as the LMR. <30, 30-50 and >50 per cent. Computed tomography severity index (CTSI) was calculated as per criteria Measurement of endotoxaemia: Endotoxaemia, as laid down by Balthazar et al16. Severe AP (SAP) was measured by anti-endotoxin IgG and IgM, was defined by the presence of at least one of the following measured with the EndoCab ELISA kit (Hycult criteria: (i) failure of one or more organ as defined by Biotechnology, The Netherlands). The assay is the Atlanta classification; (ii) an Acute Physiology and based on a solid-phase sandwich ELISA and detects SINGH et al: ACUTE PANCREATITIS: ENDOTOXAEMIA & GUT PERMEABILITY 765 and quantifies antibodies against endotoxin. The rank-sum/Kruskal-Wallis test followed by multiple methodology used for measurement of IP and comparisons using Dunn’s test with Bonferroni endotoxaemia was similar in all the
