Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770
KEYWORDS: patients, failure, acute, pancreatitis, organ, acute pancreatitis, organ failure, igg, anti-endotoxin, severe, day, permeability, gut, igm, infection


various groups (infection vs. no than patients of mild AP and SAP presenting within infection; mortality vs. no mortality; organ failure vs. the first week of illness. Windsor et al23 reported no no organ failure). correlation between the changes in IgM anti-endotoxin 768 INDIAN J MED RES, JUNE 2019 antibody concentration over days and clinical outcome anti-endotoxin antibodies were lowest in mild AP and in patients of AP. Unlike some previous studies21,24 but decreased further in these patients at D7. These were similar to Windsor et al23, no significant difference in higher in patients with SAP and were increasing at D7 change in IgM levels was found between mild AP and with the rising trend more often observed in patients SAP. Unlike Windsor et al23, who checked serum IgG with organ failure. There are various possible reasons anti-endotoxin antibody levels for seven days from for this finding. Patients with mild AP were more admission and reported that falling IgG titres predicted often admitted within one day of illness when the multiple organ failure, we found that rising IgG anti- antibody titre might be very low. Patients with SAP endotoxin antibodies were associated more often with were more often admitted on the fourth to fifth day organ failure in patients with severe AP. of illness by which time, the trend of Ig to increase might have begun. Endotoxaemia may be only either However, in a subset of patients of SAP who an epiphenomenon or an aggravating factor, related to presented within the first week of illness, the median organ failure caused by a cytokine storm in the early serum IgG anti-endotoxin antibody titre was lower at phase, and may not be linked directly to mortality. baseline and remained relatively lower than in patients It is also possible that the reasons for the reduction without organ failure. A greater number of patients of in serum IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin antibodies SAP succumbed to organ failure within seven days may not be due to binding to circulating endotoxin of admission among patients with the lowest IgG and subsequent removal23 alone but may be related anti-endotoxin levels so that their D7 anti-endotoxin to binding of antibodies to endogenous antigens, titres were not available for analysis. This led to the molecularly mimicking the GNB endotoxin23. The paradoxically significant value of higher median serum subsequent increase in serum Ig against endotoxin may IgG levels in patients
