Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770
KEYWORDS: patients, failure, acute, pancreatitis, organ, acute pancreatitis, organ failure, igg, anti-endotoxin, severe, day, permeability, gut, igm, infection


analysis. This led to the molecularly mimicking the GNB endotoxin23. The paradoxically significant value of higher median serum subsequent increase in serum Ig against endotoxin may IgG levels in patients without organ failure at D7. It indicate recovery of immunity. A similar phenomenon is possible that serum IgG anti-endotoxin antibody of increasing anti-endotoxin antibodies as a marker has fallen to its nadir by the time of admission (1 to of recovery has been proposed by Maury et al20 in 2 wk) and that it may be rising subsequently, earlier in patients without organ failure and later and slowly patients with severe sepsis. This similarity is expected in patients with organ failure who did not succumb because of the striking similarities in cytokines and to their organ failure. The absolute value of serum inflammatory mediator profiles in patients with SAP IgG anti-endotoxin antibody titre at a single point of and sepsis26. time was not significantly different among patients It is reported that IP has been found to increase with organ failure compared to patients without organ within the first 72 h and it correlates strongly with the failure. Ammori et al22 also reported that systemic suggested that after an initial increase, the IP in a patient endotoxin exposure in the early phase of AP was gets restored between D8 and D45 of the illness. We not associated with systemic bacterial translocation. found that IP, both in mild AP and SAP presenting either Serum IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin titres and within or beyond the first week of illness, was similar their changes over time were not associated with to controls14, which was in contrast to the previous subsequent risk of infection in our study. Unlike Bose findings28. This could be related to later referrals to our et al25 who reported that serum IgG and IgM anti- hospital. Although our controls14 had higher LMR than endotoxin titres were lower in patients with major widely reported values, they were apparently healthy complications, including infection, our analysis did people without any factor predisposing to increased not show an association of serum anti-endotoxin gut permeability. antibody titres with subsequent risk of infection. It LMR was not significantly different among patients is possible that endotoxaemia in the early phase is with organ failure, infection and mortality compared related to early organ failure but not associated with to those without these complications. A meta-analysis the risk of infection
