Indian J Med Res 149, June 2019, pp 763-770
KEYWORDS: patients, failure, acute, pancreatitis, organ, acute pancreatitis, organ failure, igg, anti-endotoxin, severe, day, permeability, gut, igm, infection


early phase is with organ failure, infection and mortality compared related to early organ failure but not associated with to those without these complications. A meta-analysis the risk of infection in the later phase. of 18 studies reported that gut barrier dysfunction was Unlike some previous studies14,25 which reported present in three out of five patients with AP and that that serum IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin antibody titres the prevalence was not affected by severity30. More were lower in non-survivors than in survivors, no such studies are warranted to assess gut permeability, using association was observed in the present study. IgG different probes in AP. SINGH et al: ACUTE PANCREATITIS: ENDOTOXAEMIA & GUT PERMEABILITY 769 The strength of our study was the large number 11. Kivilaakso E, Valtonen VV, Malkamäki M, Palmu A, of patients with severe AP and the estimation of study Schröder T, Nikki P, et al. Endotoxaemia and acute pancreatitis: Correlation between the severity of the disease parameters using validated methods. However, the and the anti-enterobacterial common antigen antibody titre. retrospective data analysis can lead to bias and is the Gut 1984; 25 : 1065-70. major limitation of this study. 12. Sharma B, Srivastava S, Singh N, Sachdev V, Kapur S, Saraya A. Role of probiotics on gut permeability and endotoxemia in In summary, the present pooled data analysis patients with acute pancreatitis: A double-blind randomized showed that serum IgG and IgM anti-endotoxin controlled trial. J Clin Gastroenterol 2011; 45 : 442-8. antibodies and LMR on admission day and at day 7 13. Singh N, Sharma B, Sharma M, Sachdev V, Bhardwaj P, were not associated with the risk of infection, organ Mani K, et al. Evaluation of early enteral feeding through failure and mortality in patients with AP. nasogastric and nasojejunal tube in severe acute pancreatitis: A noninferiority randomized controlled trial. Pancreas Financial support & sponsorship: None. 2012; 41 : 153-9. 14. Sharma M, Sachdev V, Singh N, Bhardwaj P, Pal A, Kapur S, Conflicts of Interest: None. et al. Alterations in intestinal permeability and endotoxemia in severe acute pancreatitis. Trop Gastroenterol 2012; 33 : 45-50. References 15. Singh N, Mishra SK, Sachdev V, Sharma H, Upadhyay AD, Arora I, et al. Effect of oral glutamine supplementation on 1. Schietroma M, Pessia B, Carlei F, Mariani P, Sista F, gut permeability and endotoxemia in patients with severe Amicucci G. Intestinal permeability and systemic endotoxemia acute pancreatitis:
