Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


ABSTRACT Infections of the hypothalamic-pituitary region are rare lesions, accounting for less than 1% of all pituitary lesions. The clinical diagnosis of these infections can be difficult due to the nonspecific nature of the disease (in many patients without symptoms of infection) and may be misdiagnosed as other pituitary lesions. The risk factors for infections of the hypothalamic-pituitary region are meningitis, paranasal sinusitis, head surgery, and immunocompromised host (diabetes mellitus, Cushing’s syndrome, HIV infections, solid organ transplantation, malignancy). Infections can develop in a normal pituitary gland or in pre-existing pituitary lesions (adenoma, Rathke´s cleft cyst, craniopharyngioma). There are several modes of dissemination of the infection to the hypothalamic-pituitary region: hematogenous, iatrogenic (after neurosurgical procedures), and spread from paranasal or nasal cavity (through venous channels of the sphenoid bone). Hypothalamic-pituitary infections most commonly present with visual disturbances and headache, in some cases with fever and leukocytosis. A significant proportion of patients develop hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction during the acute phase of the disease or months and years after successful antimicrobial therapy. Diagnosis can be challenging and the hypothalamic-pituitary infection with formation of abscess or granuloma may be misdiagnosed as a pituitary tumor. Transsphenoidal drainage followed by antibiotics, antimycotics, or anti-tuberculous drugs are usually efficient in successful treatment of these patients. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Infections of the hypothalamic-pituitary region are rare and commonly described in case reports or small case series. These infections include bacterial infections (pituitary abscess), tuberculosis, fungal, viral, and parasitic infections ( Table 1 ). An infection in the hypothalamic-pituitary region may present as a sella/suprasellar mass and may be misinterpreted as a pituitary tumor. Also, these infections may cause hypopituitarism and be misdiagnosed as post-encephalitic syndrome ( 1 - 4 ). Table 1. Infectious Agents which Cause Hypothalamic-Pituitary infections View in own window BACTERIA Gram-positive cocci (Staphylococcus, Streptococcus) Gram-negative cocci (Neisseria, Esherichia coli , Pseudomonas, Brucella) Spirochete (Treponema pallidum, Leptospira Interrogans) Mycobacteria (M. Tuberculosis) VIRUS Herpes simplex virus Varicella zoster virus Cytomegalovirus Tick-borne Hantaan (Hantan) virus Enterovirus Neuroborreliosis SARS-CoV-2 virus FUNGI Candida Aspergillus PARASITES Toxoplasma gondii, Echinococcus, Taenia solium Infections of the hypothalamic-pituitary region may be primary (without an identifiable source) or secondary in origin ( 3 , 5 ). The more common is a primary pituitary infection, which occurs in previously healthy normal pituitary glands. Secondary pituitary infections occur in patients with a pre-existing
