Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


( 3 , 5 ). The more common is a primary pituitary infection, which occurs in previously healthy normal pituitary glands. Secondary pituitary infections occur in patients with a pre-existing lesion in the pituitary region (pituitary adenoma, Rathke´s cleft cyst, craniopharyngioma, or prior pituitary surgery). There are several sources of infections in the hypothalamic-pituitary region ( Table 2 ). Dissemination from the sphenoid sinus to the pituitary is possible by direct contact and through shared venous drainage. Table 2. Sources of Infections Spreading to the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region View in own window Spread Comments Hematogenous spread In immunocompromised host Direct extension from adjacent anatomical sites Meningeal infection, sphenoid sinus, cavernous sinus, skull Previous infectious diseases of the CNS Iatrogenic Surgical intervention in sellar and suprasellar region, tooth extraction Infections in the hypothalamic-pituitary region are rare and several predisposing factors have been identified ( 2 ) ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Predisposing Factors for Hypothalamic-Pituitary Infections View in own window Diabetes mellitus Tuberculosis Solid organ transplantation (renal, liver, etc.) Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection Non-Hodgkin lymphoma Chemotherapy Cushing´s syndrome Previous pituitary surgery Immunosuppressive therapy Infections of the hypothalamic-pituitary region may present with neurological signs and symptoms and signs of neuroendocrine dysfunction ( Table 4 ). Table 4. Clinical Features of Hypothalamic-Pituitary Infections View in own window NEUROLOGICAL SYMPTOMS ENDOCRINE DYSFUNCTION Headache Hyponatremia Visual disturbances Hypopituitarism Cranial neuropathy (III, IV, VI) Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism Isolated ACTH deficiency Hyperprolactinemia Central diabetes insipidus HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY BACTERIAL INFECTIONS Pituitary Abscess Pituitary abscesses are rare pituitary lesions accounting for less than 1% of all pituitary lesions ( 6 , 7 ). The first case of a pituitary abscess was described in 1848 and since then it has been mostly described in case reports or small series. In two-thirds of patients, pituitary abscesses occur in previously healthy normal glands (primary pituitary abscess) ( 8 ). In other patients, there is a preexisting lesion in the pituitary region, such as a pituitary adenoma, Rathke´s cleft cyst, granulomatous hypophysitis, or craniopharyngioma or prior pituitary surgery (secondary pituitary abscess) ( 5 , 9 - 12 ). The infection can be caused by hematogenous dissemination or by direct extension from surrounding structures (meningitis, sphenoid sinusitis, cavernous sinus thrombophlebitis) ( Table 2 ). Pituitary surgery and immunocompromised condition are also risk factors for pituitary abscesses ( Table 3 ). According to the clinical presentation and duration of the disease, pituitary abscesses can be acute,
