Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


surgery and immunocompromised condition are also risk factors for pituitary abscesses ( Table 3 ). According to the clinical presentation and duration of the disease, pituitary abscesses can be acute, subacute (the disease course less than 1 month), or chronic (disease course longer than 1 month) ( 13 ). Infective manifestations (fever, leukocytosis, meningism) have been reported in patients with acute and subacute pituitary abscesses, while chronic pituitary abscesses have a more indolent course. Many patients with pituitary abscess were misdiagnosed as having a pituitary adenoma, pituitary adenoma with apoplexy, or Rathke´s cleft cyst prior to surgery ( 14 ). The diagnosis of this potentially life-threatening disease is based on intraoperative detection of pus and postoperative histopathological analysis. Clinically, pituitary abscesses usually present with neurological signs and symptoms (headache, visual disturbances), signs of neuroendocrine dysfunction (anterior hypopituitarism, AVP deficiency) and signs and symptoms related to infections (fever, leukocytosis) ( 5 , 8 , 14 ). The largest series of primary pituitary abscesses (84 patients) during a 20-year period reported asthenia as the most common clinical presentation (75%), followed with visual impairment (71%), and headache (50%) ( 6 ). Compared to patients with a pituitary adenoma who rarely have neuroendocrine dysfunction, most patients with pituitary abscesses have hypopituitarism ( 8 , 9 , 13 ). The large case series of 66 pituitary abscesses reported anterior pituitary hypopituitarism in 81.8% of patients, while AVP deficiency was diagnosed in 47.9% of patients ( 8 ). Nine percent of patients (9.3%) had isolated hypogonadism, 3.7% had isolated ACTH deficiency, 1.8% had isolated hypothyroidism, and 1.8% had combined hypogonadism and ACTH deficiency ( 8 ). The possible source of the pituitary infection was found in 14 out of 66 patients (sepsis, sinusitis, pulmonary tuberculosis) ( 8 ). Recently published the largest series of 84 patients with primary pituitary abscesses confirmed the high incidence (73%) of preoperative neuroendocrine dysfunction in patients with pituitary abscess: panhypopituitarism in 46%, isolated corticotropic insufficiency in 13%, isolated thyrotropic insufficiency in 10%, isolated gonadotropic insufficiency in 8%, and combined two pituitary axes insufficiencies in 22% ( 6 ). On MRI, pituitary abscesses present as a sella masses, hypointense or isointense on T1-weighted imaging, hyperintense or isointense on T2-weighed imaging, with typical rim enhancement after gadolinium injection, mimicking apoplexy of the pituitary adenoma or other cystic sella lesions (7-9, 13, 15-17; Fig. 1 ). Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) sequences of pituitary abscesses often
