Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


rim enhancement after gadolinium injection, mimicking apoplexy of the pituitary adenoma or other cystic sella lesions (7-9, 13, 15-17; Fig. 1 ). Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) sequences of pituitary abscesses often demonstrate high signal intensity with a reduction in the apparent diffusion coefficient, different from necrotic brain tumors ( 18 ). Figure 1. Pituitary abscess: gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MRI scan (sagittal view) shows sellar and suprasellar mass with peripheral contrast enhancement. Neuroimaging with nuclear medicine investigations (18-FDG PET scan, labelled leukocyte scintigraphy) could increase the preoperative diagnostic rate in challenging patients with pituitary abscess ( 6 ). The majority of patients are treated with transsphenoidal surgery, rarely with a transcranial approach ( 8 ). Intraoperatively, pus is found in the sella ( 19 , 20 ). In patients with secondary pituitary abscesses, the sphenoid sinus is the most common site of extrasellar invasion ( 5 ). On histopathological analysis, there is evidence of acute or chronic inflammation, while Gram staining and bacterial cultures in some cases may identify the infecting pathogen. In most cases, the etiological agents cannot be isolated ( 6 , 12 ). In the two largest studies on pituitary abscesses, positive results on gram staining or bacterial cultures were found in only 19.7% and 25% of patients, respectively ( 6 , 8 ). The most prevalent organisms are Gram-positive cocci ( Staphylococcus Aureus and Streptococcus species), but also Gram-negative bacteria ( Neisseria, Esherichia coli, Pseudomonas , Brucella ) ( 5 , 6 , 9 , 21 ). Patients with bacterial pituitary abscesses are treated with intravenous and oral antibiotics for three to six weeks to prevent the recurrence of the pituitary abscesses, but in some cases, reoperation was required. In rare cases, AVP deficiency and hypopituitarism are reversible, occasionally followed by secondary empty sella ( 22 ). In most cases, neuroendocrine dysfunction and AVP deficiency are irreversible findings ( 6 , 13 ). The preoperative diagnosis of pituitary abscess represented a protective factor for pituitary function recovery (in 23% of patients) ( 6 ). Although pituitary abscesses are more indolent than other intracranial abscesses, secondary pituitary abscesses in patients with pituitary adenomas (not in Rathke´s cleft cyst) is associated with high mortality rate (26%) due to the dissemination of the infection or meningitis ( 5 ). In patients with infected Rathke´s cleft cyst, clinical manifestations are commonly subacute, without septic symptoms ( 9 , 11 ). Recently published the
