Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


the infection or meningitis ( 5 ). In patients with infected Rathke´s cleft cyst, clinical manifestations are commonly subacute, without septic symptoms ( 9 , 11 ). Recently published the largest systematic review of 488 cases of pituitary abscess examined presentation, radiological findings, endocrinological abnormalities, treatment, and mortality of these patients ( 23 ). The most common symptoms were headache (76%) and visual field loss. The median time from onset of symptoms to presentation was 120 days. Symptoms and biochemical markers of infection were absent in 57% of cases. The appearance of hypointensity on T1 weighted images and hyperintensity on T2 weighted images, as well as peripheral contrast enhancement of the pituitary on MRI were the most common radiological findings. Fifty-five percent of patients had negative culture results. Endocrinological abnormalities were present in 84.5% of cases (panhypopituitarism in 41%, AVP deficiency in 25%) and persisted in over half of cases. The mortality rate was 5.1%, with delayed presentation increasing risk of mortality ( 23 ). Hypopituitarism Caused by Treponema Pallidum Infection (Syphilis) Syphilis is a sexually transmitted chronic bacterial infection caused by Treponema Pallidum which progresses over years through a series of clinical stages. Syphilis is a well-recognized cause of hypopituitarism, with granulomatous hypophysitis (noncaseating giant cell granuloma), syphilitic gumma in sella region, or congenital syphilis causing hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction. The first cases of hypopituitarism caused by syphilis were described almost 70 years ago, mostly in postmortem cases ( 24 ). The use of penicillin caused a decline in syphilis presentations and late complications, including congenital syphilis. Nowadays, the incidence of syphilis has been rising again and this sexually transmitted disease should be considered again in the differential diagnosis of neurological, psychiatric, and endocrine cases in high-income countries in risk groups (HIV positive patients, men-men relationships, crack cocaine users, and among intravenous drug users) ( 25 , 26 ). Spirochete Treponema Pallidum is also described as a cause of hypophysitis and pituitary gland enlargement with hypopituitarism, mostly in immunocompromised patients (HIV-infected patients) with syphilitic meningitis ( 27 ). Syphilis may cause a sella mass with suprasellar extension mimicking a pituitary tumor and causing severe headache and hypopituitarism ( 28 ). The diagnosis is confirmed by positive treponemal antibody or by detection of Treponema Pallidum by immunohistochemistry or PCR on the resected pituitary. This disorder is treated with antibiotics. Hypopituitarism Caused by Leptospira Interrogans Infection (Sy Weil) Leptospirosis is a common tropical
