Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


of Treponema Pallidum by immunohistochemistry or PCR on the resected pituitary. This disorder is treated with antibiotics. Hypopituitarism Caused by Leptospira Interrogans Infection (Sy Weil) Leptospirosis is a common tropical febrile, zoonotic infectious disease caused by spirochete Leptospira Interrogans . The bacteria are spread through the urine of infected animals (cattle, pigs, horses, dogs, rodents, wild animals). Humans can become infected through contact with urine or other body fluids from infected animals or through contact with water, soil, or food contaminated with the urine of infected animals. This disease presents with hepatorenal syndrome and systemic hemorrhagic manifestations. The first case of pituitary apoplexy and panhypopituitarism caused by leptospirosis in a 56-year-old male with type 2 diabetes mellitus was recently published ( 29 ). The patient developed fever, nausea, vomiting and acute kidney injury. Leptospirosis was diagnosed by positive leptospira antibody test, and he started treatment with antibiotics. After five days of admission, he developed signs and symptoms of pituitary apoplexy. A brain MRI scan was consistent with apoplexy in a pituitary adenoma (the mass showed T2W hyper intensity and TIW isointensity with hypo intense areas which suggested hemorrhage). The patient developed hypopituitarism and was replaced with glucocorticoids and thyroid hormones. The follow-up MRI scan showed resolution of the hemorrhagic focus and regression of the pituitary adenoma. The proposed mechanism of pituitary apoplexy is platelet dysfunction (caused by uremia and directly by leptospira) and non-inflammatory vasculopathy (increased vascular permeability due to disruption of endothelial cell-cell junctions, cell retraction and opening of intercellular gaps) ( 29 ). Leptospirosis clinically presents very similar to another zoonosis, hantavirus infection, is more common worldwide and serology and PCR are necessary to distinguish between these two diseases ( 30 ). Hypothalamic-Pituitary Dysfunction Following Bacterial CNS Infections Hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction is a well-recognized complication of acute infectious diseases of the central nervous system (meningitis and encephalitis) and may occur in the acute phase or in the late stage of these diseases ( 1 , 4 , 31 , 32 ). The clinical spectrum of neuroendocrine dysfunction may range from an isolated pituitary hormone deficiency to panhypopituitarism. Endocrine dysfunction in the acute phase of meningitis may return to normal after the acute period or be irreversible ( 32 ). The most common deficit is isolated GH deficiency diagnosed 6-48 months after the infection, reported at a rate of 28.6% ( 31 ). Hypopituitarism following acute viral or bacterial meningitis
