Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


The most common deficit is isolated GH deficiency diagnosed 6-48 months after the infection, reported at a rate of 28.6% ( 31 ). Hypopituitarism following acute viral or bacterial meningitis in children is not as common as in adulthood ( 33 , 34 ). The GH neurosecretory dysfunction (low IGF1 with normal GH response in clonidine test) was found in 3 out of 37 children tested at least 6 months following the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis ( 34 ). There are rare case reports on hypopituitarism during acute meningitis caused by Streptococcus Group B or sepsis caused by Salmonella enteritidis in a neonatal period ( 35 , 36 ). The pathophysiological mechanism responsible for hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction following acute meningitis is not fully understood. In some patients, anti-pituitary and anti-hypothalamus antibodies are detected ( 37 ). It is proposed that acute infection provokes an autoimmune process and may cause axonal injury with consequent neuroendocrine dysfunction ( 38 ). Idiopathic Granulomatous Inflammation of the Cavernous Sinus - the Tolosa-Hunt Syndrome Tolosa-Hunt syndrome is defined as an idiopathic granulomatous inflammation of the cavernous sinus, therefore not infectious in origin, with variable extension into the superior orbital fissure/orbital apex, usually unilateral. The diagnosis is made by exclusion of other more common causes of cavernous sinus lesions (thrombosis, tumors, fungal infections, systemic granulomatous diseases-sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, Wegener´s granulomatosis) ( 39 ). In less than 5% of cases it can be bilateral, mimicking a pituitary adenoma in imaging studies ( 40 ). The etiology of Tolosa-Hunt syndrome is not fully understood. The disease is characterized by nonspecific granulomatous inflammation with infiltration of lymphocytes and plasmocytes. The patient presents with severe unilateral orbital pain and ipsilateral ocular motor neuropathy. The paralysis of one or more cranial nerves passing through the cavernous sinus (III, IV, VI) develops with orbital pain after less than 2 weeks. The signs of infection (fever, leukocytosis) are usually present. Granulomatous inflammation develops within the cavernous sinus causing acute throbbing orbital pain and disordered eye movement. Brain MRI scan demonstrate the inflammation in the cavernous sinus, orbital apex, and rarely in the sella. MR venography of the brain is important to exclude cavernous sinus thrombosis. Treatment consists of high dose corticosteroids and antibiotics. Refractory and steroid-intolerant cases may be treated with immunosuppressants (Methotrexate or Azathioprine) and gamma knife radiotherapy ( 41 ). Periorbital pain intensity is rapidly decreasing and resolving within 72h, while the resolution
