Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


steroid-intolerant cases may be treated with immunosuppressants (Methotrexate or Azathioprine) and gamma knife radiotherapy ( 41 ). Periorbital pain intensity is rapidly decreasing and resolving within 72h, while the resolution of ophthalmoplegia improves gradually and takes a longer time to resolve (several weeks) ( 42 ). If the patient is not responding to standard therapy, biopsy of the lesion is necessary to exclude other diseases, such as lymphoma. Hypothalamic-Pituitary Tuberculosis The incidence of tuberculosis is rising not only in developing countries, but also in developed countries, especially given the increasing population migration. Mortality has begun to increase after years of decline and since 2018 more than 7 million people have died of tuberculosis ( 43 ). Extrapulmonary tuberculosis may affect the brain causing tuberculous meningitis and tuberculoma of the central nervous cases. Tuberculous meningitis has a tendency to affect basal parts of the brain from where it can spread to the sella region. In rare cases, CNS tuberculosis may present as tuberculous hypophysitis or sella/suprasellar tuberculoma mimicking a pituitary adenoma or pituitary apoplexy ( 44 - 48 ). It may occur in the absence of systemic tuberculosis, but the majority of patients have a past history of pulmonary tuberculosis or tuberculosis of other organs (spine). Tuberculosis may affect the hypothalamus, pituitary, paranasal sinuses (sphenoid sinus), or tuberculoma may be located only in the pituitary stalk. Hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction and AVP deficiency during the acute phase or years after recovery from acute tuberculous meningitis suggests a more destructive and more extensive hypothalamic and pituitary damage compared to other causes of acute viral and bacterial meningitis. A significant proportion of patients with sella tuberculoma or tuberculous meningitis develop hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction. In 18 cases of histologically proved sella tuberculoma (5 of them with past history of tuberculosis), 5 patients had hypopituitarism and 3 had hyperprolactinemia due to pituitary stalk compression ( 44 ). In patients with tuberculous meningitis half of them developed neuroendocrine dysfunction: hyperprolactinemia (23-50% of patients), hypocortisolism (13-43%), hypothyroidism (17-31%), hypogonadism (34%), SIADH (10%) ( 4 , 49 , 50 ) during the acute phase. Multiple hormonal axes were affected in 23.5% of patients ( 49 , 50 ). In young adult patients who survived tuberculous meningitis in childhood and were tested several years after recovery, hypopituitarism was diagnosed in 20% of patients ( 51 ). This is a consequence of fibrosis, gliosis, and calcification in the hypothalamus and pituitary after recovery
