Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


several years after recovery, hypopituitarism was diagnosed in 20% of patients ( 51 ). This is a consequence of fibrosis, gliosis, and calcification in the hypothalamus and pituitary after recovery of active tuberculous brain infection. In rare cases, pituitary function recovered after successful treatment with anti-tuberculous drugs ( 52 ). The diagnosis of sella tuberculoma is a challenge, especially in cases without systemic tuberculosis. The signs and symptoms are nonspecific: fever, neurological abnormalities (headache, visual disturbances), and neuroendocrine dysfunction ( 44 , 53 ). Sellar tuberculoma on MRI scans presents as thickening of the pituitary stalk or abnormal enhancement pattern of the sella lesion ( 54 ) ( Fig. 2 ). Figure 2. Tubercular hypophysitis: sellar MRI scan (coronal view) shows stalk thickening. If the correct diagnosis is established, anti-tuberculosis drugs are effective and surgery is not indicated for tuberculous hypophysitis. With surgery the histological examination shows granulomas with central caseous necrosis surrounded by giant Langhans cells. In cases in whom Ziehl-Nielsen staining for acid fast bacilli and the culture on Lowenstein-Jensen media are negative, PCR for detection of mycobacterial DNA in tissue or CSF may help. HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY FUNGAL INFECTIONS Hypothalamic-pituitary fungal infections are extremely rare and occur usually in immunocompromised patients (diabetes mellitus, granulocytopenia, solid organ transplantation). There are only few case reports of Candida and Aspergillus sella abscesses and reviews of fungal sellar abscesses ( 55 - 61 ). Aspergillus is a ubiquitous saprophitic fungus found in the nasal mucosa of healthy people and patients with chronic sinusitis. This fungus may cause CNS infection, such as meningitis, encephalitis, brain abscess, subdural abscess, pituitary abscess, and mycotic arteritis with thrombosis and aneurysm ( 61 - 63 ). Fungal sella abscesses have a nonspecific presentation, with neurological signs and symptoms (headache, visual disturbances) and hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction. Sella MRI images are nonspecific, with a T1W hypointense or isointense mass with rim enhancement and may be misdiagnosed as a pituitary adenoma ( Fig. 3 ). It is proposed that a low signal on T2W images due to iron deposition may be a more specific sign of fungal abscess (58, 64; Fig. 4 ). Diagnosis of fungal pituitary abscess is made by histopathological finding (Grocott–Gömöri's methenamine silver stain demonstrates septate fungal hyphae), cultivation, or PCR identification of fungus DNA. A combination of transsphenoidal drainage and antifungal therapy (liposomal Amphotericin B, itraconazole, voriconazole, caspofungin, micafungin) can result in a good prognosis ( 55 ,
