Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


or PCR identification of fungus DNA. A combination of transsphenoidal drainage and antifungal therapy (liposomal Amphotericin B, itraconazole, voriconazole, caspofungin, micafungin) can result in a good prognosis ( 55 , 59 , 60 , 65 ). Endocrinopathies caused by fungal abscess have a low rate of recovery ( 59 ). Figure 3. Fungal pituitary abscess spreading from fungal sinusitis: sellar MRI scan (coronal and sagittal views) shows a large sellar mass pushing the pituitary upwards. Figure 4. Fungal infections in the sella: a) CT scan of the sinuses (axial view) shows a large sellar mass, erosion in sellar floor, propagation of the pathological process and opacification of the sinuses, and B) sellar MRI scan (coronal view) shows a giant hypointense lesion in the sellar region. An unusual form of allergic fungal sinusitis which expands from the sphenoid sinus through a bone erosion to the sella in immunocompetent patient has been described ( 64 ) ( Fig. 4 ). This patient had hyperprolactinemia (in the setting with no pituitary stalk compression), which resolved after successful transsphenoidal operation followed by anti-mycotics and corticosteroids ( 64 ). It is speculated that fungal glucans may directly stimulate glucan-specific receptors on somatomammotroph cells to stimulate prolactin secretion ( 66 ). HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY VIRAL INFECTIONS Hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction (hypopituitarism and cranial diabetes insipidus) may develop in the acute phase of viral infections of the CNS (meningitis and encephalitis) or in the late stage of these diseases ( 1 , 31 , 32 ). Infectious agents which cause CNS viral infections are listed in Table 5 . Table 5 – Infectious Agents Which Cause CNS Viral Infections View in own window MENINGITIS ENCEPHALITIS Herpes virus Tick-borne Varicella Herpes simplex Enterovirus Cytomegalovirus Neuroborreliosis SARS-CoV-2 virus SARS-CoV-2 virus The investigation of hypothalamic-pituitary function at least 6 months after recovery from mild-to-moderate meningitis/encephalitis showed that 21% patients developed isolated corticotroph deficiency, while other neuroendocrine abnormalities or AVP deficiency were not found ( 1 ). Hantavirus Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS), caused by Hantaviruses in the Bunyaviridae family, is an endemic zoonotic disease transmitted by rodents. There are several serotypes of these RNA viruses causing systemic infection, milder form called nephropathia endemica (Puumala) or severe form (Dobrava, Belgrade). The disease is endemic in Europe (Balkans, Finland, Germany) and Asia (Korea), where several outbreaks have been recorded. Farmers and solders are exposed to the virus by inhalation of infected rodent urine, feces, or
