Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


in Europe (Balkans, Finland, Germany) and Asia (Korea), where several outbreaks have been recorded. Farmers and solders are exposed to the virus by inhalation of infected rodent urine, feces, or saliva. Hantavirus infiltrates the vascular system causing increased capillary permeability, renal failure, thrombocytopenia, hemorrhage, fever, hypotension, and shock. The mortality rate is 6.6%. Autopsy findings reported a slightly enlarged pituitary with ischemia/infarction, hemorrhage, and necrosis ( 67 - 69 ). Direct viral invasion was confirmed in the pituitary causing viral hypophysitis ( 69 ). Hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction has been reported during the acute phase of the disease or after long-term follow-up ( 70 - 79 ). A milder form of HFRS infection caused by Puumala virus (nephropathia epidemica) is associated with a lower incidence of hypopituitarism ( 80 ). It is speculated that in some patients with no signs of hemorrhage in the sella, hantavirus may cause autoimmune hypophysitis and hypopituitarism ( 81 ). Sellar MRI imaging in hypopituitary patients reveals an edematous pituitary gland or increased signal intensity in the pituitary due to hemorrhage during the acute phase, while pituitary atrophy and secondary empty sella develops months and years after acute infection ( 76 , 79 - 81 ) ( Fig 5 ). A retrospective study of 60 adults who had recovered from HFRS reported that 18% of patients developed hypopituitarism ( 82 ). Ten percent of patients had a single pituitary deficit (three GH, two gonadal, and one adrenal), and 8.3% had multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies ( 82 ). In rare cases, HFRS may cause injury of the pituitary stalk or acute/subacute hemorrhage in the pituitary gland and AVP deficiency with panhypopituitarism ( 30 , 77 ). Figure 5. Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome: sellar MRI scan (sagittal view) shows pituitary atrophy and secondary empty sella. SARS-CoV-2 The novel coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was identified as a cause of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). This virus is responsible for a variety of clinical manifestations, ranging from an asymptomatic stage to severe pulmonary disease (respiratory distress syndrome) and various extrapulmonary manifestations, including endocrine axes ( 83 - 85 ). SARS-CoV-2 is a neuroinvasive virus which enters the brain through the nasopharyngeal epithelium via the olfactory nerve, passes through the blood-brain barrier, or enters the brain through the median eminence where this barrier is absent ( 86 ). Neurons, glial cells, and cerebrovascular endothelia cells, as well as
