Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


through the blood-brain barrier, or enters the brain through the median eminence where this barrier is absent ( 86 ). Neurons, glial cells, and cerebrovascular endothelia cells, as well as hypothalamus and pituitary cells express an angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor responsible for the entry of the virus into these cells which induce neuroinflammation ( 86 - 88 ). SARS-CoV-2 virus is also detected in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with encephalitis caused by COVID-19 and in pituitary tissues from patients who died from SARS ( 89 , 90 ). SARS-CoV-2 is responsible for a variety of neurological complications, including headache, anosmia, confusion, ataxia, neuropathic pain, seizures, and delirium ( 89 ). There are also indirect systemic effects of COVID-19 virus: an altered immune response (cytokine storm), infection-induced thrombocytopenia, platelet dysfunction, coagulopathy (hypercoagulable state), endothelitis, and endothelial dysfunction ( 91 ). All these direct and indirect systemic effects of COVID-19 virus may be responsible for ischemic and hemorrhagic vascular syndromes, affecting also the hypothalamo-pituitary region. Another possible indirect effect of COVID-19 may be mediated by cytokines that can trigger hypothalamo-pituitary inflammation with consequent neuroendocrine dysfunction ( 92 ). Also, it has been shown that SARS-CoV-2 express an amino-acid sequence that mimics human ACTH and induces the production of autoantibodies against ACTH causing cortisol insufficiency and inadequate adrenal response to the stress ( 83 ). SARS-CoV-2 infection may involve the hypothalamo-pituitary axis causing pituitary apoplexy, hypophysitis, and hyponatremia ( 83 , 85 , 91 , 93 - 97 ). There are nine case reports of pituitary adenoma (6 males/3 females, between 27 and 56 years of age, eight with pituitary macroadenoma) and two series of three patients with pituitary adenomas, complicated by apoplexy during COVID-19 infection ( 93 - 102 ). In one patient this occurred during the third trimester of pregnancy. Four patients had transsphenoidal surgery and recovered, one patient had transcranial resection, three patients were conservatively managed, and one patient died 12 hours after admission. There is also a report of a 65-year-old woman with no underlying pituitary disease who developed acute pituitary apoplexy one month after the initial diagnosis of COVID-19 ( 103 ). She developed anterior hypopituitarism with no evidence of AVP deficiency. An MRI pituitary scan showed the resolution of intrapituitary hemorrhage, with normal size of the pituitary gland after six months of follow-up. A small case series reported three patients with previously unknown pituitary adenoma complicated
