Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


the resolution of intrapituitary hemorrhage, with normal size of the pituitary gland after six months of follow-up. A small case series reported three patients with previously unknown pituitary adenoma complicated by apoplexy during COVID-19 infection: a 54-year-old female with null cell adenoma, a 52-year-old and a 56-year-old men, both obese with hypertension, both with a lactotroph pituitary adenoma ( 94 ). In another series of three patients with pituitary macroadenoma complicated with apoplexy following a symptomatic COVID-19 infection, two of these patients’ developed symptoms of pituitary apoplexy days following the viral infection, whereas the third patient developed pituitary apoplexy after a 2-month period ( 96 ). In some patients COVID-19 caused an acute lymphocytic hypophysitis with temporal evolution of symptoms, suggesting an immune-mediated parainfectious pattern of disease ( 104 , 105 ). An 18-year-old previously healthy girl with a history of symptomatic COVID-19 three weeks prior to the acute onset of headache and dizziness, presented with diffuse thickening and enlargement of the infundibulum with homogenous contrast enhancement of the pituitary ( 104 ). She was treated with glucocorticoids with a significant clinical improvement on day 3 and complete resolution of MRI finding on day 5. A similar case is a 16-year-old girl who presented with headaches, polyuria/polydipsic syndrome, and impaired visual acuity three weeks after COVID-19 infection ( 105 ). She had pituitary enlargement on MRI, was treated with methylprednisolone and improved on day 5. Such a rapid headache resolution after steroid treatment suggests a transitory acute hypophysitis, an immune-mediated process, triggered by viral infection. It has been hypothesized that SARS-CoV-2 may induce hypothalamo-pituitary autoimmunity, with positive anti-hypothalamus (AHA) and anti-pituitary (APA) antibodies ( 106 ). The current results in the literature about antigens which are targets of AHA and APA are still contradictory ( 83 ). It is possible that patients at high-risk for such a complication are carriers of specific HLA alleles. The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex has a central role in the recognition and presentation of viral antigens to immune system. HLA class I molecules mediates innate defense strategies against viral infection. HLA-c 04:01, DRB1 08, DQB1 06 carriers have an increased risk of a severe clinical course of COVID-19 and generate a robust response and susceptibility to autoimmune diseases ( 107 - 110 ). Even these two acute pituitary disorders (pituitary apoplexy with transition to acute hypophysitis) can occur in patients with COVID-19 and preexisting
