Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


susceptibility to autoimmune diseases ( 107 - 110 ). Even these two acute pituitary disorders (pituitary apoplexy with transition to acute hypophysitis) can occur in patients with COVID-19 and preexisting unknown pituitary adenoma ( 97 ). Several cases of AVP deficiency as a late complication of COVID-19 infection were published ( 111 - 114 ). All patients (2 males/2 females, 28-60 years of age) suddenly developed polyuria, nocturia, and polydipsia four to eight weeks after the diagnosis of COVID-19 infection. In one of the published cases, a sellar MRI scan showed an enlarged pituitary with an absent posterior pituitary bright spot on T1W images associated with thickening of the pituitary stalk of 3.5 mm suggesting infundibulo-neurohypophysitis ( 113 ). Other pituitary hormone evaluations were normal. They were treated with oral desmopressin. A case of a young woman with hypothalamic amenorrhea following COVID-19, with normal appearance of the sella turcica and regular dimensions of the pituitary was reported ( 95 ). This case suggests clinicians need to follow patients for possible delayed neuroendocrine dysfunctions after COVID-19 infection. Hyponatremia was reported in 30-60% of patients with SARS-CoV-1 infection and was associated with worse outcomes and increased mortality ( 115 ). The syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) was the most common reason for hyponatremia, followed by adrenal insufficiency ( 116 ). There are also data on the association between COVID-19 vaccination and the subsequent development of pituitary diseases ( 85 , 117 - 120 ). A recently published systematic review analyzed 23 case reports of post COVID-19 vaccination pituitary diseases: hypophysitis in 9 patients, pituitary apoplexy in 6 patients, SIADH in 5 patients, and isolated ACTH deficiency in two patients ( 119 ). Symptoms of pituitary disease typically occurred shortly (several days) after vaccine administration and the pathogenetic mechanisms potentially include molecular mimicry, vaccine adjuvants, and vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia ( 83 , 119 ). The presence of ACE2 receptors in the hypothalamo-pituitary system contributes to these post vaccinal pituitary diseases. Isolated infundibulo-neurohypophysitis and AVP deficiency or isolated ACTH deficiency may also develop several days after immunization with BNT 162b2 mRNA COVID-19 vaccine ( 117 , 121 ). In some cases of panhypopituitarism and AVP deficiency due to hypophysitis after COVID-19 vaccination, hormonal secretion partially improved during follow-up ( 120 ). Other Viruses Cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, varicella zoster, and enterovirus have also been described in very rare cases of central diabetes insipidus,
