Infections Of The Hypothalamic-Pituitary Region
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, patients, infection, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, case, covid-, acute, hypopituitarism, infections


hormonal secretion partially improved during follow-up ( 120 ). Other Viruses Cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, varicella zoster, and enterovirus have also been described in very rare cases of central diabetes insipidus, mainly in immunocompromised patients with encephalitis (such as HIV infection, Cushing´s syndrome, lymphoma or immunosuppressive therapy) ( 122 - 126 ). Direct cytomegalovirus invasion and reduction in the number of AVP and oxytocin cells was confirmed in the hypothalamus ( 123 ). HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY PARASITIC INFECTIONS Parasitic infections of the pituitary are rare and infections in the sellar region caused by Toxoplasma gondii , Echinococcus species, and Taenia solium have been reported anecdotally ( 4 ). Toxoplasmosis is a worldwide zoonosis, caused by the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii . This is one of the most common parasitic infections of warm-blooded animals and humans. Approximately one-third of humans have been exposed to T. gondii , mostly with no serious diseases, except in immunocompromised patients (HIV) and congenital toxoplasmosis. Two cases of prolactinomas with T. gondii cysts among tumor cells were reported ( 127 ). Toxoplasmosis is the most common CNS infection in immunocompromised patients (patients with HIV infection) and may cause hypopituitarism, accompanied by focal neurological deficits, headache, and fever ( 128 , 129 ). The brain MRI shows lesions with significant enhancement of T2W images and peri-lesional edema, which may be misdiagnosed as intracranial metastasis. The diagnosis is based on brain biopsy with confirmed presence of T. gondii by PCR. Infection with T. gondii is treated with antimicrobial therapy and with hormone replacement therapy as needed. The most common parasitic infestation of the brain is neurocysticercosis, caused by Taenia solium . A systematic review of 23 patients with intrasellar cysticercosis reported endocrine abnormalities (panhypopituitarism, hyperprolactinemia, AVP deficiency, and isolated hypothyroidism) in 56% of the affected population ( 130 ). These infections present with a cystic mass in the sella with hypopituitarism caused by compression, subarachnoid cysts, obstructive hydrocephalus, or neuroinflammation (ventriculitis, focal arachnoiditis) ( 4 , 131 ). Neurocysticercosis may involve the pituitary stalk too ( 132 ). Transsphenoidal or transcranial operation is required for the definitive histopathological diagnosis and cure, because medical therapy with praziquantel is usually ineffective ( 130 ). ACKNOWLEDGMENT This study was supported by The Science Fund of the Republic of Serbia, Grant No: 7754282 — Prediction, prevention and patient’s participation in diagnosis of selected fungal infections (FI): an implementation of a novel method for obtaining tissue
