Pericardial disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pressure, pericardial, effusion, pericardium, heart, tamponade, right, kussmaul, ventricular, fluid, pain, blood, chest, constrictive


Chapter 13 Pericardial disease Pericarditis A diagnosis of pericarditis (inflammation of the pericardium), though rare, should always be considered as a differential for ischemic heart pain. The key differentiating features are that the pain in pericarditis is altered by posture and can be exacerbated by deep inspiration. Classically, the patient will be found sitting forward and taking shallow breaths. Pathophysiology The pericardium has two layers: visceral and parietal. The visceral layer is closely apposed to the heart, whilst the fibrous parietal layer provides a more rigid outer shell to the pericardial cavity (see Figure 1). The normal volume of pericardial fluid is in the region of 50 mL. Figure 1 The layers of pericardium. The visceral pericardium is a tissue paper-like layer, while the parietal pericardium is more rigid. The causes of pericarditis are outlined in Table 1. Viral pericarditis is the most common type, but in many cases either the diagnosis is never made or the viral infection is never identified. Another common presentation is characteristic pain 3–14 days postmyocardial infarction (MI) or postcardiac surgery, which tends to be self-limiting. Relapsing episodes are referred to as Dressler's syndrome or postcardiotomy syndrome, and are thought to represent an autoimmune process. Table 1 Causes of pericarditis. Investigations Examination Auscultation may reveal a pericardial rub, which is sufficient, but not necessary, to make the diagnosis. It can easily be distinguished from a pleural rub by asking the patient to hold their breath. Electrocardiography The classic sign of pericarditis – a concave upwards ("saddle") ST-segment elevation throughout the 12 leads – is, of course, rare. However, some form of electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormality is common. These changes are either present in all 12 leads or in leads that do not correspond to the territory perfused by a single coronary artery. Low voltages suggest the possibility of effusion. Chest x-ray A chest x-ray (CXR) can help to rule out a tuberculous cause of pericarditis and exclude significant effusion. Echocardiography Echocardiography is helpful mainly if there is a suspicion of effusion or tamponade. Blood tests Blood tests for immune markers, such as the antinuclear cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA), should be carried out in any patient with confirmed pericarditis. Acute and convalescent viral titers can also be requested, but rarely alter management. Management Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the treatment of choice for pericarditis. They relieve both the inflammatory process and the pain. Steroids may be required in serositic
