Pericardial disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pressure, pericardial, effusion, pericardium, heart, tamponade, right, kussmaul, ventricular, fluid, pain, blood, chest, constrictive


but rarely alter management. Management Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the treatment of choice for pericarditis. They relieve both the inflammatory process and the pain. Steroids may be required in serositic pericarditis, whereas pericarditis with a suspicious CXR and constitutional symptoms should prompt investigation for tuberculosis. Pericardial effusion and tamponade As with pleural effusion, the key defining presentation of pericardial effusion is the rate of fluid accumulation. Any cause of pericarditis can result in a significant accumulation of serous fluid, while hemopericardium (a collection of blood in the pericardial sac surrounding the heart) can be caused by trauma, type 1 dissection of the aorta, and cardiac rupture. The key feature is not the overall volume of fluid (even hundreds of milliliters can be asymptomatic if accumulated over a long enough time), but the rate of rise – as with pleural effusion, removal of even a small amount of fluid can result in significant benefit. Small, asymptomatic effusions can often be left to resorb on their own. This usually requires repeat echo at regular intervals to ensure that resorption has occurred. Larger effusions bounded by the tough parietal pericardium can compromise the low pressure right heart – this results in tamponade (see Figure 2). Figure 2 An extreme form of pericardial effusion, known as a "swinging heart". The arrow indicates the effusion. Examination Cardiac tamponade is a medical emergency. It is associated with a characteristic jugular venous pressure (JVP). Kussmaul's sign describes a raised JVP that rises further on inspiration, while Friedrich's sign describes a steep x/y descent (although, in reality at the bedside, the waves are hard to discern). The heart sounds are quiet and there may be a rub. Kussmaul's Legacy Adolph Kussmaul was Professor of Medicine successively at Heidelberg, Erlangen, Freiburg, and Strasbourg. As well as describing the paradoxical increase in JVP on inspiration in patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy, right ventricular failure, and constrictive pericarditis, he described the deep-sighing respiration associated with low arterial pH (Kussmaul breathing) and coined the term "polyarteritis nodosa". In fact, Kussmaul's JVP sign is widely misunderstood to be solely the result of right ventricular incompliance, when in fact the explanation relates as much to distension of the mesenteric vascular bed and the change from a right ventricular pressure that predominantly reflects 2/3 negative intrapleural pressure "sucking" blood into the chest, to one that predominantly reflects positive intra-abdominal pressure "pushing" the greater volume proximally. A
