Pericardial disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pressure, pericardial, effusion, pericardium, heart, tamponade, right, kussmaul, ventricular, fluid, pain, blood, chest, constrictive


a right ventricular pressure that predominantly reflects 2/3 negative intrapleural pressure "sucking" blood into the chest, to one that predominantly reflects positive intra-abdominal pressure "pushing" the greater volume proximally. A characteristic of cardiac tamponade is pulsus paradoxus, which is not paradoxical at all, but an exaggeration of the normal drop in systolic pressure on inspiration –>10 mm Hg is abnormal. To test for it, inflate the cuff to just above systolic pressure then slowly deflate, stopping each 5 mm Hg for a full inspiration–expiration cycle. Listen for the point at which the beating becomes continuous throughout the breathing cycle. Electrocardiography Low-voltage ECG and beat-to-beat variation in R-wave amplitude are characteristic. Chest x-ray CXRs show a globular, "boot-shaped" heart. Echocardiography Echo is the investigation of choice. The key observation is diastolic collapse of the right atrium and ventricle. It demands urgent pericardiocentesis. Constrictive pericarditis In constrictive pericarditis, the pericardium becomes rigid and fibrotic, adheres to the myocardium, and limits its function. It most commonly follows tuberculous pericarditis or hemopericardium, but can result from any cause of pericarditis. The classic clinical picture is: significant ascites raised JVP with positive Kussmaul and Friedrich's signs hepatomegaly pulsus paradoxus (but usually less severe than in tamponade) pericardial knock (high-pitched early diastolic added sound) calcification visible on the lateral CXR The most difficult differential diagnosis is restrictive cardiomyopathy. However, the left ventricular function is usually preserved in constrictive pericarditis, and filling pressures are raised. The only treatment for constrictive pericarditis is surgical excision of the pericardium.
