46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


ABSTRACT The 46,XY differences of sex development (46,XY DSD) can result either from decreased synthesis of testosterone and/or DHT or from impairment of androgen action. 46,XY DSD are characterized by micropenis, atypical or female external genitalia, caused by incomplete intrauterine masculinization with or without the presence of Müllerian structures. Male gonads are identified in the majority of 46,XY DSD patients, but in some of them no gonadal tissue is found. Complete absence of virilization results in normal female external genitalia and these patients generally seek medical attention at pubertal age, due to the absence of breast development and/or primary amenorrhea. A careful clinical evaluation of the neonate is essential because most DSD patients could be recognized in this period and prompt diagnosis allows a better therapeutic approach. Family and prenatal history, complete physical examination and assessment of genital anatomy are the first steps for a correct diagnosis. The diagnostic evaluation of DSD includes hormone measurements (assessment of Leydig and Sertoli cell function), imaging (ultrasonography is always the first and often the most valuable imaging modality in DSD patients’ investigation), cytogenetic, and molecular studies. Endoscopic and laparoscopic exploitation and/or gonadal biopsy are required in very few cases. Psychological evaluation is of crucial importance to treat DSD patients. Every couple that has a child with atypical genitalia must be assessed and receive counseling by an experienced psychologist, specialized in gender identity, who must act as soon as the diagnosis is suspected, and then follow the family periodically, more frequently during the periods before and after genitoplasty. Parents must be well informed by the physician and psychologist about normal sexual development. A simple, detailed, and comprehensive explanation about what to expect regarding integration in social life, sexual activity, need of hormonal and surgical treatment and the likely possibility or not of fertility according to the sex of rearing, should also be discussed with the parents before the assignment of final social sex. Optimal care of DSD patients begins in the newborn period and sometimes in prenatal life and requires a multidisciplinary team. Most of the well-treated DSD patients present a normal quality of life in adulthood. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Male phenotypic development is a 2-step process: 1) testis formation from the primitive gonad (sexual determination) and 2) internal and external genitalia differentiation by action of factors secreted by
