46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


anterolateral epithelium of the urogenital ridge. Anti Müllerian hormone (AMH) secreted by the testicular Sertoli cells acts on its receptor in the Müllerian ducts to cause their regression. Testosterone secreted by the testicular Leydig cells acts on the androgen receptor in the Wolffian ducts to induce the formation of epididymis, deferent ducts and seminal vesicles ( Fig. 2 ) ( 4 ). The external genitalia of the fetus derive from mesenchyme cells from the primitive streak. Under androgen stimuli male fetal urethral folds, genital tubercle and genital swellings give rise to corpus spongiosum and primitive urethra, phallus, and scrotal swellings respectively. This process is mediated by testosterone and its further reduced dihydrotestosterone (DHT), which acts on the androgen receptor of the prostate and external genitalia leading to their masculinization ( 5 , 6 ) ( Figs. 3 - 8). Figure 2. Summary of the molecular events in sex differentiation indicating the genes in which molecular defects cause 46,XY DSD in humans. After testis determination, hormones produced by the male gonad induce the differentiation of internal and external genitalia acting on their specific receptor. The regulation of AMH gene requires cooperative interaction between SOX9 and NR5A1, WT1, GATA4 and HSP70 at the AMH promoter. Combined expression of DHH, MAMLD1 and NR5A1 is required for Leydig cell development. NR5A1 regulates gonadal steroidogenesis. The Leydig cells also produce INSL3, which causes the testes to descend to the scrotum. Figure 3. The development of male internal genitalia in the human embryo. The 6-wk-end embryo is equipped with both male and female genital ducts derived from the mesonephrons. Figure 4. The development of male internal genitalia in the human embryo. The regression of the Müllerian ducts is mediated by the action of AMH secreted by the fetal Sertoli cells. Figure 5. The development of male internal genitalia in the human embryo. The stabilization and differentiation of the Wolffian ducts are mediated by testosterone synthesized by the fetal Leydig cells. The enzyme 5α-reductase 2 converts testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). The Wolffian ducts differentiate into epididymis, vas deferens and seminal vesicles. DHT contributes to prostate differentiation. Figure 6. Development of male external genitalia in the human embryo. At the 8-wk-end embryo the external genitalia of both sexes are identical and have the capacity to differentiate in both directions: male or female. DHT stimulates growth of the genital tubercle and induces fusion of urethral folds and labioscrotal swellings.
