46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


are identical and have the capacity to differentiate in both directions: male or female. DHT stimulates growth of the genital tubercle and induces fusion of urethral folds and labioscrotal swellings. It also inhibits growth of the vesicovaginal septum, preventing development of the vagina. Figure 7. Development of male external genitalia in the human embryo. At the 12-week-end embryo the male external genitalia are entirely formed. Figure 8. Development of male internal and external genitalia in the human embryo. At the 12-week-end embryo both internal and external genitalia are completely formed. The term differences of sex development (DSD) include- congenital conditions in which development of chromosomal, or gonadal or anatomical sex is atypical. This nomenclature has been proposed to replace terms such as intersex, pseudo-hermaphroditism and sex reversal ( 6 , 7 ). These terms, previously used to describe the differences of sex development, are potentially offensive to the patients and the consensus on the management of intersex disorders recommends a new nomenclature that will be followed in this chapter (6) . The proposed changes in terminology aim to integrate upcoming advances in molecular genetics in the most recent DSD classification ( 8 ). The 46,XY DSDs are characterized by micro-penis, atypical or female external genitalia, caused by incomplete intrauterine masculinization with or without the presence of Müllerian structures. Male gonads are identified in the majority of 46,XY DSD patients, but in some of them no gonadal tissue is found. Complete absence of virilization results in normal female external genitalia and these patients generally seek medical attention at pubertal age, due to the absence of breast development and/or primary amenorrhea. 46,XY DSD can result either from decreased synthesis of testosterone or DHT or from impairment of androgen action ( 9 , 10 ). Our proposal classification of 46,XY DSD is displayed in Table 1 . Table 1. Classification of 46,XY DSD View in own window 46,XY DSD DUE TO ABNORMALITIES OF GONADAL DEVELOPMENT Gonadal agenesis Gonadal dysgenesis - complete and partial forms 46,XY DSD ASSOCIATED WITH CHOLESTEROL SYNTHESIS DEFECTS Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome 46,XY DSD DUE TO TESTOSTERONE PRODUCTION DEFECTS Impaired Leydig cell differentiation ( LHCGR defects) Complete and partial forms Enzymatic defects in testosterone synthesis Defects in adrenal and testicular steroidogenesis STAR deficiency P450scc deficiency 3-β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase II deficiency 17α-hydroxylase and 17,20 lyase deficiency P450 oxidoreductase defect ( electron transfer disruption) Defects in testicular steroidogenesis Isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency Cytochrome b5 defect (
