46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


deficiency P450scc deficiency 3-β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase II deficiency 17α-hydroxylase and 17,20 lyase deficiency P450 oxidoreductase defect ( electron transfer disruption) Defects in testicular steroidogenesis Isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency Cytochrome b5 defect ( allosteric factor for P450c17 and POR interaction) 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase III deficiency Alternative pathway to DHT 3α- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency due to AKR1C2 and AKR1C4 defects 46,XY DSD DUE TO DEFECTS IN TESTOSTERONE METABOLISM 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency 46,XY DSD DUE TO DEFECTS IN ANDROGEN ACTION Androgen insensitivity syndrome Complete and partial forms 46,XY DSD DUE TO PERSISTENCE OF MÜLLERIAN DUCTS Defect in AMH synthesis Defect in AMH receptor CONGENITAL NON-GENETIC 46,XY DSD Maternal intake of endocrine disruptors Associated with impaired prenatal growth 46,XY OVOTESTICULAR DSD NON-CLASSIFIED FORMS Hypospadias 46,XY gender dysphoria INVESTIGATION OF DSD PATIENTS Optimal care of patients with DSD requires a multidisciplinary team and begins in the newborn period. A careful clinical evaluation of the neonate is essential because most DSD patients could be recognized in this period and prompt diagnosis allows a better therapeutic approach. Family and prenatal history, complete physical examination and assessment of genital anatomy are the first steps for a correct diagnosis. The diagnostic evaluation of DSD includes hormone measurements, imaging, cytogenetic, and molecular studies ( 11 ). In very few cases, endoscopic and laparoscopic exploitation and/or gonadal biopsy are required ( 12 ). The endocrinological evaluation of 46,XY DSD infants includes assessment of testicular function by basal measurements of LH, FSH, inhibin B, anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH), and steroids. AMH and inhibin B are useful markers of the presence of Sertoli cells and their assessment could help in the diagnosis of testis determination disorders. In boys with bilateral cryptorchidism serum AMH and inhibin B correlate with the presence of testicular tissue and undetectable values are highly suggestive of absence of testicular tissue ( 13 , 14 ). In minipuberty and in postpubertal patients with testosterone synthesis defects, the diagnosis is made through basal steroid levels. Testosterone levels are low and steroids upstream from the enzymatic blockage are elevated. This pattern can be confirmed by an hCG stimulation test, which increases the accumulation of steroids before the enzymatic blockage, with a slight elevation of testosterone. In prepubertal individuals, an hCG stimulation test is essential for the diagnosis, since basal levels are not altered. There are several hCG stimulation protocols and normative data must be established for each of them. We established a normal testosterone response
