46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


the diagnosis, since basal levels are not altered. There are several hCG stimulation protocols and normative data must be established for each of them. We established a normal testosterone response 72 and 96 hours after the last of 4 doses of hCG, 50-100 U/kg body weight, given via intramuscular every 4 days in boys with cryptorchidism but otherwise normal external genitalia: testosterone peak levels reached 391 ± 129 ng/dL and we consider a subnormal response a value <130 ng/dL (equivalent to -2 SD) ( 15 ). Imaging evaluation is indicated in the neonatal period when atypical genitalia are identified. If apparent female genitalia with clitoral hypertrophy, posterior labial fusion, foreshortened vulva with single opening or inguinal/labial mass is present, imaging studies may also be performed. A family history of DSD and later presentations as abnormal puberty or primary amenorrhea, cyclic hematuria in a male, and inguinal hernia in a female also require an imaging evaluation. Ultrasonography is always the first and often the most valuable imaging modality in DSD patients’ investigation. Ultrasound shows the presence or absence of Müllerian structures at all ages and can locate the gonads and characterize their echo texture. This exam can also identify associated malformations such as kidney abnormalities ( 16 ). Genitography and cystourethrography can display the type of urethra, the presence of vagina, cervix, and urogenital sinus. MRI contributes to accurate morphologic evaluation of Mullerian duct structures, the gonads, and the development of the phallus, all of which are essential for appropriate gender assignment and planning of surgical reconstruction ( 17 ). CYTOGENETIC AND MOLECULAR INVESTIGATION The routine use of genetic testing for reaching a diagnosis in XY DSD is increasingly playing an important role in the diagnostic process. A wide range of techniques may be used, each one having a different investigative application and genetic resolution ( 18 , 19 ). More than 75 genes involved in gonadal development and/or sex hormone biosynthesis/action are known causes of DSDs and the molecular methodologies have contributed to identify already known as well as novel causes of DSD. These results have led to the adoption of molecular tests into clinical practice for diagnosis and genetic counseling, reducing the need of hormonal and imaging tests to reach the correct diagnosis ( 20 ). Advances in molecular biological techniques for diagnosing DSD are reviewed in recent publications ( 18 , 19 ). Chromosomal Analysis Early identification of
