46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


reach the correct diagnosis ( 20 ). Advances in molecular biological techniques for diagnosing DSD are reviewed in recent publications ( 18 , 19 ). Chromosomal Analysis Early identification of chromosomal regions and candidate-genes involved in the DSD etiology were established by finding microscopically visible structural changes in the karyotype, using conventional cytogenetic techniques. Many of them were achieved by positional cloning and linkage analysis, which are not widely used tools. Although conventional karyotyping is still used frequently in routine clinical diagnosis, faster molecular cytogenetic techniques that do not require cell culture can be employed. Array techniques [array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) and single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array] are all capable to identify submicroscopic genome imbalance / copy number variation (CNV), as small as 10 KB (CNVs between 10 kb and 5 Mb in size), and which may affect several genes, in patients with an apparently normal karyotype ( 21 , 22 ). CNV affecting coding sequences or regulatory elements of critical dosage-sensitive genes are known causes of DSDs ( 23 - 26 ). Novel DSD candidate chromosomic regions and genes, with potential roles in sex determination and DSD, such as SUPT3H, C2ORF80, KANK1, ADCY2, VAMP7 and ZEB2, have been also identified by array studies, many of them waiting for further validation ( 25 , 27 ). Array techniques can diagnose pathogenic CNV in almost 30% of syndromic DSD patients as a single method ( 27 , 28 ). Thus, a CGH or SNP-array was proposed as the first genomic test to investigate this group of DSD patients. Sequencing Analysis Among the genetic tests, many use a candidate-gene approach (Sanger sequencing), while targeted DSD gene panels, wider whole-exome (WES) and whole-genome (WGS) scale are high-throughput screening technologies, in which multiple short DNA target sequences are analyzed to identified the presence of allelic variants ( 29 ). Sanger sequencing is often the method of choice if a specific genetic condition is highly suspected by an established clinical and hormonal diagnosis. AR and SRD5A2 , in addition to almost all testosterone synthesis defects, are the most requested genes in 46,XY DSD to be sequenced using this approach ( 20 ). The superiority of targeted DSD gene panel tests, that can evaluate simultaneously several and non-standard sets of genes, over single-gene testing approaches is well established, especially considering time and cost-effectiveness ( 26 , 30 ). Whole-Exome Sequencing (WES) and Whole-Genome Sequencing (WGS) are
