46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


and non-standard sets of genes, over single-gene testing approaches is well established, especially considering time and cost-effectiveness ( 26 , 30 ). Whole-Exome Sequencing (WES) and Whole-Genome Sequencing (WGS) are also based on short-read sequencing. They present a clear improvement over single-gene testing in providing clinical diagnosis for DSD. The advantage of WES/WGS is the potential to identify new DSD-related genes in the research setting. On the other hand, WGS has more consistent coverage of gene sequences throughout the genome, including the non-coding regions and so it has the potential to provide a much higher diagnostic yield than WES ( 25 , 31 ). Nevertheless, WES and WGS require significant bioinformatic resources and are expensive strategies; consequently, their application for first-line diagnostic investigation in many clinical settings are still limited ( 18 , 32 ). The target DNA can also be read in longer fragments (several kb). The main advantage of using long-reads during the process is that repetitive elements and complex structural variants can often be resolved to a greater extent than in assemblies generated from short-read sequencing ( 18 ). Long-read sequencing offers a potential solution to genome-wide short tandem repeats analysis, which are highly variable elements, which play a pivotal role in the regulation of gene expression. Studies in animal models have suggested the involvement of epigenetic regulation in the process of gonadal formation, reinforcing a probable role of epigenetic variation in the etiology of DSD ( 33 ). Careful selection of the genetic test indicated for each condition remains important for a good clinical practice ( Figure 9 ). Figure 9. Algorithm for 46,XY DSD diagnosis 46,XY DSD DUE TO ABNORMALITIES IN GONADAL DEVELOPMENT Uncountable allelic variants identified in several genes involved in the process of human gonadal determination have been associated with 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis. They will be described according to the period of gene expression in gonadal determination. Gonadal Determination and Differentiation The intermediate mesoderm is the primary embryonic tissue at gastrulation that gives rise to the urogenital ridge. This, in turns, is going to derive the primitive gonad from a condensation of the medioventral region of the urogenital ridge. The primitive gonad separates from the adrenal primordium at about 5 weeks but remains bipotential until the 6 th week after conception. Mammals sex determination is a complex process, which involves many genes acting in networks. Several genes have been involved in the development
