46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


bipotential until the 6 th week after conception. Mammals sex determination is a complex process, which involves many genes acting in networks. Several genes have been involved in the development of the urogenital ridge, including Emx2, Lim1, Lhx9, Wt1, Gata-4/Fog2, Nr5a1/Sf1. Although knockout models of these genes produce abnormal gonads in mice, not all of them have been implicated in the human gonadal dysgenesis etiology. To date, Emx2 null mice have absent kidneys, ureters, gonads and genital tracts and have developmental abnormalities of the brain ( 34 ). In humans, variants in EMX2 have been found in patients with schizencephaly (a rare condition in which a person is born with clefts in the brain that are filled with liquor) but no gonadal phenotypes have been described. WT1, NR5A1 and NR0B1 / DAX1 are well known genes that are critical for the formation of the urogenital ridge in humans. The products of WT1 are essential for both gonadal and renal formation ( 35 ) whereas NR5A1/SF1 protein is essential for gonadal and adrenal formation ( 36 , 37 ). NR0B1/DAX1 is also essential for gonadal and adrenal differentiation and when mutated, results in congenital adrenal hypoplasia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 38 ). After the formation of the bipotential gonad, by the 6 th week after conception, in 46, XY individuals, the expression of the testis-determining gene Sry, which is transcriptionally regulated by the expression of Wt1 ( 39 ) and GATA Binding Protein 4 (Gata4), its cofactor the Friend-of-GATA (Fog2) ( 40 ) and chromobox protein homolog 2 (Cbx2) ( 41 ) trigger the gonadal masculinizing fate process. In the mammalian male embryo, the first molecular signal of sex determination is the expression of Sry within a subpopulation of somatic cells of the indifferent genital ridge ( 42 ). The transient expression of Sry drives the initial differentiation of pre-Sertoli cells that would otherwise follow a female pathway, becoming granulosa cells. Once Sry expression begins, it initiates the cascade of gene interactions and cellular events that direct the formation of a testis from the undifferentiated fetal gonad. So, pre-Sertoli cells proliferate, polarize and aggregate around the germ cells to define the testes cords. Migration of cells into the gonad from the mesonephros or the coelomic epithelium is subsequently induced by signals emanating from the pre-Sertoli cells. Peritubular myoid cells surround the testes cords and cooperate with pre-Sertoli cells to deposit the
