46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


mesonephros or the coelomic epithelium is subsequently induced by signals emanating from the pre-Sertoli cells. Peritubular myoid cells surround the testes cords and cooperate with pre-Sertoli cells to deposit the basal lamina and further define the testis cords. Signaling molecules produced by the pre-Sertoli cells promote the differentiation of somatic cells, found outside the cords, into fetal Leydig cells, thus ultimately allowing the production of testosterone. Endothelial cells are associated to form the coelomic vessel, which promotes efficient export of testosterone into plasma. The gene Sox9 is up-regulated immediately after Sry expression and is involved in the initiation and maintenance of Sertoli cell differentiation during the early phases of testis differentiation. The mechanism by which NR5A1 and SRY increase endogenous SOX9 expression was clearly demonstrated in human embryonal carcinoma cell line NT2/D1 ( 43 ). Extracellular signaling pathways ( Fgf9 and Igf1r/Irr/Ir) play a significant role in Sox9 expression. A model has been suggested in that the fate of the bipotential gonad is controlled by mutually antagonistic signals between Fgf9 and Wnt4/Rspo1 . In this model Sox9 up-regulates Fgf9-Fgfr2 and Fgf9 maintains Sox9 expression, forming a positive feed-forward loop in XY gonads. The balance between Fgf9 and Wnt4/Rspo1 signals is shifted in favor of Fgf9 , establishing the male pathway. In addition, Sry inhibits β-catenin-mediated Wnt signaling ( 44 ). In the absence of this feed-forward loop between Sox9 and Fgf9 , Wnt4/Rspo1, the activated β-catenin pathway, blocks Fgf9 and promotes the ovarian fate ( 45 , 46 ). Furthermore, Sox9 directly binds to the promoter of the Ptgds gene which encodes prostaglandin D synthase that mediates the production of PGD2 ( 47 ) which, in turn, promotes nuclear translocation of Sox9, facilitating Sertoli cell differentiation ( 48 ). Antagonism between Dmrt1 and Foxl2 comprises another step for sex-determining decision. Dmrt1 has been described as essential to maintain mammalian testis determination, preventing female reprogramming in the postnatal mammalian testis ( 49 ). MAP3K1 has been described to be important to the balance between SOX9/FGF9 to WNT/beta-catenin signaling in functional studies ( 50 , 51 ). However, the role of MAP3K1 in human sex-determination remains unknown as the downstream effectors of MAP3K1 in the human developing testis have not been identified ( 52 ). Similarly, the precise mechanism by which DHX37 interferes with testis determination/maintenance remains to be elucidated ( 53 ). Abnormalities in the expression (underexpression or overexpression or timing
