46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


( 52 ). Similarly, the precise mechanism by which DHX37 interferes with testis determination/maintenance remains to be elucidated ( 53 ). Abnormalities in the expression (underexpression or overexpression or timing of expression) of genes involved in the cascade of testis determination can cause anomalies of gonadal development and consequently, 46,XY DSD. The absence, regression, or the presence of dysgenetic testes results in abnormal development of the genital ducts and/or external genitalia in those patients. 46,XY Gonadal Agenesis Total absence of gonadal tissue confirmed by laparoscopy has rarely been described in XY subjects with female external and internal genitalia indicating the absence of testicular determination ( 54 ). Mendonca et al described a pair of siblings, one XY and the other XX, born to a consanguineous marriage, with normal female external and internal genitalia associated with gonadal agenesis ( 55 ). Pathogenic allelic variants in NR5A1 and LHX9 were later ruled out in these siblings ( 56 ). The origin of this disorder remains to be determined, but a defect in another gene essential for bipotential gonad development is the most likely cause of this disorder. 46,XY Gonadal Dysgenesis - Complete and Partial Forms 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis consists of a variety of clinical conditions, in which the development of the fetal gonad is abnormal and encompasses both a complete and a partial form. The complete form of gonadal dysgenesis was first described by Swyer et al. ( 57 ) and is characterized by female external and internal genitalia, lack of secondary sexual characteristics, normal or tall stature without somatic stigmata of Turner syndrome, eunuchoid habitus and the presence of bilateral dysgenetic gonads in XY subjects. Mild clitoromegaly is present in some cases. The partial form of this syndrome is characterized by variable degrees of impaired testicular development and testicular function. These patients present a spectrum of atypical genitalia with or without Müllerian structures. Similar phenotypes can also result from a 45,X/46,XY karyotype. Serum gonadotropin levels are elevated in both the complete and partial forms, mainly FSH levels, which predominate over LH levels. Testosterone levels are at the prepubertal range in the complete form. Meanwhile, in the partial form, it can range from prepubertal levels to normal adult male levels. The clinical condition named embryonic testicular regression syndrome (ETRS) has been considered part of the clinical spectrum of partial 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis ( 58 ). In this syndrome, most of the patients
