46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


condition named embryonic testicular regression syndrome (ETRS) has been considered part of the clinical spectrum of partial 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis ( 58 ). In this syndrome, most of the patients present atypical genitalia or micropenis associated with complete regression of testicular tissue in one or both sides. Pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants in DHX37 were reported in patients with 46,XY GD at a frequency of 14%. Considering only the ETRS phenotype (micropenis and absence of uni- or bilateral testicular tissue), this frequency increases to 50% ( 53 ). The masculinization degrees of internal and external genitalia presented are related to the time and duration of the hormonal secretion, prior to cessation of testicular function. The dysgenetic testes showed disorganized seminiferous tubules and stroma with occasional primitive sex cords without germ cells ( 59 ). Familial cases of gonadal dysgenesis with variable degrees of genital atypia have been reported, and the nature of the underlying genetic defect is still unknown in several families, despite new genetic investigation methodologies available ( 58 ). Regarding the genetic etiology, 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis is heterogeneous and can result from defects of any gene involved in the process of gonadal formation. The following review will focus on the main genes causing gonadal dysgenesis in humans, presenting as an isolated or syndromic phenotype. Dysgenetic 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of GATA4 and FOG2/ ZFPM2 Genes Gata4 (GATA-binding factor 4 gene) cooperatively interacts with several proteins to regulate the expression of genes involved in testis determination and differentiation as SRY, SOX9, NR5A1, AMH, DMRT1, STAR, CYP19A1 , and others ( 60 ). In humans, GATA4 variants were first described in patients with congenital heart defects without genital abnormalities ( 61 ). However, genitourinary anomalies, such as hypospadias and cryptorchidism, were described in 46,XY patients with deletion of the 8p23.1 region, in which GATA4 is located ( 62 ). The p.G221R GATA4 pathogenic variant was identified in five members of a French family, three 46,XY DSD patients, two of them with cardiac anomalies, and in their apparently unaffected mothers ( 63 ). The role of FOG2 in human testis development was corroborated by the identification of a balanced translocation ( 8 ; 10 ) (q23.1;q21.1) in a patient with partial gonadal dysgenesis and congenital heart abnormalities ( 64 ). Bashamboo et al. identified missense FOG2 variants, using exome sequencing, in two patients with 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis. One patient carried the
