46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


sexes, but a small or absent ovaries are observed in the XY Cbx2 knockout, consequently to the reduced expression of Sry and Sox9 in the gonadal tissue ( 41 ). Functional studies demonstrated that these variants do not bind to, or adequately regulate the expression of target genes important for gonadal development, such as NR5A1 ( 67 ). Mutated CBX2.2 isoforms were also implicated in the etiology of partial 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis in two other patients. Each patient carried a distinct variant, the p. C132R (c.394T>C) and the C154fs (c.460delT). These CBX2.2 variants were shown to be related to a defective expression of EMX2 in the developing gonad ( 68 ). However, analysis of populational genetics data indicates that p.C154fs is present in general populations at high frequency, inconsistent with causing gonadal dysgenesis ( 69 ). 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of the WT1 Gene The Wilms’ tumor suppressor gene ( WT1 ) is located on 11p13, and encodes a zinc-finger transcription factor involved in the development and function of the kidneys and gonads. The WT1 contains 10 exons, of which exons 1–6 encode a proline/glutamine-rich transcriptional-regulation region and exons 7–10 encode the four zinc fingers of the DNA-binding domain. Four major species of RNA with conserved relative amounts, different binding specificities, and different subnuclear localizations are generated by two alternative splicing regions ( 70 ). Splicing at the first site results in either inclusion or exclusion of exon 5. The second alternative splicing site is in the 3’ end of exon 9 and allows the inclusion or exclusion of three amino acids lysine, threonine and serine between the third and fourth zinc fingers, resulting in either KTS-positive or negative isoforms. Isoforms that only differ by the presence or absence of the KTS amino acids have different affinities for DNA and, therefore, possibly different regulatory functions ( 70 ). A precise balance between WT1 isoforms is necessary for its normal function ( 71 ). WT1 presents a complex network of interaction with several protein systems so that abnormalities in it can determine a wide phenotypic spectrum in XY and XX individuals ( 72 ). Several syndromes are associated with WT1 pathogenic variants, including: WAGR, Denys-Drash and Frasier syndrome. WAGR syndrome is characterized by W ilms’ tumor, a niridia, g enitourinary abnormalities and mental r etardation. Genitourinary anomalies are frequently observed, such as renal agenesis or horseshoe kidney, urethral atresia,
