46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


syndrome is characterized by W ilms’ tumor, a niridia, g enitourinary abnormalities and mental r etardation. Genitourinary anomalies are frequently observed, such as renal agenesis or horseshoe kidney, urethral atresia, hypospadias, cryptorchidism and more rarely atypical genitalia ( 73 ). Heterozygous deletions of WT1 and other contiguous genes are the cause of this syndrome ( 74 ). Deletions of PAX6 gene are related to the presence of aniridia in these patients. Severe obesity is present in a substantial proportion of subjects with the WAGR syndrome, and the acronym WAGRO has been suggested for this condition ( 75 ). The phenotype of obesity and hyperphagia in WAGRO syndrome is attributable to deletions that determine haploinsufficiency of the BDNF gene (Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor) ( 76 ). Le Caignec et al . described a 46,XY patient with an interstitial deletion of approximately 10 Mb located on 11p13, encompassing WT1 and PAX6 , who presented a female external and internal genitalia, an unusual phenotype of WAGR syndrome ( 77 ). This report demonstrated an overlap of clinical and molecular features in WAGR, Frasier and Denys-Drash syndromes that confirms these conditions as a spectrum of disease due to WT1 alterations. Denys-Drash syndrome is characterized by dysgenetic 46,XY DSD associated with early-onset renal failure (steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with diffuse mesangial sclerosis and progression to end-stage kidney disease) and Wilms´ tumor development in the first decade of life ( 78 ). Müllerian duct differentiation varies according to the Sertoli cells' function. The molecular defect of this syndrome is the presence of heterozygous missense allelic variants in the zinc finger encoding exons (DNA-binding domain) of WT1 gene ( 79 ). Gonadal development is impaired to variable degrees, resulting in a spectrum of 46,XY DSD ( 80 ). Frasier syndrome is characterized by a female to atypical external genitalia phenotype in 46,XY patients, streak or dysgenetic gonads, which are at high risk for gonadoblastoma development, and renal failure (early steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with focal and segmental glomerular sclerosis). In these patients the progression to end-stage renal disease often occurs in adolescence, although the late-onset nephropathy has also been described in Frasier syndrome ( 81 ), reinforcing that patients carrying WT1 pathogenic variants should have the renal function carefully monitored ( 82 ). Constitutional heterozygous variants of the WT1 , almost all located at intron 9, are found in patients with Frasier syndrome, leading to a change in splicing that
