46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


( 82 ). Constitutional heterozygous variants of the WT1 , almost all located at intron 9, are found in patients with Frasier syndrome, leading to a change in splicing that results in reversal of the normal KTS positive/negative ratio from 2:1 to 1:2 ( 78 , 83 ). Exonic variants have been also associated with Frasier syndrome ( 84 ). The report of atypical external genitalia ( 84 ) , the presence of Wilms’ tumor ( 85 ), and the description of exonic variants in the DNA binding domain of WT1 gene ( 84 ) in patients with Frasier syndrome indicate an overlap of clinical and molecular features between Denys Drash and Frasier syndromes. 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of the NR5A1/SF1 Gene NR5A1 was originally identified as a master-regulator of steroidogenic enzymes in the early 1990s following the Keith L. Parker and Kenichirou Morohashi inspiring work ( 86 - 88 ). NR5A1 has since been shown to control many aspects of adrenal and gonadal function ( 37 , 89 ), NR5A1, together with several signaling molecules, are also involved in adrenal stem cell maintenance, proliferation and differentiation inducing adrenal zonation, probably acting in the progenitor cells ( 90 ). Homozygous 46,XY null mice (−/−) have adrenal agenesis, complete testicular dysgenesis, persistent Müllerian structures, partial hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and other features such as late-onset obesity ( 91 ). Therefore, it was clear demonstrated that Nr5a1 is an essential factor in sexual and adrenal differentiation, and a key regulator of adrenal and gonadal steroidogenesis and also of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. The first reported human case of NR5A1 pathogenic variant, the heterozygous p.G35E, was a 46,XY patient who presented female external genitalia and Müllerian duct derivatives, indicating the absence of male gonadal development, associated with adrenal insufficiency. This patient presented with salt-losing adrenal failure in early infancy and was thought to have a high block in steroidogenesis (e.g., in CYP11A1, STAR) affecting both adrenal and testicular functions. However, the identification of streak-like gonad and Müllerian structures was consistent with testicular dysgenesis, thereby, a disruption of a common developmental regulator such as NR5A1 was hypothesized. The patient was found to have a de novo heterozygous p.G35E change in the P-bo of NR5A1, which is important in dictating DNA binding specificity through its interaction with DNA response elements in the regulatory regions of target genes ( 92 ). The second report of NR5A1 defects
