46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


is important in dictating DNA binding specificity through its interaction with DNA response elements in the regulatory regions of target genes ( 92 ). The second report of NR5A1 defects in humans was described by Biason-Lauber and Schoenle, in a 14-month-old 46,XX girl who had presented with primary adrenal insufficiency and seizures ( 93 ) . She had a de novo heterozygous NR5A1 change resulting in the p.R255L variant into the proximal part of the ligand-like binding domain of the protein. The ovaries were detected by MRI scan and Inhibin A levels were normal for her age, suggesting that NR5A1 change had not disrupted ovarian function. The follow up of this girl until 16.5 years old showed a normal puberty and regular menstruation showing that phenotypic variant of NR5A1 allelic variant in a 46, XX affected person includes adrenocortical insufficiency but no ovarian dysfunction at pubertal age ( 94 ). The third report of NR5A1 defects in humans was found in an infant with a similar phenotype of the first case: primary adrenal failure and 46,XY DSD. However, this child had inherited the homozygous p.R92Q alteration in a recessive manner ( 95 ). The change lies within the A-box of NR5A1, which interferes with monomeric DNA binding stability, but in vitro functional activity was in the order of 30–40% of the wild type ( 95 - 97 ). Carrier parents showed normal adrenal function suggesting that the loss of both alleles is required for the phenotype development when disrupted protein keeps this level of functional activity. In addition, another family has been reported with a homozygous missense variant (p.D293N) in the LBD of NR5A1 ( 98 ). This change also showed partial loss-of-function (50%) in gene transcription assays. In 2004, we reported the fourth NR5A1 deleterious variant in humans, which brought two novel variables to the NR5A1 phenotype: it was the first frameshift variant and it was identified in a 34-year-old 46,XY DSD female with normal adrenal function ( 99 ). Another interesting aspect in this patient was the absence of gonadal tissue at laparoscopy. Since she had atypical genitalia and absence of Müllerian derivatives, we assumed that testicular tissue regressed completely late in fetal life. NR5A1 changes associated with 46,XY DSD are usually frameshift, nonsense or missense changes that affect DNA-binding and gene transcription ( 96 ). Most of the point variants identified in NR5A1 are located in the
