46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


46,XY DSD are usually frameshift, nonsense or missense changes that affect DNA-binding and gene transcription ( 96 ). Most of the point variants identified in NR5A1 are located in the DNA-binding domain of the protein. The p.L437Q variant, the first located in the ligand-binding region, was identified in a patient with a mild phenotype, a penoscrotal hypospadias. This protein retained partial function in several NR5A1-expressing cell lines and its location points to the existence of a ligand for NR5A1, considered an orphan receptor so far ( 97 ). NR5A1 is bound to sphingosine (SPH) and lyso-sphingomyelin (lysoSM) under basal conditions ( 100 , 101 ). Progressive androgen production and virilization in adolescence has been observed in several XY patients with NR5A1 variants, in contrast to the severe under virilized external genitalia found in most patients ( 101 , 102 ). The almost normal testosterone levels after hCG stimulation test or at pubertal age suggest that NR5A1 action might be less implicated in pubertal steroidogenesis than during fetal life. In contrast, fetal Sertoli cell function seems to be preserved in most patients with heterozygous NR5A1 variants based on the common observation of absent Müllerian derivatives and primitive seminiferous tubules in histology. The reviewed data of seventy-two 46,XY DSD patients with NR5A1 pathogenic variants reported in the literature, for whom information on the presence or absence of Müllerian derivatives was available, suggested that Müllerian derivatives are present in about 24% of the cases. However, persistently elevated FSH levels after puberty found in all patients studied suggest an impairment of Sertoli cells function in post pubertal age. More than 180 different NR5A1 variants, distributed across the full length of the protein, have been described and the majority are nonsynonymous variants ( 103 - 105 ). Most of these variants are in the DNA binding domain and are in heterozygous state or compound heterozygous state with the p.G46A (rs1110061) variant. A clear correlation between the location of a variant, it’s in vitro functional performance and the associated phenotype is not observed. Indeed, family members bearing the same NR5A1 variant may present with different phenotypes ( 106 ). The contribution of other genetic modifiers has been suggested to explain phenotypic variability. Exome sequencing analyses of DSD patients have identified pathogenic variants or variants of uncertain significance in several genes involved in sexual development ( 42 ). In a 46,XY patient with atypical external genitalia, palpable
