46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


DSD patients have identified pathogenic variants or variants of uncertain significance in several genes involved in sexual development ( 42 ). In a 46,XY patient with atypical external genitalia, palpable inguinal gonads, absent uterus in pelvic ultrasonography and poor testosterone response to hCG stimulation, Mazen and colleagues identified, by exome sequencing, the previously described p.Arg313Cys NR5A1 variant in compound heterozygous state with a p.Gln237Arg MAP3K1 variant 27169744 ( 107 ). This NR5A1 variant was previously reported in association with mild hypospadias ( 108 ), and a possible digenic inheritance was proposed to explain the phenotypic heterogeneity ( 107 ). In several cohort studies, NR5A1 changes have been reported in approximately 10–15% of the individuals with gonadal dysgenesis ( 89 , 96 ). Although many of the heterozygous changes are de novo , about one-third of these changes have been shown to be inherited from the mother in a sex-limited dominant manner ( 96 ). These women are at potential risk of primary ovarian insufficiency but while fertile they can pass NR5A1 heterozygous changes to their children. This mode of transmission can mimic X-linked inheritance ( 96 ). The features in different affected family members can be variable. A different role of NR5A1 in human reproductive function was described by Bashamboo and co-workers ( 109 ). They investigated whether changes in NR5A1 could be found in a cohort of 315 men with normal external genitalia and non-obstructive male factor infertility where the underlying cause was unknown ( 109 ). Analysis of NR5A1 in this cohort identified heterozygous changes in seven individuals; all of them were located within the hinge region of the NR5A1 protein. The men who harbored NR5A1 changes had more severe forms of infertility (azoospermia, severe oligozoospermia) and in several cases low testosterone and elevated gonadotropins were found. A serial decrease in sperm count was found in one-studied men, raising the possibility that heterozygous changes in NR5A1 might be transmitted to offspring, especially if fatherhood occurs in young adulthood rather than later in life ( 110 ). As progressive gonadal dysgenesis is likely, gonadal function should be monitored in adolescence and adulthood, and early sperm cryopreservation considered in male patients, if possible. In conclusion, this study shows that changes in NR5A1 may be found in a small subset of phenotypically normal men with non- obstructive male factor infertility where the cause is currently unknown. These individuals may be at
