46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


125 , 126 ). Moreover, structural changes involving multiple regions both upstream and downstream of the SOX9 gene have been associated with non-syndromic XY DSD ( 127 , 128 ). These findings indicate that variants located in the regulatory elements of SOX9 should be routinely screened in a DSD diagnostic setting ( 69 ). Dysgenetic 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of the FGF9/FGFR2 Genes The importance of Fgf9/Fgfr2 signaling pathway in mouse testis determination is well known ( 129 , 130 ). In the developing testis occurs a positive feedback loop among Fgf9/Fgfr2/Sox9 ; Fgf9 is upregulated by Sox9 and signals through Fgfr2 maintain Sox9 expression ( 129 ) and this loop represses Wnt4 ( 131 ). Mice homozygous for a null variant in Fgf9 or Fgfr2 exhibit male-to-female sex reversal, with all testis-specific cellular events being disrupted, including cell proliferation, mesonephric cell migration, Sertoli cell differentiation, and testis cord formation ( 129 , 130 , 132 ). However, in human sex development the role of FGF9 and FGFR2 remains unclear. In humans, the only reported pathogenic variants in FGF9 are associated with craniosynostosis or multiple synostosis phenotypes, and no FGF9 variants were identified in 46,XY GD patients ( 133 ). Human FGFR2 variants have been related with some syndromes as lacrimo-auriculo-dento-digital, characterized by tear tract, ear, teeth and digit abnormalities ( 133 ) and craniosynostosis syndromes including Crouzon, Pfeiffer, Apert and Antley-Bixler syndromes ( 134 - 136 ). FGFR2 variants can lead to loss (LAAD syndrome) or gain (craniosynostosis syndromes) of function in these disorders ( 137 ). No gonadal defects were described in patients with LADD or craniosynostosis syndromes. A single 46,XY patient with gonadal dysgenesis and craniosynostosis was described by Bagheri-Fam et al ( 138 ). This patient had abnormalities which are identified in several craniosynostosis syndromes (short stature, brachycephaly, proptosis, down slanting palpebral fissures, low-set dorsally rotated ears, reduced extension at the elbows but absence of hand and feet anomalies). She also presented female external genitalia, primary amenorrhea and gonadal dysgenesis with dysgerminoma. DNA sequencing revealed a cysteine-to-serine substitution at position 342 in the FGFR2c isoform (p.C342S). Cys342 substitutions by Ser or other amino acids (Arg/Phe/Trp/Tyr) occur frequently in the craniosynostosis syndromes Crouzon and Pfeiffer but these patients do not present gonadal abnormalities. Variants in the 2c isoform of FGFR2 is in agreement with knockout data showing that FGFR2c is the critical isoform during sex
