46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


but these patients do not present gonadal abnormalities. Variants in the 2c isoform of FGFR2 is in agreement with knockout data showing that FGFR2c is the critical isoform during sex determination in the mouse. Taken together, these data suggest that the FGFR2c c.1025G>C (p.C342S) variant might contribute to 46,XY DSD in this patient. The authors proposed that this heterozygous variant leads to gain of function in the skull, but to loss of function in the developing gonads and that she might harbor a unique set of modifier genes, which exacerbate this testicular phenotype ( 138 ). The authors proposed that the p.C342S heterozygous variant in FGFR2c leads to gain of function in the skull, but loss of function in the developing gonads; and that the presence of modifier genes would exacerbate the testicular phenotype in this patient ( 138 ). However, the presence of a pathogenic variant involving other DSD genes, cannot be completely excluded in this patient. Dysgenetic 46,XY DSD Due to Disruption in Hedgehog Signaling DESERT HEDGEHOG ( DHH ) GENE It is a member of the hedgehog family of signaling proteins, is located in chromosome 12-q13.1 and is one of the genes involved in the testis-determining pathway ( 139 ). Dhh seems to be necessary for Nr5a1 up-regulation in Leydig cells in mice ( 140 ). To date, six homozygous variants have been described in DHH gene in 46,XY patients conferring phenotypes ranging from partial to complete gonadal dysgenesis, associated or not with polyneuropathy. The first one, the homozygous missense variant (p.M1T) is located at the initiation codon of exon 1 and was found in a 46,XY patient with partial gonadal dysgenesis associated with polyneuropathy ( 141 ). Two other variants, one the p.L162P located at exon 2 and the other the p.L363CfsX4 located in exon 3 were identified in three patients with complete gonadal dysgenesis without polyneuropathy; two of them harbored gonadal tumors (bilateral gonadoblastoma and dysgerminoma, respectively) ( 142 ). Later, the c.1086delG variant was identified in heterozygous state in two patients with partial gonadal dysgenesis ( 143 ). In addition, two novel homozygous variants were described in two patients with complete 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis without clinically overt polyneuropathy ( 144 ). In both sisters, clinical neurological examination revealed signs of a glove and stocking like polyneuropathy. The first defect, the c.271_273delGAC resulted in deletion of one amino acid (p.D90del) and the second one, a
