46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


clinical neurological examination revealed signs of a glove and stocking like polyneuropathy. The first defect, the c.271_273delGAC resulted in deletion of one amino acid (p.D90del) and the second one, a duplication c.57_60dupAGCC resulted in a premature termination of DHH protein ( 144 ) . The p.R124Q variant was identified by exome sequencing in two sisters of a consanguineous family with 46, XY gonadal dysgenesis and testicular seminoma ( 145 ). HEDGEHOG ACETYL-TRANSFERASE ( HHAT ) GENE The HHAT protein is a member of the MBOAT family of membrane-bound acyl-transferases which catalyzes amino-terminal palmitoylation of Hh proteins. The novel variant (p.G287V) in the HHAT gene was found in a syndromic 46,XY DSD patient with complete gonadal dysgenesis and skeletal malformation by exome sequencing. This variant disrupted the ability of HHAT protein to palmitoylated Hh proteins including DHH and SHH ( 146 ) In mice, the absence of Hhat in the XY gonad did not affect testis-determination, but impaired fetal Leydig cells and testis cords development ( 146 ). The phenotype of the girl carrying the homozygous p.G287V variant is a rare combination of gonadal dysgenesis and chondrodysplasia. Moreover, a de novo dominant variant in the MBOAT domain of HHAT was reported in association with intellectual disability and apparently normal testis development ( 147 ). 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of the DMRT1 Gene Raymond et al identified both DNA-binding Motif (DM) domain genes expressed in testis ( DMRT1 and DMRT2 ) located in chromosome 9p24.3, a region associated with gonadal dysgenesis and 46,XY DSD ( 148 - 150 ). The human 9p monosomy syndrome is characterized by variable degrees of 46,XY DSD, from female genitalia to male external genitalia with cryptorchidism associated to agonadism, streak gonads or hypoplastic testes and internal genitalia disclosing normal Müllerian or Wolffian ducts, mental retardation and craniofacial abnormalities ( 151 ). Gonadal function varies from insufficient to near normal testicular production. It is inferred that haploinsufficiency of DMRT1 and DMRT2 primarily impairs the formation of the undifferentiated gonad, leading to various degrees of testis or ovary formation defects ( 151 ). Although 9p24 deletions are a relatively common cause of syndromic 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis, the pathogenic variants within DMRT1 are rarely identified ( 152 ). Genomic–wide copy number variation screening revealed that DMRT1 deletions were associated with isolated 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis in addition to inactivation variants ( 133 , 148 ). In vitro studies to
