46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


Genomic–wide copy number variation screening revealed that DMRT1 deletions were associated with isolated 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis in addition to inactivation variants ( 133 , 148 ). In vitro studies to analyze the functional activity of the DMRT1 (p.R111G) variant identified by exome sequencing in a patient with 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis, indicated that this protein had reduced DNA affinity and altered sequence specificity. This mutant DMRT1, when mixed with the wild-type protein bound as a tetramer complex to an in vitro Sox9 DMRT1-binding site, differs from the wild-type DMRT1 that is usually bound as a trimer. This suggests that a combination of haploinsufficiency and a dominant disruption of the normal DMRT1 target binding site is the cause of the abnormal process of testis-determination seen in this patient ( 153 ). Matson et al. (2011) have shown in mice that Dmrt1 and Foxl2 create another regulatory network necessary for maintenance of the testis during adulthood. Loss of Dmrt1 in mouse Sertoli cells induces the reprogramming of those into granulosa cells, due to Foxl2 upregulation. Consequently, theca cells are formed, estrogens are produced, and germ cells appear feminized ( 49 ). ATR-X Syndrome (X-linked α-Thalassemia and Mental Retardation) ATR-X syndrome results from variants in the gene that encodes for X-linked helicase-2, implicating ATR-X in the development of the human testis ( 154 ). Genital anomalies leading to a female sex of rearing were reported in several affected 46,XY patients with ATR-X syndrome ( 155 ). ATR-X syndrome is characterized by severe mental retardation, alpha thalassemia and a range of genital abnormalities in 80% of cases ( 154 ). In addition to these definitive phenotypes, patients also present with typical facial anomalies comprising a carp-like mouth and a small triangular nose, skeletal deformities and a range of lung, kidney, and digestive problems. A variety of phenotypically overlapping conditions (Carpenter-Waziri syndrome, Holmes-Gang syndrome, Jubert-Marsidi syndrome, Smith-Fineman-Myers syndrome, Chudley-Lowry syndrome and X-linked mental retardation with spastic paraplegia without thalassemia) have also been associated with ATRX variants ( 154 ). ATRX lies on the X chromosome (Xq13) and the disease has been confined to males; in female carriers of an ATRX variant, the X-inactivating pattern is skewed against the X chromosome carrying the mutant allele. Urogenital abnormalities associated with variants in human ATRX range from undescended testes to testicular dysgenesis with female or atypical genitalia. Duplication of Xq12.2-Xq21.31 that encompasses ATRX along with other genes has
