46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


abnormalities associated with variants in human ATRX range from undescended testes to testicular dysgenesis with female or atypical genitalia. Duplication of Xq12.2-Xq21.31 that encompasses ATRX along with other genes has been described in a male patient with bilateral cryptorchidism and severe mental retardation. The patient entered spontaneous puberty by the age of 12 and developed bilateral gynecomastia ( 156 ). There are two major functional domains in ATRX protein: 1- the ATRX-DNMT3-DNMT3L (ADD) domain at the N-terminus and 2- the helicase/ATPase domain at the C-terminal half of the protein, both acting as chromatin remodeling. variants in the ADD domain have been related to severe psychomotor impairment associated with urogenital abnormalities. On the other hand, variants in the C-terminus region have been related with mild psychomotor impairment without severe urogenital abnormalities ( 157 , 158 ). Although all cases of severe genital abnormality reported in ATRX syndrome have been associated with severe mental retardation, this is not true for alpha-thalassemia. The role of ATRX in the sexual development cascade is poorly understood and it is suggested that it could be involved in the development of the Leydig cells ( 159 ). Dysgenetic 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of the MAP3K1 Gene MAPK signaling pathway role in mammalian sex-determination is still poorly understood. In mice, it has been shown that the Map3k4 gene is essential for testicular determination, since the lack of activity of this protein leads to failure of testicular cord development and disorganization of gonadal tissue in development ( 160 ). In mice, the reduction of the Gadd45/Map3k4/p38 pathway activity is associated with a reduction in the Sry expression in the XY mice gonad at sex-determination causing sex-reversal in these animals ( 161 ). Studies with knock-in animals for the Map3k1 gene demonstrated a lower repercussion in the testicular tissue, which present a reduction in the Leydig cells number ( 162 , 163 ). However, in patients with 46, XY gonadal dysgenesis, different non-synonymous allelic variants were identified in the MAP3K1 gene. The first variant described was identified for mapping by linkage analysis of an autosomal sex-determining gene locus at the long arm of chromosome 5 in two families with 46,XY DSD, including patients with complete and partial gonadal dysgenesis. The splice-acceptor variant c.634-8T>A in the MAP3K1 disrupted RNA splicing and was segregated with the phenotype in the first family. Variants in the MAP3K1 were also demonstrated in the
