46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


decreased aldosterone-to-renin ratio suggest that the lack of substrate to produce adrenal and testicular steroids is the cause of adrenal insufficiency and atypical genitalia ( 184 ), although, a revision of HPA axis in these patients showed normal HPA axis function ( 185 ). Affected children present elevations of 7-dehydrocholesterol (7DHC) in plasma or tissues. 7DHC is best assayed using Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectroscopy (GC/MS). Considering the relative high frequency of Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, approximately 1 in 20,000 to 60,000 births, we suggest that at least cholesterol levels should be routinely measured in patients with 46,XY DSD. However, although frequently low, plasma cholesterol levels can be within normal limits in affected patients. DHCR7 variant analysis can confirm a diagnosis of SLOS. The human DHCR7 gene is localized on chromosome 11q13 and contains nine exons encoding a 425 amino-acid protein ( 64 ). More than 130 different variants of DHCR7 have been identified and the great majority of them are located at the exons 6 to 9 ( 186 , 187 ). However, the genotype-phenotype correlation in SLOS is relatively poor ( 188 ). Currently, most SLOS patients are treated with cholesterol supplementation that can be achieved by including high cholesterol foods and/or suspensions of pharmaceutical grade cholesterol. Data suggests that early intervention may be of benefit to SLOS patients ( 189 ). Observational studies report improved growth and muscle tone and strength, increased socialization, decreased irritability and aggression in SLOS patients treated with cholesterol supplementation. However, in a group of SLOS patients’ treatment with a high cholesterol diet did not improve developmental scores ( 190 ). Treatment with simvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, aiming to block the cholesterol synthesis pathway avoiding the formation of large amounts of 7DHC/8DHC, and in this manner limiting exposure to potentially toxic metabolites in SLOS patients has been proposed. Simvastatin can also cross the blood–brain barrier and may provide a means to treat the biochemical defect present in the CNS of SLOS patients ( 191 ). A major effect of statin therapy is the transcriptional upregulation of genes controlled by the transcriptional factor SREBP, including DHCR7. Thus, if any residual activity is present in the mutant DHCR7, its upregulation could increase intracellular cholesterol synthesis. Simvastatin use in SLOS patients resulted in a paradoxical increase in serum and cerebrospinal fluid cholesterol levels ( 191 ). Randomized controlled-placebo trials were performed with simvastatin in SLOS showing significant reduction in
