46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


SLOS patients resulted in a paradoxical increase in serum and cerebrospinal fluid cholesterol levels ( 191 ). Randomized controlled-placebo trials were performed with simvastatin in SLOS showing significant reduction in plasmatic 7DHC associated with improvement in irritability symptoms ( 192 ). Determination of residual DHCR7 enzymatic activity may be helpful in selecting SLOS patients to be considered for a beneficial response of statins ( 187 ). Recently, promising gene therapy using an adeno-associated virus vector carrying a functional copy of the DHCR7 gene was administered by intrathecal injection in a mouse model with improvement of cholesterol levels in the central nervous system ( 193 ). Table 4. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with Smith-Lemli-Optiz Syndrome View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Micropenis and/or hypospadias, hypoplastic or bifid scrotum; female Müllerian duct derivatives May be present Wolffian duct derivatives Absent to male Testes Scrotum, inguinal or intra-abdominal region Clinical features Facial and bone abnormalities. Heart and pulmonary defects. Renal agenesis. Mental retardation, Seizures, hypotonia, syndactyly of second and third toes. Puberty Apparently normal Hormonal diagnosis Low cholesterol, elevated 7-dehydrocholesterol. Decreased aldosterone-to-renin ratio Gender role Male DHCR7 gene location 11q12-q13 Molecular defect variants in DHCR7 gene Treatment Dietary cholesterol supplies accompanied by ursodeoxycholic acid, and statins Outcome Severe mental retardation Dysgenetic 46,XY DSD Due to Under Expression of the DHX37 Gene 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis (GD) is a heterogeneous group of disorders with a wide phenotypic spectrum, including embryonic testicular regression syndrome (ETRS) (Table 5). Screening of 87 patients with 46,XY DSD (17 familial cases from 8 unrelated families and 70 sporadic cases) using whole-exome sequencing and target gene-panel sequencing identified a new player in the complex cascade of male gonadal differentiation and maintenance - the Asp-Glu-Ala-His-box (DHX) helicase 37 ( DHX37 ) gene ( 53 ). The variants were especially associated with ETRS (7/14 index cases; 50%). The frequency of rare, predicted-to-be-deleterious DHX37 variants in this cohort (14%) is significantly higher than that observed in the Genome Aggregation Database (0.4%; P < 0.001). Immunohistochemistry analysis in human testis showed that DHX37 is mainly expressed in germ cells at different stages of testis maturation, in Leydig cells, and rarely in Sertoli cells. Other papers confirmed these findings, associating 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis with defects in DHX37 gene ( 152 , 175 ). Table 5. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with Gonadal Dysgenesis Due to DHX37 Defects View in own window Inheritance Autosomal dominant
