46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


cells, ovarian theca cells and differentiated granulosa cells ( 195 , 198 ) A secondary mechanism of LHCGR stimulation is through G q/11 protein activation and the inositol phosphate signaling pathway ( 197 ). The LHCGR gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 2 (2p21). It spans nearly 80 kb and has been thought to be composed of 11 exons and 10 introns. Exon 11 of the LHCGR gene encodes the entire serpentine domain as well as the carboxy-terminal portion of the hinge region (NCBI GeneID 3973; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov ). The amino-terminal portion of the hinge region is encoded by exon 10 and the signal peptide and remaining portion of the extracellular domain are encoded by exons 1-9 ( 194 , 196 ). A novel primate-specific exon (termed exon 6A) was identified within intron 6 of the LHCGR gene. This exon is not used by the wild-type full-length receptor. It displays composite characteristics of an internal/terminal exon and possesses stop codons triggering nonsense-mediated mRNA decay in LHCGR. When exon 6A is utilized, it results in a truncated LHCGR protein ( 199 ). In 1976, Berthezene et al. ( 200 ) described the first patient with Leydig cell hypoplasia and subsequently several cases have been reported ( 201 - 203 ). The clinical features are heterogeneous and result from a failure of intrauterine and pubertal virilization. A review of the literature allowed delineation of the characteristics of 46,XY DSD due to the complete form of Leydig cell hypoplasia as: 1) female external genitalia leading to female sex assignment 2) no development of sexual characteristics at puberty, 3) undescended testes slightly smaller than normal with relatively preserved seminiferous tubules and absence of mature Leydig cells, 4) presence of rudimentary epididymis and vas deferens and absence of uterus and fallopian tubes, 5) low testosterone levels despite elevated gonadotropin levels, with elevated LH levels predominant over FSH levels, 6) testicular unresponsiveness to hCG stimulation, and 7) no abnormal step up in testosterone biosynthesis precursors ( 194 , 204 ) (table 6). Several different variants in the LHCGR gene were reported in patients with Leydig cell hypoplasia in both sexes ( 194 , 205 ). Table 6. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with the Complete Form of Leydig Cell Hypoplasia View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Female, occasionally mild clitoromegaly or labial fusion Müllerian derivatives Absent Wolffian ducts derivatives Absent or vestigial
