46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


Form of Leydig Cell Hypoplasia View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Female, occasionally mild clitoromegaly or labial fusion Müllerian derivatives Absent Wolffian ducts derivatives Absent or vestigial Testes Inguinal or intra-abdominal, slightly subnormal size Puberty Absence of spontaneous virilization or feminization Hormonal diagnosis Elevated serum LH, normal or slightly elevated FSH and very low testosterone levels with normal levels of testosterone precursors Gender role Female LHCGR gene location 2p21 Molecular defect Pathogenic variants in LHCGR gene (complete inactivation) and in the internal exon 6A LHCGR (increase of nonfunctional isoform); defects in LHCGR were not identified in several families Treatment Estrogen replacement at pubertal age, bilateral orchiectomy and vaginal dilation Outcome Female gender role and behavior, infertility In contrast to the homogenous phenotype of the complete form of Leydig cell hypoplasia, the partial form features a broad spectrum, ranging from incomplete male sexual differentiation characterized by micropenis and/or hypospadias to hypergonadotropic hypogonadism without ambiguity of the male external genitalia ( 194 , 195 , 206 , 207 ). Testes are cryptorchidic or in the scrotum and during puberty, partial virilization occurs and testicular size is normal or only slightly reduced, while penile growth is significantly impaired. Spontaneous gynecomastia does not occur. Before puberty, the testosterone response to the hCG test is subnormal without accumulation of testosterone precursors. After puberty, LH levels are elevated as a result of insufficient negative feedback of gonadal steroid hormones on the anterior pituitary and testosterone levels are intermediate between those of children and normal males. Several mutations in the LHCGR gene have also been identified in patients with the partial form of Leydig cell hypoplasia. Latronico et al. reported the first homozygous mutation in the LHCGR (p.Ser616Tyr) in a boy with micropenis ( 207 ). Subsequently, other milder mutations were identified in further patients with the partial form of Leydig cell hypoplasia ( 194 , 195 , 207 ). In vitro studies showed that cells transfected with LHCGR gene containing these mutations had an impaired hCG-stimulated cAMP production ( 195 , 207 ). Leydig cell hypoplasia was found to be a genetic heterogenous disorder since Zenteno et al. ( 197 ) ruled out, by segregation analysis of a known polymorphism in exon 11 of the LHCG receptor gene, molecular defects in the LHCG receptor as being responsible for Leydig cell hypoplasia in three siblings with 46,XY DSD. Most inactivating mutations of the LHCGR
