46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


of the LHCG receptor gene, molecular defects in the LHCG receptor as being responsible for Leydig cell hypoplasia in three siblings with 46,XY DSD. Most inactivating mutations of the LHCGR are missense mutations that result in a single amino acid substitution in the LHCGR. In addition, mutations causing amino acid deletions, amino acid insertions, splice acceptor mutation or premature truncations of the receptor have also been reported ( 208 ). LHCGR mutations are usually located in the coding sequence, resulting in impairment of either LH/CG binding or signal transduction. Although it is well known that hCG and LH act by stimulating a common receptor, a differential action of them in the LHCGR has been suggested. The identification of a deletion of exon 10 of the LHCGR in a patient with normal male genitalia at birth, but no pubertal development indicated that the mutant LHCGR was responsive to fetal hCG, but resistant to pituitary LH. The binding affinity of hCG for LHCGR was normal in vitro analysis, suggesting that exon 10 is necessary for LH, but not for hCG action ( 199 ). The identification and characterization of a novel, primate-specific bona fide exon (exon 6A) within the LHCGR determined a new regulatory element within the genomic organization of this receptor and a new potential mechanism of this disorder. Kossack et al analyzing the exon 6A in 16 patients with 46,XY DSD due to Leydig cells hypoplasia without molecular diagnosis, detected mutations (p.A557C or p.G558C) in three patients. Functional studies revealed a dramatic increase in expression of the mutated internal exon 6A transcripts, resulting in the generation of predominantly nonfunctional isoforms of the LHCGR, thereby preventing its proper expression and functioning ( 209 ). A new compound heterozygous mutation of the LHCGR, constituted by a previously described missense mutation (p.Cys13Arg) and a large deletion of the paternal chromosome 2 was identified by array-Comparative Genomic Hybridization (array-CGH) in a 46,XY infant with sexual ambiguity and low hCG-stimulated testosterone levels associated with high LH and FSH levels ( 200 ). In addition, causative mutations in LHCGR were absent in around 50% of the patients strongly suspected to have Leydig cell hypoplasia. These findings supported the idea that other genes must be implicated in the molecular basis of this disorder. We observed that 46,XX sisters of the patients with 46,XY DSD due to Leydig cell hypoplasia, carrying the same homozygous mutation in the LHCGR,
