46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


the molecular basis of this disorder. We observed that 46,XX sisters of the patients with 46,XY DSD due to Leydig cell hypoplasia, carrying the same homozygous mutation in the LHCGR, have primary or secondary amenorrhea, spontaneous breast development, infertility, normal or enlarged cystic ovaries with elevated LH and LH/FSH ratio, normal estradiol and progesterone levels for early to mid-follicular phase, but not for luteal phase levels, confirming lack of ovulation ( 198 , 207 , 210 ). Our findings were subsequently confirmed by other authors who studied 46,XX sisters of 46,XY DSD patients with Leydig cell hypoplasia ( 201 , 202 , 211 ). Subsequently, a novel homozygous missense mutation, p.N400S, has been identified by whole genome sequencing in two sisters with empty follicle syndrome ( 204 ). Table 7. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with Partial Leydig Cells Hypoplasia View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Atypical to male Müllerian derivatives Absent Wolffian ducts derivatives Rudimentary to male Testes Scrotum, labial folds, or inguinal regions, normal or only slightly subnormal size Puberty Partial virilization without gynecomastia, discrepancy between reduced penis size and normal testicular growth Hormonal diagnosis Elevated serum LH levels, normal or slightly elevated FSH and low T levels with normal levels of T precursors in relation to T Gender role Male LHCGR gene location 2p21 Molecular defect Variants which confer partial inactivation of LHCGR Treatment Repair of the hypospadias, testosterone replacement at pubertal age Outcome Male gender role and behavior, possible fertility under treatment 46,XY DSD Due to Enzymatic Defects in Testosterone Synthesis Six enzymatic defects that alter the normal synthesis of testosterone have been described to date ( Figure 10 ). Three of them are associated with defects in cortisol synthesis leading to congenital adrenal hyperplasia. All of them present an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance and genetic counseling is mandatory since the chance of recurring synthesis defects among siblings is 25%. Figure 10. Standard steroidogenesis and alternative pathway to DHT synthesis. DEFECTS IN ADRENAL AND TESTICULAR STEROIDOGENESIS Adrenal hyperplasia syndromes are examples of hypoadrenocorticism or mixed hypo- and hyper cortico-adrenal steroid secretion. Synthesis of cortisol or both cortisol and aldosterone are impaired. When cortisol production is impaired, there is a compensatory increase in ACTH secretion. If mineralocorticoid production is impeded, there is a compensatory increase in renin-angiotensin production. These compensatory mechanisms may return cortisol or aldosterone production to normal or near normal levels, but
