46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


secretion. If mineralocorticoid production is impeded, there is a compensatory increase in renin-angiotensin production. These compensatory mechanisms may return cortisol or aldosterone production to normal or near normal levels, but at the expense of excessive production of precursors that can cause undesirable hormonal effects. Lipoid Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia due to Deficiency of the Steroidogenic Acute Regulatory Protein (StAR) StAR is a mitochondrial phosphoprotein which facilitates the influx of cholesterol from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane for the subsequent action of the P450scc enzyme ( 212 ). StAR is encoded by the STAR gene and its deficiency leads to congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia (CLAH), the most severe form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia ( 213 ) . Lipoid adrenal hyperplasia is rare in Europe and America, but it is thought to be the second most common form of adrenal hyperplasia in Japan where 1 in 300 individuals carries the p.Q258X variant ( 214 ). Affected subjects are phenotypic females irrespective of gonadal sex or sometimes have slightly virilized external genitalia with or without cryptorchidism, underdeveloped internal male organs and an enlarged adrenal cortex, engorged with cholesterol and cholesterol esters ( 215 ). Adrenal steroidogenesis deficiency leads to salt wasting, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, hypovolemia, acidosis, and death in infancy, although patients can survive to adulthood with appropriate mineralocorticoid- and glucocorticoid-replacement therapy ( 215 ). Hormonal diagnosis is based on high ACTH and renin levels and the presence of low levels of all glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and androgens. The disease was firstly attributed to P450scc deficiency, but most of the cases studied through molecular analysis showed an intact P45011A gene and its RNA ( 216 ). Since StAR is also required for the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone, molecular studies were performed in StAR gene and variants were found in most of the affected patients ( 217 ) Congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia (LCAH) in most Palestinian cases is caused by a founder c.201_202delCT variant causing premature termination of the StAR protein ( 217 ) Histopathological findings of excised XY gonads included accumulation of fat in Leydig cells since 1 yr. of age, positive placental alkaline phosphatase and octamer binding transcription factor (OCT4) staining indicating a neoplastic potential ( 217 ). A two-hit model has been proposed by Bose et al. ( 216 ) as the pathophysiological explanation for LCAH. In response to a stimulus (e.g., ACTH), the normal steroidogenic cell recruits cholesterol from endogenous
