46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


been proposed by Bose et al. ( 216 ) as the pathophysiological explanation for LCAH. In response to a stimulus (e.g., ACTH), the normal steroidogenic cell recruits cholesterol from endogenous synthesis, stored lipid droplets or low-density lipoprotein-receptor mediated endocytosis. Subsequently StAR promotes the cholesterol transport from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane in which cholesterol is further processed to pregnenolone. In cells with mutant StAR (first hit), there is no rapid steroid synthesis, but still some StAR-independent cholesterol flows into the mitochondria, resulting in a low level of steroidogenesis. Due to increased steroidogenic stimuli in response to inadequately low steroid levels, additional cholesterol accumulates. Massive cholesterol storage and resulting biochemical reactions eventually destroy all steroidogenic capacity (second hit) ( 217 ). This two-hit model has been confirmed by clinical studies ( 218 ) as well as StAR knockout mice research ( 219 ). The human STAR gene is localized on chromosome 8p11.2 and consists of seven exons ( 220 ). It is translated as a 285-amino acid protein including a mitochondrial target sequence (N terminal 62 amino acids), which guides StAR to the outer mitochondrial membrane and a cholesterol binding site, which is located at the C-terminal region. In vitro studies revealed that StAR protein lacking the N terminal targeting sequence (N-62 StAR) can still stimulate steroidogenesis in transfected COS-1 cells, whereas variants in the C-terminal region led to severely diminished or absent function ( 221 - 223 ). Most of the STAR gene variants associated with LCAH are located in the C-terminal coding region between exons 5 and 7 StAR related lipid transfer (START) domain ( 224 ). Mild phenotype of lipoid CAH is a recognized disorder caused by StAR variants that retain partial activity ( 225 ). Affected males can present with adrenal insufficiency resembling autoimmune Addison disease with micropenis or normal development with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ( 224 , 225 ). More than 40 StAR variants causing classic lipoid CAH have been described ( 217 , 226 , 227 ), but very few partial loss-of-function variants have been reported ( 224 - 226 ). Therefore, there is a broad clinical spectrum of StAR variants, however, the StAR activities in vitro correlate well with clinical phenotypes ( 228 ). Three 46,XY patients with the homozygous p.R188C STAR variant causing primary adrenocortical insufficiency without atypical genitalia were reported ( 229 ). Patients with nonclassical lipoid CAH may present with
