46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


). Three 46,XY patients with the homozygous p.R188C STAR variant causing primary adrenocortical insufficiency without atypical genitalia were reported ( 229 ). Patients with nonclassical lipoid CAH may present with male genitalia and preserved testicular function ( 230 ). Table 8. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with StAR Deficiency View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Female Micropenis (mild form) Müllerian duct derivatives Absent Wolffian duct derivatives Absent -> hypoplastic Testes Small size Clinical Features Early adrenal insufficiency; no pubertal development; hypergonadotropic hypogonadism Hormonal diagnosis Elevated ACTH and renin levels; low levels of all glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and androgens Gender role Female Male (mild form) STAR gene location 8p11.2 Molecular defect Inactivating variants in STAR Treatment Early gluco- and mineralocorticoid replacement; estrogen replacement at pubertal age Outcome Infertile, female or male gender role and behavior Deficiency of P450 Side Chain Cleavage Enzyme (P450scc) Due to Variants in CYP11A1 The first step in the conversion of cholesterol to hormonal steroids is hydroxylation at carbon 20, with subsequent cleavage of the 20-22 side chain to form pregnenolone. In steroidogenic tissues, such as adrenal cortex, testis, ovary, and placenta, this is the initial and rate-limiting step in steroidogenesis. This reaction, known as cholesterol side-chain cleavage, is catalyzed by a specific cytochrome P450 called P450scc or CYP11A1 encoded by the CYP11A1 gene ( 231 ). A number of patients with CYP11A1 variants have now been described ( 232 - 235 ), including late-onset non-classical forms secondary to variants that retain partial enzyme activity ( 236 , 237 ). Clinically, these patients are indistinguishable from those with lipoid CAH, but none of them present enlarged adrenals that characterize lipoid CAH. Analyzing infants with adrenal failure and disorder of sexual differentiation compound heterozygous variants in CYP11A1 have been identified, recognizing that this disorder may be more frequent than originally thought. The phenotypic spectrum of P450scc deficiency ranges from severe loss-of-function variants associated with prematurity, complete under androgenization, and severe early-onset adrenal failure, to partial deficiencies found in children born at term with mild masculinization and later-onset adrenal failure ( 236 , 237 ). 3β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase type II Deficiency 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (3βHSD2) deficiency is a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), with fewer than 200 cases reported in the world literature. 3β-HSD converts 3β-hydroxy 5 steroids to 3-keto 4 steroids and is essential for the biosynthesis of mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids and sex steroids Two forms of
