46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


cases reported in the world literature. 3β-HSD converts 3β-hydroxy 5 steroids to 3-keto 4 steroids and is essential for the biosynthesis of mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids and sex steroids Two forms of the enzyme have been described in man: the type I enzyme which is expressed in placenta and peripheral tissues such as the liver and skin, and type II that is the major form expressed in the adrenals and gonads ( 238 ). The two forms are very closely related in structure and substrate specificity, though the type I enzyme has higher substrate affinities and a 5-fold greater enzymatic activity than type II ( 238 ). Male patients with 3β-HSD type II deficiency present with atypical external genitalia, characterized by microphallus, proximal hypospadias, bifid scrotum and a blind vaginal pouch associated or not with salt loss ( 239 , 240 ). Precocious pubarche and gynecomastia at pubertal stage is a common phenotype in 3β-HSD type II deficiency ( 241 ). Serum levels of Δ-5 steroids such as pregnenolone, 17OHpregnenolone (17OHPreg), DHEA, DHEAS are elevated and basal levels of 17OHPreg and 17OHPreg/17OHP ratio are the best markers of this deficiency in both prepubertal and postpubertal stage. Δ-4 steroids are slightly increased due to the peripheral action of 3β-HSD type I enzyme but the ratio of Δ-5/Δ-4 steroids is elevated. Cortisol secretion is reduced but the response to exogenous ACTH stimulation varies from decreased (more severe deficiency) to normal. At adult age, affected males can reach normal or almost normal levels of testosterone due to the peripheral conversion of elevated Δ-5 steroids by 3β-HSD type I enzyme and also due to testicular stimulation by the high LH levels ( 242 ). The human genome encodes two functional 3βHSD genes on chromosome 1p13.1. The HSD3B2 gene is expressed in adrenal and gonads and consists of four exons coding for a 372 amino acid protein ( 243 ). To date, around 40 variants in the HSD3B2 gene have been described. Most of them are base substitutions, and they are located especially at the N-terminal region of the protein. The amino acids A10, A82, P222 and T259 could be considered a hotspot since different variants were reported in these HSD3B2 positions. Variants abolishing 3β-HSD type II activity lead to congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) with severe salt-loss ( 244 ). Variants that reduce, but do not abolish type II activity ( > 5% of wild type 3βHSD2
