46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


salt-losing form; at puberty variable necessity for testosterone replacement Outcome Variable spermatogenesis; fertility possible by in vitro fertilization Combined 17-Hydroxylase and C-17-20 lyase deficiency CYP17 is a steroidogenic enzyme that has dual functions: hydroxylation and lyase. It is located in the fasciculata and reticularis zone of the adrenal cortex and gonadal tissues. The first activity results in hydroxylation of pregnenolone and progesterone at the C(17) position to generate 17α-hydroxypregnenolone and 17α-hydroxyprogesterone, while the second enzyme activity cleaves the C(17)-C(20) bond of 17α-hydroxypregnenolone and 17α-hydroxyprogesterone to form dehydroepiandrosterone and androstenedione, respectively. The modulation of these two activities occurs through cytochrome b5, necessary for lyase activity ( 248 ). Deficiency of adrenal 17-hydroxylation activity was first demonstrated by Biglieri et al. ( 249 ). The phenotype of 17-hydroxylase deficiency in most of the male patients described is a female-like or slightly virilized external genitalia with blind vaginal pouch, cryptorchidism and high blood pressure, usually associated with hypokalemia. New in 1970, reported the first affected patient with atypical genitalia which was assigned to the male sex ( 250 ). The 17-hydroxylase deficiency is the second most common cause of CAH in Brazil ( 251 ). At puberty, patients usually present sparse axillary and pubic hair. Male internal genitalia are hypoplastic and gynecomastia can appear at puberty. Most of the male patients were reared as females and sought treatment due to primary amenorrhea or lack of breast development. Genetic female patients may also be affected and present normal development of internal and external genitalia at birth and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and amenorrhea at post pubertal age; enlarged ovaries at adult age and infarction from twisting can occur ( 252 , 253 ). These patients do not present signs of glucocorticoid insufficiency, due to the elevated levels of corticosterone, which has a glucocorticoid effect. The phenotype is similar to 46,XX or 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis and the presence of systemic hypertension and absence of pubic hair in post pubertal patients suggests the diagnosis of 17-hydroxylase deficiency ( 254 ). Serum levels of progesterone, corticosterone, and 18-OH-corticosterone are elevated, while aldosterone, 17-OH-progesterone, cortisol, androgens and estrogens are decreased. Martin et al, performed a clinical, hormonal, and molecular study of 11 patients from 6 Brazilian families with the combined 17-alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency phenotype ( 255 ). All patients had elevated basal serum levels of progesterone and suppressed plasma renin activity. The authors concluded that basal progesterone measurement is a
