46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


CYP26 isoenzymes that depend on electron transfer from POR ( 263 ). Pubertal presentations in females with congenital POR deficiency were described. Incomplete pubertal development and large ovarian cysts prone to spontaneous rupture were the predominant findings in females ( 264 ).The ovarian cysts may be driven not only by high gonadotropins but possibly also by impaired CYP51A1-mediated production of meiosis-activating sterols due to mutant POR. In the two boys evaluated, pubertal development was more mildly affected, with some spontaneous progression. These findings may suggest that testicular steroidogenesis may be less dependent on POR than adrenal and ovarian steroidogenesis ( 265 ). Table 11. Phenotype of 46,XY Patients with POR Deficiency View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Atypical Müllerian duct derivatives Normally developed Wolffian duct derivatives Normally developed Testes Well developed, frequent cryptorchidism Hormonal diagnosis Low T and cortisol and elevated basal ACTH, Prog and 17OHP POR gene location 7q11.2 Molecular defect Inactivating variants of POR gene Puberty Spontaneous pubertal development in males Gender role Male Treatment Repair of sexual ambiguity; glucocorticoid replacement and estrogen or testosterone replacement according to social sex Outcome Puberty development, fertility? DEFECTS IN TESTICULAR STEROIDOGENESIS Three defects in testosterone synthesis that are not associated with adrenal insufficiency have been described: CYP17A1 deficiency, cytochrome B5 deficiency and 17-β-HSD3 deficiency. CYP17A1 Deficiency Human male sexual differentiation requires production of fetal testicular testosterone, whose biosynthesis requires steroid 17,20-lyase activity. The existence of true isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency has been questioned because 17-α-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities are catalyzed by a single enzyme and because combined deficiencies of both activities were found in functional studies of the variant found in a patient thought to have had isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency ( 266 , 267 ). Later, clear molecular evidence of the existence of isolated 17,20 desmolase deficiency was demonstrated ( 268 ). The patients present atypical genitalia with micropenis, proximal hypospadias and cryptorchidism. Gynecomastia Tanner stage V can occur at puberty ( 268 ). Elevated serum levels of 17-OHP and 17-OHPreg, with low levels of androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone and testosterone, are described. The hCG stimulation test results in a slight stimulation in androstenedione and testosterone secretion with an accumulation of 17-OHP and 17-OHPreg. The CYP17A1 gene of two Brazilian 46,XY DSD patients with clinical and hormonal findings indicative of isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency, since they produce cortisol normally, were studied. Both were homozygous for missense variants in CYP17A1 ( 268 ).
