46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


encoding the 17β-HSD3 isoenzyme ( 275 ). Patients present female-like or atypical genitalia at birth, with the presence of a blind vaginal pouch, intra-abdominal or inguinal testes and epididymis, vasa deferentia, seminal vesicles and ejaculatory ducts. Most affected males are raised as females ( 276 , 277 ), but some have less severe defects in virilization and are raised as males ( 274 ). Virilization in subjects with 17β-HSD3 deficiency occurs at the time of expected puberty. This late virilization is usually a consequence of the presence of testosterone in the circulation because of the conversion of androstenedione to testosterone by some other 17β-HSD isoenzyme (presumably 17β-HSD 5) in extra-gonadal tissue and, occasionally, of the secretion of testosterone by the testes when levels of LH are elevated in subjects with some residual 17β-HSD3 function ( 274 , 277 ). However, the discrepancy between the failure of intrauterine masculinization and the virilization that occurs at the time of expected puberty is poorly understood. A limited capacity to convert androstenedione into testosterone in the fetal extragonadal tissues may explain the impairment of virilization of the external genitalia in the newborn. Bilateral orchiectomy resulted in a clear reduction of androstenedione levels indicating that the main origin of this androgen is the testis ( 278 ). 46,XY DSD phenotype is sufficiently variable in 17β-HSD3 deficiency to cause problems in accurate diagnosis, particularly in distinguishing it from partial androgen insensitivity syndrome ( 276 , 279 ). Laboratory diagnosis is based on elevated serum levels of androstenedione and estrone and low levels of testosterone and estradiol resulting in elevated androstenedione/testosterone and estrone/ estradiol ratios or low (or low testosterone/androstenedione and estradiol/estrone ratios) indicating impairment in the conversion of 17-keto into 17-hydroxysteroids. Testosterone/Androstenedione ratio of 0.4±0.2 was found in prepubertal patients with 17β-HSD3 deficiency after hCG stimulation. Based on these data, a T/A ratio below <0.8 is suggestive of 17β-HSD3 deficiency ( 272 ). At the time of expected puberty, serum LH and testosterone levels rise in all affected males and testosterone levels may reach the normal adult male range ( 277 , 278 ). Pitfalls in the hormonal diagnosis of 17β-HSD3 deficiency had been reported in the literature. Two of the fourteen cases of 17β-HSD3 deficiency reported from the UK database had a T/A ratio > 0.8 ( 276 ). Both patients were from a consanguineous pedigree, with two affected sisters (both assigned in the female
