46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


were diagnosed after and before 1999, the percentage of male sex assignment rose from 26.8% to 42.8%, suggesting a temporal trend pointing toward an increased likelihood of 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency patients being raised as boys ( 305 ). Intriguingly, 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency is a condition with no genotype-phenotype correlation ( 307 - 309 ). This observation is based on several 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency families carrying the same genotype but presenting a broad range of external genitalia virilization. However, some SRD5A2 variants are consistent in the way they affect phenotype. It is the case of the p.Arg246Gln variant, which is associated with more external genitalia virilization ( 304 , 310 - 312 ), and also the case of both p.Gly183Ser and p.Gln126Arg variants, that are consistently reported with more severe external genitalia under-virilization ( 304 , 313 - 315 ). The diagnosis is usually made at birth, infancy or at puberty. In the newborn, the features of 46,XY DSD due to 5a-reductase type 2 deficiency overlap with other forms of male DSD such as androgen insensitivity syndrome (partial form) and testosterone synthesis defects ( 304 , 316 ). At puberty or in young adult men, the basal hormonal evaluation demonstrates normal male serum testosterone levels, low or low/normal dihydrotestosterone levels, and elevated or normal serum testosterone to dihydrotestosterone ratio ( 307 ). For appropriated use of this ratio, the testosterone levels should be in the post puberal range. Likewise, in prepubertal children, a hCG stimulation to increase serum testosterone levels is necessary ( 313 ). The biggest challenge is the diagnosis in newborns. This difficult largely arises from the fact that even when serum testosterone has undergone a neonatal surge, the ratio of serum testosterone to dihydrotestosterone may be normal, because expression of the 5a-reductase type 1 enzyme can occasionally be higher than expected ( 317 , 318 ). Measurement of dihydrotestosterone is difficult because this steroid is present in very low concentrations and has a high rate of cross-reactions ( 319 ). To obtain an accurate dihydrotestosterone measurement, a precise assay must be utilized since serum testosterone levels are higher than dihydrotestosterone levels (about 10-fold). Consequently, the separation of testosterone from dihydrotestosterone is necessary to provide and accurate dihydrotestosterone measurement. Using such methodologies, the testosterone/dihydrotestosterone ratio for 5a-reductase type 2 deficiency hormonal diagnosis is generally over 18 in most cases ( 320 , 321 ). However, the
