46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


accurate dihydrotestosterone measurement. Using such methodologies, the testosterone/dihydrotestosterone ratio for 5a-reductase type 2 deficiency hormonal diagnosis is generally over 18 in most cases ( 320 , 321 ). However, the testosterone/dihydrotestosterone ratio for 5a-reductase type 2 deficiency hormonal diagnosis has been debatable. Another approach to 5a-reductase type 2 deficiency diagnosis is the measurement of urinary steroids by gas chromatography– mass spectrometry (GC–MS) to determine the ratio of 5a- to 5ß- reduced steroids in urine. This evaluation is very helpful for the diagnosis in subjects at prepubertal age and in orchiectomized adults. In one review, extremely low ratios of 5a- to 5ß-reduced steroid metabolites in urine were pathognomonic for 5a-reductase type 2 deficiency ( 322 ). Based on the challenges on the hormonal diagnosis, genetic analysis of the SRD5A2 gene is recommended to confirm the diagnosis [39,40]. The management in subjects with female social sex includes a careful psychological evaluation of gender identity ( 323 ). Subsequent management is similar to that in women with other forms of 46,XY DSD ( 324 ). Treatment must simulate a normal puberty pattern and low to normal estrogen doses, considering the height, and it should be administered at the age of expected puberty (10 – 12 years old). After complete breast development, adult estrogen doses are maintained continuously. Progesterone replacement is not necessary because these patients do not have a uterus ( 11 ). For women with this condition, feminizing genitoplasty is often necessary to provide an adequate vaginal opening, a functional vaginal introitus, full separation between urethral and vaginal orifice and phallic erectile tissue removal ( 11 ). Vaginal dilatation to promote vaginal length with acrylic molds is recommended when the patients decide to initiate sexual activity ( 325 ). Laparoscopic orchiectomy is recommended for all female patients to avoid virilization and gonadal malignancies. Usually, testosterone replacement is not often necessary for male patients since most retain testes and present adequate testicular function towards puberty ( 307 ). However, since the degree of virilization is usually unsatisfactory in male patients, a limited use of intramuscular testosterone or transdermal dihydrotestosterone may be helpful to improve virilization ( 307 , 319 ). Maximum penile length is obtained after 6 months of high dose testosterone therapy (e.g., 500 mg of testosterone cypionate per week) ( 319 ). The therapeutic penile response does not result in normal penile length in all individuals, even when initiated during childhood,
