46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


(e.g., 500 mg of testosterone cypionate per week) ( 319 ). The therapeutic penile response does not result in normal penile length in all individuals, even when initiated during childhood, and the final penile length is still below -2 SD in most patients ( 326 ). Surgical treatment consists of orthophalloplasty, scrotoplasty, resection of the vaginal pouch and proximal and distal urethroplasty. Correction of hypospadias is indicated in early childhood (up to two years old) ( 326 ). Gender change (from female to male) is common among 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency individuals ( 327 ). It occurs in over 50% among those assigned as girls in some series ( 328 ). It may change since there is growing evidence suggesting male sex assignment for 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency newborns to avoid gender incongruence and gender dysphoria ( 329 - 331 ). Regarding long-term follow up in the males from the Sao Paulo cohort, most of these subjects were satisfied with the appearance of the external genitalia and sexual life, although a small penile length made sexual intercourse difficult for some of them ( 326 ). Most of the adult males patients get married, and those reared as male report a more satisfactory quality of life than the female patients ( 332 ). Among female individuals, most describe a satisfactory sexual life, but none are married or have adopted children ( 333 ). Table 14. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with 5α-Reductase 2 Deficiency View in own window Inheritance Autosomal recessive External genitalia Atypical, small phallus, proximal hypospadias, bifid scrotum, blind vaginal pouch Müllerian duct derivatives Absent Wolffian duct derivatives Normal Testes Normal size at inguinal, intra-abdominal region or topic Puberty Virilization at puberty, absence of gynecomastia Hormonal diagnosis Increased T/DHT ratio in basal and hCG-stimulation conditions in postpubertal patients and after hCG-stimulation in pre-pubertal subjects. Elevated 5β/5α C 21 and C 19 steroids in urine in all ages SRD5A2 gene location 2 p23 Molecular defect Inactivating variants in 5RD5A2 Gender role Female → male in 60% of the cases Treatment High doses of T and/or DHT for 6 months to increase penis size Outcome Maximum penis size in males after treatment = 9 cm; fertility is possible by in vitro fertilization 46,XY DSD DUE TO DEFECTS IN ANDROGEN ACTION Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) is the most frequent etiology of 46,XY DSD individuals ( 334 ). The underlying molecular
