46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


46,XY DSD DUE TO DEFECTS IN ANDROGEN ACTION Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) is the most frequent etiology of 46,XY DSD individuals ( 334 ). The underlying molecular basis of AIS is variants in the androgen receptor gene ( AR ), which is located on the long arm of the X chromosome (Xq11-12) ( 335 ). AIS is an X-linked inherited condition, and up to 30% of AIS cases present de novo variants ( 334 , 336 ). Due to disruptive variants in the AR gene, affected individuals present a broad spectrum of under-virilization, which will depend upon the residual activity of the mutant AR . There are three phenotypes of AIS: complete (typically female external genitalia; CAIS), partial (a wide spectrum of external genitalia under virilization; PAIS) or mild (typically male external genitalia with further gynecomastia and/or infertility; MAIS) ( 337 , 338 ). The AR contains eight exons and encodes a 920 amino-acids protein ( 10 ). The AR is composed of three major functional domains : the N-terminal transactivation domain (NTD), a central DNA-binding domain (DBD), a C-terminal ligand-binding domain (LBD), and a hinge region connecting the DBD and LBD ( 339 , 340 ). The main difference between the AR and other steroid receptors is the presence of a longer NTD ( 341 ). Exon 1 encodes for the NTD, while exons 2 and 3 encode for the DBD and exons 4-8 encode for the LDB ( 342 ). In the presence of androgens, the AR recruits multiple epigenetic coregulators. These co-regulators can be either co-activators or co-repressors and act upon AR influencing DNA binding, nuclear translocation, chromatin remodeling, AR stability and bridging AR with transcriptional machinery ( 343 , 344 ). AR coding region has two polymorphic trinucleotide repeat regions, located at exon 1, the CAG and GGC repeats ( 345 ). The length of these repeats can cause human diseases. In general, longer CAG repeats may lead to AR transactivation impairment whereas shorter CAG repeats may enhance the AR transactivation ( 346 ). A high number of CAG repeats (>38) is the molecular cause of Spinal and Bulbar Muscular Atrophy (Kennedy’s disease) ( 347 ). This condition is characterized by severe muscular atrophy and a mild AIS phenotype, including gynecomastia. On the other hand, shorter CAG repeats are related with increased risk for prostate cancer ( 348 ). There are more than
