46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


atrophy and a mild AIS phenotype, including gynecomastia. On the other hand, shorter CAG repeats are related with increased risk for prostate cancer ( 348 ). There are more than 800 variants in the AR gene reported in AIS patients ( www.androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ; HGMD). Most of them are missense variants leading to amino acid substitutions ( 349 ). However, small indels, variants at splicing sites, premature stop codons and large deletions were also reported, most of them related to CAIS ( 350 ). Despite a well-characterized monogenic condition, AR variants are identified in 90-95% of CAIS, but only in 28-50% of PAIS ( 334 , 350 ). Therefore, the molecular diagnosis of PAIS individuals remains challenging. Advances in molecular biology have been helpful to clarify unusual molecular mechanisms or deep DNA alterations related to AIS. Alterations immediately upstream of the AR were identified in AIS patients without variants in the coding region of the AR , either by promoting aberrant AR transcripts, or disrupting AR expression by the insertion of a large portion of a long-interspersed element retrotransposon, which were proven to cause AIS ( 351 , 352 ). Rare synonymous variants within the encoding region of the AR gene were proven to play a role in AIS by disrupting splicing ( 353 ). The sequencing of intronic regions of the AR was able to identify a deep intronic variant leading to pseudo-exon activation in AIS ( 354 ). Additionally, studies involving AR variant-negative individuals with AIS revealed the deficiency of the androgen-responsive apolipoprotein D, indicating functional AIS, and epigenetic repression of the AR transcription was reported in a group of AIS variant-negative individuals, a condition defined as AIS type II ( 355 ). However, a specific role of certain coregulators in the pathophysiology of AIS is not established yet and the contribution of AR-associated coregulators in AIS remains poorly understood. COMPLETE ANDROGEN INSENSITIVITY SYNDROME Prenatal diagnosis of CAIS is possible and can be suspected based on the discordance between 46,XY karyotype on prenatal fetal sex determination and the identification of a female genitalia at prenatal ultrasound ( 356 ). At birth, CAIS individuals present typically female external genitalia. In childhood, the identification of an inguinal hernia in a girl may be a clinical indication of CAIS, since inguinal hernias in girls are rare ( 357 ). At puberty, CAIS patients present with complete breast development and primary amenorrhea (
