46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


may be a clinical indication of CAIS, since inguinal hernias in girls are rare ( 357 ). At puberty, CAIS patients present with complete breast development and primary amenorrhea ( 358 ). Pubic hair and axillar hair are sparse in most of them, and Mullerian ducts are often absent in CAIS patients ( 337 ). The endocrine evaluation after puberty shows normal or elevated serum testosterone levels and slightly elevated LH levels, whereas FSH levels can be slightly elevated, with normal presence of testosterone precursors ( 334 ). Patients with CAIS are assigned and raised as girls and usually present a female gender identity ( 328 , 331 ). Estrogen replacement is recommended to induce puberty if bilateral gonadectomy has been performed before puberty. There is gonadal tumor risk in CAIS patients, but this risk is very low before puberty ( 359 ). Therefore, gonadectomy can be postponed because after puberty is complete in CAIS patients ( 360 , 361 ) . An increasing number of adult women with CAIS prefer to decline or delay gonadectomy for several reasons, such as fear of surgery, to avoid estrogen replacement, and expectations for future fertility ( 362 ). Table 15. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with Complete Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome View in own window Inheritance X-linked recessive External genitalia Female Müllerian duct derivatives Absent Wolffian duct derivatives Absent or vestigial Testes Inguinal or intra-abdominal, slightly subnormal size Puberty Complete breast development Hormonal diagnosis High or normal serum LH and T levels, normal or slightly elevated FSH levels Gender role Female AR gene location Xq11-12 Molecular defect Pathogenic allelic variants in AR gene Treatment Psychological support Estrogen replacement after gonadectomy. Vaginal dilation for sexual intercourse Outcome Female identity, infertility PARTIAL ANDROGEN INSENSITIVITY SYNDROME Patients with PAIS have a broad spectrum of virilization impairment ( 337 ). The external genitalia ranged from predominantly female with clitoromegaly and labial fusion to predominantly male with micropenis and hypospadias. Testes are in the inguinal canal or labioscrotal folds or, less frequently, intraabdominal. At puberty, under-virilization and gynecomastia are observed ( 334 ). The final height of PAIS individuals is intermediate between the average height for control males and females. In addition, PAIS individuals presented decreased bone mineral density in the lumbar spine compared to controls ( 363 ). In male PAIS, gynecomastia is common at puberty which is helpful in the differential diagnosis from other 46,XY DSD etiologies
