46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


in the lumbar spine compared to controls ( 363 ). In male PAIS, gynecomastia is common at puberty which is helpful in the differential diagnosis from other 46,XY DSD etiologies ( 364 ). In the endocrine analysis, serum LH levels are in the normal upper range or slightly elevated, and testosterone levels are normal or slightly elevated ( 334 ). A definitive diagnosis of PAIS is established by identifying a variant in the AR gene, but AR variants are found only in about 40% of PAIS ( 350 ). The sex of rearing is female in half of the cases, and gender change is uncommon in PAIS patients either raised as female or male ( 328 ). Estrogen replacement is necessary for female patients to induce adequate puberty since most female PAIS patients undergo gonadectomy in childhood ( 334 , 365 ). For male patients, androgen replacement, either to induce puberty or to enhance virilization post-puberty, is commonly required ( 11 ). High doses of intramuscular testosterone preparations or topical DHT can be tried for six months to improve virilization, but it is unnecessary after that ( 11 ). If the testes are at the scrotum, gonadectomy is unnecessary in male PAIS individuals. However, bilateral gonadectomy is still recommended for female PAIS due to avoid partial virilization and due to the gonadal malignancy risk ( 288 , 337 ). Table 16. Phenotype of 46,XY Subjects with Partial Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome View in own window Inheritance X-linked recessive External genitalia Broad spectrum from female with mild clitoromegaly to male with micropenis and/or hypospadias Müllerian duct derivatives Absent Wolffian duct derivatives Broad spectrum from absent or male Testes Eutopic, inguinal or intra-abdominal, normal or slightly subnormal size Puberty Gynecomastia Hormonal diagnosis High or normal serum LH and T levels, normal or slightly elevated FSH levels Gender role Female or male AR gene location Xq11-12 Molecular defect Pathogenic variants in AR gene Treatment Females: surgical feminization, gonadectomy, replacement with estrogens at the time of puberty, vaginal dilation (if necessary) Males: hypospadias repair, bifid scrotum; high doses of T or DHT to increase penis size Outcome Infertility, female or male gender role 46,XY DSD DUE TO PERSISTENT MÜLLERIAN DUCT Defect in AMH Synthesis or AMH Receptor The development of female internal genitalia in a male individual is due to the incapacity of Sertoli cells to synthesize or secrete anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) or to alterations
