46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


AMH Receptor The development of female internal genitalia in a male individual is due to the incapacity of Sertoli cells to synthesize or secrete anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) or to alterations in the hormone receptor. Persistent Müllerian duct syndrome (PMDS) phenotype can be produced by a variant in the gene encoding anti-Müllerian hormone or by a variant in the AMH receptor. These two forms result in the same phenotype and are referred to as type I and type II, respectively ( 366 ). AMH is a 145,000 MW glycoprotein homodimer produced by Sertoli cells not only during the period when it is responsible for regression of the Müllerian ducts but also in late pregnancy, after birth, and even, albeit at a reduced rate, in adulthood ( 13 , 367 , 368 ). AMH is a small gene containing 5 exons, located in chromosome19p.13.3 ( 367 ) and its protein product acts through its specific receptor type 2 (AMHR2) a serine/threonine kinase, member of the family of type II receptors for TGF-β-related proteins ( 369 ). Affected patients present a male phenotype, usually along with bilateral cryptorchidism and inguinal hernia ( 368 ). Leydig cell function is preserved, but azoospermia is common due to the malformation of ductus deferens or agenesis of epididymis. When the hernia is surgically corrected, the presence of a uterus, fallopian tubes and the superior part of the vagina can be verified. PMDS is a heterogeneous disorder that is inherited in a sex-limited autosomal recessive manner. variants in AMH gene or AMH receptor 2 gene in similar proportions are the cause of approximately 85% of the cases of PMDS ( 370 , 371 ). In the remaining cases the cause of the persistent Mullerian duct syndrome is unknown ( 368 ). Normally, AMH levels are measurable during childhood and decrease at puberty. Patients with AMH gene defects have low AMH levels since birth whereas patients with variants in AMH receptor gene have elevated AMH levels ( 372 ). Treatment is directed toward an attempt to assure fertility in males. Early orchiopexy, proximal salpingectomy (preserving the epididymis), and a complete hysterectomy with dissection of the vas deferens from the lateral walls of the uterus are indicated ( 368 , 373 ). CONGENITAL NON -GENETIC 46,XY DSD Maternal Intake of Endocrine Disruptors The use of synthetic progesterone or its analogs during the gestational period has been implicated in the etiology
