46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


373 ). CONGENITAL NON -GENETIC 46,XY DSD Maternal Intake of Endocrine Disruptors The use of synthetic progesterone or its analogs during the gestational period has been implicated in the etiology of 46,XY DSD ( 374 ). Some hypotheses have been proposed to explain the effect of progesterone in the development of male external genitalia, such as reduction of testosterone synthesis by the fetal testes or a decrease in the conversion of testosterone to DHT due to competition with progesterone (also a substrate for 5α-reductase 2 action). The effect of estrogen use during gestation in the etiology of 46,XY DSD has not been confirmed to date ( 375 ). Recently, a study in Japanese subjects supports the hypothesis that homozygosis for the specific estrogen receptor alpha 'AGATA' haplotype may increase the susceptibility to the development of male genital abnormalities in response to estrogenic effects of environmental endocrine disruptors ( 376 ). Environmental chemicals that display anti-androgenic activity via multiple mechanisms of action have been identified. They are pesticides, fungicides, insecticides, plasticizers and herbicides. They can work as androgen receptor antagonists like pesticides, or they can decrease mRNA expression of key steroidogenic enzymes and also the peptide hormone insl3 from the fetal Leydig cells, like plasticizers and fungicides ( 377 ). Daily exposure to residues of a fungicide (vinclozolin), either alone or in association with a phytoestrogen genistein (present in soy products), induce hypospadias in 41% of mice, supporting the idea that exposure to environmental endocrine disruptors during gestation could contribute to the development of hypospadias ( 378 ). Supporting the idea that exposure to a mixture of chemicals can produce greater incidences of genital malformations, Rider et al examined the effects of exposure to a mixture of two chemicals that act as androgen receptor antagonists. They observed that the exposure to vinclozolin (fungicide) alone resulted in a 10% incidence of hypospadias and no vaginal pouch development in male rats, whereas procymidone, another fungicide exposure, failed to generate malformations. However, the combined exposure resulted in a 96% incidence of hypospadias and 54% incidence of vaginal pouch in treated animals. Similar results were observed in phthalate (plasticizer) mixture studies ( 377 ). Given that severe alterations of sexual differentiation can be produced in animal laboratory studies, the question arises of what would be expected in exposed humans given that humans are exposed to mixtures of compounds in their environment. Congenital Non-Genetic 46,XY DSD
