46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


animal laboratory studies, the question arises of what would be expected in exposed humans given that humans are exposed to mixtures of compounds in their environment. Congenital Non-Genetic 46,XY DSD Associated With Impaired Prenatal Growth Despite the multiple genetic causes of 46,XY DSD, around 30-40% of cases remain without diagnosis. Currently, there is a frequent, non-genetic variant of 46,XY DSD characterized by reduced prenatal growth and lack of evidence for any associated malformation or endocrinopathy ( 379 , 380 ). Using the model of monozygotic twins, hypospadias has now been linked to low birth weight ( 379 ). We have identified a pair of 46,XY monozygotic twins (identical for 13 informative DNA loci) born at term after an uneventful pregnancy sustained by one placenta who were discordant for genital development (perineal hypospadias versus normal male genitalia) and postnatal growth (low birth weight versus normal birth weight). No evidence for uniparental disomy was found ( 381 ). The most plausible cause of incomplete male differentiation associated with early-onset growth failure is a post-zygotic, micro-environmental factor since different DNA methylation patterns associated with silencing of genes important for sex differentiation has been shown ( 382 ). Additionally, three cohorts of undetermined 46,XY DSD report around 30% of cases as associated with low birth weight, indicating that adverse events in early pregnancy are frequent causes of congenital non-genetic 46,XY DSD ( 383 - 385 ). A genetic defect that clarifies the etiology of hypospadias was not found in 41 non-syndromic SGA children, supporting the hypothesis that multifactorial causes, new genes, and/or unidentified epigenetic defects may have an influence in this condition ( 385 ). 46,XY OVOTESTICULAR DSD There are rare descriptions of 46,XY DSD patients with well characterized ovarian tissue with primordial follicles and testicular tissue, a condition that is histologically characterized 46,XY ovo-testicular DSD ( 386 ). The differential diagnosis of 46,XY ovo-testicular DSD with partial 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis should be performed considering that in the latter condition there are descriptions of dysgenetic testes with disorganized seminiferous tubules and ovarian stroma with occasional primordial follicles in the first years of life ( 46 ). To our knowledge there are no descriptions of an adult patient with 46,XY ovo-testicular DSD with functioning ovarian tissue, as occurs in all 46,XX ovo-testicular DSD. Therefore, the diagnosis of 46,XY ovo-testicular DSD is debatable. NON-CLASSIFIED FORMS Hypospadias Hypospadias is one of the most frequent genital malformations in
