46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


tissue, as occurs in all 46,XX ovo-testicular DSD. Therefore, the diagnosis of 46,XY ovo-testicular DSD is debatable. NON-CLASSIFIED FORMS Hypospadias Hypospadias is one of the most frequent genital malformations in the male newborn and 40% of the cases are associated with other defects of the urogenital system ( 387 ). Hypospadias results from an abnormal penile and urethral development that appears to be a consequence of various mechanisms including genetic and environmental factors. It is usually a sporadic phenomenon, but familial cases can be observed, with several affected members ( 388 , 389 ). The presence of hypospadias indicates an intra uterus interference in the correct genetic program of the complex tissue interactions and hormonal action through enzymatic activities or transduction signals. MAMLD1 (mastermind-like domain containing 1) has been reported to be a causative gene for hypospadias ( 390 ). It appears to play a supportive role in testosterone production around the critical period for sex development. To date, microdeletions involving MAMLD1 and nonsense and frameshift variants in the gene have been found in 46, XY DSD patients, suggesting that MAMLD1 variants cause 46,XY DSD primarily because of compromised fetal testosterone production, however, its role in the molecular network involved in fetal testosterone production is not known so far ( 391 ). The activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) expression was identified in the developing male urethra. Apparently ATF3 variants may influence the risk of hypospadias ( 392 ). By definition, hypospadias is a form of 46,XY DSD and although most of the patients maintain fertility and masculinization at puberty, their testicular function should be assessed to rule out causes such as defects in testosterone synthesis and action, which require hormonal treatment and genetic counseling in addition to surgical treatment. GONADAL TUMOR DEVELOPMENT IN 46,XY DSD PATIENTS Any disturbance in the gonadal development, including testicular descent, increases the risk of developing gonadal malignancies ( 288 ). For inherited disturbances in gonadal development or endocrine alterations, patients with 46,XY DSD are at increased risk of developing type II germ cell tumors (GCT) ( 289 ). In testicular tissues, GCTs comprise both premalignant conditions, such as germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS) and malignant invasive germ cell tumors, including seminomas and non-seminomas ( 393 ). The term GCNIS was introduced in the 2016 WHO classification of urological tumors to define precursor lesions of invasive GCTs, since GCNIS has the potential to develop into
