46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


(US) is more sensitive than MRI at identifying dysgenetic gonads, but MRI showed better sensitivity and specificity than US at localizing non-palpable gonads ( 408 ). However, both imaging techniques are poor at identifying GCNIS/GCT, since MRI failed to identify GCNIS in patients with CAIS and the US only identified one out of ten malignant lesions in 46,XY DSD people ( 409 ). There are serum markers that are associated with GCT in non-DSD people, such as alpha-fetoprotein, beta-hCG, and lactate dehydrogenase, but there is poor evidence about how useful they are for GCT screening in 46,XY DSD individuals ( 410 ). An interesting perspective for GCT screening are microRNAs (miRNA), since some miRNA clusters are expressed in the presence of GCT ( 411 ). For non-DSD people, microRNAs are more sensitive than serum markers and imaging to detect GCT. Noteworthy, GCNIS also expresses some embryonic-type miRNAs (miR-371-3, miR-302, and miR-367) that are also expressed by GCTs ( 410 , 412 ). Therefore, they have the potential to serve as a biomarker even for GCNIS( 407 ). Overall, neoplastic transformation of germ cells in dysgenetic gonads (gonadoblastoma and/or an invasive germ cell tumor) occurs in 20-30% of 46,XY DSD individuals, but the risk varies among 46,XY DSD etiologies ( 413 ). Individuals with Denys-Drash syndrome (40%), Frasier syndrome (60%), and gonadal dysgenesis (15 - 35%) have the highest risk of GCNIS/GCT among 46,XY DSD etiologies ( 413 ). On the other hand, individuals with CAIS (at prepubertal age) and ovotestis DSD have lower risk of GCNIS/GCT ( 414 ). The age matters in the estimation of GCNIS/GCT risk. For example, it is as low as 1.3% in CAIS individuals before puberty, but it can reach 33% thereafter ( 287 , 415 ). For 46,XY DSD subjects, gonadectomy is classically recommended to avoid GCNIS/GCT development, preventing additional therapies and related risks ( 290 ). Despite a very effective strategy to avoid GCNIS/GCT, gonadectomy leads to hypogonadism and infertility. Regarding the time for gonadectomy, bilateral gonadectomy should be performed in early childhood in 46,XY DSD patients with gonadal dysgenesis, females with Y chromosome material, and patients with androgen biosynthesis defect, unless the gonad is functional and easily accessible to palpation and imaging studies, which should be performed yearly ( 11 , 289 ). Although data are limited, in the androgen insensitivity syndrome the risk seems to be markedly lower in the complete
