46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


studies, which should be performed yearly ( 11 , 289 ). Although data are limited, in the androgen insensitivity syndrome the risk seems to be markedly lower in the complete form before puberty than in the other 46,XY DSD ( 416 ). Therefore, gonadectomy can be postponed until puberty is complete in CAIS individuals ( 417 ). Unfortunately, the GCNIS/GCT risk for other causes of 46,XY DSD patients, such as Leydig Cell Hypoplasia and 5 alpha reductase type 2 deficiency has not been estimated yet. Rarely, gonadal tumors can produce sexual steroids ( 418 ). In those cases that are able to produce estrogens, spontaneous breast development may be a clinical sign that suggests the presence of an estrogen-secreting gonadal tumor, and bilateral gonadectomy is indicated even at early childhood, regardless of the 46,XY DSD etiology. Overall, 46,XY DSD patients are at increased risk for gonadal malignancy which seems to be related to 46,XY DSD etiology. While it is clear that prepubertal CAIS patients are at low risk for GCT and 46,XY DSD individuals harboring WT1 variants present a high risk for GCT development, the real GCT risk for other 46,XY DSD etiologies is not that clear ( 413 ). In the absence of a reliable predictive factor or biomarker of GCNIS/GCT as well as appropriate recommendations for GCT screening, bilateral gonadectomy will still be recommended for most 46,XY DSD etiologies. FERTILITY IN PATIENTS WITH 46,XY DSD Most 46,XY DSD individuals face infertility due to abnormal gonadal development, endocrine disturbances, anatomical issues, or prophylactic gonadectomy for malignancy risk ( 419 ). However, there has been growing evidence showing that fertility is relevant for several 46, XY DSD people, in addition to the possibility of delaying gonadectomy in some 46,XY DSD etiologies ( 420 ). In parallel, fertility preservation technologies have been improved in recent years along with a better social perception of non-traditional family structures ( 421 , 422 ). In 46,XY DSD, the fertility potential varies depending on the underlying etiology as well as the severity of the condition ( 421 ). In this sense, all options for fertility should be discussed considering the 46,XY DSD etiology or the gonadal structure and internal genitalia in those in whom the 46,XY etiology is unknown ( 420 ). For example, individuals with complete gonadal dysgenesis possess uterus, despite lacking gametes ( 423 ). Therefore, pregnancy by oocyte donation is an alternative
