46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


46,XY etiology is unknown ( 420 ). For example, individuals with complete gonadal dysgenesis possess uterus, despite lacking gametes ( 423 ). Therefore, pregnancy by oocyte donation is an alternative for these patients. On the other hand, male individuals with partial and mild androgen insensitivity often present oligospermia, but biological fertility is possible ( 334 , 338 ). Overall, there is limited literature about fertility potential among 46,XY DSD people. Successful biological fertility was obtained in a man with PAIS after prolonged high-dose testosterone therapy followed by intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( 424 ). The possibility of fertility seems to be more frequent among MAIS since there are six cases of successful fertility ( 338 ). There are few reported cases of successful pregnancies and live births in men with 5RD2 deficiency, both spontaneous and with assisted reproductive technology ( 319 , 425 - 427 ). Biological fertility has also been documented in individuals with nonclassical congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, 3b-HSD2 deficiency, and LHCG receptor defect ( 420 ). Conversely, there are no reported cases of biological fertility in individuals with classic congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, cytochrome p450 oxidoreductase deficiency, complete CYP17A1 deficiency, 17b-HSD3 deficiency, and CAIS ( 419 , 428 ). To estimate fertility potential, a pilot study evaluated the presence of germ cells and the germ cell density in individuals with several 46,XY DSD etiologies ( 429 ). In six patients with CAIS, all presented Sertoli Cell nodules and hyperplasia, but germ cells were detected in areas between nodules. All six patients with mixed gonadal dysgenesis and two with ovo-testicular DSD presented germ cells, and ten out of twelve 46,XY DSD patients with unknown etiology presented germ cells in their gonads. On the other hand, germ cells were not found in any of the patients with either complete or partial gonadal dysgenesis. However, the number of germ cells was inversely correlated with age, suggesting that the gonadectomy delay may decrease fertility potential. It needs to be confirmed by more extensive studies, but it indicates that 46,XY DSD fertility potential may be greater than previously thought. As far as desire for fertility is concerned, a large follow-up study included 1,040 DSD individuals to investigate their fertility preferences ( 430 ). The authors reported that 55% of patients expressed a desire to have had fertility treatments in the past or have it in the future, and 40% mentioned that they would
