46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


The authors reported that 55% of patients expressed a desire to have had fertility treatments in the past or have it in the future, and 40% mentioned that they would like to try new fertility treatment techniques. Additionally, CAIS women reported the possibility of future fertility as one of the reasons to keep their gonads ( 362 ). Indeed, fertility preservation has been primarily assessed in oncology to preserve patients' fertility under gonadotoxic treatments ( 431 ). In this sense, cryopreservation of postpubertal testicular tissue is helpful to keep fertility potential in patients having gonadectomy or those before gonadotoxic treatment. As an alternative, cryopreservation of immature testicular tissue containing spermatogonial cells or spermatogonial stem cells can be offered to prepubertal patients ( 432 ). These techniques could also be considered for 46,XY DSD patients. In summary, addressing fertility is essential in 46,XY DSD management. The fertility potential must be discussed considering the 46,XY DSD etiology and the patient’s desire. As assisted fertility and preservation techniques improve, these advancements should be offered and accessible to all 46,XY individuals. 46,XY GENDER IDENTITY DISORDERS Transgender Women are characterized by the wish to live as members of the female sex with conviction and consistently and progressively efforts to achieve such state. 46,XY gender identity disorders are more frequent among the male sex, although it also occurs in the female sex. Its first manifestations usually start during childhood. If it has a biological basis is still unknown, but some hormonal alterations during intrauterine life and familial factors before and after birth cannot be ruled out ( 433 ). The term used to name men and women who live a relevant incongruence between their gender identity and their inborn physical phenotype has changed over time. The term “trans-sexualism” was coined by Hirschfeld in 1923 and was adopted by the International Classification of Diseases – version 10 (ICD-10). The American Psychiatric Association, in its 4 th edition, adopted “gender identity disorder” to define persons who are not satisfied with their biological gender (Association, American Psychiatric. "Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (2000). Finally, the current classification system of the American Psychiatric Association (DSM-5) replaced the term “gender identity disorder” with “gender dysphoria” and the upcoming version of International Classification of Diseases – version 11 (ICD-11) has proposed the term “gender incongruence” ( 434 ). In this chapter we will use the current DSM-5 term, “gender dysphoria”.
