46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


of International Classification of Diseases – version 11 (ICD-11) has proposed the term “gender incongruence” ( 434 ). In this chapter we will use the current DSM-5 term, “gender dysphoria”. To refer to male to female gender-dysphoric persons we will use the term transgender woman (American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition - DSM-5; 2013). Therefore, the term “transgender woman” refers to all 46, XY individuals with typical male phenotype who wish to live and be accepted as a female. Higher prevalence of addictions and suicidal thoughts or suicide attempt than those observed in the general population, revealed the need for early care of these patients by health professional s. Among transgender women, total mortality was 51% higher than in the general population, mainly from increased mortality rates due to suicide, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, cardiovascular disease, drug abuse, and unknown cause ( 435 ). Based on these data, supervised gender-affirming treatment for gender dysphoric persons is crucial because they are at increased risk of committing suicide and self-harm ( 436 ). Management of Adult Transgender Women As proposed by the Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association, now known as World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH), the process of gender-affirming treatment should be given by a multi and interdisciplinary team, in which the endocrinologist has a key role ( 437 ). The interdisciplinary team should consist of a psychologist, a psychiatrist, an endocrinologist, and a surgeon, at least ( 438 ). It would be ideal that they all participate in an integrated and consistent way across all the steps of the treatment ( 439 ). The mental health professionals (psychologist and psychiatrist) make a distinction between gender dysphoria and conditions with similar features (body dysmorphic disorder and body identity integrity disorder), decide whether the individuals fulfill ICD-11 and DSM-5 criteria, recommend the appropriate treatment and follow-up before, during and after gender-affirming treatment. The endocrinologist will inform about the possibilities and limitations of all sorts of treatment, initiate and monitor the cross-sex hormonal treatment and participate in the indication of gender-affirming surgery. At the final step, the surgeon performs surgical procedures of the treatment ( 439 ). DIAGNOSTIC ASSESSMENT AND MENTAL HEALTH CARE Psychological evaluation of persons with gender dysphoria should consider the evolution of the individual as whole, using psychological assessment instruments, such as: freely structured interviews and patterned psychological assessment instruments. For the structured
