46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


persons with gender dysphoria should consider the evolution of the individual as whole, using psychological assessment instruments, such as: freely structured interviews and patterned psychological assessment instruments. For the structured interview, we use a specific questionnaire developed by our mental health professionals that covers childhood, adolescence, and adulthood aspects. During the psychotherapeutic follow up, besides offering an ideal condition for elaborating conflicts and issues regarding gender identity, other variables should be considered, such as individual general state of mental health, ability and manner of conflict resolution, quality of interpersonal relationships, ability to deal with frustrations and limitations, particularly regarding to surgery’s esthetic and functional results idealization. It is recommended that the relatives and/or spouses are invited for interviews to clear them up upon the offered treatment. HORMONAL THERAPY FOR ADULT TRANSGENDER WOMEN Endocrinologists have the responsibility to confirm that persons fulfill criteria for hormonal treatment and clarify the consequences, risks, and benefits of treatment. Hormone therapy must follow well-defined criteria. The person with gender dysphoria has to: 1) demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the expected and side effects of cross-sex hormone use; 2) complete a real life experience in the gender identity for at least three months, or psychotherapy for a period determined by the mental health professional to consolidate gender identity; and 3) be likely to take hormones appropriately ( 439 ). There are two major goals of hormonal therapy: 1) to replace endogenous sex hormone levels and, thus, induce the appearance of sexual characteristics compatible with female gender identity; 2) to reduce endogenous sex hormone levels and, thereby, the secondary male sexual characteristics and 3) to establish the ideal hormones dosage which allows physiological hormone serum levels compatible with female gender identity by adopting the principles of hormone replacement treatment of hypogonadal patients ( 439 , 440 ). Hormone therapy provides a strong relief from the suffering caused by the incongruence of the phenotype with the gender identity. In our clinical practice, we observe that most transgender women consume very high doses of female sex hormones, guided by their wish to obtain fast breast development, and reduce facial hair. However, high doses of hormones are not necessary to achieve the desired effects and are frequently associated with undesirable side effects. The chosen hormone to induce female secondary sexual characteristics are the estrogens. Several pharmaceutical estrogen preparations, including oral, injectable, transdermal, and intravaginal forms associated or not with progesterone
