46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


side effects. The chosen hormone to induce female secondary sexual characteristics are the estrogens. Several pharmaceutical estrogen preparations, including oral, injectable, transdermal, and intravaginal forms associated or not with progesterone are available. Due to the higher cost of the transdermal preparations, the oral route is the most widely used. Nevertheless, the transdermal route is recommended for transgender women over 40 years of age due to the lower association of transdermal 17β-estradiol replacement with thromboembolic events ( 441 ). Anti-androgens are used as adjuvants to estrogen, especially in the reduction of male sexual characteristics and the suppression of testosterone to levels compatible with the female sex. Cyproterone acetate blocks testosterone binding to its receptor, and in a dose of 50-100 mg/day associated with estrogen can maintain testosterone in female levels in transgender women ( 442 ). At the time, most of the patients in our clinic used conjugated equine estrogens at a dose of 0.625-1.25 mg/day associated with 50 mg/day of cyproterone acetate for an average period of 11 years. At clinical examination we observed satisfactory breast development, decrease of spontaneous erections, thinning of facial and body hair (especially after association with cyproterone acetate), body fat redistribution, enlargement of the areola and nipple and reduction of testicular volume ( 440 ). Testosterone levels remained at pre- or intra-pubertal female range (< 14-99 ng/dL) in all patients; LH levels were pre-pubertal (<0.6-0.7 U/L) in 72% of the cases, and the FSH levels were suppressed (<1.0 U/L) in 40% of cases. Therefore, daily use of oral conjugated estrogens at low doses in association with cyproterone acetate is effective in suppressing the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis in transgender women ( 440 ). Venous thromboembolism may be a serious complication related to estrogen therapy, particularly during the first year of treatment, when the incidence of this event is 2-6% falling to 0.4% in the second year, significantly higher when compared to the overall young population (0.005 to 0.01%/year). This high incidence of thromboembolic events in transgender women seems to be more associated with ethinyl estradiol than natural oral or transdermal estrogens ( 441 ). All patients on estrogen therapy have a mild prolactin level increase. However, a small percentage of these subjects have galactorrhea. In our cohort, two patients had macroprolactinoma, which totally regressed with dopamine agonist treatment. Both had previously used high doses of estrogen ( 443 ). Endocrinologists should monitor weight, blood pressure, breast enlargement,
