46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


two patients had macroprolactinoma, which totally regressed with dopamine agonist treatment. Both had previously used high doses of estrogen ( 443 ). Endocrinologists should monitor weight, blood pressure, breast enlargement, body hair involution, body fat redistribution and testicular size every six months. The laboratory evaluation should include measurement of LH, FSH, testosterone, estradiol, prolactin, liver enzymes, complete blood count, coagulation factors, and lipid profile. Bone densitometry and breast ultrasound should be performed yearly. After surgery in patients over 50 years old, the measurement of PSA should be conducted yearly ( 440 ). The current key issues include avoiding supraphysiological doses of estrogen and the use of ethinyl estradiol. The preference should be given to conjugated estrogens or transdermal natural estrogen, especially in patients over 40 years of age ( 444 ). Hormone therapy provides a strong relief from the suffering caused by gender dysphoria. ( 440 ). MANAGEMENT OF PATIENTS WITH 46,XY DSD It is important to stress that the treatment of 46,XY DSD patients requires an appropriately trained multi-disciplinary team. Early diagnosis is important for better outcomes and should start with a careful examination of the newborn’s genitalia at birth ( 445 - 447 ). Psychological Evaluation It is of crucial importance to treat DSD patients ( 448 ). Every couple that has a child with atypical genitalia must be assessed and receive counseling by an experienced psychologist, specialized in gender identity, who must be act as soon as the diagnosis is suspected, and then follow the family periodically, more frequently during the periods before and after genitoplasty ( 449 , 450 ). Parents must be well informed by the physician and psychologist about sexual development ( 451 ). A simple, detailed, and comprehensive explanation about what to expect regarding integration in social life, sexual activity, need of hormonal replacement and surgical treatment and fertility issues should also be discussed with the parents, before sex assignment ( 11 ). The sex assignment must consider the etiological diagnosis, external genitalia, cultural and social aspects, sexual identity and the acceptance of the assigned gender by the parents ( 452 ). In case parents and health care providers disagree over the sex of rearing, the parents’ choice must be respected. The affected child and his/her family must be followed throughout life to ascertain the patient’s adjustment to his/her social sex. Hormonal Therapy Sex steroid replacement is an important component of management for
