46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


child and his/her family must be followed throughout life to ascertain the patient’s adjustment to his/her social sex. Hormonal Therapy Sex steroid replacement is an important component of management for some types of 46,XY DSD ( 453 , 454 ). The goals of replacement include induction and maintenance of secondary sex characteristics as well as other aspects of pubertal development including growth. Bone mineral optimization and promotion of uterine development may also be helped by treatment with sex steroids for some patients. Hormone replacement can also impact psychosocial and psychosexual development, as well as general wellbeing, in positive ways for some people ( 455 , 456 ). Induction and maintenance of pubertal development is necessary in most patients affected by 46,XY DSD regardless of male or female rearing; however, specific indications depend on the underlying etiology of the condition. FEMALE SOCIAL SEX The purpose of the hormonal therapy is the development of female sexual characteristics and menses in the patients with uterus. There are several options available for estrogen replacement as well as different combinations and doses of progestins ( 457 ) however, 17β-estradiol (oral or transdermal) is preferred. Estrogen therapy should be initiated at a low dose (1/6 to 1/4 of the adult dose) to avoid excessive bone maturation in short children and increase gradually at intervals of 6 months. Doses can then be adjusted to the response (Tanner stage, bone age), with the aim of completing feminization gradually over a period of 2–3 years. In 46,XY females with tall stature, adult estrogen dosage is recommended to avoid high final stature. Transdermal delivery avoids hepatic first-pass metabolism resulting in less thrombogenicity and more neutral effects on lipids ( 458 , 459 ). It is also easier to administer small doses of estrogen by cutting up a patch or by using a metered-dose gel dispenser. An initial recommended dose of oral 17-β estradiol is 5 μg/kg daily, titrated every 6–12 months to an additional 5 μg/kg daily until an adult dose of 1–2 mg daily is achieved ( 459 ) . In case of transdermal replacement, the initial recommended dose for the 17-β estradiol patch is 3.1–6.2 mg/24h overnight (1/8–1/4 of 25 mg/24h patch). Transdermal doses can increase 3.1–6.2 mg/24h every 6 months until an adult dose of 50-100 mg/24 h twice a week is achieved ( 460 ) Once breast development is complete, an adult dose can be maintained
