46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


, 468 ). Monitoring of T levels should be performed on the day preceding the next hormone administration, and serum levels should fall just above the lower limit of the normal range for eugonadal men. In male patients with androgen insensitivity, higher doses of testosterone esters (250-500 mg twice a week) are used to increase penile length and male secondary characteristics. Maximum penis enlargement is obtained after 6 months of high doses and after that, the normal dosage is re-instituted ( 272 , 313 ). The use of topical DHT gel is also useful to increase penile length with the advantage of not causing gynecomastia. Glucocorticoid Replacement It is necessary for 46,XY DSD patients with classical forms of congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, POR, 3β-HSD type II deficiency to receive glucocorticoid replacement for adrenal insufficiency and in 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency for hypertension management ( 469 ) ( 267 ). Mineralocorticoid replacement is also required for 46,XY DSD salt-losing patients ( 470 ). Surgical Treatment Surgical approach for 46,XY DSD patients includes: gonadal management, removal of internal structures that disagree with the social sex and reconstruction of the atypical external genitalia. Genital reconstruction involves the feminization or masculinization of external genitalia; these procedures are being widely discussed and controversy continues over the ideal age for genital surgery ( 471 , 472 ). There is a lack of data concerning this issue: a survey with 459 individuals (≥ 16 years) with a DSD diagnosis concerning patients desire about timing of genital surgery was published ( 473 ). A total of 66% of individuals with CAH and 60% of those with 46,XY DSD thought that infancy or childhood were the appropriate age for genital surgery. This report concluded that case-by-case decision-making is the best approach ( 473 ). In our experience, patients submitted to surgery in adulthood, preferred surgery in infancy and none of the patients operated during childhood regretted the surgery at that age ( 474 ). Laparoscopy is the ideal method of surgical treatment of the internal genital organs in patients with 46,XY DSD ( 475 ). In these patients, the indications for laparoscopy are the removal of gonads and ductal structures that are contrary to the assigned gender and the removal of dysgenetic gonads, which are nonfunctional and present potential for malignancy. In addition to being a minimally invasive surgery, one of the main advantages of this method is the lack of
