46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


dysgenetic gonads, which are nonfunctional and present potential for malignancy. In addition to being a minimally invasive surgery, one of the main advantages of this method is the lack of scars. Feminizing genitoplasty includes the reduction of enlarged clitoral size, opening the urogenital sinus to separate the urethra from the vaginal introitus, and constructing labioscrotal folds. Feminizing techniques have evolved over time to achieve better cosmetic outcomes ( 476 , 477 ). Many techniques have been proposed to separate the urethra from the vaginal introitus and bring both to the surface of the perineum. Fortunoff and Latimer in 1964 described the most commonly used technique until the present day, using an inverted U-shaped perineal skin flap to enlarge the vaginal introitus allowing adequate menstrual flow and future sexual activity ( 478 ). Failure to interposing an adequate flap will result in persistent urogenital sinus or vaginal introitus stenosis, requiring later revision ( 479 ). Vaginal dilation with acrylic molds in patients with short vagina or introitus stenosis showed to be a good treatment choice when these patients wished to start sexual intercourse, resulting in better outcomes ( 325 ). To reduce clitoral enlargement a number of techniques were proposed during the years ( 480 ). Kogan described preserving the neuro-vascular bundle attached to the dorsal portion of the tunica albuginea to protect the nerves and blood supply ( 481 ) and this is the technique of choice. The redundant clitoral skin obtained during clitoroplasty is used to create the labia minora; this skin is divided longitudinally and then sutured along either side of the vagina. When necessary, the reduction of labioscrotal folds is performed to create the labia majora, often using a Y-V plasty technique ( 482 ). The most common surgical complications, in feminizing genitoplasty, includes: clitoral ischemia or necrosis that can rarely occur in patients with high grade of virilization; introitus stenosis or vaginal stenosis particularly when the confluence of the vagina and urethra is far from the perineum surface and urinary infections mostly observed in patients with persistence of urogenital sinus ( 471 , 479 , 480 ). In order to minimize surgical complications and dissatisfaction in adulthood, only skilled surgeons with specific training should perform these procedures in the DSD patients ( 8 ). In our experience, the single-stage feminizing genitoplasty consisting of clitoroplasty with the preservation of dorsal nerves and vessels and ventral mucosa, vulvoplasty
