46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


procedures in the DSD patients ( 8 ). In our experience, the single-stage feminizing genitoplasty consisting of clitoroplasty with the preservation of dorsal nerves and vessels and ventral mucosa, vulvoplasty and Y-V perineal flap, followed by vaginal dilation with acrylic molds, allowed good cosmetic and functional results ( 483 ). For the males, masculinizing procedures aims to allow the patient to have micturition standing up without effort with a straight and wide stream and to have a satisfactory sexual life with straight erections. The genital surgery consists in correction of hypospadias and scrotal abnormalities, relocation of the testes to the scrotum or removal when dysgenetic, and resection of Mullerian remnants ( 326 , 484 ). Correction of hypospadias includes correction of phallic curvature (orthophalloplasty) and construction of a urethra to the tip of the glans (urethroplasty). Preoperative administration of testosterone is indicated for patients with a small penis ( 485 ). Usually, multistage procedures are preferred for male genital reconstruction in DSD patients, due to the severe under virilization represented by proximal hypospadias with severe curvature. The first stage repair consists in ortho-phaloplasty and scrotoplasty ( 486 ) ( 487 ). The second stage is performed 6-9 months later and consists in urethroplasty). The two-stage approach typically results in better cosmetic outcomes and fewer postoperative complications for patients with severe hypospadias and significant chordee ( 326 , 487 - 489 ). The most frequent complication in correction of hypospadias is urethral fistula (23%) followed by urethral strictures (9%) and diverticula (4%) ( 490 ). This frequency is highly variable in the literature ( 490 ). Fistula can be observed just after surgery or months later, but urethral stenosis in some cases can occur several years after surgery. Reoperations are necessary to correct fistula, diverticula and particularly to treat severe urethral strictures. The buccal mucosa graft is commonly used to enlarge the urethra in these cases ( 490 ). For patients with undescended testes, simultaneous orchidopexy may be performed. The surgical treatment of gonads of 46, XY DSD patients aims to preserve testicular function (production of testosterone and sperm) and prevent malignancy ( 288 , 360 , 491 ). Finally, gonadectomy is recommended for patients at risk for neoplastic transformation of germ cells (gonadoblastomas and/or an invasive germ cell tumor) in dysgenetic gonads ( 287 ). When gonadectomy is recommended, patients may then choose to have a testicular prosthesis placed in
