46,XY Differences of Sexual Development
KEYWORDS: patients, dsd, variants, male, gene, gonadal, female, genitalia, development, deficiency, testosterone, levels, normal, syndrome, external


germ cells (gonadoblastomas and/or an invasive germ cell tumor) in dysgenetic gonads ( 287 ). When gonadectomy is recommended, patients may then choose to have a testicular prosthesis placed in the scrotum ( 492 ). Müllerian structures are rudimentary in some patients and present as a cystic prostatic utricle. These utricles may be left in situ when asymptomatic, but in cases of recurrent urinary tract infection, stones, or significant post-void urethral dribbling due to urinary pooling, they can be removed either laparoscopically or through a sagittal posterior incision of the perineum ( 475 ). With either approach, great care must be taken to prevent injury to the vas deferens, seminal vesicles and pelvic nerves so as to avoid subsequent infertility, erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence ( 488 , 493 ). Late evaluation of 46,XY DSD patients operated in childhood due to proximal hypospadias reveals that many felt that their genitals had an unusual appearance or presented some degree of urinary or sexual dysfunction ( 494 ). Objectively, most DSD patients have a penile length below the -2.0 SD (5.2 ± 2.0 cm) ( 326 ). Dysfunctional voiding and lower urinary tract symptoms are also more frequent in these patients than in controls ( 495 ). However, between 55.6 and 91% of these patients after genitoplasty were satisfied with their overall sexual function after genitoplasty, when considering sexual contacts, libido, erections, orgasm, as well as size of the penis and volume of ejaculation ( 326 ),( 494 ),( 496 ),( 497 ),( 498 ). The long-term outcomes were evaluated for a long time concerning functional and cosmetic results that could be analyzed by objective criteria. The subjective long-term evaluation analyzing psychological and sexual implications in quality of life were often neglected in the past, but is being currently explored ( 332 ) ( 499 ) ( 500 ). Jones et al reported that 81% were satisfied with their genital appearance and that 90% were satisfied with their overall body image ( 500 ). Most of our patients were satisfied with their genital appearance and present satisfactory sexual performance as long as they present a penis size of at least 6 cm ( 326 ). ACKNOWLEDGMENT The authors would like to thank the postgraduate students Nathalia Lisboa Gomes and Jose Antonio D Faria Junior for their help in the update of this chapter. REFERENCES 1. Donahoe PK, Schnitzer JJ. Evaluation of the
