Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


fibrillation 1 Recommendations 1.1 Apixaban is recommended as an option for preventing stroke and systemic embolism within its marketing authorisation, that is, in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 1 or more risk factors such as: • prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack • age 75 years or older • hypertension • diabetes mellitus • symptomatic heart failure. 1.2 Decide whether to start treatment with apixaban after an informed discussion with the person about its risks and benefits compared with warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban and rivaroxaban. For people taking warfarin, consider the potential risks and benefits of switching to apixaban taking into account their level of international normalised ratio (INR) control. Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) 2 The technology 2.1 Apixaban (Eliquis, Bristol–Myers Squibb and Pfizer) is a potent, oral, direct and highly selective active site inhibitor of factor Xa. By inhibiting factor Xa, apixaban prevents thrombin generation and thrombus development. Apixaban 5 mg twice daily and 2.5 mg twice daily has a European marketing authorisation for the 'prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, with 1 or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack, age 75 years or older, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or symptomatic heart failure (New York Heart Association [NYHA] class 2 or higher)'. 2.2 The summary of product characteristics lists the following adverse reactions for apixaban: epistaxis (nosebleed), contusion (bruising), haematuria (blood in urine), haematoma, eye haemorrhage, and gastrointestinal haemorrhage. For full details of adverse reactions and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 2.3 The manufacturer has stated that the cost per day for both doses (2.5 mg and 5 mg twice daily) of apixaban (excluding VAT) is £2.20, and the annual cost is £803. Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) 3 The manufacturer's submission The Appraisal Committee considered evidence submitted by the manufacturer of apixaban and a review of this submission by the Evidence Review Group (ERG). 3.1 The main clinical effectiveness evidence for apixaban came from 2 international, multicentre, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, randomised controlled trials, which had investigated apixaban. ARISTOTLE (n=18,201) compared apixaban (5 mg twice daily; 2.5 mg twice daily in selected patients) with warfarin (in patients with an international normalised ratio [INR] target range
