Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


trials, whereas RE-LY was an open-label trial; the population in ROCKET-AF had a higher stroke or systemic embolism risk at baseline (baseline CHADS of 3.6 [ROCKET-AF], 2 2.1 [ARISTOTLE], 2.1 [RE-LY]) and the mean percentage time in therapeutic range was lower in ROCKET-AF (55%) than in ARISTOTLE (62%) and RE-LY (64%). Where possible, the manufacturer used intention-to-treat data from each trial. However, the manufacturer highlighted that there was an absence of published intention-to-treat outcome data for some secondary outcomes from ROCKET-AF including fatal stroke, disabling stroke and non-disabling stroke. Therefore, data from the on-treatment population were also used. The second meta-analysis included ARISTOTLE, RE-LY, ROCKET-AF and AVERROES. 3.9 The manufacturer did not present any statistical analysis of heterogeneity but commented that potential sources of clinical heterogeneity between the trials Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) were the differences in baseline stroke risk scores, study blinding, and whether the intention-to-treat or on-treatment populations had been used to assess efficacy and safety outcomes. Additionally, the manufacturer highlighted a statistically significant difference in myocardial infarction at baseline between treatment groups in ROCKET-AF. 3.10 The base-case results of the first meta-analysis indicated that there were no statistically significant differences between apixaban and rivaroxaban or dabigatran in the incidence of stroke, systemic embolism and all-cause mortality. The results did however suggest that apixaban was associated with a significantly lower incidence of myocardial infarction compared with dabigatran (150 mg or 110 mg twice daily). Apixaban was associated with a significantly lower incidence of all bleeding outcomes compared with rivaroxaban (intracranial haemorrhage, major bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, other major bleeding, clinically relevant non-major bleeding, any bleeding). Apixaban had a significantly lower incidence of all bleeding events except intracranial haemorrhage and clinically relevant non-major bleeding (which was not measured in RE-LY) than dabigatran 150 mg. Apixaban had a significantly lower incidence of any bleeding than dabigatran 110 mg. In addition, apixaban was associated with significantly fewer discontinuations compared with dabigatran 150 mg, dabigatran 110 mg and rivaroxaban. All of the hazard ratios from the first network meta-analysis are academic-in-confidence. The manufacturer reported that the results for apixaban compared with warfarin generated by the first meta-analysis were consistent with the pair-wise comparisons between warfarin and apixaban in ARISTOTLE (see sections 3.3 and 3.5). 3.11 The manufacturer conducted 2 sensitivity analyses of its first network meta- analysis. The first used data from a
