Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


between warfarin and apixaban in ARISTOTLE (see sections 3.3 and 3.5). 3.11 The manufacturer conducted 2 sensitivity analyses of its first network meta- analysis. The first used data from a later publication of RE-LY (Connolly et al. 2010) rather than the RE-LY 2009 data. The results for the first sensitivity analysis were generally consistent with the base case; however, the reduction in myocardial infarction with apixaban compared with both doses of dabigatran was no longer statistically significantly different. The second sensitivity analysis used the safety on-treatment dataset from ROCKET-AF rather than the intention-to- treat data from this trial, which was also generally consistent with the base case. The hazard ratios from the sensitivity analysis of the manufacturer's first network meta-analysis are academic-in-confidence. Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) 3.12 The manufacturer commented that there were no data for rivaroxaban or dabigatran in the population for whom warfarin was unsuitable, so data from ROCKET-AF (which assessed rivaroxaban compared with warfarin) and RE-LY (which assessed dabigatran compared with warfarin) were included, alongside ARISTOTLE and AVERROES. This meant that the second meta-analysis represented a mix of patients for whom warfarin was suitable and unsuitable ('warfarin-suitable' and '-unsuitable' populations). 3.13 The manufacturer also used data from ARISTOTLE, RE-LY and ROCKET-AF to estimate the distribution of stroke severity and bleed type associated with apixaban, warfarin, rivaroxaban and dabigatran. Mild, moderate, severe and fatal stroke were classified by modified Rankin scores, with scores of 0 to 2 classed as a mild stroke, scores of 3 to 4 classed as a moderate stroke, a score of 5 classed as a severe stroke and a score of 6 classed as a fatal stroke. Data corresponding to these modified Rankin scores were available for apixaban and warfarin from ARISTOTLE, but ROCKET-AF and RE-LY grouped stroke severity scores differently. The manufacturer therefore estimated the proportion of patients that would be expected to have scores of 3 to 4 or 5 in the group of patients reported as having a stroke with a modified Rankin score of 3 to 5 with rivaroxaban or dabigatran in ROCKET-AF and RE-LY. The manufacturer based this estimate on the relative proportions of patients treated with apixaban who had these scores in ARISTOTLE. The distribution of stroke severity across treatments in the population for whom a VKA antagonist was suitable is academic-in-confidence. 3.14 The manufacturer constructed a Markov
