Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


had these scores in ARISTOTLE. The distribution of stroke severity across treatments in the population for whom a VKA antagonist was suitable is academic-in-confidence. 3.14 The manufacturer constructed a Markov model to evaluate the long- and medium-term consequences of apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial fibrillation. The model considered warfarin-suitable and -unsuitable populations separately. The baseline characteristics of both populations were considered to be equivalent to the characteristics of a cohort of patients with a diagnosis of atrial fibrillation from a UK GP-based survey (Gallagher et al. 2011). Data from both network meta-analyses were used to inform the clinical effectiveness of treatments in the warfarin-suitable and -unsuitable populations respectively and to derive the transition probabilities used in the model. The risk of stroke was adjusted for baseline CHADS score 2 distribution. The risks of stroke, intracranial haemorrhage, myocardial infarction, other major bleeds and clinically relevant non-major bleeds were adjusted for age. The model had a lifetime time horizon. The intervention and comparators Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) were implemented in the model according to their marketing authorisations. For dabigatran 150 mg it was assumed that patients would switch to the 110 mg dose when they reached 80 years in line with the marketing authorisation. The average dosage of warfarin in the warfarin-suitable population was assumed to be 4.5 mg once daily. The evaluation was undertaken from the perspective of the NHS and Personal Social Services in England and Wales, and costs and benefits were discounted at 3.5% per year after the first year. 3.15 The model had 18 health states, including death. Both event-related mortality and other-cause mortality were incorporated in the model. Hypothetical patients transitioned between health states in cycles of 6 weeks with only 1 clinical event permitted per cycle. Patients entered the model in the non-valvular atrial fibrillation ('NVAF') health state, and stayed in this state until they died or experienced 1 of the following permanent events: ischaemic stroke (mild, moderate, severe or fatal); haemorrhagic stroke (mild, moderate, severe or fatal); systemic embolism or myocardial infarction; or 1 of the following temporary events: other intracranial haemorrhage (that is not a haemorrhagic stroke); other major bleeds (gastrointestinal bleeds or other bleeds besides intracranial haemorrhage and gastrointestinal-related bleeds); clinically relevant non-major bleeds; or other cardiovascular hospitalisations (that is, cardiovascular hospitalisations unrelated to stroke or myocardial
