Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


major bleeds (gastrointestinal bleeds or other bleeds besides intracranial haemorrhage and gastrointestinal-related bleeds); clinically relevant non-major bleeds; or other cardiovascular hospitalisations (that is, cardiovascular hospitalisations unrelated to stroke or myocardial infarction). The model allowed a maximum of 2 lines of therapy. After a switch to second-line therapy, patients transitioned into the 'NVAF without original anticoagulant' health state and were at risk of the same events as patients in the 'NVAF' health state (with the exception of the switch to second-line therapy). 3.16 The manufacturer classified the events as permanent or temporary. Patients who experienced a permanent event accrued both acute and long-term maintenance costs and were not assumed to recover to their previous level of health. After a permanent event, patients in the model were not exposed to the risks of all events: patients who had systemic embolism or myocardial infarction stayed in those health states until they died; patients who had a non-fatal stroke could remain in that health state, have 1 recurrent stroke or die. Recurrent strokes were assumed to be of the same type as the initial event (ischaemic or haemorrhagic) but could be of different severity. The resource use and disutility associated with the second stroke was assumed to be equal to that of the most severe stroke experienced. After a temporary event, all patients were assumed to recover to Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) their previous health status. 3.17 A switch from first-line to second-line therapy was permitted after discontinuation because of a clinical event (intracranial haemorrhage or other major bleed) or after discontinuation because of other causes. Patients could switch to aspirin or have no treatment. In the base case, anyone who discontinued treatment was assumed to receive aspirin as second-line treatment. Only a switch from first-line anticoagulation therapy to second-line therapy with aspirin altered patients' risk of subsequent clinical events. Patients who experienced certain permanent events also switched treatment: patients who had a myocardial infarction or haemorrhagic stroke were assumed to stop treatment, and patients receiving aspirin as second-line therapy switched to warfarin if they had an ischaemic stroke or systemic embolism. However, all other patients who had ischaemic stroke or systemic embolism were assumed to remain on their original treatment in the base case. The risk of subsequent events for patients after a permanent event was assumed to be independent of treatment received,
