Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


assumed to remain on their original treatment in the base case. The risk of subsequent events for patients after a permanent event was assumed to be independent of treatment received, so switching did not affect their risk profile. 3.18 The manufacturer conducted a systematic review of health-state utility value studies relevant to the health states considered in the model, focusing on studies that reported EQ-5D values. Values from 21 studies that presented EQ-5D data in a population with atrial fibrillation and 3 studies that reported EQ-5D values for a variety of chronic conditions after controlling for comorbidities were included. As there were some health states for which a utility value had not been identified, studies of a population with atrial fibrillation that reported utilities elicited by methods other than the EQ-5D were screened, and data from a further 8 studies were included. One further study was identified from the reference list from the submissions for: • NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation and • NICE's technology appraisal guidance on rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial fibrillation. 3.19 The manufacturer used unit costs taken from NHS reference costs 2010 to 2011 where possible. If available, Healthcare Resource Group codes specified in the costing report for atrial fibrillation from NICE's previous guideline on atrial Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) fibrillation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation) were used. The average daily drug acquisition costs were £2.20 for apixaban, £2.20 for dabigatran (either dose), £2.10 for rivaroxaban and £0.12 for warfarin (4.5 mg average daily dose). The manufacturer's model included intervention costs such as an annual INR monitoring cost of £248, which was an inflated estimate of the ERG's calculation in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate, and a £3 renal monitoring cost for 19.4% of patients treated with dabigatran. The manufacturer used NHS reference costs for acute costs per episode for the temporary health states. The acute and long-term costs for systemic embolism and stroke were taken from a UK population-based assessment. Dyspepsia was the only adverse event that was not explicitly modelled as a health state, and a yearly cost of £27.60 was applied to all patients who had dyspepsia. 3.20 The manufacturer presented a deterministic base case for the
