Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


explicitly modelled as a health state, and a yearly cost of £27.60 was applied to all patients who had dyspepsia. 3.20 The manufacturer presented a deterministic base case for the warfarin-suitable and -unsuitable populations. In the population for whom warfarin was suitable, the ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin was £11,008 per QALY gained. This represented a gain of 0.164 QALYs for an incremental cost of £1,795. Dabigatran 110 mg twice daily was strictly dominated (was more costly and less effective) than the dabigatran blend (dabigatran used as per its marketing authorisation, that is, people who are younger than 80 years receive a 150 mg twice daily dose and people 80 years or older receive a 110 mg twice daily dose). Apixaban extendedly dominated rivaroxaban and the dabigatran blend (resulted in a lower ICER compared with warfarin despite having higher total QALYs and total costs than rivaroxaban and the dabigatran blend). 3.21 Although aspirin was not included as a comparator in the scope, the manufacturer compared apixaban with aspirin in a population for whom warfarin was unsuitable. In this population apixaban was associated with an ICER of £2,903 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. 3.22 The manufacturer assessed the univariate sensitivity of the model to 117 parameters using deterministic sensitivity analyses. In the warfarin-suitable population, parameters that had the most influential effect on the ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin were disutility associated with warfarin use, the hazard ratios for intracranial haemorrhage, ischaemic stroke or other-cause mortality during the trial, the cost of INR monitoring visit and the discount rate Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) applied to QALYs. For apixaban compared with rivaroxaban or dabigatran, the most influential parameters were the hazard ratios associated with stroke, intracranial haemorrhage and other-cause mortality during the trial for these comparators compared with apixaban, the absolute stroke risk for apixaban, and the second-line stroke risk for aspirin. All of the ICERs calculated in the manufacturer's deterministic sensitivity analysis for apixaban compared with the comparator drugs were below £20,000 per QALY gained. In addition, the manufacturer carried out 19 scenario analyses. The majority of the scenario analyses decreased the base-case ICER (for apixaban compared with comparator). The probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that the probability that apixaban was cost effective at £20,000 and £30,000 per QALY gained was 80% and 87% respectively. For the dabigatran blend, rivaroxaban
