Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


The probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that the probability that apixaban was cost effective at £20,000 and £30,000 per QALY gained was 80% and 87% respectively. For the dabigatran blend, rivaroxaban and warfarin the probabilities of being cost effective at £20,000 were 10%, 9% and 1% respectively. At £30,000 these were 5%, 7% and 0% respectively. 3.23 The ERG considered that, of the 2 trials of apixaban, only ARISTOTLE met the inclusion criteria for this technology appraisal, although it did acknowledge that aspirin is sometimes used in clinical practice in the UK. With respect to the network meta-analyses, the ERG did not consider the second analysis to be appropriate to determine the relative effectiveness of aspirin, apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran in a population for whom vitamin K antagonists were unsuitable because the majority of trials in the second network meta-analysis included patients for whom warfarin was suitable. The ERG therefore focused its critique on the ARISTOTLE trial and the first network meta-analysis which compared the safety and efficacy of apixaban with warfarin, rivaroxaban and dabigatran. 3.24 The ERG considered that the inclusion and exclusion criteria, follow-up and statistical analysis of ARISTOTLE were acceptable and that the baseline characteristics of the randomised populations were well balanced between trial arms. The ERG commented that, based on advice given by clinicians on the time in therapeutic range expected in a UK population, the mean time in therapeutic range in ARISTOTLE (62.2%) was acceptable. It also considered the INR monitoring in ARISTOTLE to be consistent with that which would occur routinely in the UK. The ERG additionally considered that the distribution of CHADS scores 2 in ARISTOTLE was comparable to the UK population. However, the ERG highlighted that no data on transient ischaemic attack or health-related quality of Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) life were collected in ARISTOTLE or AVERROES, and that the effectiveness of apixaban in reducing transient ischaemic attacks and improving health-related quality of life was therefore unclear. 3.25 The ERG noted that the results of the manufacturer's base case were generated deterministically rather than probabilistically. Therefore, the ERG used the manufacturer's probabilistic sensitivity analysis to estimate the manufacturer's probabilistic base case. The ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin in the probabilistic base case was £16,852 per QALY gained. The ERG considered that the manufacturer had presented a robust and predominantly conservative (direction of
