Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


for apixaban compared with warfarin in the probabilistic base case was £16,852 per QALY gained. The ERG considered that the manufacturer had presented a robust and predominantly conservative (direction of bias more likely to be against rather than towards apixaban) economic evaluation of apixaban compared with warfarin, dabigatran 110 mg, dabigatran blend and rivaroxaban in the warfarin suitable population. However, the ERG commented on the plausibility of some of the assumptions and inputs used in the manufacturer's model. The ERG considered whether certain outcomes would be expected to be dependent on the treatment a person received. It noted that severity of stroke event and bleed type was assumed to be dependent on the treatment received. The ERG considered that this may not be clinically appropriate and that there may be limitations to the data that informed these assumptions. The ERG also noted that the within-trial rate of other-cause mortality was different for patients treated with warfarin than apixaban, dabigatran or rivaroxaban. Although patients treated with warfarin may be at a higher risk of event-specific death, the ERG did not expect that they would be at a different risk of other-cause mortality. 3.26 The ERG noted that patients who had a stroke (haemorrhagic or ischaemic), systemic embolism or myocardial infarction were assumed to be at risk of fewer types of subsequent clinical events than patients in other health states. The ERG accepted the risk limitation applied to patients who experienced a stroke but that patients with systemic embolism or myocardial infarction would remain at risk of further events (in particular ischaemic stroke). The ERG considered that some people who stop therapy with apixaban, dabigatran or rivaroxaban may be eligible for treatment with warfarin or a different oral anticoagulant rather than aspirin which was the second-line treatment in the manufacturer's model. The ERG additionally commented that the risk profile of people on second-line therapy was not adjusted for characteristics such as age or CHADS score in the 2 manufacturer's model, but it accepted that adjusting for characteristics in Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) second-line treatment may be beyond the reasonable scope of a Markov model. 3.27 The ERG commented that utilities were not age adjusted in the manufacturer's model, meaning that a person's quality of life would be affected by events experienced but not by increasing age. The ERG considered that the assumption
