Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


age adjusted in the manufacturer's model, meaning that a person's quality of life would be affected by events experienced but not by increasing age. The ERG considered that the assumption of equivalent disutility between the apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran may not be robust but that any resultant bias was likely to be against apixaban. 3.28 The ERG noted that the acute cost of systemic embolism in the manufacturer's model (£4,077.98) was approximately double the acute costs used in the submissions for NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate (dabigatran £2,772 [fatal and non-fatal acute costs]) and NICE's technology appraisal guidance on rivaroxaban (rivaroxaban £1,658). These submissions had used NHS reference costs. 3.29 For its revised base case the ERG changed some of the assumptions used in the manufacturer's model. The ERG assumed that other-cause mortality, stroke severity and bleed type were independent of the type of anticoagulant treatment received. The ERG adjusted utility for increasing age by -0.00029 per year. The ERG assumed that people who had myocardial infarction or systemic embolism were at risk of recurrent stroke, and used the same acute costs for systemic embolism as in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate, as this was the most conservative cost used in the submissions for NICE's technology appraisal guidance on rivaroxaban and NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate. The ERG also assumed the time horizon was 26 years. 3.30 The ERG noted that after these amendments, dabigatran 110 mg continued to be strictly dominated by the dabigatran blend and rivaroxaban and the dabigatran blend remained extendedly dominated by apixaban. The ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin for each individual amendment was relatively consistent with the manufacturer's base-case ICER. The ERG noted that assuming stroke severity was independent of treatment increased the ICER of apixaban compared with warfarin to £12,277 per QALY gained, whereas assuming bleed type was independent of treatment decreased this ICER to £9,771 per QALY gained. When all of the amendments were combined to form the ERG's revised base case, this resulted in an ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin of £12,757 per QALY Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) gained. This represented an incremental cost of £1,823 compared with warfarin for an additional 0.14 QALY. 3.31 The ERG carried out 3 further exploratory analyses that were not included in its revised base case. These were:
