Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


of £1,823 compared with warfarin for an additional 0.14 QALY. 3.31 The ERG carried out 3 further exploratory analyses that were not included in its revised base case. These were: • Age adjustment of event risks for people on second-line therapy, using the same risk adjustment factors as for people receiving first-line therapy. Dabigatran blend and rivaroxaban continued to be extendedly dominated by apixaban. The ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin fell slightly from the manufacturer's base case of £11,008 to £10,779 per QALY gained. • Removal of treatment-related disutility. Dabigatran blend and rivaroxaban continued to be extendedly dominated by apixaban but the ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin increased from £11,008 to £14,530 per QALY gained. • Changes to the treatment sequence to allow second-line treatment with warfarin, apixaban, rivaroxaban or dabigatran. The results of these analyses were highly variable, with ICERs for apixaban varying between £287 per QALY gained (compared with warfarin when dabigatran 110 mg was the second-line treatment) and £60,366 per QALY gained (compared with dabigatran blend when rivaroxaban was the second-line treatment). However, the ERG commented that the results of this analysis should be interpreted with caution because the main driver of the ICERs was discontinuation rates associated with first-line therapy and, consequently, treatments with higher discontinuation rates such as dabigatran appeared more effective than in the manufacturer's base case. 3.32 Full details of all the evidence are in the manufacturer's submission and the ERG report. Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of apixaban, having considered evidence on the nature of non- valvular atrial fibrillation and the value placed on the benefits of apixaban by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The Committee heard from clinical specialists and patient experts that the current standard treatment for people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who need anticoagulation is warfarin or the newer oral anticoagulants rivaroxaban or dabigatran. The clinical specialists explained that the majority of people receiving an anticoagulant currently receive warfarin. In addition, some people who meet criteria for anticoagulation are currently receiving the antiplatelet agent aspirin inappropriately because of clinical reluctance to prescribe warfarin. The Committee heard that warfarin is an effective
