Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


some people who meet criteria for anticoagulation are currently receiving the antiplatelet agent aspirin inappropriately because of clinical reluctance to prescribe warfarin. The Committee heard that warfarin is an effective treatment but that it is associated with a number of problems. The patient experts explained that repeated INR monitoring tests with warfarin can cause pain and scarring and limit a person's choice of leisure or other activities and that warfarin can have a greater impact on a person's quality of life than atrial fibrillation itself. They also highlighted that warfarin has multiple interactions with food, alcohol and drugs that can cause further inconvenience that make adherence to treatment difficult. Overall, the patient experts considered that making the day-to-day choices about lifestyle needed in order to take and monitor warfarin appropriately has a substantial impact on a person's quality of life. The Committee accepted the limitations of warfarin therapy and the considerable effect it may have on the people who take it, and recognised the potential benefits of apixaban for people with atrial fibrillation. 4.3 The Committee considered the clinical-effectiveness data from the ARISTOTLE trial comparing apixaban with warfarin. It considered that the ARISTOTLE trial was of good quality and it discussed whether the results were generalisable to people diagnosed with atrial fibrillation in the NHS. The Committee noted that the mean time in therapeutic range for those in the warfarin arm was 62.2% (the median was 66%) and asked the clinical specialists whether this was representative of what would be achieved in clinical practice in the UK. The Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) clinical specialists explained that there is variation in time in therapeutic range achieved between centres. One clinical specialist quoted a benchmarking study using a computerised dose adjustment system in which a mean time in therapeutic range of over 70% was achieved. Another clinical specialist stated that the time in therapeutic range observed in ARISTOTLE reflected what is generally seen in the UK, not what is observed in centres achieving the best time in therapeutic range, and that centres should aim for a time in therapeutic range for each individual of 70% and above. One clinical specialist also highlighted that in their experience people treated for atrial fibrillation tended to be older and more likely to be on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), which can impact on bleeding complications, than
