Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


that in their experience people treated for atrial fibrillation tended to be older and more likely to be on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), which can impact on bleeding complications, than the ARISTOTLE population. The Committee noted the potential differences between the trial population and people treated for atrial fibrillation in the UK but concluded that the characteristics of the people who participated in ARISTOTLE were broadly generalisable to the UK population. 4.4 The Committee considered the results of the ARISTOTLE trial. It noted that apixaban was more effective than warfarin in reducing the primary efficacy outcome of all stroke (ischaemic and haemorrhagic), and systemic embolism. The Committee noted that the primary efficacy outcome was a composite of the effectiveness outcomes (ischaemic stroke and systemic embolism) and a bleeding outcome (haemorrhagic stroke). The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that there is debate about the primary outcomes to use in trials of anticoagulants for atrial fibrillation, but that it is common to use composite outcomes, such as the primary efficacy outcome in ARISTOTLE. The Committee considered the individual components of the composite outcome. It heard from the clinical specialists that once an embolus leaves the heart it is a matter of chance whether it flows to the brain, resulting in ischaemic stroke, or to the rest of the body, causing systemic embolism. The proportion of each was therefore not a treatment effect. The Committee also heard from the clinical specialists that a particular benefit conferred by the new anticoagulants compared with warfarin was the reduction in haemorrhagic strokes. This was also shown in the ARISTOTLE trial, in which there was a statistically significant reduction in haemorrhagic stroke with apixaban compared with warfarin, whereas for the other individual components of the composite end points (ischaemic stroke and systemic embolism) there was no statistically significant difference. The Committee concluded that apixaban was more clinically effective than warfarin Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) for the primary efficacy outcome of reducing stroke and systemic embolism. 4.5 The Committee considered the results of the manufacturer's subgroup analyses from ARISTOTLE. It noted that the subgroup analysis by CHADS score comprised 2 3 groups: people with a CHADS score of 1 or less, people with a CHADS score of 2 2 2 and people with a CHADS score of 3 or over. The Committee was aware that 2 the
