Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


of 1 or less, people with a CHADS score of 2 2 2 and people with a CHADS score of 3 or over. The Committee was aware that 2 the ERG had concerns that because people with CHADS scores of 3 to 6 had 2 been grouped together, it was not possible to comment on potential variation in treatment effect for these subgroups. The Committee concluded that there was no biologically plausible reason to indicate that the relative treatment effect would be dependent on baseline risk and that the mean CHADS score of 2.1 in 2 the trial was a reasonable reflection of the UK population currently on anticoagulant therapy. 4.6 The Committee noted that the manufacturer presented data for subgroups based on INR control using quartiles of centre time in therapeutic range. It further noted that there was a numerically lower rate of stroke or systemic embolism with apixaban compared with warfarin in all analyses broken down by centre time in therapeutic range, but that ARISTOTLE was not statistically powered to demonstrate superiority across subgroups. The Committee concluded that the evidence from subgroups based on centre time in therapeutic range was not sufficiently robust to use to formulate guidance based on an individual's time in therapeutic range. 4.7 The Committee considered the adverse events reported in ARISTOTLE. The Committee noted that for the primary safety outcome of major bleeding (using the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis definition), treatment with apixaban resulted in fewer bleeding events than warfarin, including a reduced rate of intracranial bleeding. The Committee recognised that this has a high mortality rate and a large impact on a person's quality of life, and is the most feared bleeding outcome for people taking any type of anticoagulant. The Committee noted however that there were no statistically significant differences in the rates of gastrointestinal bleeding between apixaban and warfarin. The Committee concluded that apixaban resulted in fewer bleeds than warfarin and it recognised the particular importance of the effects of apixaban in reducing the risk of intracranial bleeding for people with atrial fibrillation when compared with warfarin. Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) 4.8 The Committee noted that all anticoagulants are associated with a risk of bleeding and discussed the management of atrial fibrillation in people who experience a bleed while taking warfarin or apixaban. The Committee heard from the
