Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


are associated with a risk of bleeding and discussed the management of atrial fibrillation in people who experience a bleed while taking warfarin or apixaban. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that people taking warfarin who experience a bleed may be given vitamin K to reverse the effects of warfarin. However, there are no standard treatments to reverse the effects of apixaban (or the other newer oral anticoagulants rivaroxaban and dabigatran) and that this is an area of ongoing research. Current clinical opinion is that the newer oral anticoagulants have moderate half-lives and that people who have bleeds while taking these drugs should stop treatment. The Committee also heard from the patient experts and the clinical specialists that reversing the effect of warfarin with vitamin K may take several hours, but that there are other approaches, such as using a prothrombin concentrate, that are fast-acting. The Committee concluded that there is a standard approach to reverse significant bleeding for a person taking warfarin, but that there is uncertainty about the most effective way to stop active bleeding when a person is taking apixaban. 4.9 The Committee noted that the manufacturer had included evidence on the efficacy of apixaban compared with aspirin for people for whom vitamin K antagonist treatment was unsuitable, but that this was not part of the scope issued by NICE. The Committee understood that the manufacturer's rationale for including aspirin as an additional comparator reflected the recommendation in NICE's previous guideline on atrial fibrillation (now replaced by NICE's guideline on atrial fibrillation) that people who need anticoagulation but for whom warfarin is unsuitable should be offered aspirin. The Committee was also aware that aspirin had not been included as a comparator in the apixaban scope because, since the publication of NICE's guideline 36 on atrial fibrillation, dabigatran and rivaroxaban had been recommended for use by NICE and these were now alternative treatments to warfarin. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that aspirin is a less effective treatment than the anticoagulants but is still being prescribed for some people with atrial fibrillation despite publication of NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban. The Committee further heard that although AVERROES was a useful trial, the population for whom warfarin was unsuitable was very mixed, including people for whom warfarin was clinically unsuitable and those who were unwilling to take it. The Committee noted that the
