Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


population for whom warfarin was unsuitable was very mixed, including people for whom warfarin was clinically unsuitable and those who were unwilling to take it. The Committee noted that the ERG did not consider that AVERROES met the inclusion criteria for this appraisal and had focused its critique on ARISTOTLE. Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) The Committee agreed that the comparators defined in the final scope were appropriate and that the key trial for this appraisal was ARISTOTLE. However, it noted with interest that the evidence presented in AVERROES showed that apixaban was associated with a reduced rate of stroke or systemic embolism compared with aspirin and an increased rate of bleeding events overall, but not an increased rate of major bleeds. 4.10 The Committee discussed the indirect clinical-effectiveness evidence for apixaban compared with dabigatran (both the 110 mg twice daily dose and 150 mg twice daily dose) and rivaroxaban. The Committee noted that the manufacturer presented 2 network meta-analyses for vitamin K antagonist- suitable and -unsuitable populations (which included aspirin) respectively. The Committee noted that the ERG considered the second meta-analysis to be flawed as there were no specific data available for rivaroxaban or dabigatran for a warfarin-unsuitable population and the network meta-analysis included a mixed population including people for whom warfarin was suitable and unsuitable. The Committee considered that only the first network meta-analysis, relating to the warfarin-suitable population, was appropriate to the decision problem. The Committee noted that the population in the study comparing rivaroxaban with warfarin (ROCKET-AF) had a higher mean baseline CHADS score than the 2 population in the study comparing dabigatran with warfarin (RE-LY) or ARISTOTLE. The Committee additionally noted that the mean time in therapeutic range in the warfarin arm was lower in ROCKET-AF than in RE-LY or ARISTOTLE. The Committee considered that the differences in baseline characteristics between the study populations meant that there was uncertainty surrounding the results of the network meta-analysis. The Committee noted that the network meta-analysis did not detect any difference between apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran in the rate of stroke or systemic embolism; showed a lower rate of all bleeding outcomes with apixaban compared with rivaroxaban and of all bleeding outcomes except intracranial haemorrhage and clinically relevant non-major bleeding (which was not measured in RE-LY) compared with dabigatran 150 mg; a lower rate of 'any bleeding' compared with
