Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


treatment related, and that there is currently insufficient evidence to support the assumption in the model that the severity of an ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke was dependent on the specific anticoagulant agent they had received. 4.12 The Committee considered the utility values used in the model. The Committee noted that ARISTOTLE had not assessed health-related quality of life and that the utility values used in the manufacturer's model were identified through a systematic review. The Committee questioned whether the manufacturer's assumption of a permanent utility decrement following a myocardial infarction was appropriate. However, it accepted the views of the clinical specialists that disutility following a myocardial infarction would not be expected to change substantially after 6 months. The Committee concluded that the utilities used in Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) the model were appropriate. 4.13 The Committee considered the costs used in the model. It noted that the estimates for stroke and systemic embolism were based on a cohort study of a population living in the Oxford area of the UK and that the costs for ischaemic stroke were lower than those for haemorrhagic stroke. The Committee questioned whether the study had been able to estimate haemorrhagic stroke costs accurately given the lower incidence of this event than ischaemic stroke in the population, and whether the higher haemorrhagic stroke costs assumed in the model could have driven the cost-effectiveness results. The Committee heard from the ERG that the haemorrhagic stroke costs were consistent with those used in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban and that, as a small proportion of people had a haemorrhagic stroke in the model, other factors such as discontinuation rates drove the cost- effectiveness results to a greater extent than the cost of haemorrhagic stroke. The Committee also noted that an INR monitoring cost of £248 was assumed by the manufacturer, and that this was consistent with the monitoring costs used in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on dabigatran etexilate (and was updated for inflation). The Committee concluded that the costs used in the model were appropriate. 4.14 The Committee considered the results of the economic model. It noted that the manufacturer's base-case deterministic and probabilistic ICERs for apixaban compared with warfarin were £11,000 and £16,900 per QALY gained respectively, and that the ERG's revised deterministic base case, (see section 3.30) resulted in an ICER
