Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial
KEYWORDS: apixaban, stroke, warfarin, dabigatran, people, committee, embolism, compared, systemic embolism, systemic, patients, manufacturer, fibrillation, atrial, atrial fibrillation


probabilistic ICERs for apixaban compared with warfarin were £11,000 and £16,900 per QALY gained respectively, and that the ERG's revised deterministic base case, (see section 3.30) resulted in an ICER of £12,800 per QALY gained. The Committee noted that only one of the sensitivity analyses performed by the ERG (in which alternative second-line treatments rather than aspirin were considered, see section 3.31) influenced the results substantially. The Committee accepted the ERG's comment that this analysis should be interpreted with caution because the main driver of the ICER was discontinuation rates on first-line treatment. The Committee noted that the ERG's sensitivity analysis assuming stroke severity was independent of treatment had a modest effect on the ICER compared with warfarin (the ICER increased to £12,300 per QALY gained when stroke severity was assumed to be the same for all of the anticoagulants). The Committee concluded that apixaban had been shown to be cost effective compared with warfarin, the most plausible ICER being less than £20,000 per QALY gained, and could be recommended as an Apixaban for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (TA275) option for preventing stroke and systemic embolism for people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who have 1 or more risk factors for stroke. 4.15 The Committee noted that in the manufacturer's model dabigatran and rivaroxaban had higher ICERs compared with warfarin than the ICER for apixaban compared with warfarin. In addition, in the incremental analysis dabigatran 110 mg twice daily was dominated by the dabigatran blend and the dabigatran blend and rivaroxaban were extendedly dominated by apixaban. However, the Committee was concerned that there was considerable uncertainty about the relative treatment effects and cost effectiveness of apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran arising from differences in the baseline characteristics of the people included in the trials and the relative treatment effects attributed to the individual anticoagulants that informed the network meta-analysis. The Committee concluded that there was insufficient evidence to distinguish between the cost effectiveness of apixaban, dabigatran and rivaroxaban at this time. 4.16 Finally, the Committee concluded that the decision about whether to start treatment with apixaban should be made after an informed discussion between the clinician and the person about the risks and benefits of apixaban compared with warfarin, dabigatran and rivaroxaban. For people who are taking warfarin, the potential risks and benefits of switching to apixaban should be considered in light of their level
