Dilated Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, dilated, dilated cardiomyopathy, patients, heart, ventricular, cardiac, failure, causes, cause, left, myocarditis, heart failure, receptor, disease


Dilated cardiomyopathy is myocardial dysfunction causing heart failure in which ventricular dilation and systolic dysfunction predominate. Symptoms include dyspnea, fatigue, and peripheral edema. Diagnosis is clinical and by elevated natriuretic peptides, chest x-ray, echocardiography, and MRI. Treatment is directed at the cause. Standard heart failure treatment measures are used (eg, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, aldosterone receptor blockers, angiotensin II receptor blockers, ARNI [angiotensin II receptor blocker and neprilysin inhibitor], sodium glucose cotransporter 2 protein [SGLT2] inhibitors, hydralazine/nitrates, diuretics, digoxin). If heart failure is progressive and severe, cardiac resynchronization therapy, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, repair of moderate to severe valvular regurgitation, left ventricular assist device, or heart transplantation may be needed. A cardiomyopathy is a primary disorder of the heart muscle (see also Overview of Cardiomyopathies). Dilated cardiomyopathy can develop at any age but is more common in adults younger than about 50 years of age. About 10% of people who develop dilated cardiomyopathy are older than 65. In the United States, the disorder occurs in 3 times as many males than in females and in twice as many people of African ancestry compared with White people (1). About 5 to 6 of every 100,000 people develop the disorder each year. Pathophysiology of Dilated Cardiomyopathy As a primary myocardial disorder, the myocardial dysfunction of dilated cardiomyopathy occurs in the absence of other disorders that can cause dilated myocardium, such as severe occlusive coronary artery disease or conditions that involve pressure or volume overload of the ventricle (eg, hypertension, valvular heart disease). In some patients, dilated cardiomyopathy is believed to start with acute myocarditis (probably viral in most cases), followed by a variable latent phase, a phase with diffuse necrosis of myocardial myocytes (due to an autoimmune reaction to virus-altered myocytes), and chronic fibrosis. Regardless of the cause, the myocardium dilates, thins, and hypertrophies in compensation (see figure Forms of Cardiomyopathy), often leading to functional mitral regurgitation and/or tricuspid regurgitation and atrial dilation. The disorder affects both ventricles in most patients, only the left ventricle (LV) in a few, and only the right ventricle (RV) rarely. Mural thrombi may form due to stasis of blood once chamber dilation and dysfunction are significant. Cardiac tachyarrhythmias often complicate the acute myocarditis and late chronic dilated phases as may atrioventricular block. Atrial fibrillation commonly occurs as the left atrium dilates. Etiology of Dilated Cardiomyopathy Dilated cardiomyopathy has many known and probably many unidentified causes (see table Causes
