Dilated Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, dilated, dilated cardiomyopathy, patients, heart, ventricular, cardiac, failure, causes, cause, left, myocarditis, heart failure, receptor, disease


pheochromocytoma, adrenal tumors, thyroid tumors) Symptoms and Signs of Dilated Cardiomyopathy Onset of dilated cardiomyopathy is usually gradual except in acute myocarditis, acute apical ballooning cardiomyopathy, and tachyarrhythmia-induced cardiomyopathy. About 25% of all patients with dilated cardiomyopathy have atypical chest pain. Other symptoms depend on which ventricle is affected. Left ventricular dysfunction causes exertional dyspnea and fatigue due to elevated left ventricular diastolic pressure and low cardiac output. Right ventricular failure causes peripheral edema and neck vein distention. Infrequently the right ventricle is predominantly affected in younger patients, and atrial arrhythmias and sudden death due to malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias are typical. Diagnosis of Dilated Cardiomyopathy Chest x-ray ECG Echocardiography Cardiac MRI Endomyocardial biopsy (selected cases) Testing for cause as indicated Diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy is by history, physical examination, and exclusion of other common causes of ventricular failure (eg, systemic hypertension, primary valvular disorders, myocardial infarction—see table Diagnosis and Treatment of Cardiomyopathies). Particularly in cases of dilated cardiomyopathy without a clear cause, a careful family history should be taken to identify family members with possible early-onset heart disease, heart failure, or sudden death. In many centers, first- degree family members are screened for cardiac dysfunction (such as with echocardiography). Because 5/10 other common causes of ventricular failure must be excluded, chest x-ray, ECG, echocardiography, and cardiac MRI are required. Endomyocardial biopsy is done in selected cases. Serum cardiac biomarkers are measured if acute symptoms or chest pain is present. Although typically indicative of coronary ischemia, troponin elevation often occurs in heart failure, especially if renal function is decreased. Serum natriuretic peptide levels are typically elevated when heart failure is present. Specific causes suspected clinically are diagnosed (see elsewhere in THE MANUAL). If no specific cause is clinically apparent, serum ferritin and iron-binding capacity and thyroid-stimulating hormone levels are measured. Serologic tests for Toxoplasma, T. cruzi, coxsackievirus, HIV, and echovirus may be done in appropriate cases. Chest x-ray shows cardiomegaly, usually of all chambers. Pleural effusion, particularly on the right, often accompanies increased pulmonary venous pressure and interstitial edema. Dilated Cardiomyopathy (Chest X-Ray) The ECG may show sinus tachycardia and nonspecific ST-segment depression with low voltage or inverted T waves. Sometimes pathologic Q waves are present in the precordial leads, simulating previous myocardial infarction. Left bundle branch block and atrial fibrillation are common. Echocardiography shows dilated, hypokinetic cardiac chambers and rules out primary valvular disorders. Segmental wall motion abnormalities can also
