Dilated Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, dilated, dilated cardiomyopathy, patients, heart, ventricular, cardiac, failure, causes, cause, left, myocarditis, heart failure, receptor, disease


than patients with ischemic heart disease, but more recent data do not support this difference, especially in view of changes in drug regiments over the years (1). Special precautions are needed in the treatment of peripartum cardiomyopathy. Many medications (eg, ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers) should be avoided during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. In addition, these medications are not recommended for women who are breastfeeding. Prophylactic oral anticoagulation has been used in the past to prevent mural thrombus in other forms of cardiomyopathy. The use of anticoagulants for patients with reduced left ventricular function and in sinus rhythm remains controversial, and anticoagulant use in this situation is not routine. Warfarin or a direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) is recommended when a specific indication is present (eg, previous cerebrovascular embolism, identified cardiac thrombus, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter). Both the American Heart Association and European Society of Cardiology Guidelines recommend considering anticoagulation therapy in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy who have very low ejection fractions given the risk of a hypercoagulable state during pregnancy (2, 3). Low molecular weight heparin has been used. Warfarin and direct-acting oral anticoagulants, however, should not be used during certain stages of pregnancy due to fetal risk. Medical treatment of heart failure reduces risk of arrhythmia, but an implantable cardioverter- defibrillator may be used to prevent death due to sudden arrhythmia in patients who continue to have a reduced ejection fraction despite optimal medical therapy. Because atrioventricular (AV) block during acute myocarditis often resolves, a permanent pacemaker is usually not needed acutely. However, a permanent pacemaker may be required if AV block persists or develops during the chronic dilated phase. If patients have a widened QRS interval with a low left ventricular ejection fraction and severe symptoms despite optimal medical treatment, cardiac resynchronization therapy should be considered. Patients with refractory heart failure despite treatment may become candidates for heart transplantation. Selection criteria include absence of associated systemic disorders and psychologic disorders and high, irreversible pulmonary vascular resistance; because donor hearts are scarce, younger patients (usually < 70 years) are given higher priority. Left ventricular assist devices (LVAD) may also be considered as a bridge to heart transplantation or as destination therapy in some patients (eg, patients who are not eligible for heart transplantation). Prognosis for Dilated Cardiomyopathy Prognosis for dilated cardiomyopathy generally has been poor, although prognosis has improved with current management regimens
