Dilated Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, dilated, dilated cardiomyopathy, patients, heart, ventricular, cardiac, failure, causes, cause, left, myocarditis, heart failure, receptor, disease


patients (eg, patients who are not eligible for heart transplantation). Prognosis for Dilated Cardiomyopathy Prognosis for dilated cardiomyopathy generally has been poor, although prognosis has improved with current management regimens (eg, use of beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers [ARB], angiotensin II receptor blocker and neprilysin inhibitor [ARNI], mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, sodium glucose cotransporter 2 protein (SGLT2) inhibitors, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, or cardiac resynchronization therapy). About 20% of patients die in the first year and then about 10%/year thereafter; about 40 to 50% of deaths are sudden, due to a malignant arrhythmia (1). Prognosis is better for females than for males, and people of African ancestry survive about half as long as White people (1). Prognosis is better if compensatory hypertrophy preserves ventricular wall thickness and is worse if ventricular walls thin markedly and the ventricle dilates. Patients whose dilated cardiomyopathy is well- compensated with treatment may be stable for many years. Key Points In dilated cardiomyopathy, the myocardium dilates, thins, and hypertrophies. Causes include infection (commonly viral), toxins, and metabolic, genetic, or systemic rheumatic disorders. Do chest x-ray, ECG, echocardiography, and cardiac MRI to evaluate extent of disease and endomyocardial biopsy in selected patients. 9/10 Look for other causes of heart failure. Treat primary cause if possible and use standard heart failure treatment measures (eg, angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, beta-blockers, aldosterone receptor blockers, angiotensin II receptor blockers, ARNI [angiotensin II receptor blocker and neprilysin inhibitor], sodium glucose cotransporter 2 protein (SGLT2) inhibitors, hydralazine/nitrates, diuretics, digoxin, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, and/or cardiac resynchronization therapy). Use oral anticoagulants and immunosuppressants in selected patients.
