Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


33–1 CHAPTER 33 PSYCHIATRIC AND PSYCHOSOCIAL ISSUES AMONG INDIVIDUALS LIVING WITH DIABETES Jeffrey S. Gonzalez, PhD, Korey K. Hood, PhD, Sabrina A. Esbitt, PhD, Shamik Mukherji, MD, Naomi S. Kane, MA, and Alan Jacobson, MD Dr. Jeffrey S. Gonzalez is Associate Professor of Psychology at the Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology, Yeshiva University, and Associate Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology & Population Health at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY. Dr. Korey K. Hood is Professor of Pediatrics and Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA. Dr. Sabrina A. Esbitt is Senior Psychosocial Faculty in the Department of Family and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY. Dr. Shamik Mukherji is Chief Resident, Department of Psychiatry, Zucker Hillside Hospital, Northwell Health, Glen Oaks, NY. Ms. Naomi S. Kane is a graduate student in the Clinical Psychology (Health Emphasis) PhD Program of Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology, Yeshiva University, Bronx, NY. Dr. Alan Jacobson is Chief Research Officer at Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY, and Emeritus Professor of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Received in final form April 7, 2015. SUMMARY Research interest in psychiatric and psychosocial aspects of diabetes care has grown exponentially since Diabetes in America, 2nd edition. Epidemiologic data have accumulated to consistently demonstrate elevations in the prevalence of several psychiatric disorders, as well as subclinical elevations in emotional distress, among individuals living with diabetes. The literature is most developed for depres­ sion, where studies indicate between 1.2 and 1.6 times higher prevalence of major depressive disorder among adults diagnosed with type 2 diabetes compared to those without diabetes. Data suggest a bidirectional relationship: depression symptoms predict the onset of type 2 diabetes, and the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes is associated with increased depressive symptoms over time, with the first direc­ tional effect appearing to be more robust than the second. Evidence is less supportive of higher prevalence of depression in adults and youth with type 1 diabetes. Risk for depression is related to severity of illness, functional limitations, comorbidity, and treatment burden. Although relatively fewer studies are available, prevalence of anxiety disorders is also between 1.1 and 1.4 times greater among adults with diabetes. Eating disorders appear to be between 1.9 and 3.1 times more prevalent among adolescent females with type 1 diabetes than those without diabetes, although few studies are available. Serious mental illness (i.e., Schizophrenia) is associated
