Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


between 1.9 and 3.1 times more prevalent among adolescent females with type 1 diabetes than those without diabetes, although few studies are available. Serious mental illness (i.e., Schizophrenia) is associated with between 1.5 and 2.5 times increased risk for development of type 2 diabetes, most likely through exposure to psychotropic medications and shared environmental and behavioral risk factors. The presence of psychiatric comorbidity, especially depression, which is often comorbid with other psychiatric conditions, has been consistently associated with medication non adherence, sub-optimal glycemic control, and development of diabetes-related complica­ tions. The mechanisms to explain these relationships remain poorly understood. Depression, anxiety, and eating disorders could affect health outcomes through biologic (e.g., hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysregulation) and/or behavioral (e.g., treatment nonadher­ ence) pathways. However, confounding is possible due to overlap with symptoms of diabetes and comorbid illness, along with shared relationships with socioeconomic and other background variables that may also explain noncausal association. Emotional distress that does not reach thresholds for a psychiatric diagnosis also appears to be quite common in individuals living with diabetes. These psychosocial issues are more prevalent than true psychiatric conditions and are often more closely related to diabetes-related stressors and outcomes. Longitudinal and intervention studies, mostly focused on depression, do not generally support the expectation that improvement in psychiatric conditions or emotional distress per se would reliably lead to better glycemic control. However, too few high-quality studies are available for this evidence to be conclusive. To have the strongest impact on advancing this field and guiding decisions about patient care, future studies need to be more rigorous in differentiating among psychiatric conditions, elevations in levels of emotional distress, and psychosocial difficulties specific to the burdens of diabetes and its treatment. These studies should also directly evaluate explanatory mechanisms that link these constructs to diabetes health outcomes. Comprehensive approaches to patient-centered care are needed to better understand how to maximize the benefits of intensive treatment for both psychosocial and health outcomes of diabetes care. 33–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION The following sections review evidence for the prevalence of psychiatric and psycho­ social issues among adults and children with diabetes. Within each section, findings linking illness- and patient-level factors to variations in prevalence are reviewed, important measurement issues are discussed, and evidence linking psychiatric and psychosocial issues to diabetes health outcomes is consid­ ered. Evidence for causal pathways and treatment outcomes is reviewed, when available. The first
