Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


issues are discussed, and evidence linking psychiatric and psychosocial issues to diabetes health outcomes is consid­ ered. Evidence for causal pathways and treatment outcomes is reviewed, when available. The first section is the most detailed because much more research is available on major depressive disorder, depressive symptoms, and emotional distress, relative to other psychiatric and psychosocial issues. This is also the area of research that is most developed in regard to measurement issues, potential causal pathways, and treatment. Much of the information discussed in this section is relevant to issues discussed later in the chapter. DEPRESSIVE DISORDERS, DEPRESSIVE SYMPTOMS, AND DIABETES-RELATED DISTRESS OVERVIEW AND DEFINITIONS Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious psychiatric condition that affects approximately 6.9% of U.S. adults over a 12-month period (1). MDD is char­ acterized by symptomatic episodes of at least 2-weeks duration that include either marked loss of interest or pleasure and/or depressed mood, along with several other somatic, psychological, and cognitive symptoms—appetite disturbance or weight loss, insomnia/ hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation/ retardation, fatigue, feelings of guilt and worthlessness, diminished concentration, and recurrent suicidal ideation. MDD, as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) of the American Psychiatric Association (2), informs most research on depression in diabetes. Dysthymia is a less severe but more chronic presentation of depressive symptoms (duration of at least 2 years); it affects far fewer individ­ uals, with a 12-month prevalence of 1.5% (3). Elevations in depressive symptoms, which are often measured by self-report scales that mix MDD symptoms with various symptoms of emotional distress, are a third construct reported in this literature. Elevated depressive symptoms do not necessarily indicate the presence of a psychiatric disorder and may be more reflective of emotional distress related to various life stressors (4). Finally, diabetes-related distress, which is concep­ tualized as emotional distress that relates specifically to the burden of living with diabetes and its management, empha­ sizes the situational context of diabetes to explain the occurrence of distress and is not a psychiatric condition (5,6). Though these are separate constructs, they share considerable conceptual and measure­ ment overlap. PREVALENCE AND COURSE MDD is significantly more prevalent in patients with chronic illness (7), and available research has shown a consistent pattern of increased risk for depression in individuals with diabetes. For example, a widely cited meta-analysis of controlled (i.e., included a nondiabetic comparison group) and uncontrolled studies found
