Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


Further complicating data on the prev­ alence of depression in diabetes is the strong possibility that depression evalua­ tions can be biased by emotional distress that is specific to the stress of diabetes and its management, conceptualized as diabetes-related distress (5,6). Although few epidemiologic studies have attempted to compare prevalence rates of depres­ sion and diabetes-related distress, data from a multinational study of 8,596 adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes showed that 33–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition across 17 countries, 13.8% of participants screened positive for depression (19% in the United States) and 44.6% had signifi­ cant diabetes-related distress (28% in the United States) (16). Thus, MDD prevalence appears to be significantly elevated in diabetes, but subthreshold depressive symptoms and diabetes distress far exceed prevalence of MDD. MDD is frequently conceptualized as having a relapsing-remitting course. Approximately 50%–85% of people who meet criteria for a major depressive episode will experience a second episode within their lifetime (17,18). A similar recur­ ring course has been found in diabetes. For example, approximately 80% of a small sample of adults with MDD and type 2 diabetes who successfully responded to depression treatment experienced a relapse of MDD over 5 years, with nearly 60% experiencing recurrence within the first year (19). Prior history of MDD raises risk for subsequent episodes in individuals with diabetes. In an ethnically diverse sample of adults with type 2 diabetes, those who did not meet diagnostic criteria for MDD at baseline, but had a prior life­ time episode of MDD, were more than four times more likely to develop MDD over 18 months of follow-up compared to those who did not have prior episodes (20). Similarly, a prospective survey of patients with type 2 diabetes showed a strong relationship between baseline depressive symptoms and risk for screening positive 5 years later; those who screened positive at baseline were more than 11 times more likely to screen positive at year 5 (21). Other data suggest that depressive symptoms and diabetes distress, and not MDD per se, may be particularly enduring. In a three-wave longitudinal study (baseline, 9 months, 18 months) of 508 adults with type 2 diabetes, approx­ imately 11% met diagnostic criteria for MDD at baseline and 19.8% on at least one of three waves of follow-up. Of those who had MDD at one wave, 28% continued to meet criteria for MDD at the next assessment;
