Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


and 19.8% on at least one of three waves of follow-up. Of those who had MDD at one wave, 28% continued to meet criteria for MDD at the next assessment; 14% of those with MDD at two waves also met criteria at a third (11). Elevations in depressive symptoms were more common and much more persistent: 76% of those with elevated depressive symptoms at one time point reported elevations at another, and 77% of these also scored similarly at a third wave. Of those with high diabetes-related distress at one time point, 50% had high diabetes distress at the second time point, and 86% of these had high diabetes distress at the third wave (11). Illness Factors Related to Prevalence Although studies focusing on depres­ sion prevalence in type 1 diabetes are less common than in type 2 diabetes, evidence suggests that depression eleva­ tions in type 1 diabetes may be more modest. A systematic review of depres­ sion prevalence studies in adults with type 1 diabetes found insufficient evidence to conclude that depression was more prev­ alent than in well-matched controls (10). Data from the T1D Exchange, including 6,172 adults with type 1 diabetes from across the United States, showed that 4.6% met symptom criteria for major depressive episode based on self-report, and 10.3% reached the screening cutoff (Table 33.3) (22). Although the sample may not be representative of the popu­ lation of adults with type 1 diabetes, population-based BRFSS data from 2006 also suggest that prevalence of depres­ sion is lower in adults with type 1 diabetes than in those with type 2 diabetes. This difference is particularly marked when comparing to type 2 diabetes patients on insulin, who likely have greater disease and treatment burdens associated with more advanced illness, than to type 2 patients not taking insulin (Table 33.1) (14). Other studies show that more intensive treatment (i.e., prescription of insulin) is associated with increased risk of depression and diabetes distress in adults with type 2 diabetes compared to those taking oral medications or whose diabetes is managed with lifestyle changes (12,14,23,24). The primary comparisons for youth with type 1 diabetes have been to youth without diabetes or normative data. Several studies suggest prevalence of depression that is two to three times that of the general population (25,26,27). However, meta-analysis of the wider liter­ ature indicates that differences are often amplified by disparities in comparison group
