Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


over the prior 2 weeks were more common among adults with longer diabetes duration, higher body mass index (BMI), who had experienced diabetes complications, prior severe hypoglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), and poor glycemic control (Table 33.3) (22). These findings highlight the likely important role of health, somatic complaints, and functional impairments in explaining increased prevalence of depression in diabetes. Patient Factors Related to Prevalence Data from the BRFSS 2006 show that prevalence of self-reported depressive symptoms in adults with diabetes was low at age 18–29 years, increased at age 30–39 years, and decreased steadily after age 40 years (Table 33.1) (14). National data show that diagnosed diabetes is most robustly associated with increased symptoms of depression among younger adults and is not significantly associated with increased depression among those age >75 years (43). A negative linear trend for depressive symptoms and diabe­ tes-related distress with increasing age was also found in a sample of adults with type 2 diabetes (44). Among adults with type 2 diabetes who did not meet criteria Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes 33–9 for MDD at baseline, younger age was significantly associated with increased risk of developing MDD over time in another study (20). A similar negative relationship between adult age and self-reported depressive symptoms has been observed in the general population (15). Women are generally at increased risk for depression relative to men, and this pattern is also observed in patients with diabetes (Tables 33.1, 33.3, and 33.6) (8,9,12,13,14,22,45). This is consis­ tent with the general population (15). Depression may also be more common among pregnant women with diabetes relative to pregnant women without diabetes. A retrospective cohort study of over 11,000 predominantly low-income women found that depression during or after pregnancy was reported by 15% of women with prepregnancy or gestational diabetes and 8.5% of those without diabetes (46). BRFSS 2006 data showed substan­ tial variation by race/ethnicity in the prevalence of likely major depressive episode. Compared with non-Hispanic whites (9.5%), non-Hispanic blacks (5.6%), Hispanics (5.4%), and Asians (1.1%) each had significantly lower rates of likely major depressive episode, whereas American Indians/Alaska Natives (27.8%) had a much higher rate than any other group (Table 33.1) (14). Other studies have shown that racial minorities with diabetes report depressive symptoms at rates above those found in whites (47,48). Hispanics have been found more likely to report higher levels of depressive symp­ toms
