Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


that racial minorities with diabetes report depressive symptoms at rates above those found in whites (47,48). Hispanics have been found more likely to report higher levels of depressive symp­ toms compared with non-Hispanic whites and blacks (45,46,47,48,49). U.S. data from the Diabetes Attitudes, Wishes, and Needs Second Study (DAWN2) of over 1,000 adults with diabetes showed that ethnic minorities tended to have better indicators of general emotional well­ being but had significantly higher levels of diabetes distress than non-Hispanic whites (49). Whereas national data from the NHIS 1999 did not show an indepen­ dent relationship between race/ethnicity and prevalence of MDD, individuals living at <124% of the federal poverty level had significantly increased prevalence (Table 33.6) (13). Data from the T1D Exchange suggest that Hispanics, those without private health insurance, those with a lower household income and a lower education level, and those who are living alone are all at increased risk for depres­ sive symptoms (Table 33.3) (22). MEASUREMENT ISSUES Accurate assessment of depression in diabetes is challenging, and this has limited progress in the literature. An important consideration in evaluating evidence linking diabetes and psychiatric conditions is that somatic symptoms and emotional experiences, often included in measures used to assess psychopa­ thology, are common aspects of living with a chronic illness. Confounding of MDD symptoms and somatic symptoms known to be associated with diabetes, such as fatigue, appetite disturbance, and disrupted sleep, complicates the diagnosis of MDD in patients with diabetes and may lead to misdiagnosis (50). Findings from a population-based, representative study of German adults underscore the problem of overlap between somatic symptoms associ­ ated with both depression and poorly controlled diabetes. Among approxi­ mately 15,000 participants, prevalence of diabetes increased linearly with increasing depression-screening score. However, when these scores were analyzed based on somatic versus cognitive-affective symptom components, a significant differ­ ence between those with and without diabetes was found only for somatic symptoms. An item-level analysis showed that significant differences were limited to symptoms of fatigue, appetite disturbance, and psychomotor changes (51). In a new analysis of data from NHANES 2005– 2010 for Diabetes in America, a MDD symptom-level analysis showed a much more consistent pattern of significance for all MDD symptoms when comparing those with clinically identified diabetes to those with normal glucose metabolism (Table 33.5). Multiple factors, such as greater severity of functional limitations and perceptions of illness burden, may contribute to the
