Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


with clinically identified diabetes to those with normal glucose metabolism (Table 33.5). Multiple factors, such as greater severity of functional limitations and perceptions of illness burden, may contribute to the differences between these samples, and further research into symptom patterns is warranted. A meta-analysis of prospective studies on cognitive-affective versus somatic symptoms as predictors of cardiovascular outcomes in patients with heart disease underscores the importance of this distinction. In minimally adjusted anal­ yses, both dimensions were significantly associated with an increased hazard for worsening prognosis. However, in fully adjusted analyses, somatic symptoms remained significantly associated with worse prognosis (hazard ratio [HR] 1.19, 95% CI 1.10–1.29), but cognitive-affective symptoms did not (HR 1.04, 95% CI 0.97– 1.12) (52). The authors are not aware of similar analyses in diabetes. Fisher and colleagues have published several studies suggesting that diabetes- related distress—emotional distress that arises from the difficulties of living with and managing diabetes—may be more closely related to problems with diabetes treatment adherence and worse diabetes control than clinical depression per se (53,54,55). However, others have suggested that either depressive symp­ toms primarily (56) or both depressive symptoms and diabetes-related distress (57) have independent relationships to diabetes self-management. Furthermore, even during structured clinical interviews for depression, adults with type 1 and type 2 diabetes often explain their symp­ toms as being caused by diabetes or its treatment (58,59). Thus, there appears to be substantial overlap between depressive symptoms and diabetes-related distress. For the above reasons, it is important to recognize that self-report screening measures for MDD will result in frequent false positives. For example, a review of 234 studies using depression-screening instruments in adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes found that prevalence esti­ mates varied widely within and across instruments, and positive predictive values ranged from 23% to 56% (60). One study using a widely used self-report questionnaire to screen for depression in adults with type 2 diabetes showed that 33–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition approximately 70% of those who screened positive did not meet criteria for MDD or dysthymia based on a semi-structured interview (53). In a study of 368 adults with type 1 diabetes (61), depression screening questionnaires were scored by more and less conservative cutoffs for caseness. These results were then compared to depression diagnosis, based on structured interview. Similar to results from the Diabetes in America analysis of NHANES 2005–2010 data (Table 33.2), the prevalence
