Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


caseness. These results were then compared to depression diagnosis, based on structured interview. Similar to results from the Diabetes in America analysis of NHANES 2005–2010 data (Table 33.2), the prevalence of a positive screening result was 11.4%, but self-reported symptom patterns consistent with major depressive episode were much lower, at 4.6%. The prevalence of MDD diagnosed by structured interview was lower still, at 3.5%. Depending on the screening crite­ rion, 52%–71% of positive screening cases were false positives (61). Regardless of method of classification, more than 90% of those identified as depression cases also reported elevated diabetes distress. Thus, a positive screening result cannot be equated with meeting criteria for a psychi­ atric disorder and may share considerable overlap with diabetes-related distress. Reliance on screening measures to iden­ tify cases of depression likely contributes to conflicting findings in the literature. The ambiguities relating to depression screening in diabetes raise challenges for the implementation of self-report-based screening programs in clinical practice. Further assessment will be needed to correctly distinguish between true posi­ tives and false positives. ASSOCIATION WITH DIABETES TREATMENT OUTCOMES Meta-analysis has previously demon­ strated consistent relationships between depression and poor glycemic control in type 1 and type 2 diabetes (Table 33.7) (62). However, most subsequent studies that examined changes in depression and glycemic control over time failed to find significant relationships (Table 33.8) (54,57,63,64,65). Thus, there is reason for caution in assuming a particular direction of causal influence for the frequently observed association between depression and poor glycemic control in diabetes. In a new analysis for Diabetes in America, data from NHANES 2005–2010 suggest that depression prevalence was generally highest among those with A1c ≥9.0% (≥75 mmol/mol); prevalence was generally lowest for those with A1c 7.0%–8.0% (53–64 mmol/mol) (Table 33.2). Research suggests that diabetes-related emotional distress, and not depression per se, may be more closely associated with glycemic control over time (54,57). A meta-analysis showed consistent rela­ tions between depression severity and diabetes complications, although available studies were cross-sectional (Table 33.9) (66). Subsequent longitudinal studies have consistently found depression to predict the onset of complications, including diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy, neurop­ athy, macrovascular disease, sexual dysfunction, and foot ulcers (Table 33.10) (67,68,69,70,71,72). Review of findings in this table suggests that a variety of depression measures have been shown to be associated with complication incidence, even measures that capture elevations in depressive symptoms that are unlikely to indicate presence of psychopathology.
