Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


perspec­ tive (106). Though plausible, there is currently insufficient evidence for this full pathway. Although the above explanatory mechanisms are often discussed in the literature, they are rarely directly tested, and no study has compre­ hensively evaluated pathways for the link between depression or emotional distress and glycemic control. Furthermore, well-designed intervention studies that have been successful in reducing depressive symptom severity and diabetes distress have had no impact on self-management, treat­ ment adherence, and/or A1c, raising questions about the causal nature of these relationships (107,108,109; see the following section Treatment and Intervention). Moreover, evidence suggests that somatic symptoms that overlap with MDD symptom criteria may differ from cognitive-affective symptoms. Depression has been conceptualized along the lines of these distinct symptom profiles in cardio­ vascular disease research, where a cognitive-affective depression subtype is thought to be marked by psycho­ social vulnerability (e.g., poor coping, neurotic personality, emotional reac­ tivity) and a somatic-affective subtype is characterized by vascular disease— atherosclerosis, inflammation markers, sickness behavior, and dysregulation of HPA processes (15,110). Causal mechanisms linking these symptom presentations to poor diabetes outcomes may be distinct. Correlational data linking depression and poor diabetes outcomes should be interpreted alongside a general lack of evidence for a link between depres­ sion and either undiagnosed diabetes or impaired glucose metabolism. It is currently unclear whether depression is significantly elevated in type 1 diabetes. Depression appears to mostly be asso­ ciated with diagnosed type 2 diabetes and is more common among patients with complications and comorbidity. Type 2 diabetes seems to increase risk for depression only when it is diagnosed during middle adulthood, rather than in older age, when experience with chronic illness is more common and, perhaps, when management is less disruptive to important life roles. Depressive symptoms also significantly predict the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, perhaps through overlap with somatic symptoms of illness, sedentary lifestyle, or through increased contact with health care providers. Depressive symptoms also overlap with emotional distress that is specific to facing the existential threat and coping with the challenges of managing Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes 33–15 diabetes. Depression could plausibly affect outcomes of diabetes care, through poor self-management or biologic path­ ways, but evidence is not conclusive. Complications and worsening health associated with diabetes and comorbid illness could have a reverse causal role in increasing depression. Noncausal asso­ ciation is also possible through shared relationships with
