Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


conclusive. Complications and worsening health associated with diabetes and comorbid illness could have a reverse causal role in increasing depression. Noncausal asso­ ciation is also possible through shared relationships with factors that may be more common in both depression and diabetes: disparities in health care access and quality, sedentary lifestyle, lower socioeconomic status, unemployment, multiple comorbidities, lower quality of life, and the experience of chronic stress (35,47). Such noncausal associations would nevertheless support the need for coordination of care, given the close links among emotional distress and illness and treatment characteristics and diabetes health outcomes. TREATMENT AND INTERVENTION Numerous treatment studies for depres­ sion in adults with diabetes have been conducted (111,112). These interventions have included psychological treatments, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), pharmacological treatments, and combined approaches. Although overall these interventions have shown success in reducing the severity of depression, effects on glycemic control and treatment adherence have been less consistent. Two meta-analyses of this literature have concluded that psychotherapeutic, pharmacological, and combined approaches generally have consistently significant effects on depres­ sion amelioration in adults with diabetes (113,114). One early trial of CBT for depression reported a significant effect on glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes; but glucose self-monitoring significantly decreased in the interven­ tion group (115). Subsequent studies’ effects on glycemic control have been modest and highly variable, although antidepressant trials (n=5) of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have gener­ ally found significant improvements in glycemic control, with little heteroge­ neity in effect sizes (standardized mean difference -0.38, 95% CI -0.64 to -0.12) (114). However, three of these trials produced glycemic benefits without a significant impact on depression severity (116,117,118), one had a significant impact on depression without an impact on glycemic control (119), and only one had a significant impact on both (120), leaving in doubt the question of whether glycemic improvements were due to change in depression per se. It is important to note the limitations of the trials included in these meta-analyses before drawing general conclusions. Of the 18 trials included in the most recent meta-analysis (114), 15 had 60 or fewer total participants; one trial with 120 participants included patients with depression and/or anxiety (121). Several trials in adults with type 2 diabetes with relatively larger sample sizes (n=329–417) have tested collab­ orative care interventions comprised of pharmacological and psychological treatment components; these have all failed to demonstrate a significant impact on glycemic
