Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


with relatively larger sample sizes (n=329–417) have tested collab­ orative care interventions comprised of pharmacological and psychological treatment components; these have all failed to demonstrate a significant impact on glycemic control, despite significant improvement in depression (122,123,124). Other relatively larger trials testing a variety of behavioral or pharmacological interventions for depression in adults with diabetes have also failed to demon­ strate impacts on glycemic control, despite showing significant improve­ ments in depression symptom severity (125,126,127). Many of these trials used screening measures to identify cases for treatment. Evidence reviewed above suggests that most enrolled participants would be false positives for MDD. Data from available depression treatment trials in diabetes suggest that the treat­ ment of depression may be necessary, but not sufficient, to improve glycemic control or self-management in adults with diabetes (109,122,123,124). To impact depressive symptoms and medical outcomes, a more holistic, integrative approach may be needed (108,128,129). One intervention that successfully impacted depression severity, medication adherence, and glycemic control in a small trial of adults with type 2 diabetes and MDD achieved these effects via integration of CBT for depression with review of glucose meter downloads and electronically recorded medication adherence over time. Thus, it is difficult to ascribe glycemic benefits to depression treatment alone. In fact, depression reduc­ tions were lost at follow-up with continued maintenance of self-management and glycemic control benefits (130). Diabetes distress was directly targeted in a trial of 392 adults with type 2 diabetes. Results suggested that diabetes distress decreased over time, with a general lack of differential effects for behavioral interventions of varying degrees of inten­ sity. Post hoc analyses suggested that participants who at baseline were high in distress related to their treatment regimen, a specific aspect of diabetes distress, were more likely to benefit from interven­ tion when assigned to receive a behavioral intervention focused on problem-solving skills. Diet, physical activity, medication adherence, and A1c were not differentially affected by intervention assignment (107). Another relatively strong trial randomized 214 mostly poorly controlled adults with type 2 diabetes with elevated depressive symptoms to an active control group receiving diabetes education or to a CBT intervention, which focused on amelio­ ration of diabetes-related distress as a key topic. At 12-months post-intervention, those assigned to receive CBT had a significantly greater reduction of depres­ sive symptoms and diabetes distress, as well as a 37% reduced incidence of likely major depressive episode. General wellbeing,
