Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


assigned to receive CBT had a significantly greater reduction of depres­ sive symptoms and diabetes distress, as well as a 37% reduced incidence of likely major depressive episode. General wellbeing, diabetes self-care behaviors, acceptance of diabetes, and A1c did not differ between groups. Furthermore, no differences were found in indicators of subclinical inflammation (IL-1RA, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, IL-6, or total adiponectin) (131). Like most well-designed depression treatment trials, these studies suggest that behav­ ioral interventions can be helpful in ameliorating depressive symptoms and diabetes-related distress but do not indi­ cate that these changes reliably translate into significant benefits for A1c or that they result in changes in purported mech­ anisms linking emotional distress to poor 33–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition health outcomes in diabetes (i.e., diabetes self-management or inflammation). Few data are available on the best treat­ ment options for youth with diabetes. Several reports suggest CBT can be beneficial (132,133); however, much work remains to be done in this area. The Treatment of Adolescent Depression Study was the largest trial to date of options for the treatment of MDD in adolescents (134). While none of the adolescents had diabetes, results suggested that treatment combining antidepressant medication (fluoxetine) with CBT is more effective than either in isolation or placebo for short-term treatment of MDD in adolescents. ANXIETY DISORDERS, SYMPTOMS OF ANXIETY, FEAR OF HYPOGLYCEMIA, FEAR OF SELF-INJECTION OVERVIEW AND DEFINITIONS Various anxiety disorders are defined by the DSM-5 (2). These generally involve excessive fear or worry and symptoms of recurring intrusive thoughts or concerns, excessive avoidance behavior aimed at overly feared situations, and physical symptoms of hyperarousal. The preva­ lence of any anxiety disorder may be as high as 18.1%, including approximately 40 million U.S. adults (135). Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) involves intense and difficult-to-control worry about various issues in life and fears of unre­ alistic, worst-case scenarios. Symptoms of restlessness, fatigue, concentration difficulties, irritability, muscle tension, and sleep disturbance are also part of the diagnostic presentation. Twelve- month prevalence of GAD among adults is estimated at 3.1% (136). Panic Disorder affects approximately 2.7% of the U.S. population at least once within a 12-month period and is characterized by unexpected attacks of anxiety that peak in intensity relatively quickly and involve various symptoms of sympathetic nervous system arousal (137). Post- traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can develop after exposure to a life-threat­ ening or terrifying event involving potential for or
