Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


and involve various symptoms of sympathetic nervous system arousal (137). Post- traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can develop after exposure to a life-threat­ ening or terrifying event involving potential for or actual occurrence of serious harm. Individuals with PTSD experience frightening thoughts and memories of the event, may experience sleep problems, feel detached, or be easily startled, sometimes experiencing chronic hyperarousal. Approximately 3.5% of U.S. adults experience PTSD over a 12-month period (138). About 8.7% of U.S. adults meet criteria for a specific phobia, a marked and persistent fear and avoid­ ance of a specific object or situation, over a 12-month period (139). Along with these psychiatric disorders, diabetes-specific constructs related to anxiety have been examined in the literature. Some children and adults with diabetes can experience intense fear and worry about hypoglycemia or insulin self-injections that could meet criteria for a phobia diagnosis. Many more patients will experience anxiety over these issues that falls short of a diagnosis but that may nevertheless interfere with self-manage­ ment and cause distress. PREVALENCE Whereas there appears to be a higher prevalence of anxiety disorders in adults with diabetes than in the general population, prevalence estimates are not well established, and anxiety has received much less research attention than depression. The available estimates vary considerably, most probably due to differences in measurement methods and sampling. The BRFSS 2006 survey found the age-adjusted prevalence of lifetime diagnosis of an anxiety disorder was 19.5% in adults with self-reported, diagnosed diabetes and 10.9% in those without diabetes; people with diagnosed diabetes had a 20% higher lifetime odds than those without diabetes after adjusting for covari­ ates (Table 33.13) (140). However, results from this survey should be considered with caution in light of the use of a single item to assess participant-reported life­ time diagnosis of an anxiety disorder by health care professionals. Diabetes was also assessed by participant report of a diagnosis by a clinical care provider. Patients with diabetes were 50% more likely to have Panic Disorder and 30% more likely to have PTSD or social phobia than those without diabetes in the BRFSS 2006 (140). Fisher et al. found 85% higher rates of Panic Disorder and 123% higher rates of GAD, relative to national estimates, using structured clinical inter­ views (11). International data, based on structured clinical interviews to assess specific anxiety disorders and participant self-report to assess diagnosis of diabetes by a health care
