Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


studies where anxiety disorders were assessed. Unmarked studies evaluated elevated anxiety symptoms. SOURCE: Reference 148, copyright © 2013 Elsevier, reprinted with permission (Individual references shown in the figure are provided in Reference 148.) 33–18 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition review noted weaknesses of the literature, including varying and sometimes inade­ quate assessment methods for anxiety, failure to differentiate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes (most studies did not specify type), and inconsistent and often incomplete control for confounders (148). Thus, it appears likely that risk for anxiety is increased among adults living with diabetes, but better quality studies are needed to advance the understanding of this risk. Data on the prevalence of anxiety disorders in youth with diabetes are not available. However, surveys that capture symptoms of GAD (e.g., State-Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children) suggest that 17% have clinically elevated levels of anxiety symptoms (149). More attention to anxiety in children and adolescents with diabetes is warranted. Illness and Patient Factors Related to Prevalence Relative to the data available for depression, far less attention has been paid to the identification of risk factors for anxiety in individuals with diabetes. Nevertheless, diabetes may provide an important context for the evaluation of symptoms of anxiety in patients. Specific presentations of anxiety and fear that do not meet criteria for a psychiatric diagnosis may have important relationships to diabetes care. For example, one study found that approximately 9% of insulin-treated diabetes patients report self-injecting- related anxiety symptoms (150). Another study of type 1 and 2 diabetes patients found that 28% reported elevated injection anxiety scores on a self- report questionnaire, with half avoiding injections as a result (151). While the exact prevalence is unknown, fear of hypoglycemia is another common concern in patients taking insulin (152,153,154). Patients may try to avoid hypoglycemia and may prefer to keep blood glucose at high levels to avoid the risk of low blood sugars (154). Fear of hypoglycemia is often preceded by hypoglycemic experiences (154,155,156) and can reach levels of intensity that have led some investigators to draw parallels to PTSD. One study found that 25% of its sample of type 1 diabetes patients met criteria for PTSD related to hypoglycemia because of avoidance and intrusive thoughts related to hypoglycemia (157). Patients may also present with subclinical symptoms of anxiety related to hypoglycemia that may not represent a clinical disorder but may still negatively impact diabetes
