Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


thoughts related to hypoglycemia (157). Patients may also present with subclinical symptoms of anxiety related to hypoglycemia that may not represent a clinical disorder but may still negatively impact diabetes self- management (157,158). Epidemiologic data collected from adults suggest that diabetes is significantly more likely to be associated with lifetime diagnosis of an anxiety disorder in younger people (age 18–29 years) and in racial/ethnic minorities than their counterparts (Table 33.13) (140). Younger age was also found to be a significant risk factor for meeting diagnostic criteria for GAD, Panic Disorder, and comorbid MDD/GAD in adults with type 2 diabetes; female sex was associated with increased risk of Panic Disorder (11). MEASUREMENT ISSUES Similar to the issues discussed at length in the section on depression, the task of accurate assessment of problems with anxiety is complicated by the somatic burden of poorly controlled diabetes and overlap with emotional distress that is nonpathologic in the context of diabetes-related stressors (e.g., worry about complications, fear of hypoglycemia). On the other hand, problems with anxiety may be undertreated or misdiagnosed because they may resemble physiologic changes associated with hypoglycemic episodes, for example (152,159,160). Both patients and clinicians may have difficulty distinguishing between hypoglycemia and anxiety symptoms, such as dizziness, shakiness, lack of coordination, and heart palpitations. These issues have mostly not been addressed in the available literature on anxiety disorders and diabetes. In addition, anxiety disorders often co-occur with other psychiatric disorders—the comorbidity between anxiety and depression, for example, appears to be higher in people with diabetes than in the general population (11). Given their symptom overlap, it is perhaps not surprising that MDD and GAD co-occur more often than they occur in isolation. ASSOCIATION WITH DIABETES TREATMENT OUTCOMES Findings on the relationship between anxiety and diabetes have been mixed: among adults with type 2 diabetes, anxiety has been associated with the somatic burden of diabetes (e.g., fatigue, appetite, autonomic arousal) and lifetime hypoglycemia, but inconsistently with A1c, among individuals with and without diagnosed diabetes (161,162,163). Symptoms of anxiety appear to be associated with problems with disease management, worse clinical outcomes, and decreased functioning and quality of life. Meta-analysis of 11 studies found that overall the relationship between anxiety and hyperglycemia was not significant (p=0.19); but for the few studies (k=3) that used diagnostic interviews to assess anxiety, the effect (r=0.25, 95% CI 0.10–0.38, p=0.003) was significant (164). Other evidence showed that insulin- treated
