Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


(p=0.19); but for the few studies (k=3) that used diagnostic interviews to assess anxiety, the effect (r=0.25, 95% CI 0.10–0.38, p=0.003) was significant (164). Other evidence showed that insulin- treated adult diabetes patients with severe fear of self-injecting or self-testing had higher levels of diabetes-related distress, poorer general wellbeing, and poorer treatment adherence than those who did not have such fears (150). In a sample of over 4,000 patients with diabetes, panic episodes were associated with worse diabetes control, diabetes complications and symptoms, greater disability, and lower self-rated health and functioning, even after controlling for the effects of comorbid depression (165). Adults with type 2 diabetes and GAD are more likely to have complications of diabetes; those with comorbid illness are at increased risk of meeting criteria for GAD, Panic Disorder, and comorbid MDD/GAD (11). CAUSAL ISSUES AND EXPLANATORY MECHANISMS The development of anxiety symptoms in patients with diabetes may arise from a number of underlying causes. Although research on the biobehavioral Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes 33–19 mechanisms between anxiety and diabetes is generally lacking, plausible mechanisms linking anxiety and diabetes include reactions to the stress associated with the self-management of diabetes and underlying biologic changes that may be associated with both anxiety and glycemic control. Models that have been proposed to account for neuroendocrine pathways between depression and diabetes also have relevance for anxiety (92). Comorbid anxiety may play an important role in the HPA axis dysregulation seen in patients with depression (166). Elevated cortisol inhibits insulin function (167), and cortisol levels appear to be dysregulated in patients with anxiety disorders (168). Diabetes patients may experience short- term, episodic stress related to self-care activities or more long-term, chronic stress related to living with a chronic illness, which may eventually develop into anxiety symptoms or a chronic anxiety disorder (169). The stress of dealing with diabetes may impact patients’ psychoso­ cial functioning and quality of life, which may also increase the risk for developing anxiety symptoms (170). Certain aspects of the diabetes self-care regimen, such as frequent self-testing of blood glucose and insulin injections, may lead to the develop­ ment or exacerbation of anxiety symptoms, such as phobias, intrusive worry, and avoidance (153,155,156,171). Patients who experience diabetes-related distress may experience anxiety and avoidance related to their self-care, which may cause them to be less adherent to their treatment regimen, which may in turn affect their
