Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


experience diabetes-related distress may experience anxiety and avoidance related to their self-care, which may cause them to be less adherent to their treatment regimen, which may in turn affect their blood glucose control or cause compli­ cations—thus, leading to even greater levels of anxiety. Finally, psychiatric illness, such as anxiety disorders, often co-occurs with tobacco and other substance use, highlighting a potential pathway between anxiety and worse diabetes outcomes (172). There is little evidence for the mechanisms underlying the associations between anxiety and diabetes, and ques­ tions remain as to the directionality and causal nature of these relationships. TREATMENT AND INTERVENTION Psycho-educational interventions, including group-based interventions, have been found to be helpful in reducing stress, anxiety, and negative emotions, improving coping, and improving diabetes control (173,174,175,176). A review of 10 studies evaluating the efficacy of stress management interventions in adults with type 2 diabetes (176) noted several promising avenues of clinical interven­ tion. Patients who completed a program consisting of five group-based sessions involving training in progressive muscle relaxation, guided imagery, and instruc­ tion in behavioral and cognitive skills to recognize and reduce stress showed improvement in glycemic control over 12 months relative to control patients. Surprisingly, no differences in stress or anxiety were observed (177). Individually delivered, biofeedback-assisted relaxation training was found to reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression, decrease muscle tension, and improve diabetes control in a small trial of 30 patients with type 2 diabetes (178). A group-based, six-session program that included relaxation training, cognitive restructuring, and training in problem-solving skills was associated with improvements in anxiety symptoms and stress and demonstrated some evidence of a small effect on glycemic control in a small sample of 19 adults with type 2 diabetes (179). Relative to research on depression treatment in diabetes, the treatment of anxiety has received inade­ quate attention. EATING DISORDERS, UNHEALTHY EATING BEHAVIOR AND ATTITUDES, INSULIN OMISSION FOR WEIGHT LOSS OVERVIEW AND DEFINITIONS Eating disorders are characterized by extreme reductions of food intake, over­ eating, and/or feelings of significant distress or concern about body weight or shape. Anorexia nervosa is characterized by an obsessive pursuit of thinness, a distortion of body image, and intense fear of gaining weight. Restriction of food intake to achieve weight loss can lead to emaciation. Though often severe, prevalence rates of anorexia are relatively low—approximately 0.6% of the U.S. adult population report a lifetime prevalence (180). Bulimia nervosa is marked
