Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


shape, have been shown to significantly correlate with poorer glycemic control (189). These studies suggest that diabetes control can be affected by poor body image issues and eating behaviors, even in patients without a diagnosable eating disorder. MEASUREMENT ISSUES Diabetes management often includes focus on the quality and quantity of food eaten. This may complicate the evaluation of abnormal eating behaviors and attitudes used to diagnose eating disorders and may contribute to the development of eating disorders in at-risk individuals (206,207). Weight gain asso­ ciated with insulin administration can also contribute to concerns regarding weight and body image; women with type 1 diabetes enrolled in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial expressed concern about insulin-associated weight gain (208). Longitudinal research with a small sample of adolescents with type 1 diabetes suggests concern over weight and body shape and dietary restraint increase from adolescence to young adulthood, especially among females; insulin underuse was more likely among females than males (209). Possible diabe­ tes-related signs of an underlying eating disorder include unexplained episodes of DKA, frequent episodes of hypoglycemia, or easy control in inpatient settings of glucose levels that were previously difficult to manage out of the hospital (210,211). ASSOCIATION WITH DIABETES TREATMENT OUTCOMES Negative health outcomes are associated with eating and weight-related disorders in patients with diabetes. Patients who restrict their insulin have poorer metabolic control (212,213) and higher rates of nephropathy (200,214,215), retinopathy (200,207,214,215), other microvascular complications, and DKA (184,200,203). Moreover, insulin omission was shown to increase the relative risk of mortality by more than three times in a study of adult women with type 1 diabetes (216). The same investigators later showed that fear of weight gain was a significant contrib­ utor to new cases of insulin restriction in this cohort (217). The relationship between BED and worse diabetes outcomes is less clear. A report of youth with type 2 diabetes found that those with both clinical and subclinical Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes 33–21 levels of binge eating, as assessed by self-report, had significantly higher rates of extreme obesity, abdominal obesity, depressive symptoms, and impaired quality of life (218). Further research may be needed, given the few studies examining BED in diabetes. Morse et al. (194) found that patients with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes and Night-Eating Syndrome were more likely to be less adherent with diet, exercise, and glucose monitoring. They
