Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


al. (194) found that patients with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes and Night-Eating Syndrome were more likely to be less adherent with diet, exercise, and glucose monitoring. They were also more likely to be obese, to have worse diabetes control, and to have more diabetes complications. CAUSAL ISSUES AND EXPLANATORY MECHANISMS There are various plausible explanations for the relationship between eating disor­ ders and diabetes. Several studies have shown that family dysfunction predicts the development of maladaptive eating behaviors in females with and without type 1 diabetes (219,220). Daneman et al. (207) found that eating disturbances were associated with self-reported family functioning, and more severe eating problems were linked to greater levels of family dysfunction in girls with type 1 diabetes. Other research has found this relationship to be moderated by body image dissatisfaction. Those with eating disturbances reported significantly more negative comments from peers and family about their diet and parents that were not responsive to their needs, leading to greater feelings of anger and hopelessness toward their parents. Family environment and maternal weight and shape concerns were also related with eating disturbances in young women with type 1 diabetes (221). Daneman et al. postulated that individual, family, and societal factors interact with diabetes-specific vulnerabilities and lead to core features of eating disorders, such as body dissatisfaction, drive for thinness, and dietary restraint. These features then lead to disordered eating behaviors, resulting in negative diabetes health outcomes (207). The extent to which these etiologic factors may be relevant for adults with type 2 diabetes is not clear. TREATMENT AND INTERVENTION To date, no rigorous treatment studies have been conducted to evaluate treatment of eating disorders in type 1 diabetes. Although many studies have investigated the efficacy of weight loss programs in people with type 2 diabetes, few interventions for treating eating disor­ ders or maladaptive eating behaviors and attitudes that would fall short of a psychi­ atric diagnosis in people with diabetes have been investigated. Additionally, of the limited published psychotherapy inter­ vention studies addressing disordered eating in patients with diabetes, most lack methodologic rigor (206,222). One trial investigated the efficacy of CBT compared to nonprescriptive therapy, a supportive approach with no specific theoretical or empirical support in eating disorders (meant to control for nonspecific factors of therapy), for binge eating in 24 women with diabetes. CBT and the supportive approach were similarly effective, though CBT appeared
