Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


in eating disorders (meant to control for nonspecific factors of therapy), for binge eating in 24 women with diabetes. CBT and the supportive approach were similarly effective, though CBT appeared to provide more sustained change, as there were significantly fewer relapses in the CBT-treated group. Across treatments, decreases in bingeing were associated with improved diabetes control (223). Although this investigation shows preliminary support for the successful treatment of BED in diabetes, further research is needed. OTHER IMPORTANT MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS Schizophrenia, a chronic and severe disorder characterized by deficits in thought processes, perceptions, and emotional responsiveness, affects approximately 1.1% of U.S. adults over a 12-month period (224). Bipolar Disorder, an often-disabling mood disorder marked by dramatic shifts in mood, activity, and energy, has a 12-month prevalence of 2.6% (225). Prevalence of Diabetes in Individuals With Serious Mental Illness Estimates from a range of national and international epidemiologic studies have shown the prevalence of diabetes in patients with Schizophrenia to be 1.5–2.5 times greater than that found in the general population, with the difference particularly striking among younger patients (226,227,228,229). The true prevalence of diabetes among individuals with serious mental illness may be grossly underestimated due to the silent nature of diabetes and the myriad of other, more immediately pressing medical, economic, and social problems faced by people with psychotic disorders (227,230,231,232). Studies have also shown that the prev­ alence of type 2 diabetes is increased among patients with Bipolar Disorder (233,234,235). An examination of a sample of more than 4,000 Veterans Health Administration patients with Bipolar Disorder found the prevalence of diabetes to be >17% (234). Patients with Bipolar Disorder and diabetes are older, more chronically ill, present with rapid shifts in mood, and have an overall lower level of global functioning than patients with Bipolar Disorder and no diabetes; they also had higher rates of long-term disability and were more likely to have higher BMIs (236). Measurement, Treatment, and Causal Mechanisms Up to 60%–70% of cases of type 2 diabetes in individuals with serious and persistent mental illness go undiagnosed (237). Thus, screening for diabetes and diabetes risk factors is important in these patients, even when diabetes is not identified as part of the medical history. Attention to diabetes risk factors is particularly important in patients treated with atypical antipsychotic medications (238,239,240). As lithium treatment poses risk for reduction in thyroid function and weight gain, these
