Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


expo­ sure. No increased risk of type 1 diabetes was found in antipsychotic medication users (HR 1.13, 95% CI 0.43–3.00) (253). Mood stabilizers, such as lithium and anticonvulsants, are often the first line of pharmacological treatment for Bipolar Disorder, and treated individ­ uals frequently experience weight gain (254). Numerous studies have found associations between lithium treatment and weight gain, but how lithium precip­ itates weight gain remains unclear (255). Valproic acid (Depakote) can increase levels of testosterone in women and increase the likelihood of developing poly­ cystic ovary syndrome, which can result in obesity, as well as endocrine disruption (256). Poor diet, physical inactivity, smoking, and poor treatment adherence—independent risk factors for type 2 diabetes and its complications—are also more common among individuals with Schizophrenia (228,242,244,247,257,258,259,260,261,​ 262,263). Individuals with Schizophrenia may have impaired glucose metabolism even before they develop Schizophrenia, and historical surveys of the comorbidity literature show an association between Schizophrenia and diabetes before the use of neuroleptics and antipsy­ chotics became common treatments for Schizophrenia (226,247,250,264). Individuals with Schizophrenia have more than three times the intra-abdominal fat as matched healthy controls and are also at higher risk for developing features of the metabolic syndrome—both risk factors for insulin resistance and diabetes (265). The 2009 Schizophrenia Patient Outcomes Research Team (PORT) recom­ mendations for weight loss interventions for individuals with Schizophrenia include comprehensive weight loss efforts persisting for at least 3 months, and the recommendations caution that weight loss is likely to be modest (266). McKibbin et al. conducted a randomized controlled trial to examine the feasibility and efficacy of their Diabetes Awareness and Rehabilitation Training (DART) group lifestyle intervention for adults age >40 years with comorbid Schizophrenia and diabetes (267). The DART intervention is a 24-week manual­ ized intervention based on social learning theory that addresses comprehensive diabetes self-care and utilizes behav­ ioral techniques to assess and reinforce achievable lifestyle goals. Patients in the DART group lost an average of 5 pounds, whereas those in the control group gained a mean of 6 pounds; significant effects were also found for reductions in triglycerides, improvements in diabetes knowledge, diabetes self-efficacy, and self-reported physical activity, but not for FPG or A1c (267). Research on individuals with Bipolar Disorder has found similar results: attendance at programs that involve social support, regular weigh-ins, as well as educational components, can lead to weight loss and the prevention of weight gain (237,268). Metformin has
