Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


similar results: attendance at programs that involve social support, regular weigh-ins, as well as educational components, can lead to weight loss and the prevention of weight gain (237,268). Metformin has also been used to facilitate weight loss among individuals on antipsychotic treatment and improve weight loss outcomes on its own, as well as for individuals engaged in healthy lifestyle interventions. Focusing on treatment adherence to metformin in these patients could result in multiple health benefits (268,269). Regarding smoking cessation, the most recent PORT guidelines recommend bupropion therapy for 10–12 weeks (266) as a first-line treatment. As bupropion may also result in weight loss, decrease depression, and improve glucose control in type 2 diabetes, multiple benefits may be derived from this treatment for patients (270). Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes 33–23 SUBSTANCE-RELATED DISORDERS AND SUBSTANCE USE Substance use disorders are quite prev­ alent in the U.S. population—more than 22 million people (8.9% of the population) age ≥12 years met diagnostic criteria for substance dependence or abuse in 2008 (271). Whereas substance abuse or alcohol abuse are not more common in individuals living with diabetes than in the general population, substance and/or alcohol use disorders complicate diabetes care, increase the risk of complications, and increase health care costs (272). Substance use disorders are commonly comorbid with other psychological prob­ lems and may accompany many of the clinical presentations reviewed above. Among a population drawn from the Veterans Health Administration, dispar­ ities in diabetes care were found to be more pronounced when patients had a substance use disorder, increasing in a dose-response effect with additional comorbid mental health diagnoses (273). Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States, and in 2008, 20.6% of adults were current smokers (274). Individuals with depres­ sion (Table 33.6) (13) and other mood disorders smoke at higher rates than the general population (172,232,275,276), and smoking is associated with insulin resistance, reduced insulin secretion responses, increased central adiposity, and the development of type 2 diabetes (81,277), as also described in Chapter 13 Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes. Weight gain often occurs during and after smoking cessation attempts. Smokers, especially frequent smokers, tend to have heavier weight than light smokers or nonsmokers and tend to have greater central adiposity than nonsmokers (81,278,279). Smoking has been asso­ ciated with increased risk of insulin resistance (279). More frequent smoking has also been
