Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


or nonsmokers and tend to have greater central adiposity than nonsmokers (81,278,279). Smoking has been asso­ ciated with increased risk of insulin resistance (279). More frequent smoking has also been associated with increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes, lower consumption of fruit and vegetables, greater physical inactivity, and heavier alcohol consumption, as well as more frequent relapses from attempts to quit smoking (279). THE SOCIO-CULTURAL CONTEXT FOR PSYCHOSOCIAL ISSUES IN DIABETES Although a comprehensive review is beyond the scope of this chapter, it is important to acknowledge the role of social factors, structural barriers, and lack of access to adequate care that may increase risk for significant psychi­ atric and psychosocial issues. Those at lower levels of socioeconomic status are consistently found to be more likely to suffer from psychiatric disorders and significant emotional distress than those at higher levels of socioeconomic status (280,281,282). Evidence clearly shows that socially disadvantaged individuals are at increased risk for the develop­ ment of type 2 diabetes, as described in Chapter 13; those with diabetes often have poorer control and are at increased risk for complications (283,284). Costs are a common patient-reported barrier to self-management (285) and have been associated with reduced treatment adherence (286) and preventive care (287). Socioeconomically disadvantaged individuals may not have access to tech­ nological developments meant to improve diabetes care. For example, socially disad­ vantaged children with type 1 diabetes are far less likely to be on insulin pump therapy than individuals at higher socio­ economic status levels (288). Thus, social determinants of health outside the scope of medical practice have robust effects on diabetes treatment outcomes and may contribute to an increased psychosocial burden of diabetes among socially disad­ vantaged individuals. Ethnic minorities achieve relatively poor diabetes treatment outcomes; they also experience more emotional distress and report lower quality of life than whites (284). Ethnic minorities with type 2 diabetes may be more likely to worry about drug side-effects and medication dependency; they may also be more reluctant to accept treatment intensification when clinically indicated (289). A survey of 14,357 adults with diabetes found that 16% of low-income adults experienced severe hypoglycemia in the prior year compared with 8.8% of high-income adults. Similar differ­ ences were found between those with low (11.9%) and high (8.9%) levels of education (290). These disparities may contribute to increased risk of psycho­ social distress and psychiatric disorder in individuals treated for
