Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


between those with low (11.9%) and high (8.9%) levels of education (290). These disparities may contribute to increased risk of psycho­ social distress and psychiatric disorder in individuals treated for diabetes. Because it is difficult to control for these often crudely measured social factors in epidemiologic studies, these factors may underlie at least a portion of the relationships among psychiatric disor­ ders, psychosocial distress, and poor outcomes in diabetes care. GENERAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH The data reviewed in this chapter suggest that psychiatric disorders have close relations to diabetes and its management. Emotional distress and psychosocial issues that do not rise to levels of severity or functional impairment to warrant a psychiatric diagnosis are even more common among individuals living with diabetes. That these issues are at least as closely related to negative health outcomes suggests that research focused on psychiatric issues will provide only a partial understanding of explan­ atory mechanisms. The implications of this distinction between subthreshold presentations of emotional distress and psychiatric disorders have received the most attention in depression research, but they are relevant to other issues reviewed here, as well. Overall, evidence suggests little difference between subthreshold and diagnosable presentations of depression in relation to health outcomes, such as mortality (291). Although major diagnostic 33–24 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition systems for depression use a categorical approach, a dimensional approach has been proposed, with increasing severity ranging across a continuum from nonspe­ cific depressive symptoms—which are nonpathological, often specific to a situational context, and transient—to subthreshold depression and major depression (291,292,293). Defining these boundaries has been difficult. Thus, many of the measurement issues noted in this chapter relate to fundamental challenges in the conceptualization and measure­ ment of psychiatric disorders for which no biologic tests are available, questions of etiology remain unanswered, and for which diagnosis relies on expert opinion. Despite these measurement challenges, evidence reviewed suggests a consistent association among depression, inci­ dent type 2 diabetes, and poor health outcomes in those diagnosed with diabetes. The presence of elevated symp­ toms of depression and/or emotional distress is consistently associated with risk for the development of type 2 diabetes and for poor health outcomes, including complications and all-cause mortality, in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Thus, elevated depressive symptoms and/or emotional distress are appropriately viewed as risk markers in diabetes and should be a focus of continued investigation. To advance
