Chapter 33: Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, depression, type, type diabetes, symptoms, adults, health, prevalence, patients, depressive, anxiety, risk, treatment, eating, care


1 and type 2 diabetes. Thus, elevated depressive symptoms and/or emotional distress are appropriately viewed as risk markers in diabetes and should be a focus of continued investigation. To advance this area of research, better measurement practices that distinguish between presence of disorder and other presentations of emotional distress are necessary. Investigators should appre­ ciate that categorical approaches using screening cutoffs on self-report ques­ tionnaires will result in imprecision and reduced power for statistical analyses; continuous approaches to symptom severity are likely to be more appropriate for hypothesis testing of relations between depression and diabetes outcomes (294). Further work to distinguish among various symptom presentations of depression (e.g., somatic vs. cognitive-affective) may prove fruitful in understanding these relationships. Greater sensitivity to the context of diabetes as a chronic stressor that may contribute to depression and emotional distress, as well as to problems of measurement overlap between symp­ toms of depression and diabetes and related illnesses, could clarify inconsisten­ cies in the literature (5,6). In order to avoid false positives in clinical practice and misclassification of research participants, structured clinical interviews should be used more frequently to definitively estab­ lish the presence of a psychiatric disorder. Although less developed, the literature on other psychiatric comorbidities and related psychosocial issues is largely consistent with the literature on depression. Anxiety disorders appear to be more prevalent among those with diabetes than those who do not have diabetes. Symptoms of anxiety also appear to be associated with worse diabetes treatment outcomes, raising the same subthreshold issue as discussed above. Fear of self-injection and hypoglycemia share symptoms with anxiety disorders but are generally not indicative of psychiatric illness; they may nevertheless complicate treatment. Eating disorders and, more commonly, unhealthy behavioral patterns and attitudes about eating and body shape are likely more prevalent among individuals living with diabetes. Aspects of diabetes management—focus on dietary intake and weight, as well as treatment-related weight gain—may contribute to unhealthy eating behavior and attitudes, perhaps particularly among adolescent girls with type 1 diabetes. Finally, serious psychiatric conditions, including Bipolar Disorders and Schizophrenia, are likely related to diabetes through common biologic and social risk factors. However, psychotropic medications for these psychiatric conditions may also directly increase risk for type 2 diabetes. As significant depression is inherent to some of these disorders (e.g., Bipolar Disorders and Schizophrenia) and often present as comorbid MDD with others (e.g., anxiety and eating disorders, substance abuse),
