NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amlodipine, liver, injury, calcium, channel, calcium channel, liver injury, weeks, pubmed, blockers, pmid, pubmed pmid, channel blockers, induced, drug


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amlodipine. [Updated 2016 Mar 1]. Bookshelf URL: Amlodipine Updated: March 1, 2016. OVERVIEW Introduction Amlodipine besylate is a second generation calcium channel blocker that is used in the therapy of hypertension and angina pectoris. Amlodipine has been linked to a low rate of serum enzyme elevations during therapy and to rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Amlodipine (am loe' di peen) belongs to the dihydropyridine class of calcium channel blockers and is used in the treatment of both hypertension and angina pectoris. Like other calcium channel blockers, amlodipine acts by blocking the influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle cells during membrane depolarization. This action causes relaxation of vascular and arterial smooth muscle cells, resulting in arterial vasodilation and a decrease in cardiac work and oxygen consumption. Amlodipine was approved in the United States in 1992 and it remains in wide use, with several million prescriptions filled yearly. Current indications include hypertension and coronary artery disease (angina pectoris). Amlodipine is available generically and under the brand name of Norvasc. Tablet strengths include 2.5, 5, and 10 mg. The recommended dose in adults is 2.5 to 10 mg once daily, usually starting with the lowest dose. Chronic therapy is typical. Recently, multiple fixed dose combinations of amlodipine with other agents have become available including amlodipine (5 or 10 mg) with aliskiren (150 or 300 mg: Tekamlo), aliskiren with hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 and 25 mg: Amturnide), atorvastatin (10, 20, 40 or 80 mg: Caduet and generic), benzapril (10, 20 or 40 mg: Lotrel, Amlobenz, and generic), benzapril and hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 and 25 mg: Tribenzor), olmesaran (20 and 40 mg: Azor), and telmisartan (40 or 80 mg: Twynsta), valsartan (160 and 320 mg: Exforge) and valsartan with hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg: Exforge HCT). Like most calcium channel blockers, amlodipine is generally well tolerated. Side effec ts are largely due to the vasodilating activities and can include headache, flushing, dizziness, fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, palpitations, peripheral edema and rash. Hepatotoxicity Chronic therapy with amlodipine is associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevations at rates that are similar to matched control populations. The enzyme elevations are usually mild, transient and asymptomatic and may resolve even during continued therapy. Clinically apparent liver injury from amlodipine is rare and described only in isolated case reports.
