NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amlodipine, liver, injury, calcium, channel, calcium channel, liver injury, weeks, pubmed, blockers, pmid, pubmed pmid, channel blockers, induced, drug


enzyme elevations are usually mild, transient and asymptomatic and may resolve even during continued therapy. Clinically apparent liver injury from amlodipine is rare and described only in isolated case reports. In the few idiosyncratic cases reported, the latency period to onset of liver injury was usually 4 to 12 weeks, but examples with prolonged latency have also been published (10 months and several years). The latency period is shorter with recurrence on reexposure, including several instances of recurrence after liver injury due to other calcium channel blockers. The pattern of serum enzyme elevations is 2 LiverTox usually mixed or cholestatic. Rash, fever and eosinophilia have not been described and autoantibodies are not typical. Likelihood score: C (probable but rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism of amlodipine hepatotoxicity is not known, but liver injury is probably due to production of a toxic intermediate in its metabolism. Outcome and Management The severity of liver injury from amlodipine ranges from mild and transient serum enzyme elevations to self- limited jaundice. Complete recovery is expected after stopping the drug and recovery is usually rapid (4 to 8 weeks). Cases with chronic or fulminant liver injury due to amlodipine have not been reported. Little information is available on recurrence with rechallenge but there may be some degree of cross-sensitivity to hepatotoxicity with other calcium channel blockers. Drug Class: Cardiovascular Agents, Calcium Channel Blockers Other Drugs in the Subclass, Calcium Channel Blockers: Diltiazem, Felodipine, Isradipine, Nicardipine, Nifedipine, Nimodipine, Nisoldipine, Verapamil CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute hepatitis-like syndrome attributed to amlopidine. [Modified from: Basile C, Mascia E. Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers: a rare and reversible cause of hepatotoxicity with cholestasis in a CAPD patient. Nephrol Dial Transplant 1999; 14: 2776-7. PubMed Citation] A 76 year old man with diabetes and end-stage renal disease developed jaundice while on long term nifedipine therapy (60 mg daily for ~3 years) for hypertension. He was taking insulin, but no other medications. He had no risk factors for viral hepatitis and did not drink alcohol. Serum bilirubin was 2.5 mg/dL and rose over the next few months to 6.2 mg/dL. Tests for acute hepatitis A, B and C were negative and abdominal ultrasonography showed a normal liver and gallbladder. Nifedipine was stopped and he recovered rapidly. Several months later, amlodipine was started (10 mg daily) and within 6 weeks, he developed jaundice and a cholestatic pattern
