Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


ABSTRACT The pituitary gland is an organ of dual origin. The anterior part (adenohypophysis) arises from embryonic buccal mucosa, whereas the posterior part (neurohypophysis) derives from neural ectoderm. Precise spatial and temporal co-ordination of transcription factor expression in both structures is critical for pituitary gland formation and the differentiation of hormone-producing cells. Disruption of this regulation, for instance by transcription factor mutation, can lead to numerous developmental disorders and disturbances in endocrine function and regulation. We provide an overview of the molecular drivers of pituitary organogenesis and illustrate the anatomy and histology of the mature pituitary gland, comprising adenohypophysis (anterior lobe), neurohypophysis (posterior lobe), pars intermedia (intermediate lobe), and infundibulum (pituitary stalk). For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PITUITARY ORGANOGENESIS The pituitary is an organ of dual origin. The anterior part (adenohypophysis) is derived from oral ectoderm and is epithelial in origin, whereas the posterior part (neurohypophysis) derives from neural ectoderm. The mixed embryological derivation of the pituitary gland requires that developmental signals from both the neural and oral ectoderm must interact temporally and spatially to control maturation of the pituitary gland and the cellular differentiation of the various hormone-producing cell types within the adenohypophysis. The expression of transcription factors that control cell lineage commitment in the developing adenohypophysis must be regulated precisely to ensure correct differentiation of hormone-producing cell types; the iterative and cumulative nature of this regulation renders it extremely sensitive to perturbation. Disruption of this process, for instance by mutation, can lead to numerous developmental disorders from congenital forms of hypopituitarism to pituitary tumors ( 1 )( 2 ). Pituitary organogenesis begins during week 4 of fetal development. A thickening of cells in the oral ectoderm forms the hypophyseal placode which gives rise to Rathke’s pouch; an upward evagination of the buccal ectoderm that extends towards the neural ectoderm. At the same time, a downward extension of the ventral diencephalon forms the posterior lobe, and the two nascent lobes connect to form the bilobed structure of the adult pituitary gland. Rathke’s pouch constricts at its base and eventually separates altogether from the oral epithelium during gestational week 6-8. The cells of the anterior wall of Rathke’s pouch undergo extensive proliferation to form the anterior lobe. In humans, the posterior wall proliferates more slowly to form the vestigial intermediate lobe ( 3 ). Cell patterning and terminal
