Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


pouch undergo extensive proliferation to form the anterior lobe. In humans, the posterior wall proliferates more slowly to form the vestigial intermediate lobe ( 3 ). Cell patterning and terminal differentiation occurs within the anterior lobe to form the five principal specialized endocrine cell types of the pituitary gland; the somatotrophs, adrenocorticotrophs, gonadotrophs, thyrotrophs, and lactotrophs. TRANSCRIPTIONAL CONTROL OF PITUITARY ORGANOGENESIS Development of the pituitary occurs broadly in three stages: Initiation of pituitary organogenesis and formation of Rathke’s pouch (Blue in Supplementary Table). Evagination of Rathke’s pouch and cell proliferation (Green in Supplementary Table). Lineage determination and cellular differentiation (Yellow in Supplementary Table). Much of our understanding of the process of pituitary organogenesis comes from mouse studies ( 4 )( 5 ), but the phenotypes associated with human disorders often share aspects with mouse models of defective pituitary development. Various transcription factors that are involved are presented in Figure 1 and summarized in Table 1 ( 6 )( 7 )( 8 )( 9 ). Transcriptional Control of Pituitary Organogenesis: Lineage Determination and Cellular Differentiation Significant advances have been made in recent years in elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying the commitment and differentiation of Rathke’s pouch progenitors and the role of endocrine stem cells in the adenohypophysis ( 8 )( 10 ). Many factors are involved in pituitary differentiation, but a few later acting transcription factors have pituitary-specific effects and have become clinically relevant ( 11 ). In clinical terms, cells of the adenohypophysis can be divided into those of the Pit-1 lineage (somatotrophs, lactotrophs, somatomammotrophs, and thyrotrophs), those of t-PIT lineage (corticotrophs and melanotrophs), and those of SF-1 lineage (Gonadotrophs). PIT-1 (POU1F1) PIT-1 was first identified as a trans-activating factor of the growth hormone and prolactin genes. It is a member of the POU homeodomain family of transcription factors ( 5 ). Inactivating mutations produce recessive hypopituitarism characterized by a congenital lack of growth hormone, prolactin and TSH ( 12 ). Two naturally occurring recessive mouse mutants have Pit-1 defects; the Snell Dwarf ( dw ) mouse and the Jackson dwarf ( dwJ ). Homozygous recessive variants of these mice both exhibit post-natal, but not embryonic, anterior pituitary hypoplasia with GH, PRL and TSH deficiencies. Figure 1. Signaling molecules and transcription factors control pituitary development. Arrows represent regulation of expression in the direction indicated (See Table 1 ). The clinically used transcription factors are in blue. T-PIT t-PIT (TBX19) is
