Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


transcription factors control pituitary development. Arrows represent regulation of expression in the direction indicated (See Table 1 ). The clinically used transcription factors are in blue. T-PIT t-PIT (TBX19) is a member of the T-Box family of transcription factors. The T-Box represents the DNA binding domain of these factors. T-Pit is expressed in the developing pituitary and expression generally persists into the adult gland. T-Pit depletion in mice induces severe ACTH and glucocorticoid deficiencies in addition to adrenal hypoplasia and pigmentation defects. The phenotype of t-Pit -/- mice suggests that T-PIT promotes the development of corticotrophs but can also actively repress gonadotroph formation ( 13 ). STEROIDOGENIC FACTOR (SF-1) SF-1 is a nuclear receptor encoded by the gene Nr5a1 or steroidogenic factor 1 ( SF-1 ). It is an orphan nuclear receptor involved as a transactivating factor in steroid biosynthesis. SF-1 is expressed throughout the adrenal and reproductive axes during development and postnatal life ( 14 )( 15 ). Mutations of SF-1 in humans are associated with 46XY sex reversal with adrenal failure, 46XY gonadal dysgenesis and 46XX ovarian insufficiency and premature ovarian failure ( 16 )( 17 ). In some cases, transcription factor deficiency does not result in the complete absence of a cell type. SF-1 deficient mice do not spontaneously produce gonadotrophins but hyperstimulation with GnRH can induce hormone production suggesting that SF-1 is not essential for gonadotroph differentiation ( 18 ). Similarly, t-Pit expression is not essential for corticotroph development, but POMC synthesis is delayed if they are deficient ( 19 ). The failure to promote differentiation along a particular lineage can be permissive for other pathways and the idea that single transcription factors direct cell differentiation is overly simplistic. Nevertheless, these differentiation markers (colored blue in Figure 1 ) have proven to be extremely useful in diagnostic pituitary pathology, particularly in demonstrating the cell lineage of silent or non-expressing pituitary adenomas, and their expression can be detected in histological samples of pituitary tissue removed at trans-sphenoidal adenohypophysectomy by immunohistochemistry ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Pituitary transcription factor expression in the normal pituitary gland. ANATOMY AND HISTOLOGY OF THE MATURE PITUITARY GLAND Hypophysis Cerebri The mature pituitary gland, or hypophysis cerebri, is a small, oval body weighing approximately 0.5g. The adenohypophysis of the pituitary is generally smaller in men than women and, within the female population, the gland in nulliparous women is generally smaller than that
