Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


weighing approximately 0.5g. The adenohypophysis of the pituitary is generally smaller in men than women and, within the female population, the gland in nulliparous women is generally smaller than that seen in multiparous women ( 20 )( 21 ). Indeed, during pregnancy, the gland may increase by approximately 30% due to a combination of lactotroph hyperplasia and vascular engorgement. The hypophysis is connected to the brain via the infundibulum, a tubular structure arising from the tuber cinereum and median eminence of the hypothalamus. The gland rests in the sella turcica (pituitary fossa) of the sphenoid bone and is covered superiorly by the diaphragma sellae (a thin film of dura), laterally by the walls of the cavernous sinus, and antero-inferiorly by the posterior wall of the sphenoid sinus; the latter used as the standard route for pituitary surgery or transsphenoidal adenectomy ( Figure 3 ). Antero-superiorly, the pituitary lies in close proximity to the optic chiasm and bilateral, inferomedial compression of the chiasm by the expanding gland explains why space-occupying lesions of the pituitary commonly present with bitemporal hemianopia. Inferiorly, the adenohypophysis is separated from the floor of the sella turcica by a large, loculated venous sinus that communicates with the circular sinus. Figure 3. High resolution 3D imaging reconstruction of the sella turcica in a volunteer (courtesy of Prof Mark Gurnell, Cambridge, UK). These detailed scans are proving invaluable in planning the surgical approach for transsphenoidal adenectomy, especially where vascular anomalies are expected. A) Section across the roof of the sella with the optic nerves and chiasm (green) in situ revealing the intimate relationship between the chiasm and the pituitary gland (turquoise). B) A similar level with the optic nerve and chiasm removed. C) Detail of the sella region showing the relationship between the pituitary gland and stalk (turquoise), base of hypothalamus (orange), and internal carotid arteries (red). The Hypothalamus The structure of the hypothalamus and its complex connections are well known and have been described in detail elsewhere ( 22 )( 23 )( 24 ). The hypothalamic nuclei that give rise to the neurohypophysis arise from the preoptic, supraoptic, lateral, tuberal and mamillary regions ( 3 ) and hypothalamic regulatory neurons have their cell bodies in the supraoptic, paraventricular, infundibular and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. These hypothalamic nuclei have projections that terminate throughout the median eminence, infundibulum, and the posterior lobe ( Figure 4 ). Neurons derived from
