Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


infundibular and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. These hypothalamic nuclei have projections that terminate throughout the median eminence, infundibulum, and the posterior lobe ( Figure 4 ). Neurons derived from hypothalamic nuclei produce peptidergic “releasing hormones” that are transported along axons and released into the portal system from where they are carried to the dense capillary plexus of the adenohypophysis to influence hormone synthesis and release. The parvocellular neurosecretory pathway of the tuberoinfundibular tract is proposed as the main route for the synthesis of releasing hormones and of transmission to portal blood. The major trophic factors originating in the hypothalamic nuclei include growth hormone releasing factor (GRF), corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF), thyrotropin releasing factor (TRF), gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) and other peptides such as somatostatin (SS). Other trophic and inhibitory factors are also released in this region including dopaminergic compounds. Figure 4. Sagittal T1-weighted image of the pituitary fossa demonstrates normal pituitary anatomy. The T1-weighted study is particularly helpful in identifying the posterior pituitary bright spot (white arrow)- a focus of T1 signal hyperintensity posteriorly in the sella, which corresponds with the neurohypophysis. The intrinsic T1 signal shortening through the posterior pituitary is thought to be due to the presence of vasopressin. The zoomed image of the pituitary gland, consisting of the anterior (A) and posterior (P) lobes, sits within the sella turcica, a “saddle”-shaped depression in the sphenoid bone, with the tuberculum sellae anteriorly, and the dorsum sellae posteriorly. Superior to the pituitary gland is CSF within the hypophyseal and suprasellar cisterns. The pituitary stalk (S), also known as the infundibulum or infundibular stalk, extends through the suprasellar cistern, extending between the hypothalamus and the superior surface of the pituitary gland. The optic chiasm (C) can be seen in the suprasellar space more superiorly. Anteroinferior to the pituitary gland is the sphenoid sinus (SS). (B)- brainstem, (M)- mammillary bodies, (3V)- third ventricle. In addition to nerve fibers, the long and short portal blood vessels (distributed between sinusoids in the median eminence, infundibulum, and the adenohypophysis) are also of major importance to this region. The adenohypophysis receives no major nerve supply and almost all of its blood comes from hypothalamic-hypophysial portal vessels. The predominant direction of blood flow is from the tufts of sinusoids in the median eminence and infundibulum via the portal vessels to sinusoids between glandular cells in the anterior lobe. This neurovascular arrangement is of vital importance
