Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


the tufts of sinusoids in the median eminence and infundibulum via the portal vessels to sinusoids between glandular cells in the anterior lobe. This neurovascular arrangement is of vital importance to understand the mechanism by which the hypothalamus regulates the neuroendocrine function of the gland. Neurosecretion is the physiological process involved in the production and release of posterior lobe oxytocin and vasopressin and their related proteins: including the precursor neurophysins. In terms of these magnocellular neurosecretory pathways, both the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei are involved in the production both of vasopressin and oxytocin, however, vasopressin originates predominantly from the supraoptic nucleus and oxytocin originates predominantly from the paraventricular nucleus. Infundibulum (Pituitary Stalk) The infundibular stalk is a tubular, funnel-shaped structure divided into the anterior pars tuberalis and posterior pars infundibularis . The pars tuberalis is considered to be part of the adenohypophysis (see below) and contains a few scattered gonadotroph or corticotroph cells. Anteriorly and superficially, it surrounds the pars infundibularis (infundibular stem), which contains the unmyelinated axons of the magnocellular supraoptic and paraventricular neurons. The neurons contain large intra-axonal accumulations of oxytocin and vasopressin that may be seen as eosinophilic ovoid granular swellings along the trajectory of these axons in the infundibular stem. These ovoid swellings are known as “Herring bodies” named after Percy Theodore Herring who first described them ( Figure 4 ). It also contains the neural connections of the hypophysis that are continuous with the median eminence of the tuber cinereum. The Adenohypophysis The adenohypophysis comprises the vast majority of the pituitary gland by volume and is composed of three parts: the pars distalis , the pars intermedia and the pars tuberalis . The pars distalis forms the majority of the adenohypophysis, the pars intermedia is rudimentary in the human but represents the vestigial posterior limb of Rathke’s pouch and the pars tuberalis is an upward extension of the adenohypophysis that surrounds the lower regions of the hypophysial stalk. The anatomy of this region is shown in figure 5 . Figure 5. Coronal T2-weighted image demonstrates normal sellar and parasellar anatomy and delineates the local anatomical boundaries of the pituitary fossa. The pituitary gland (P) is sited within the sella turcica, with the sphenoid sinus (SS) demonstrated inferiorly. The pituitary stalk (S) is seen extending vertically through the suprasellar space in the midline. Superior to this is the optic chiasm ©. The lateral borders of the
