Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


demonstrated inferiorly. The pituitary stalk (S) is seen extending vertically through the suprasellar space in the midline. Superior to this is the optic chiasm ©. The lateral borders of the pituitary fossa are formed by the cavernous sinuses. On this coronal image, the T2 flow voids through the cavernous segments of the ICAs occupy the cavernous sinuses. Pars Distalis The pars distalis of the adenohypophysis is a highly vascular structure, consisting of epithelial cells of varying size and shape arranged in cords, irregular masses or follicles, separated by thin-walled vascular sinusoids and supported by a complex network of reticular tissue best appreciated in reticulin preparations ( Figure 6 ). This region of the adenohypophysis contains several cell types, generally divided into acidophils and basophils (depending on their staining properties with mixed acidic and basic dyes such as Orange-G/aldehyde fuchsin, ( Figure 7 ). These cells release trophic hormones including growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). The regulation and production of these trophic hormones is complex and is thought to be the result of a combination of the release of hypothalamic releasing factors into the median eminence, the regulation of portal blood flow by vascular systems, feedback by systemic hormones, autocrine interactions and complex paracrine interactions within the gland ( 25 )( 26 )( 27 ). Figure 6. Section of adenohypophysis stained with reticulin showing nested acini of adenohypophysial cells. Figure 7. Section of adenohypophysis stained with PAS/Orange G showing the distribution of acidophils (Orange) and basophils (Purple). The cellular heterogeneity within acini may be demonstrated tinctorially in PAS-OG preparations ( Figures 7 , 8 ) which were widely used before the adoption of antibody-based stains ( Figure 9 ). Corticotroph cells are generally strongly basophilic (PAS-positive), somatotroph and lactotroph cells mostly acidophilic (orangeophilic), whilst gonadotrophs and thyrotrophs may be basophilic or chromophobic (reacting with neither acid nor basic stains). There is no perfect match of hormone-expression and type or degree of chromophilia; some chromophobe cells may represent degranulated chromophil cells or precursor cells. In a normal adult adenohypophysis, approximately 10% of endocrine cells are basophils, 40% acidophils and 50% chromophobes. Figure 8. The axial section of the adenohypophysis of the human pituitary gland at the level indicated by the dashed blue line in the diagram. Although there is a mixture of different hormone producing cells in
