Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


the adenohypophysis of the human pituitary gland at the level indicated by the dashed blue line in the diagram. Although there is a mixture of different hormone producing cells in most pituitary acini, the distribution of cells is not random: this is most pronounced in the ‘lateral wings’, which contain mostly somatotroph cells and the central ‘mucoid wedge’, which contains the majority of the corticotrophs. This is easily appreciated in periodic acid-Schiff / orange-G (PAS-OG) histochemistry, which stains somatotrophs yellow-orange (OG-positive) and corticotrophs purple (PAS-positive). The PAS-OG stain is still a useful supplementary method in the differential diagnosis of some pituitary lesions (hyperplasia, corticotroph microadenoma, Crooke’s cell changes or adenoma) but these tinctorial stains have all largely been replaced by immunohistochemical methods ( Figure 9 ). Although most acini contain a mixture of different hormone-producing cells, there is evidence of zonation ( Figure 8 ). The lateral wings of the gland mostly contain somatotrophs and lactotrophs, whilst corticotrophs are concentrated in the median mucoid wedge, which at its anterior border (the rostral tip) harbors clusters of thyrotrophs. Gonadotroph (LH/FSH) cells are diffusely scattered throughout the gland. Figure 9. Examples of immunohistochemistry. It can be seen that although growth hormone (GH) is generally enriched in the wings, the distribution is more diffuse. Corticotrophs (ACTH) are more obviously restricted to the central “mucoid wedge”. Compare this with tinctorial stains in Figures 7 & 8 . Cell Types of the Adenohypophysis SOMATOTROPHS Somatotrophs represent about 50% of cells in the adenohypophysis and are located predominantly, but not exclusively, in the lateral wings. They are readily identified by the expression of growth hormone. A subset of somatotrophs also express the common glycoprotein hormone alpha-subunit. They are the second cell type to form during fetal development and are detected by 8 weeks of gestation. LACTOTROPHS Lactotrophs express prolactin. The number of prolactin-secreting cells varies widely between the sexes and with parity. The Golgi apparatus is well developed in lactotrophs and contains immature, pleomorphic secretory granules. Granule extrusions are common in lactotrophs, not only at the basal cell surface, but also on the lateral cell borders; the latter is a distinctive feature of lactotrophs seen on electron microscopy and is known as “misplaced exocytosis”. Lactotrophs appear to arise from mammosomatotroph cells and pure lactotrophs appear late in gestation (24 weeks). The expansion and secretion of lactotrophs is controlled by exogenous hormones including estrogen, paracrine effects from
