Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


to arise from mammosomatotroph cells and pure lactotrophs appear late in gestation (24 weeks). The expansion and secretion of lactotrophs is controlled by exogenous hormones including estrogen, paracrine effects from adjacent adenohypophysial cells and inhibitory substances from the hypothalamus. MAMMOSOMATOTROPHS These bihormonal cells contain both growth hormone and prolactin. Mammosomatotrophs are the precursors of lactotrophs and, as in lactotrophs, misplaced exocytosis can be seen on electron microscopy ( Figure 10 ). These cells are thought to be the source of lactotroph increases during pregnancy ( 28 ). Figure 10. Electron micrograph of a mammosomatotroph adenoma displaying misplaced exocytosis. This feature is seen as the extrusion of secretory granules into the extracellular spaces or from intercellular extensions of the basement membrane. CORTICOTROPHS Corticotrophs synthesis the molecule pro-opiomelanocrortin (POMC) which is cleaved post-transcriptionally to produce bioactive peptides including adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), melanotrophin (MSH) lipotrophic hormone (LPH) and endorphins ( 29 ). These cells comprise about 15-20% of the cell component of the adenohypophysis and the cells are concentrated in the central mucoid wedge. They are best identified histologically by using antibodies raised against ACTH. Corticotrophs are the first cell type to differentiate in the fetal pituitary gland at 6 weeks of gestation and ACTH can be detected at 7 weeks. Exposure to glucocorticoid access, either by exogenous corticosteroid administration or any cause of endogenous glucocorticoid hypersecretion, including ectopic secretion of ACTH, causes corticotrophs to undergo a distinctive, but reversible, morphological alteration known as Crooke hyaline change ( 30 ). THYROTROPHS These are the most infrequent cell type within the adenohypophysis and are detected by the expression of the glycoprotein hormone common alpha-subunit and the beta-subunit of TSH. This can be demonstrated by immunohistochemical double labelling for both subunits. Thyrotrophs are detectable at about 12 weeks of gestation. GONADOTROPHS Gonadotrophs produce both luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and both hormone specific beta-subunits and the common alpha-subunit can be detected in these cells. Gonadotrophs are scattered throughout the pars distalis and are the major constituent of the pars tuberalis. Gonadotrophs are intimately associated with lactotrophs and electron microscopy reveals gap junctions between them. The synthesis and release of the gonadotrophins is differentially regulated by the hormonal milieu, paracrine interactions and the pulsatile frequency of GnRH ( 31 )( 26 , 32 ). There is growing evidence that the precise control of pituitary gland secretion also involves a contribution from cells with
