Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


pulsatile frequency of GnRH ( 31 )( 26 , 32 ). There is growing evidence that the precise control of pituitary gland secretion also involves a contribution from cells with the capacity to demonstrate plasticity with self-renewal and it is likely that the pituitary contains a pool of stem cells ( 33 )( 34 )( 35 )( 36 ). It is possible that these stem cells, possibly expressing Nestin, Lhx3 and Sox2, may exhibit self-renewal properties and have the ability to differentiate into different hormone-producing cell types in response to differing physiological demands ( 36 )( 37 )( 38 ). FOLLICULOSTELLATE CELLS Folliculostellate (FS) cells are (in the adult human pituitary) an agranular (non-hormone-producing) parenchymal component of the pars anterior. It has been postulated that they represent a stem cell capable of trans-differentiation into endocrine cells ( 39 ), but whether this is true in humans is not certain. FS cells are small, chromophobe, with slender processes that extend between the endocrine cells. They form small follicles at the center of acini, comprised of apical tips of multiple FS cells. They may be visualized with antibodies raised against the S100 protein and GFAP, but their expression pattern is not always overlapping and may reflect different stages of maturation or function. In our hands, annexin-1 immunohistochemistry is a robust marker of FS cells ( Figure 11 ). Annexin 1 (ANXA1) is a member of the annexin family of phospholipid- and calcium-binding proteins. ANXA1-positive FS cells may modulate glucocorticoid feedback loops in the anterior gland ( 40 ){John, 2006 #340;John, 2006 #340}1)( 1 ) or act as antigen-presenting cells. FS cells are also postulated to play a role in paracrine regulation ( 26 , 41 ). Figure 11. Non-endocrine cells of the anterior lobe include small folliculo-stellate (FS) cells with delicately branching processes that invest endocrine cells (left, annexin-1 staining) and (on the right) very rare cells that are postulated to represent adult pituitary stem cells (PSC, nestin staining). Pars Tuberalis The pars tuberalis is characterized by a large number of traversing vessels. Between these are cords or balls of undifferentiated cells admixed with acidophilic and basophilic cells. The secretion of adenohypophyseal hormones into the circulation appears to occur by exocytosis of the vesicular contents into the perivascular spaces of the sinusoids, the latter being lined with a fenestrated endothelium which facilitates diffusion into the bloodstream. The signal for secretion is the
