Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


the vesicular contents into the perivascular spaces of the sinusoids, the latter being lined with a fenestrated endothelium which facilitates diffusion into the bloodstream. The signal for secretion is the liberation of chemical releasing factors from neurons in the median eminence, and other hypothalamic centers, into the portal system of veins by which they are carried and distributed within the adenohypophysis. Pars Intermedia In contrast to rodents, the pars intermedia is rudimentary in adult humans ( Figure 12 ). It represents a narrow zone between the adeno- and neurohypophysis often containing microscopic remnants of Rathke’s cleft. This zone may also contain scattered intensely PAS-positive corticotrophs, which may extend from the mucoid wedge of the adenohypophysis into the neurohypophysis. This so-called “basophil invasion” must not be confused with corticotroph microadenomas; it is believed to increase with age, and it has been suggested that these basophil cells are functionally distinct from classical ACTH-producing cells of the adenohypophysis and do not respond with hyaline degeneration (“Crooke’s cell change”) in the setting of systemic hypercortisolemia. Secretory cells of the pars intermedia have granules containing either alpha- or beta-endorphin; these cells have been shown to contain various peptide hormones including ACTH and alpha-MSH (melanocyte stimulating hormone). Figure 12. The axial section of the human pituitary gland at the level of the vestigial intermediate lobe (approximately representing the boxed area in the diagram). Note the cluster of remnants of Rathke’s pouch / cleft (RC). The arcs indicate the posterior (center) and postero-medial (left and right) edges of the mucoid wedge (with scattered basophils) and pituitary wings (with scattered somatotrophs), respectively. The asterisk indicates basophil corticotrophs ‘spilling’ into the neurohypophysis (‘basophil invasion’, see Figure 13 ). Figure 13. ‘Basophil invasion’ of corticotrophs from the vestigial pars intermedia into the neurohypophysis (pars posterior of the pituitary gland). The dashed line represents the border between pars intermedia and pars posterior. Neurohypophysis The neurohypophysis does not contain neuroendocrine epithelial cells. Instead, it is composed of the axons arising from groups of hypothalamic neurons, most prominently those originating from magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei ( Figure 14 ). Some of these axons are short and terminate in the median eminence and infundibular stem among the superior capillary beds of the venous portal circulation. Longer axons pass into the main neurohypophysis thereby forming the neurosecretory hypothalamo-hypophyseal tract with their terminals ending near the sinusoids of the posterior lobe. These
