Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, cells, gland, cell, hormone, expression, article, pituitary gland, article pubmed, free, adenohypophysis, pmc free, free article, pmc


of the venous portal circulation. Longer axons pass into the main neurohypophysis thereby forming the neurosecretory hypothalamo-hypophyseal tract with their terminals ending near the sinusoids of the posterior lobe. These neurosecretory granules mostly contain oxytocin or vasopressin and form axonal beads close to their termini. Whilst it is believed that normal astrocytes may populate (at least partially) the infundibulum, the axon terminals in the neurohypophysis are supported by so-called pituicytes, which are characterized by the expression of the TTF-1 transcription factor (absent in classic GFAP-positive astrocytes) ( 42 )( 43 )( 44 ). These cells show elongated processes often running in parallel with axons and demonstrate only patchy GFAP and S100 expression. Figure 14. The cytoarchitecture of the neurophypophysis (right) is strikingly different from the adenohypophysis, which contains the nested (inset, left) collections of neuroendocrine cells (left). The neurohypophysis does not contain neurosecretory cell bodies; instead, it is composed of specialized glial cells (pituicytes) that – unique in the human brain – express the TTF-1 (thyroid transcription factor 1) protein in their nuclei (inset, top right). The neurohypophysis contains nerve endings of the oxytocin and vasopressin producing cells of the hypothalamus. Their large, distended nerve endings can be identified on routine stains as so-called Herring-bodies (arrow), named after Percy Theodore Herring (University of Edinburgh) who described them in 1908 as the ‘physiologically active principle’ of the posterior gland. The Vessels of the Hypophysis & Hypothalamic-Hypophysial Portal System The vessels of the hypophysis cerebri have been extensively described and reviewed ( 45 )( 46 )( 47 )( 48 ). The arteries of the hypophysis arise from the internal carotids via a single inferior and multiple superior hypophysial arteries. The arteries of the median eminence and infundibulum end in sprays of capillaries. In the median eminence, these form the external (mantle) plexus and the internal (deep) plexus that are both drained by the long portal vessels some of which terminate in the adenohypophysis. Short portal vessels run from the lower infundibulum to the pars anterior. Both types of portal vessel open into the vascular sinusoids lying between the secretory cords in the adenohypophysis, providing most of the blood; there is no direct arterial supply to this region ( 49 )( 50 ). The portal system is considered to carry hormone-secreting factors from the hypothalamus ( 46 )( 45 )( 49 ). Another notable feature of the rostral portion of the stalk are
