Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


to be related to better cognitive outcomes in the long term. Despite many studies documenting the association between diabetes and cognitive impairment, the causal nature and the mechanisms of this association have not been fully established and require further study. INTRODUCTION This chapter describes important concepts in cognitive impairment and epidemiologic data on cognitive impair­ ment in the general U.S. population. Then, the relationship between diabetes and cognitive impairment is explored, including potential mechanisms and epidemiologic data linking the two conditions, as well as implications for treatment and prevention. The review of the epidemiologic data from diabetic cohorts emphasizes large longitudinal studies in the United States and Canada and clinical trials when available. Both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes are covered in this chapter. DESCRIPTION OF COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT To study cognitive impairment, persons with and without diabetes are compared in performance of cognitive tests and by the presence or absence of cognitive dis orders, such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia. A brief description of these types of cognitive impairment follows. Importantly, in this chapter, Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is referred to as one pathologic process underlying cognitive impairment, characterized by the presence of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles on brain autopsy, and not the manifestation of cognitive impairment, a frequent source of confusion. Dementia, the most severe clinical manifestation of AD, is referred to as AD dementia. Performance in Cognitive Tests The most frequently studied cognitive domains broadly defined are memory and executive-frontal abilities. Memory can be defined as the ability to recall an experience after it has ended (1). Memory is tested by repetition of words usually delivered verbally as lists of several words or as a part of tests of global cognition, such as the 5-minute recall of three items in the Mini Mental Status Exam (2). Memory problems are probably the most frequent cognitive complaints that bring patients to medical attention. Several key processes are involved in the long-term maintenance of memories. Consolidation, primarily located in the hippocampal formation, enables the acquisition of new memories (1). Consolidation is the first 24–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition and most prominently affected process in AD dementia and its antecedent, amnestic MCI. Another key memory process is retrieval (1), which is most affected by lesions disturbing the frontal lobe-​ subcortical circuits in the brain. Retrieval deficits manifest as difficulty in recalling words or objects that can be
