Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


retrieval (1), which is most affected by lesions disturbing the frontal lobe-​ subcortical circuits in the brain. Retrieval deficits manifest as difficulty in recalling words or objects that can be aided by giving multiple choice options or cues (recognition). Executive-frontal abilities include those skills that are used to plan and execute complex tasks and comprise different processes, such as attention, working memory, and impulse control. Executive- frontal abilities are most often affected by lesions that disrupt the frontal subcortical networks (3), the same network that supports memory retrieval. A common type of lesion that can affect frontal subcortical networks in diabetes is cere­ brovascular disease. Commonly used tests of executive-frontal abilities include digits forward and backward (a test in which persons are asked to repeat a number series forward and backward), the attention items of the Mini Mental Status Exam (2), and the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST) of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (4). An important consideration about the evaluation of performance on cognitive tests as outcomes is the judgment of the clinical significance of differences found between groups, for example, between persons with diabetes and those without diabetes. Some studies will report that persons with diabetes perform less well in a test than persons without diabetes and provide a difference size or the score in performance in both groups. It can be concluded from such data that persons with diabetes will perform less well than persons without diabetes, but the clinical importance of such a difference is un­certain. One way to overcome this problem is by providing standardized differences. One common metric used is Cohen’s d (5), which is calculated as the difference between the means divided by the pooled standard deviation. A Cohen’s d of 0.2 is considered small, 0.5 is considered medium, and 0.8 is considered large. Some sections of this chapter make reference to Cohen’s d in the interpretation of effect sizes. Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI is a diagnostic category used to capture the transitional state between normal cognitive function and dementia (6,7) and has become a target for inter­ ventions (8). The feature that differentiates MCI from dementia is functional impair­ ment: individuals with MCI still have the ability to function in daily activities (7), while persons with dementia do not. In MCI, general cognitive performance is well preserved, but performance in one cogni­ tive domain falls below expectations for age and education. Typically,
