Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


(7), while persons with dementia do not. In MCI, general cognitive performance is well preserved, but performance in one cogni­ tive domain falls below expectations for age and education. Typically, it is defined following cutpoints of “pass/fail” results on neuropsychological tests (e.g., 1.5 standard deviations of established norms). This threshold is arbitrary, and the field of cognitive disorders has become inter­ ested in even milder forms of cognitive impairment (e.g., using a threshold of 1.0 standard deviations rather than 1.5), which some have termed pre-MCI (9). MCI can be classified as amnestic and non-amnestic MCI. Amnestic MCI involves memory impairment, while non-amnestic MCI involves predominantly non-memory domains, such as frontal-executive abilities. Amnestic MCI is believed to be an early manifestation of AD and an antecedent of AD dementia, while non-amnestic MCI, such as executive MCI, may be a form of vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) (6). In VCI, cognitive impairment may present slowly and incrementally as subclinical cerebrovascular disease worsens (seen as white matter hyperintensities [WMH] on brain imaging, called mini-strokes by clinicians, and “silent infarcts”), or it may suddenly appear after an infarct. In general, VCI affects executive-frontal abil­ ities and memory retrieval and, similar to amnestic MCI, may or may not progress to the syndrome of dementia. Some experts believe that the cognition field has paid more attention to cognitive impairment due to AD to the detriment of the iden­ tification of the other forms of cognitive impairment described here, particularly those related to executive abilities (10). This relative lack of research is particularly relevant to persons with diabetes, who likely have cerebrovascular disease and, thus, are at high risk of cognitive impair­ ment involving executive-frontal functions. Dementia Dementia is a syndrome characterized by impairment of memory and other cogni­ tive abilities, as well as behavior disorder severe enough to impair the ability to live independently (11). Dementia is the most extreme form of cognitive impairment and the one most often identified in research and clinical practice due to its clinical significance. The most common cause of late-onset dementia is AD (12), comprising between 60% and 80% of cases. Vascular dementia is the second most common cause, comprising about 10% of cases, but approximately 50% of cases of dementia have a vascular component (12). Memory may be affected in vascular dementia, but the main cognitive domains affected are generally related to executive-frontal abil­ ities. An important subgroup of dementia
