Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


in persons age 60 years to 25% at age 85 years (20). The Aging, Demographics, and Memory Study estimated the prevalence of cognitive impairment without dementia, similar to MCI, in a representative sample of 856 persons in the United States (21). Twenty-two percent of persons age ≥71 years met the study criteria for cognitive impairment without dementia. Among those, 8% died and 12% progressed to dementia on an annual basis. Persons with amnestic MCI may progress to AD dementia at the rate of nearly 10%–15% per year (6) compared to 1%–2% in elderly persons with normal cognition (7). It is important to put the epidemiology of cognitive impairment in the context of the epidemiology of diabetes in the United States. Over 100 million U.S. adults have diabetes or prediabetes: 25 million have diabetes and 79 million have prediabetes (22), comprising one-third of the U.S. population. This high prevalence is accounted for in large part by the age group most at risk for cognitive impairment, persons age ≥60 years in whom the prevalence of pre diabetes and diabetes is >50% (>60% in minorities) (22,23). A large proportion of this prevalence is accounted for by non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics (22,24,25), who have about twice the prevalence of diabetes compared to non-Hispanic whites (22,24). An interesting aspect of dementia is that it has ethnic differences similar to those found in type 2 diabetes. In a study from Northern Manhattan in New York City, Hispanics and non-Hispanic blacks had approximately double the prevalence of dementia compared to non-Hispanic whites (26,27). In the same cohort from Northern Manhattan, it was estimated that the higher prevalence of diabetes in minorities could account for some of the ethnic disparities in cognitive impairment, including MCI and dementia, among persons age ≥65 years (28). Causes, Risk Factors, Prevention, and Treatment of Cognitive Impairment The pathologic hallmark of AD is the presence of amyloid plaques and neuro­ fibrillary tangles identified in brains that have come to autopsy (29). To date, the accumulation of amyloid and its prevention (30) have received the most attention in studies of causes, prevention, and treatment of AD. In 2010, an expert panel from the National Institutes of Health concluded that there was insufficient evidence to recommend treatment or prevention for AD dementia (31). The genetic causes of early-onset, familial AD dementia are known (32), but this form represents a minority of cases and is not
