Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


recommend treatment or prevention for AD dementia (31). The genetic causes of early-onset, familial AD dementia are known (32), but this form represents a minority of cases and is not the focus of this chapter. APOE-ε4, encoding a form of apolipoprotein E, is the only robust genetic susceptibility risk factor for late- onset AD dementia, occurring in up to 50% of cases. However, it has not proved useful for diagnosis, prevention, or treat­ ment (33,34,35). In addition, APOE-ε4 has lower predictive value in non-His­ panic blacks and Hispanics compared to non-Hispanic whites (27,33). Among nongenetic risk factors, older age, lower education, and diabetes (36) are the most robust. Studies of hypertension in relation to dementia have shown that mid-life exposure to risk factors may be a better indicator of future risk for dementia than measures obtained close to the time that cognitive impairment is detected (37,38). Other factors, such as smoking, dyslip­ idemia, diet, and physical activity, have been studied, but results are inconsistent (39). Risk factors for VCI (40) are mainly those associated with cerebrovascular disease, including diabetes and other vascular risk factors, such as hyperten­ sion and dyslipidemia (41). POTENTIAL MECHANISMS LINKING DIABETES AND COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT Diabetes and its related conditions, adiposity and hyperinsulinemia, and their clustering with other vascular risk factors, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia (42), are known to increase the risk for cerebrovascular disease (14,41,43,44,45,46). In addition, insulin or diabetes-related byproducts may affect the amyloid cascade that is thought to be responsible for AD (47). Thus, potential mechanisms linking diabetes with cognitive impairment are classified as cerebrovascular and non-cerebrovascular. CEREBROVASCULAR SUBSTRATES Infarcts, ascertained by clinical history as strokes causing neurologic deficits (48) or identified as focal lesions on brain imaging (49), are related to a higher risk of AD dementia and vascular dementia. The mechanisms for the association with AD dementia are not clear. However, the presence of infarcts in persons with AD neuropathology may result in an increase in brain injury and increase the likelihood of reaching a clinical dementia endpoint in the presence of such neuropathology (50,51). 24–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 24.1. Relation of Glycemia and Insulin Resistance to Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Neuropathology, the Hisayama Study, 1998–2003 Odds ratios for each tertile of (A) glucose, (B) insulin, and (C) HOMA-IR versus the lowest tertile for the presence of neuritic plaques. Model 1: adjusted for age and sex. Model 2:
