Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


for each tertile of (A) glucose, (B) insulin, and (C) HOMA-IR versus the lowest tertile for the presence of neuritic plaques. Model 1: adjusted for age and sex. Model 2: adjusted for age, sex, systolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, body mass index, current smoking, regular exercise, and cerebrovascular disease. Conversions for glucose and insulin values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. HOMA-IR, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance. * p<0.05 versus the lowest tertile † p<0.10 versus the lowest tertile SOURCE: Reference 87, copyright © 2010 Wolters Kluwer, reprinted with permission White matter disease, called mini-strokes by clinicians, is ascertained as WMH, also known as leukoaraiosis, on brain imaging (40). WMH may represent microvascular disease in the brain or demyelination. However, the nature of WMH is still not well understood. WMH are thought to be ischemic in origin in the same way that infarcts are (52) and, thus, have been proposed as surrogate markers of cerebro­ vascular disease (52). However, WMH are common in AD dementia, and some may be related to cerebral amyloid angiopathy (53,54,55,56), a correlate of AD, inflam­ mation, or other demyelinating processes. WMH are common correlates of cognitive impairment in diabetes (57), but it is unclear whether these WMH are markers of microvascular injury or if they represent a process related to amyloid deposition or another neurodegenerative process. Hyperinsulinemia caused by insulin resis­ tance is an important antecedent and companion of type 2 diabetes (58,59). Hyperinsulinemia is a plausible risk factor for AD dementia, independent of cere­ brovascular disease for several reasons. Insulin can cross the blood brain barrier (60), and peripheral insulin infusions in the elderly may affect amyloid levels in cerebrospinal fluid (61), an indirect marker of AD risk. In addition, insulin receptors in important brain structures, including the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, are affected early in AD (62). Insulin and amyloid are competing substrates for insulin-degrading enzyme, which has been linked to clearance of amyloid in the brain (63). Insulin in the brain can increase the deposition of amyloid and Tau protein phosphorylation, which are central to the pathogenesis of AD (60). The pathways relating insulin in the periphery with amyloid clearance in the brain are multiple and complex (64). One potential pathway is that peripheral hyperinsulinemia down­ regulates insulin uptake in the blood brain barrier due to saturation over physiologic levels (65). This may result in reduction of insulin
