Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


One potential pathway is that peripheral hyperinsulinemia down­ regulates insulin uptake in the blood brain barrier due to saturation over physiologic levels (65). This may result in reduction of insulin levels in the brain, as well as downregulation of the expression of insu­ lin-degrading enzyme (66) and reduction in its related amyloid clearance function (63). This complex observation has been used to support the seemingly paradoxical use of rosiglitazone, an insulin sensitizer (67,68), and intranasal insulin (69) in the treatment of AD dementia. NON-CEREBROVASCULAR MECHANISMS Advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) are closely linked with glycemia and diabetes and have also been related to AD. Glycated hemoglobin (A1c), used by clinicians to track diabetes control, is the most common example of an AGE. With hyperglycemia, diabetic animal and human tissues increase both AGEs and their receptors (RAGE) (70,71,72), and AGEs are known to be related to the tradi­ tional microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes (73,74,75,76,77,78). Increased expression of RAGE is also observed in AD dementia (79,80,81), and expression of RAGE is enhanced in blood vessels near amyloid deposits in AD brains (79,82). Several studies have examined the relation between diabetes and dementia mechanisms, particularly surrogate markers of AD, and found conflicting results. These markers have included neuropathology studies, brain imaging studies, and studies of other biomarkers. Neuropathology studies from 233 partic­ ipants in the Religious Orders Study, a study of deceased older Catholic nuns, priests, and brothers from across the United States (83), and from a study of 385 nursing home residents who underwent autopsy (84) found that a history of diabetes was not related to AD neuropathology, similar to a study in a Finnish population (85). However, a study of Japanese Americans in Hawaii found that diabetes was associated with higher prevalence of AD neuropathology (86). The most compelling neuropathology study to date found, in a Japanese sample, that increased glycemia and insulin resistance measured 10 years before autopsy were related to increased risk of AD neuropathology (Figure 24.1) (87). One Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment 24–5 brain imaging study in the United States found that insulin resistance was related to a profile of brain metabolism on brain positron emission tomography (PET) that is consistent with AD (88). Similarly, another brain imaging study from the United States among 749 persons with a mean age of 79 years found that diabetes was associated with a brain metabo­ lism pattern similar to AD,
