Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


imaging study from the United States among 749 persons with a mean age of 79 years found that diabetes was associated with a brain metabo­ lism pattern similar to AD, but not with increased amyloid brain accumulation, as ascertained with brain PET with an amyloid ligand (Figure 24.2) (89). A study from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA) (90) found among 197 persons with autopsy at a mean age of 88 years that hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and diabetes assessed approximately at age 66 years were not associated with increased brain AD pathology. The same study had data on 53 subjects with brain amyloid PET acquired at a mean age of 79 years and also found no evidence of a relation with brain amyloid. The conflicting results of these studies do not help resolve the question of whether diabetes is related to brain amyloid accumulation. The limitations of the neuropathology studies include survival bias and selection bias and the lack of proper ascertainment of diabetes status compared with the previously mentioned Japanese study with detailed data on glycemia and insulin resistance that found that hyperglycemia and insulin resistance were related to AD pathology (87). The limitations of the few amyloid brain imaging studies include old age and small clinic samples, which also suffer from survival and selection biases (i.e., persons with diabetes may have a higher mortality risk that could result in survival bias and affect the study of dementia and neuropathology outcomes). FIGURE 24.2. Patterns of Brain Metabolism and Amyloid Brain Accumulation by Positron Emission Tomography, by Diabetes Status and Cognitive Impairment, Mayo Clinic Study of Aging, 2006–2012 Box plots for 18F-FDG and 11C-PiB retention ratio in Alzheimer’s disease signature regions by diabetes mellitus (DM) in cognitively normal subjects and those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). z = women; | = men. SOURCE: Reference 89, copyright © 2014 Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, reprinted with permission TYPE 1 DIABETES AND COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT Historically, most research on the rela­ tionship between type 1 diabetes and cognitive impairment was conducted on relatively small “convenience” samples, and was restricted to children or young and middle-aged adults. Cognitive status was typically measured with a battery of neuropsychological tests that assessed multiple cognitive domains, including attention/concentration, learning and memory, mental and motor speed, visual perceptual skills, and reasoning or “executive function” (91,92). Because the focus was on identifying mild to moderate decrements
