Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


cognitive domains, including attention/concentration, learning and memory, mental and motor speed, visual perceptual skills, and reasoning or “executive function” (91,92). Because the focus was on identifying mild to moderate decrements in cognitive func­ tioning, dysfunction was operationally defined in terms of performance differ­ ences between demographically similar subjects with and without diabetes. Most recent studies have expressed these as standardized differences (e.g., z score differences; Cohen’s d) (93). With very few exceptions (94,95), researchers have not made formal ratings of clinically significant impairment like dementia or MCI, largely because it is quite unusual to find clinical evidence of serious cognitive impairments in this patient population. Drawing on results from 15 studies comprising 1,029 subjects with diabetes and 751 control subjects, Gaudieri et al. (96) found modestly poorer performance among those children and adolescents with diabetes. Effects were largest for measures of “crystalized intelligence”— factual information about the world, verbal learning, and visual and motor integration. Because a number of studies have consis­ tently indicated that children with an “early onset” of diabetes—usually diagnosis before age 6 or 7 years—perform more poorly than those with a later onset of diabetes (97), the meta-analysis was repeated, but comparing early-onset with later-onset subjects. The magnitude of the cognitive differences was found to be somewhat larger in persons with early onset of diabetes compared with 24–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition later onset, with more domains equal to or greater than an effect size (Cohen’s d) of 0.15, considered a small difference as compared with controls. Taken together, these results support the view that in children and adolescents, diabetes is associated with modest decrements on a range of cognitive skills, with these effects being greatest in those youngsters who were diagnosed with diabetes early in life. Another meta-analysis, adding several newer studies (24 studies published between 1980 and 2005), identified a generally similar pattern of results (98), with modest differences between diabetic and nondiabetic samples (Cohen’s d 0.15–0.30) evident on tests of verbal and performance intelligence, as well as on measures of visuospatial ability, motor speed, attention, and reading and writing. In terms of cognition in adults with type 1 diabetes, Brands et al. (99) published a meta-analysis of 33 studies published between 1980 and 2004 that included adults age >18 years and a comparison group of subjects without diabetes. In virtually all studies, subjects were age <50 years at the time of the
