Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


and 2004 that included adults age >18 years and a comparison group of subjects without diabetes. In virtually all studies, subjects were age <50 years at the time of the cognitive assessment. As illustrated in Figure 24.3 (99), adults with type 1 diabetes performed consistently more poorly than controls on measures of overall cognition, intelligence, psychomotor efficiency, speed of information processing, cognitive flexibility, attention, and visual perceptual skills. The largest effect sizes (Cohen’s d 0.5–0.7) were found on measures of crystalized intelligence, fluid intelligence (e.g., problem-solving, reasoning), psychomotor efficiency, and cognitive flexibility, which fall under the umbrella of non-amnestic cognitive function. It is noteworthy that with the exception of measures of crystalized intelligence, the other cognitive domains that were most affected by diabetes tended to be those that required rapid responding or were otherwise time- limited. Despite the relatively small sample sizes of the studies included in this analysis, as well as the wide range of measures used by the different researchers, these results are remarkably consistent with those reported in studies of children and adolescents: intelligence, as measured by formal IQ tests, is consistently lower—by about 3 to 5 points on average (the majority of the general population is between 85 and 115 points of IQ)—and performance is slower—by 5%–15%—on tasks that require attention and rapid responding. The only large-scale study to compre­ hensively assess adolescents and adults with type 1 diabetes over time is the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), conducted in 29 sites in the United States and Canada (100). This clinical trial, which compared the effects of intensive insulin therapy (multiple daily injections) with conventional therapy (one or two daily injections), was designed to test the hypothesis that intensive therapy delayed or prevented the development of microvascular and neuropathic compli­ cations. Because intensive therapy was known to increase the incidence of severe hypoglycemia and because earlier studies had demonstrated that severe hypoglycemia could adversely affect the structural and functional integrity of the brain, the DCCT study group developed a comprehensive battery of neurocognitive tests that was administered at study entry and repeated at years 2, 5, 7, and/or study end. Data from 1,441 subjects, followed for an average of 6.5 years, demonstrated that intensive insulin therapy did not differentially disrupt functioning on any of the eight cognitive domains studied. Despite high rates of hypoglycemia in the study group, there was no relationship between moderately severe
