Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


therapy did not differentially disrupt functioning on any of the eight cognitive domains studied. Despite high rates of hypoglycemia in the study group, there was no relationship between moderately severe hypoglycemia and performance on any cognitive test (95,101). Use of an innovative clinical rating procedure (102) showed very low rates of clinically significant worsening over time (by year 5, only 23 of 1,383 subjects showed significant cognitive decline), and these effects were unrelated to hypoglycemia. FIGURE 24.3. Meta-Analysis of Cognitive Performance Among Adults With Type 1 Diabetes Standardized effect sizes (Cohen’s d) and 95% confidence intervals for the cognitive domains in patients with type 1 diabetes compared with nondiabetic control subjects. Number of patients included in each domain is listed between parentheses. Nonsignificant p-values are not shown. Points to the left of 0 indicate worse cognitive performance in persons with type 1 diabetes compared to controls without diabetes. SOURCE: Reference 99, copyright © 2005 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American Diabetes Association. References for individual studies are available from Reference 99. Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment 24–7 The Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) study, a follow-up assessment of the DCCT cohort (N=1,144), studied a mean of 18 years following study entry, also showed no between-group differences on any cognitive domain nor any rela­ tionship between recurrent episodes of hypo glycemia and change in cognitive functioning over time (Figure 24.4) (103). However, poorer metabolic control, oper­ ationalized as a time-weighted A1c value of ≥8.2% (≥66 mmol/mol), was associated with consistently poorer performance over time on two cognitive domains: psycho­ motor efficiency and motor speed. Subsequent analyses, focusing on predictors of cognitive changes over time, demonstrated that after controlling for age and education, proliferative retinopathy, renal complications, and time-weighted A1c values were each independently and significantly associated with declining performance on measures of psycho­ motor efficiency (104). This work is consistent with earlier longitudinal studies (105) that link the development of micro­ vascular complications to psychomotor slowing in adults with type 1 diabetes. FIGURE 24.4. Effects of DCCT Treatment Group, Severe Hypoglycemia, and Glycated Hemoglobin on Changes in Cognition, From Entry Into DCCT to Year 12 in the EDIC Study The bars show the changes within cognitive domains between cognitive testing at baseline in DCCT and follow-up testing (a mean of 18 years after baseline) expressed as (A) changes in z scores for intensive versus conventional treatment, (B)
