Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


between cognitive testing at baseline in DCCT and follow-up testing (a mean of 18 years after baseline) expressed as (A) changes in z scores for intensive versus conventional treatment, (B) frequency of episodes of severe hypoglycemia (coma or seizure), and (C) mean glycated hemoglobin values. Across the three groups, higher levels of glycated hemoglobin were associated with moderate declines in psychomotor efficiency (p<0.001) and motor speed (p=0.001), but no other cognitive domain was affected significantly. Cognitive domains are numbered as follows: 1, problem solving; 2, learning; 3, immediate memory; 4, delayed recall; 5, spatial information; 6, attention; 7, psychomotor efficiency; and 8, motor speed. Conversions for glycated hemoglobin values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. DCCT, Diabetes Control and Complications Trial; EDIC, Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications study. SOURCE: Reference 103, copyright © 2007 Massachusetts Medical Society, reprinted with permission 24–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TYPE 2 DIABETES AND COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT DIABETES, COGNITIVE DECLINE, AND MILD COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT The difference in cognitive function between those with and without diabetes is relatively robust across cohort studies, although results vary in terms of which specific functions differ between the two groups. Over 4 years, a cohort of 999 individuals age 44–89 years was followed in the Rancho Bernardo Study, a popula­ tion-based study conducted in suburban southern California. Diabetes, ascertained by glucose tolerance testing, was associ­ ated with faster decline in a verbal fluency test (a test of executive-frontal abilities), but not a decline in the Mini Mental Status Exam (a test of global cognition) or Trail Making Tests (another test of executive-frontal abilities) (106). The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study (ARIC) was a prospective epidemiologic study of 10,963 persons age 47–70 years in four U.S. communities (Washington County, Maryland; Forsyth County, North Carolina; Jackson, Mississippi; and Minneapolis, Minnesota). ARIC showed that diabetes, ascertained by self-report or fasting glucose, was a strong predictor of decline in the DSST of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence scale and the word fluency test, both tests of executive-frontal abili­ ties, after 6 years of follow-up (107). Self-reported diabetes was related to a twofold higher risk of developing MCI among 7,027 osteoporotic post­ menopausal women with a mean age of 66 years participating in a clinical trial of the osteoporosis medication raloxifene in 25 countries, including the United States (108). A multiethnic study of 1,088 subjects age ≥65 years in New York City
