Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


‡ Baseline mean is the overall mean for both groups combined as measured prerandomization. This value is used to obtain the least squares means estimates at follow-up. Models are adjusted for baseline cognitive score and the factors used to stratify randomization: second trial assignment (BP or Lipid); randomized group allocation within the blood pressure (BP) and lipid trials, respectively; clinical center network; and history of cardiovascular disease. § Test of prespecified co-primary outcome. SOURCE: Reference 116, copyright © 2011 Elsevier, reprinted with permission or lipid trials. However, one of the earlier analyses explored the relationship between the degree of hyperglycemia and cognitive status through a cross-sectional examina­ tion of baseline glycemic control and the cognitive scores obtained on the cognitive tests at baseline. It was reported that higher A1c levels were, indeed, associated with lower cognitive function in these patients (117). Another set of analyses found that depression in the MIND patients was associated with accelerated cognitive decline irrespective of which cognitive domains, treatment arms, or patient subgroups were assessed (118). The Informatics in Diabetes Education and Telemedicine Study (IDEATel) was a randomized trial of telemedicine versus usual care in 2,169 elderly persons with diabetes conducted in two sites in New York, a rural upstate site and an urban downstate site (119). The telemedicine intervention comprised a telemedicine unit with videoconferencing, email, and clinical data entry capabilities for patients who interacted with nurse care managers to improve their diabetes control. Persons in the IDEATel intervention group showed better diabetes control parameters compared to usual care (120). Estimated differences between the groups at year 5 were 0.29% for A1c, 3.84 mg/dL for LDL, and 4.32 mmHg for systolic blood pressure, all statistically significant and favoring the telemedicine intervention. Persons in the telemedicine intervention had less global cognitive decline during a maximum of 5 years of follow-up (Figure 24.6) (121). Importantly, the glycemic control goals of IDEATel followed glycemic guidelines (target A1c <7.0%) that were less stringent FIGURE 24.6. Effect of a Telemedicine Intervention Versus Usual Care on Global Cognitive Decline, Informatics for Diabetes Education and Telemedicine Study, 2000–2007 Comparison of changes in adjusted means in the Comprehensive Assessment and Referral Evaluation (CARE) Diagnostic Scale between the intervention and control from mixed models (adjusted for clustering) during a maximum follow-up of 5 years. SOURCE: Reference 121, copyright © 2011 Springer, reprinted with permission 24–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition than the goals
