Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


models (adjusted for clustering) during a maximum follow-up of 5 years. SOURCE: Reference 121, copyright © 2011 Springer, reprinted with permission 24–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition than the goals in ACCORD (A1c <6.0%), which showed increased mortality in its intensive glycemic control arm (122). Although the outcome of this study was global cognitive decline, memory was the strongest correlate of global cogni­ tive function in a subset of patients with detailed neuropsychological testing. A mediation analysis demonstrated that among diabetes control parameters, lower glycemia measured with A1c, but not systolic blood pressure or LDL, was the main mediator for the association between improved control and cognitive performance (Figure 24.7) (121). Other analyses from this study restricted to the urban cohort in New York City found that mild memory or executive cognitive impairment (defined as cognitive perfor­ mance worse than 1.0 standard deviations for the norms for age, sex, and education) were not associated with longitudinal diabetes control (123). Depression was also not associated with diabetes control, whether accompanied or not by mild executive or memory impairment (123). However, these studies did not measure whether persons with cognitive impair­ ment received more assistance for their diabetes care, which could have underesti­ mated the detrimental effects of cognitive impairment on diabetes control. The Action for Health in Diabetes (Look AHEAD) clinical trial, conducted in 21 sites in the United States, found that a lifestyle intervention among 978 persons with diabetes was not related to cognitive performance 8.1 years after trial enroll­ ment (124), despite clinically significant weight loss in the intervention arm (125). HYPOGLYCEMIA AND COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT One of the main complications of diabetes treatment is hypoglycemia, which has long been hypothesized to be a potential mechanism explaining the pres­ ence of cognitive impairment in diabetes. A large longitudinal epidemiologic study in 16,667 enrollees in a managed care health plan in Northern California showed that persons with diabetes with reported hypoglycemic events were more likely to develop dementia (Table 24.4) (126). Persons with one episode of hypogly­ cemia had approximately a 26% increased risk of dementia, while persons with three or more episodes had nearly a doubling in risk of dementia. However, this study did not have information on cognitive performance at the time of hypoglycemia. Thus, the investigators could not rule out that persons who had the type of cogni­ tive impairment that precedes dementia (i.e., MCI) were taking their
