Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


is compared to 0. ‡ Adjustment made using a comorbidity composite scale. SOURCE: Reference 126, copyright © 2009 American Medical Association, reproduced with permission. All rights reserved. Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment 24–13 compliance with diabetes treatment that leads to hypoglycemia, and not the other way around. The lack of an effect of hypo­ glycemia on cognition is supported by an analysis of the DCCT and its follow-up EDIC study in persons with type 1 diabetes, who are at high risk of hypogly­ cemic episodes due to insulin treatment and autonomic dysfunction (103). Severe hypoglycemia, which occurred in 40% of this cohort, was not related to cognitive decline during 18 years of follow-up, albeit in relatively young participants. DIABETES PREVENTION AND COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT The landmark Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS) (128), conducted across 25 sites in the United States, measured cognition during follow-up at two time points 2 years apart (129). The Diabetes Prevention Program, the clinical trial preceding the DPPOS, compared lifestyle and metformin inter­ ventions with placebo among 3,234 persons with impaired glucose tolerance and showed that both lifestyle and metformin reduced diabetes incidence compared to placebo. During the DPPOS, participants originally randomized to metformin continued the drug, and a group lifestyle intervention was offered to all. Cognition was assessed (n=2,344) in years 8 and 10 of the DPPOS. Memory was assessed with the Spanish English Verbal Learning Test (SEVLT), the DSST, animal (AF) and letter fluency (LF), and a composite score with z scores of these tests. Cognition was similar across the Diabetes Prevention Program arms in Year 8. However, in mixed models adjusted for age at randomization and assessment year, the composite cognitive score was inversely associated with A1c (p=0.0002), indicating that while the interventions that prevented diabetes were not related to cognitive performance, worse glycemia was related to worse cognitive perfor­ mance cross-sectionally. DIABETES MEDICATIONS AND COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT As reviewed above, the findings that diabetes is related to an increased risk of AD dementia in epidemiologic studies (113), that peripheral hyperinsulinemia may impair amyloid clearance in the brain (47), and that decreased insulin signaling is a feature of AD brains (130) have prompted the testing of diabetes medications for the treatment or prevention of AD dementia. The thiazolidinediones are powerful insulin sensitizers used in diabetes treatment (131) and have been tested as possible drugs to prevent or slow dementing processes. The thiazolidinedione rosiglita­ zone was
