Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


dementia. The thiazolidinediones are powerful insulin sensitizers used in diabetes treatment (131) and have been tested as possible drugs to prevent or slow dementing processes. The thiazolidinedione rosiglita­ zone was tested for secondary prevention of cognitive decline in mild AD dementia among 511 persons without diabetes and was found to be nonefficacious (68) after promising results in a pilot study of 30 persons with mild AD dementia and MCI (67). However, it seems possible that the negative vascular effects of rosiglitazone (132) could have eclipsed the beneficial effects on AD pathology (133). The thiazolidinedione pioglitazone seems to have a lower risk of myocardial infarction compared to rosiglitazone (edema and congestive heart failure are class-specific and not lower) (134). However, a trial of pioglitazone in 78 adults with MCI found that pioglitazone improved insulin resistance, but there was no effect on cognitive performance after 6 months (135). It should be noted these drugs have concerning side effects, including edema, congestive heart failure, and in the case of rosiglitazone, myocardial infarction (136). The U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a warning indicating that rosigli­ tazone carries cardiovascular risks and restricting its use to patients who cannot control their blood glucose by other means (132). Metformin, a diabetes medication belonging to the biguanide class (137,138) and the most widely used diabetes medication (139), prevents diabetes by suppressing hepatic glucose output, increasing insulin-mediated glucose disposal, increasing intestinal glucose use, and decreasing fatty acid oxidation (140). These actions are accom­ panied by reduced pancreatic insulin secretion and lower insulin levels in blood in response to glucose loads. Metformin is usually the first step in pharmacologic treatment of type 2 diabetes (141). There are conflicting data from cell and animal models suggesting that metformin may both increase (142) and decrease (143) AD pathology. Retrospective epide­ miologic studies are also conflicting, suggesting that metformin use is asso­ ciated with both higher (144,145) and lower (146) dementia risk. The DPPOS is the largest study to have examined the effects of metformin among persons with diabetes and those at risk. Metformin exposure over 14.0 years in the DPPOS was not related to cognition (129), suggesting at the very least that it is safe from a cognitive standpoint. A pilot trial of metformin in 80 persons with amnestic MCI without treated diabetes (147) showed that persons in the treatment arm had better memory performance at one year compared with placebo
