Chapter 24: Diabetes and Cognitive Impairment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cognitive, dementia, study, impairment, cognitive impairment, risk, years, persons, disease, age, alzheimer, type, insulin, brain


trial of metformin in 80 persons with amnestic MCI without treated diabetes (147) showed that persons in the treatment arm had better memory performance at one year compared with placebo (148). Both the placebo and metformin arms showed improvement in words recalled in a memory test at one year, but the metformin arm showed a significant mean difference of four more words recalled (mean recall at baseline was 34.2 words in the metformin arm and 36.1 in the placebo arm, p=0.32). These results needs to be tested in a larger clinical trial and should be interpreted with caution given the small sample size of the pilot study and the possibility of chance findings. However, these results support those of the DPPOS showing that metformin is at the very least safe from a cognitive standpoint. Intranasal insulin, used with the purpose of increasing brain insulin (not peripheral insulin), showed preliminary evidence of a cognitive benefit in a pilot study of 25 persons with mild AD dementia (149) randomized to intranasal insulin or placebo. Persons in the treatment group had increased memory savings scores compared to persons in the placebo arm. The diabetes medication class of gluca­ gon-like peptide agonists (150) increases both insulin secretion and sensitivity and has been hypothesized to be of benefit in AD dementia (151), but this has not been tested in clinical trials. 24–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FUTURE DIRECTIONS AND CONCLUSIONS An extensive body of research ranging from experimental, clinical, epidemiologic, and patient care studies suggests that diabetes is associated with cognitive impairment from mild to severe forms and including vascular and neurodegen­ erative forms. The association of diabetes with vascular and non-amnestic forms of cognitive impairment seems to be stronger than that for AD-related and amnestic forms of cognitive impairment. Elucidating the relation between diabetes and cognitive impairment is still an active area of research in many different fields that investigate links among neurodegen­ erative, vascular, and metabolic processes. Longitudinal studies documenting diabetes onset and cognitive performance at earlier ages than in current studies (most of which use elderly cohorts) are needed. Also important is the develop­ ment of markers of preclinical cognition that can be used as an outcome in trials of diabetes treatment and prevention. Another important area for more research is the impact of cognitive impairment on diabetes treatment. New reports of an association between diabetes and dementia continue to suggest
