Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


ABSTRACT Sport is the organized playing of competitive games according to rules. Hence doping represents drug cheating, a fraud on competitors, the sport, and the public. The charter of the World Anti-doping Agency (WADA) forms a harmonized Code that authorizes an annually updated list of prohibited doping substances and methods, accrediting national anti-doping labs around the world, and establishing the Court of Arbitration for Sports as the “Supreme Court” to settle global disputes related to doping. Sports performance has 4 major components: skill, strength, endurance, and recovery, with each sport employing a distinct combination of these elements. These performance characteristics also correspond to the most potent and effective forms of doping. Sports requiring explosive power including combat and collision sports are most susceptible to androgen doping through their effect on increasing muscle mass and strength whereas sports that require endurance are most enhanced by hemoglobin (blood) doping which increases oxygen delivering capacity to exercising tissues. Performance in sports involving intense physical activity or training may possibly be enhanced by growth hormone and its secretagogues through speeding of tissue recovery from injury though convincing evidence is lacking. Hormones remain the most potent and widely detected doping agents being responsible for about 2/3 of anti-doping rule violations detected by increasingly sophisticated detection methods. At present, the vast majority of positives are still due to a wide variety of androgens, including natural, marketed, and illicit synthetic steroidal and non-steroidal (e.g. SARMs) androgens, while the peptide hormones (erythropoiesis stimulating agents, growth hormone and its secretagogues) and autologous blood transfusion remain difficult to detect. Although chronic pharmacological use of glucocorticoids is likely deleterious to muscle function and sports performance, short-term use of high doses may be potentially ergogenic through mental effects of blunting of fatigue perception. Use of thyroid hormones is not prohibited but is likely counterproductive in creating loss of muscle mass and strength due to hyperthyroidism. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Across the world, sport is a ubiquitous human social activity that forms a unique intersection of health, recreation, entertainment and industry ( 1 ). It is both a major economic activity as well as a profound influence on social behavior of individuals at home, work, and play. One practical and concise definition of sport is the organized playing of competitive games according to rules . In that context, rule
