Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


behavior of individuals at home, work, and play. One practical and concise definition of sport is the organized playing of competitive games according to rules . In that context, rule breaking is cheating to achieve an unfair competitive advantage whether it involves using illegal equipment, match fixing, banned drugs or any other prohibited means. The illicit use of banned drugs (doping) to influence the outcome of a sporting contest, constitutes a fraud against competitors, spectators, sport, sponsors, and the public no different from other personal, professional, or commercial frauds. While performance enhancement is almost invariably the intent of cheating, impairing performance is also well known in horse racing and even, rarely, in human elite sports (e.g. drink-spiking of banned drugs, injurious physical assaults). Rules of sporting contests may change by agreement, but once set, represents the boundaries of fair competition. Nevertheless, fairness is an elastic, socially constructed concept which may change gradually over time. For example, a century ago deliberate training itself was considered an ungentlemanly breach of fairness as competition was then envisaged as a contest based solely on natural endowments. Similarly, some sports once maintained a distinction between amateurs and professionals. The philosophical foundations of the concept of fairness is a deep and complex issue ( 2 , 3 ) where the focus has been mainly on distributive justice with an implicit goal of equality of outcomes. Less attention has been given to the philosophical basis of fair competition in sport where the prior distribution of talent and training and the outcome of contests are intended to provide equality of opportunity, but not of outcome, between contestants. Naïve arguments are made that deny doping is cheating, or unsafe or violates the spirit of sport and asserting that drugs should be freely available or under medical supervision ( 4 - 6 ). However, removing prohibition on doping would immediately render drug taking as pervasive as training in elite sport extending to promising underage and sub-elite athletes. Ensuing demands on doctors to prescribe excessive, often massive, drug doses without medical indications would be unprofessional, unethical, and unsafe. This could convert sporting participation into a potentially dangerous rather than a healthy activity. In practice, creating enforceable boundaries for drugs in sport is unavoidable whether it is prohibition or, even under the most idealistic libertarian scenarios, by age or dosage. Within the limitations of unverifiable self-report regarding an illicit activity ( 7
