Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


is unavoidable whether it is prohibition or, even under the most idealistic libertarian scenarios, by age or dosage. Within the limitations of unverifiable self-report regarding an illicit activity ( 7 , 8 ), surveys indicate athletes support antidoping testing mainly to prevent cheating but also to promote safety ( 9 - 11 ). Motivating factors for, and routes by which athletes get involved in doping are complex but include the use of non-banned nutritional supplements as a gateway to doping ( 12 ) and the suspicion of athletes or their entourage that their rivals may be using illicit drugs, the so-called “false consensus belief” ( 7 , 13 - 15 ). These philosophical issues are not considered further here and, recognizing that sport requires concrete, practical decisions, the establishment and enforcement of agreed rules is the basis of fair competition. An excellent discussion of the logic and morality of a decisive antidoping approach from an ethicist with extensive experience in sports anti-doping is recommended ( 16 ). It is well understood that individual human genetic endowments are unequal, and, among these, sporting prowess is at least partly genetically determined ( 17 ). However, little is still known of the genotype-phenotype correlations that underlie beneficial genetic endowments for sports performance. Natural genetic advantages are recognized in height (tallness for basketball, shortness for jockeys and motor-cycle riders) and hereditary erythrocytosis where a high circulating hemoglobin (due to a high affinity erythropoietin (EPO) receptor ( 18 )) for endurance sports, or conversely genetic disadvantage such as the common α-actinin-3 deletion genetic polymorphism which limits anaerobic, explosive power ( 19 ). More examples of genetic (dis)advantages for sports performance are likely to be identified as genomics continues to expand our understanding of the biological basis of health, including natural human sporting prowess. In the context of sports doping, however, a person’s genetic endowment is a given creating a natural boundary whereby the use of exogenous drugs or chemicals (including DNA) may constitute drug cheating or doping. WORLD ANTI-DOPING AGENCY (WADA) AND THE GLOBAL ANTI-DOPING REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT Cheating is as old as sport itself, yet the present endemic of doping using pharmaceutical drugs to boost sports performance is largely a Cold War legacy. Eastern European national doping programs were established by governments aiming to achieve a short-cut propaganda victory over their Western rivals, a challenge quickly reciprocated and then taken up by individual coaches and
