Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


national doping programs were established by governments aiming to achieve a short-cut propaganda victory over their Western rivals, a challenge quickly reciprocated and then taken up by individual coaches and athletes. Starting with power sports ( 20 ), the epidemic became entrenched as an endemic in sufficiently affluent circles. In 1967, following the introduction of anti-doping rules by some sports federations, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) established its Medical Commission, which published their first list of prohibited substances. During the 1970’s the IOC Medical Commission took an increasingly active role by banning androgens which required developing standardized, valid methods to detect and deter androgen doping. After discarding alternatives such as immunoassays and blood sampling, in the 1980s mass spectrometry (MS)-based tests became ( 21 ) and remain the standard for detecting synthetic androgens in urine. In 1999, the IOC established the WADA based in Montreal to be equally supported by governments and sporting organizations with its charter, the WADA Code, representing a harmonized set of global anti-doping rules introduced in 2004, revised in 2009 and every 6 years thereafter (2015, 2021, and scheduled for 2027) ( 22 ). WADA also publishes an annually updated Prohibited List of Substances and Methods, accredits national anti-doping labs together with their operational anti-doping testing framework and established the Court for Arbitration in Sport (CAS) to settle anti-doping legal disputes as sport’s “Supreme Court”. The WADA Code has been adopted by over 660 sporting organizations including all Olympic and Paralympic organizations and National Anti-Doping Organizations as well as most non-Olympic International and National Sports Federations. The WADA Code prohibits substances or methods which meet 2 of 3 criteria comprising: i. enhance performance (cheating), ii. harmful to health (safety) or iii. violate the spirit of sport (unsporting). A key feature of the WADA Code is its strict liability provision. This makes each athlete personally responsible to ensure no prohibited substances enter their body so that detection of any prohibited substances in their body constitutes an antidoping rule violation (ADRV), regardless of intent, fault, negligence, or knowing use as well as refusal or avoidance of testing or possession, attempts, trading, and tampering with banned drugs. Although the primacy of penalizing cheating is widely understood, implementing these criteria encounter ethical and practical difficulties in proving ergogenic effects of increasing numbers of illicit and/or non-approved substances. These substances have unknown safety so that human testing is not feasible making
