Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


encounter ethical and practical difficulties in proving ergogenic effects of increasing numbers of illicit and/or non-approved substances. These substances have unknown safety so that human testing is not feasible making athlete safety an important consideration. Sanctions involve suspension from any elite competitive sport and extend to support personnel and teams. Suspensions, once 2 years are now 4 years since adoption of the 2015 Code. This is generally believed to be longer than the ergogenic benefits of doping, although recent evidence suggests that androgen effects on muscle may create durable or even permanent effects ( 23 ), which might argue for much longer or permanent banning of androgen doping violators. The Prohibited List bans, at any time either in or out of competition, the use of performance enhancing hormones, including androgens, EPO, and growth hormone and related substances or drugs which stimulate endogenous production of these hormones ( Table 1 ). Among the 15 categories of prohibited substances ( 12 ) and methods ( 3 ), hormones feature prominently in S1 (anabolic agents, mainly androgens), S2 (peptide hormones, growth factors, related substances and mimetics), S4 (hormone and metabolic modulators), and S9 (glucocorticoids) with S1 and S2 having important “catch-all” provision for unnamed but related substances “with similar chemical structure or biological effects”. In addition, the S0 category bans non-approved substances, those without current regulatory approval for human therapeutic use. The prominence of hormones is reinforced by the WADA laboratory statistics for anti-doping tests where hormones remain the most frequently detected banned drugs ( Table 2 ). In 2017, of over 322,000 anti-doping tests ~1.5% were positive with 61% due to hormones, the vast majority (~99%) due to androgens. These findings confirm that the detection of androgen doping is effective whereas the low rate of detection of hemoglobin or growth hormone doping may reflect the limitations of available tests for peptides and peptide hormones which require blood rather than conventional urine sampling and feature low sensitivity and brief windows of detection, rather than their lack of abuse. Further use of out-of-competition testing and blood samples together with more sensitive detection tests with longer windows of detection are required particularly for peptide hormones. Table 1. 2025 WADA Prohibited List of Substances and Methods View in own window Substances non-approved substances (S0) anabolic agents (S1) • anabolic-androgenic steroids • other anabolic agents • “others with similar chemical structure or biological effects” peptide hormones, growth
