Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


anonymized framework. This provides overall prevalence self-report estimates of the target activities without allowing for individual identification of answers. One study of two elite athletic competitions provided estimates of 43.6% and 57.1% for recent (last year) and 70.1% of ever use of banned doping methods ( 26 ). However, another study using the same methodology found markedly lower prevalence estimates of 0.7% to 11.9% for recent use of banned doping ( 27 ). The discrepancies between these prevalence estimates requires further clarification. A significant limitation of these methods is their reliance on the athlete’s perception of banned methods. For example, whether “banned drugs” are interpreted as including the widely used (but non-banned) nutritional supplements which athletes are urged to avoid for fear of adulteration with unlabeled banned substances. Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE) In rare cases, an elite athlete with a genuine medical need for therapeutic use of a prohibited drug may be granted a TUE ( 28 , 29 ). This exempts the athlete from the Code’s strict liability provision and permits them to compete during ongoing necessary medical treatment. WADA provides medical guidelines that standardize the evaluation and management of TUE applications for a range of medical illnesses. A TUE is granted by a national anti-doping organization based on an independent, expert review of valid, documented diagnosis, appropriate clinical indications, and dose for hormonal treatment with a view to facilitating essential medical treatment but avoiding unjustified use or over-dosage. After stringent review TUE’s may be granted for treatment with testosterone, glucocorticoids, and insulin but there are very rarely any valid medical indications for EPO or, in adults, for growth hormone or IGF-1 in elite athletes. For example, TUE’s are usually justified for young male athletes with genuine androgen deficiency, occurring in ~1:200 men ( 30 ), due to organic pituitary-testicular disorders with an established pathological basis (e.g. bilateral orchidectomy, severe mumps orchitis, Klinefelter’s syndrome) who require life-long testosterone replacement therapy ( 31 ). The TUE will approve, subject to regular review, a standard testosterone replacement regimen, including dosage and monitoring, with changes to regimen requiring approval. TUEs are not granted for men with functional decreases in blood T due to non-reproductive disorders including stress (“over-training”) or ageing (“andropause”, “LowT”,“late-onset hypogonadism”) or for women. In principle, detection of prohibited substances is ideally aimed at identifying a xenobiotic substance or its distinctive chemical signature(s) which do not occur naturally in the
