Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


hypogonadism”) or for women. In principle, detection of prohibited substances is ideally aimed at identifying a xenobiotic substance or its distinctive chemical signature(s) which do not occur naturally in the body, thereby distinguishing it categorically from normal body constituents. Such identification of a non-natural substance that can’t be of endogenous origin is congruent with the strict liability onus in proving an ADRV. Proving an ADRV is more difficult to achieve with administration of natural hormones or their analogs which must be distinguished from their endogenous counterparts. In this situation, the alternative requires developing valid biomarkers to prove the use of banned substances through their distinctive effects on the body and tissues. It is a formidable challenge to validate an indirect biomarker as proof of an ADRV capable of withstanding vigorous medico-legal challenge when a proven ADRV would prevent an athlete from pursuing their profession. Proof of an ADRV based on a doping detection test requires rigorous standardization and harmonization of every stage of the anti-doping tests from sample collection, chain-of-custody, storage, and analysis including accounting for any fixed (genetic, gender, age, ethnicity) or variable (exercise, hydration, masking vulnerabilities) factors which may impact on proposed test metrics. COMPONENTS OF SPORTS PERFORMANCE AND DOPING Sports performance has 4 major dimensions – skill, strength, endurance, and recovery ( Figure 1 ). High performance in any sport requires a characteristic blend of these dimensions although individual sports differ widely in that balance. Similarly, the major ergogenic drug classes have distinctive effects aligned predominantly along one of these dimensions so that the most effective ergogenic drug classes used in doping are dictated by these dimensions of sports performance ( Figure 2 ). While every sport requires an acquired skill, some are largely or solely based on skill and concentration (e.g. board games, target shooting, car driving, and motor-cycle riding) and may benefit from drugs that reduce anxiety, tremor, inattention, or fatigue. Sports that are highly dependent on explosive, short-term anaerobic power (sprinting, throwing, boxing, wrestling) are typically ones which favor a stocky, muscular build, and are most susceptible to androgen-induced increases in muscle mass and strength. Other sports with an emphasis on aerobic effort and endurance (e.g. long distance or duration events), characteristically favored by a lean build, may be boosted by hemoglobin doping (blood transfusion, EPO and its analogs, or mimetics). Finally, sports that depend on recovery from major injury or recurrent minor injury
