Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


a lean build, may be boosted by hemoglobin doping (blood transfusion, EPO and its analogs, or mimetics). Finally, sports that depend on recovery from major injury or recurrent minor injury during intensive training, notably combat or collision sports, may benefit from tissue proliferative and remodeling effects of growth hormone and various growth factors. Figure 1. Components of Sports Performance. Figure 2. Drugs that Enhance Sports Performance. ANDROGENS Although the ergogenic effects of androgens were discovered empirically soon after the identification of testosterone as the principal male androgen of testicular origin in 1935 ( 32 ), their applications to elite sport performance were mainly developed during the Cold War by trial and error experiments undertaken on unknowing elite athletes ( 20 , 33 , 34 ); however, the scientific basis of androgen doping was only objectively proven in the 1990’s. Until that time, the settled consensus was that exogenous androgens had no effect in eugonadal men whose androgen receptors were already saturated by endogenous testosterone (T) ( 20 , 35 , 35 ). The then alleged benefits of androgen doping were misattributed placebo responses together with training and nutritional effects. Using an exemplary placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial design with a wide range of testosterone doses, Bhasin et al showed that T increased muscle mass and strength in eugonadal young men to a similar extent as exercise alone and with additive effects when combined with exercise ( 37 ) ( figure 3 ). Subsequent dose-response studies showed that administration of T increased muscle mass and strength by 10% without and 20-37% with exercise (where exercise alone increased them by 10-20%) together with additive effects from 3% increase in circulating hemoglobin. These benefits extended from below to well above physiological T doses or blood levels without evidence of plateau ( 38 , 39 ) and regardless of age ( 40 ). Figure 3. Biological Basis of Androgen Doping. Androgen doping may be either direct or indirect ( Table 3 , figure 4 ). Direct androgen doping involves administration of testosterone, natural or synthetic androgens whereas indirect androgen doping includes a variety of non-androgenic drugs which increase endogenous T. Direct androgen doping originally involved all pharmaceutically marketed natural (T, DHT, nandrolone) and synthetic androgens but has extended to non-marketed designer and nutraceutical androgens as well as pro-androgens (androstenedione, DHEA) and the new class of non-steroidal androgens (selective androgen receptor modulators, SARM ( 41 )).
