Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


but has extended to non-marketed designer and nutraceutical androgens as well as pro-androgens (androstenedione, DHEA) and the new class of non-steroidal androgens (selective androgen receptor modulators, SARM ( 41 )). Indirect androgen doping involves use of hCG, LH, anti-estrogens (estrogen receptor blockers, aromatase inhibitors), opioid antagonists and neurotransmitters involved in neuroendocrine regulation of endogenous LH and T secretion ( 42 - 45 ). Table 3 – Direct and Indirect Androgen Doping and Detection Methods View in own window Substance Detection method Direct Synthetic androgens L/GC-MS Natural androgens L/GC-MS, T/E, CIRMS Designer & nutraceutical androgens L/GC-MS (bioassay) Indirect hCG (urinary or recombinant) hCG immunoassay or LC-MS hLH (recombinant) hLH immunoassay or (LC-MS) Anti-estrogens L/GC-MS Kisspeptin & GnRH agonist analog LC-MS Opioid antagonists & neurotransmitters LC-MS Figure 4. Direct and Indirect Androgen Doping. Detection of direct androgen doping using steroids of known chemical structure is highly effective using gas or liquid chromatography MS ( 46 - 48 ) . Traces of synthetic androgens or their metabolites may remain detectable for periods up to months after last administration ( 49 ). Recent developments including the ability to detect testosterone esters in serum or dried blood spots ( 50 - 56 ) and identification of long-term metabolites has further widened the detection windows for synthetic androgens ( 57 - 63 ). Challenges to detection of synthetic androgens have included the development of non-marketed designer and nutraceutical androgens, the use of natural androgens and pro-androgens, masking methods, restricting use to out-of-competition training or micro-dosing. Designer and nutraceutical androgens are typically non-marketed synthetic androgens based on structures and synthesis methods recovered from expired patent literature of the 1960-70’s. These are now synthesized by unregulated chemical manufacturers without Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) licensing advertising and sold over the internet or over-the-counter as nutritional supplements, which may contain undeclared steroids ( 64 ). However, once the chemical structures of any synthetic androgens are known, they are easily detectable although the sheer profusion of such chemicals represents an ongoing challenge. Nevertheless, despite their novelty, there is little evidence that designer androgens have been used after they are discovered so that there is a high likelihood of detection. As a result, virtually all ongoing androgen ADRVs are still due to conventional marketed synthetic androgens. Distinguishing Between the Exogenous and Endogenous Steroids Administration of natural androgens (T or DHT) or pro-androgens (androstenedione, DHEA), raises the problem of distinguishing between exogenous and
