Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


conventional marketed synthetic androgens. Distinguishing Between the Exogenous and Endogenous Steroids Administration of natural androgens (T or DHT) or pro-androgens (androstenedione, DHEA), raises the problem of distinguishing between exogenous and endogenous steroids. Exogenous T administration can be detected by the urine T/E ratio, the ratio in urine of T to its 17α-epimer epitestosterone (E), operating as a sensitive screening test. In males, both T and E are co-secreted by Leydig cells and excreted in urine consistently so that the urine T/E is usually stable for any individual over time, being typically around 1. Administration of exogenous T, which is not converted to E, increases the urine T/E ratio and, when it exceeds a specified threshold, is evidence for administration of exogenous T. The urine T/E ratio thresholds were originally population-based, set initially at 6 and then subsequently lowered to 4. However, the urine T/E ratio is not an effective screening test for testosterone doping in females ( 65 ). This is because, unlike males whose circulating testosterone originates from as single source subject to strong negative hypothalamic feedback, circulating testosterone in females originates from three steroidogenic sources (adrenal, ovary, and extraglandular conversion) none of which are subject to strong negative feedback by testosterone. Furthermore, the possibility of false negatives and false positives of population-based thresholds are limitations which may require further analysis to confirm or refute T doping in individual cases. These considerations have led to establishment of the steroid module of the Athletes Biological Passport (ABP), a compendium of serial observation of any individual’s tests which creates adaptive individual-specific T/E ratio threshold ( 66 ). This substitution of an individual’s own person-specific, in place of the population-based, thresholds allow for more sensitive and accurate detection of individual deviations in urine T/E ratio as evidence of T doping. One limitation of the urine T/E ratio is a genetic polymorphism of the uridine 5’-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B17 gene which encodes a phase II hepatic enzyme that glucuronidates T rendering it more hydrophilic to facilitate urinary excretion. This polymorphism comprises a genetic deletion which, in homozygotes, produces a non-functional enzyme that reduces urinary T (but not E) excretion to near zero producing an extremely low T/E ratio (<0.1). While this genetic polymorphism in testosterone metabolic inactivation and excretion has no apparent biological effect on T action, it is unevenly distributed geographically with a much higher prevalence in South East Asian populations ( 67
