Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


testosterone metabolic inactivation and excretion has no apparent biological effect on T action, it is unevenly distributed geographically with a much higher prevalence in South East Asian populations ( 67 ). This biological false negative means that likelihood of detecting the administration of exogenous T by the urine T/E ratio is greatly reduced and may not exceed the population-based urine T/E ratio thresholds ( 68 ). On the other hand, it will exceed any individual’s own specific urine T/E ratio threshold so that genotyping and/or Bayesian profiling of serial T/E ratio in an ABP program provide complementary evidence ( 69 - 71 ). Furthermore, using blood steroid measurements overcomes the diagnostic difficulties of the genetic UGT2B17 polymorphism ( 72 ). The application of dried blood spot (DBS) sampling and analysis is an important advance in antidoping science. It allows simple, minimally invasive capillary blood collection without the need for venipuncture, frozen storage, or transport to the laboratory ( 56 , 73 , 74 ). Various volumetric sample devices are now available which are pain-free to use but relatively expensive. Applications of DBS may be for detecting blood doping and use of EPO or GH and their secretagogues. An extension of the Athlete’s Biological Passport (ABP) longitudinal profiling using Bayesian approach of pooling all prior data into individualized rather than population-based predictions ( 75 ) has been developed for blood steroid together with urine steroid profiling (74. 76, 77) including use of dried blood spot sampling ( 74 ). Administration of exogenous T may also be identified by carbon isotope ratio MS (CIRMS) that can distinguish endogenous from exogenous T according to the C 13 /C 12 ratio of urinary T ( 78 , 79 ). Commercially, steroids are manufactured from plant sterols produced by photosynthesis that exhibit distinctly lower C 13 /C 12 ratio (typically, -26‰ to -36‰ relative to the global standard) compared with mammalian T biosynthesis (between -16‰ to -26‰) ( 80 , 81 ). Hence, a significantly lowered (“depleted”) C 13 /C 12 ratio of urinary T, exceeding 3‰ relative to endogenous reference steroids, indicates that urinary T originates at least partly from exogenous chemical manufacture from plant sterols. CIRMS can also be applied to detect administration of other natural androgens or pro-androgens including DHT and DHEA ( 82 ), androstenedione, nandrolone ( 83 - 85 ) or even attempted masking by administering E (to lower urine
