Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


of other natural androgens or pro-androgens including DHT and DHEA ( 82 ), androstenedione, nandrolone ( 83 - 85 ) or even attempted masking by administering E (to lower urine T/E ratio) ( 80 ). A few T products (<5% ( 86 )) have recently emerged with a lower, more mammalian-like C 13 /C 12 ratio for urine T ( 87 ) creating a challenge for CIRMS detection. Nevertheless, extended isotope profiling of other steroid precursors and metabolites provides additional complementary reference biomarkers ( 88 ). A longitudinal application of CIRMS along the lines of another module of the ABP has been proposed ( 89 ) and evaluated ( 90 ). Furthermore, development of hydrogen ion ratio mass spectrometry has further enhanced the ability to distinguish between endogenous and exogenous steroids even when the carbon isotope ratio is non-informative ( 91 - 93 ). Suppression of urine (or serum) LH excretion may also provide corroborative evidence for the use of exogenous T or other synthetic androgens ( 71 , 94 - 96 ). While MS is highly effective for detecting specific androgens, it requires knowledge of the chemical structure to be detected and otherwise cannot be applied. This principle applies to never-marketed designer or nutraceutical androgens sold over the internet or in unregulated over-the-counter nutritional supplements with unlabeled steroid content. A potential solution is the modern in vitro androgen bioassay that incorporates the human androgen receptor together with a convenient transactivation chemical read-out signal into a host yeast or mammalian cell ( 97 ). This has the generic capacity to detect all bioactive androgens regardless of structure due to their direct activation of the androgen receptor. Constructed in vitro androgen bioassays feature a sensitive dose-response signal proportional to the potency of the bioactive androgen ( 98 - 101 ). Yeast host cells have high specificity for detecting androgens but are less sensitive than mammalian cells, which express native steroid mechanisms including steroidogenic enzymes and/or other steroid receptors. Mammalian in vitro androgen bioassays can also detect pro-androgens, steroids lacking intrinsic androgenic bioactivity, but which are converted into androgens within the mammalian cell. Hence, while mammalian host cells sacrifice specificity for higher sensitivity, they can also detect pro-androgens ( 97 ). Hence yeast and mammalian in vitro androgen bioassays are complementary in detecting both androgens and pro-androgens. The limitations of in vitro androgen bioassays are their susceptibility to matrix effects and difficulties
