Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


yeast and mammalian in vitro androgen bioassays are complementary in detecting both androgens and pro-androgens. The limitations of in vitro androgen bioassays are their susceptibility to matrix effects and difficulties in standardizing bioassay-based tests. Consequently, they are best deployed to characterize products and substances for androgens or pro-androgen content rather than to detect androgens in complex biological samples. Hence the yeast androgen bioassay was decisive in the first conviction for use of a designer androgen by proving that tetrahydrogestrinone (THG) was a potent androgen ( 102 ) and has also been used to screen synthetic progestins to show that, unlike the original androgen-derived progestins, the modern generation of progestins are not androgenic ( 103 ). Additional underutilized options to detect androgen doping is the use of alternative biological matrices such as hair, skin or nails as well as saliva and exhaled breath ( 104 ). Hair has the advantages of minimally invasive sampling with simple, convenient storage and the potential for very long window of detection, according to hair growth rates ( 105 ). MS-based methods have been reported to detect exogenous ( 106 - 120 ) and endogenous ( 109 , 121 - 124 ) androgens in human hair following long-term, but not single dose ( 125 ), exposure. However, hair analysis tests have yet to undergo the rigorous standardization and validation required to become acceptable anti-doping tests in their medicolegal context. Problems that remain to be fully overcome include matrix effects, low recovery and limited sensitivity as well as the impact of age, hair color, alopecia, and shaving or passive chemical (cosmetic) contamination of hair. Additionally nails and skin could also provide analogous information on past androgen exposure with relatively long windows of detection but suitably rigorous tests are yet to be convincingly developed ( 126 ). Saliva sampling has also been considered ( 127 , 128 ) for anti-doping application analogous to the use of salivary cortisol measurement for diagnosis of hypercortisolism ( 129 ). While potentially applicable to xenobiotic drugs, salivary testosterone immunoassay is not sufficiently accurate ( 130 ) and is not suitable to detect testosterone doping because even microscopic blood contamination (e.g. gingivitis, chewing hard food, tooth brushing) produces anomalous high readings. The existence of these outliers renders salivary testosterone testing for antidoping purposes as unreliable by providing opportunity for claims of false positive for any adverse findings. Exhaled breath testing has also been
