Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


of these outliers renders salivary testosterone testing for antidoping purposes as unreliable by providing opportunity for claims of false positive for any adverse findings. Exhaled breath testing has also been investigated for certain small molecular weight chemicals ( 131 ). In theory, androgen-induced gene expression in circulating leukocytes might provide an additional biomarker of androgen action if specific and reproducible signatures can be defined ( 132 ); however, as direct detection of androgens is feasible and preferable for proving an ADRV, a role for gene expression biomarkers of androgen action remains to be established for anti-doping. Indirect Androgen Doping This doping strategy aims to increase endogenous T production and thereby evades detection by routine screening tests for exogenous T such as urine T/E ratio or CIRMS. Mechanisms that could be exploited in indirect androgen doping include the use of kisspeptin, GnRH analogs, hCG, and estrogen blockade by either anti-estrogens (estrogen receptor antagonists) or aromatase inhibitors in men; however, it is doubtful any of these mechanisms can increase circulating testosterone in women. Kisspeptin administration can increase circulating testosterone in men ( 133 - 135 ) and detection of kisspeptin agonist analogs is feasible in urine using LCMS ( 136 ). Similarly, GnRH agonists analogs can transiently increase serum LH and testosterone during the “flare” feature of early administration of GnRH agonists before desensitization and downregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary testicular axis ensues with suppression of endogenous testosterone. As a short peptide, GnRH analogs are measurable in urine using high resolution mass spectrometers ( 137 - 139 ). hCG is a placental hormone, a natural long-acting analog of LH, sharing the identical α subunit and having a C-terminal extension of 22 amino acids with additional sialic acid sidechains that provide it with prolonged circulating half-life. In men hCG stimulates testicular testosterone production but in women there is no evidence that hCG administration or natural placental hCG secretion during pregnancy causes increases circulating testosterone. During pregnancy, serum hCG rises steeply to peak during the first trimester of pregnancy before declining to a stable lower level during the 2 nd and 3 rd trimesters ( 140 ) whereas serum testosterone is mainly elevated in the 2 nd and 3 rd trimesters and drops abruptly after delivery ( 141 ). These temporal features suggest that testosterone secretion largely confined to late pregnancy originates from placental steroidogenesis and not from hCG stimulation which peaks in early pregnancy.
