Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


delivery ( 141 ). These temporal features suggest that testosterone secretion largely confined to late pregnancy originates from placental steroidogenesis and not from hCG stimulation which peaks in early pregnancy. Urine hCG is detected by commercial hCG immunoassays using immunoassays specific for intact heterodimeric hCG (including its nicked variant) which, if positive by exceeding a detection threshold (>5 IU/L), requires confirmation by a second immunoassay for intact heterodimeric hCG which is required to prove hCG use. A highly sensitive LC-MS method to detect urine hCG ( 142 ) is more specific than immunoassays ( 143 ) and has a lower threshold for a positive result in male athletes ( 144 ); however, it is more a complex test and is not widely implemented in antidoping labs. A key issue is to distinguish a positive hCG urine test, presumptively indicating hCG doping, from early trophoblastic tumor or immunoassay artefacts. As hCG doping is not effective in women and urine hCG screening can detect early pregnancy, an unwarranted privacy intrusion, hCG testing is restricted to male athletes ( 44 ). Although direct LH doping is an implausible doping threat ( 145 ), suppressed ( 71 , 94 - 96 , 145 ) or elevated urine LH may be useful for confirming direct or indirect androgen doping ( 43 , 44 , 94 , 146 ). Anti-estrogens (estrogen receptor antagonists) or aromatase inhibitors, which can cause reflex increases in serum and urine LH and testosterone ( 43 ), are detected by MS-based chemical detection of the drugs and/or metabolites. Overall, detection of direct androgen doping is now so effective that in WADA-compliant elite competitions it is restricted to the ill-informed, often using counterfeit or unlabelled products ( 147 ). Yet the potency of androgen doping in power sports continues to prompt development of novel androgen doping strategies. These will include use of undocumented synthetic androgens, novel indirect androgen doping methods, and micro-dosing of natural androgens during out of competition training. The retreat to using micro-dosing inherently reduces the dose-dependent ergogenic benefits of doping while maintaining the risk of detection and disqualification. There remains a need to maintain deterrence by effective detection methods for evolving new androgen doping threats. HEMOGLOBIN (BLOOD) DOPING Hemoglobin doping involves either direct blood transfusion or indirect methods of increasing hemoglobin via stimulating erythropoiesis by administration of erythropoietin, its analogs or mimetics (see excellent reviews ( 148 , 149 ))
