Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


involves either direct blood transfusion or indirect methods of increasing hemoglobin via stimulating erythropoiesis by administration of erythropoietin, its analogs or mimetics (see excellent reviews ( 148 , 149 )) ( Table 4 ). Boosting hemoglobin is advantageous in aerobic, endurance sports such as road cycling, distance running, and cross-country skiing. Maximal oxygen consumption (Vo 2 ), a rate-limiting factor in aerobic exercise, principally determined by cardiac output and blood oxygen transfer with a lesser contribution from tissue oxygen transfer ( 150 ). Experiments on exercise tolerance and blood transfusion were first reported in 1945 ( 151 , 152 ) but the scientific basis of hemoglobin doping via enhanced tissue oxygen transfer was firmly established in 1972 by the work of Ekblom et al reporting experiments in healthy volunteers who underwent venesection and/or re-transfusion of 1, 2 or 3 units (400 mL) of blood with repeated testing of maximal exercise-induced oxygen consumption before and after each procedure ( 153 ). This proved unequivocally that the maximal oxygen consumption was highly correlated with acute changes in hemoglobin ( figure 5 ). Subsequently, during the 1970-80’s before its banning in 1988, blood transfusion became a prevalent surreptitious practice in road cycling and cross-country skiing and the apparently low prevalence among distance runners may be an underestimation ( 154 ). Modeling of historical performance in European road cycling from 1993 onwards shows a unique progression averaging an improvement of 6.4% corresponding closely with the performance enhancement (6-7%) due to rhEPO administration, which is sustained for at least 4 weeks after administration ( 155 - 157 ). Table 4. Direct and Indirect Hemoglobin Doping and Detection Tests View in own window Doping Mechanism Detection Direct (Blood transfusion) Heterologous Flow cytometry: bimodal population of blood group antigens Autologous No direct detection test Athletes Biological Passport Biomarkers: Urine phthalate excretion Total hemoglobin mass Indirect (Erythropoeisis stimulation) Direct rhEpo & biosimilars (>100) Epo analogs Urine double immunoblot, (LC-MS) Indirect Hypoxia altitude training, hypoxic sleep area Not banned Hypoxia-mimetics hypoxia-inducible factor & stabilizers, iron chelation, cobalt, 2,3 DPG analogs LC-MS/MS Artificial O 2 carriers HbOC, perfluorocarbons LC-MS/MS Figure 5. Biological Basis of Blood Doping. Blood Transfusion Transfusion may involve either another person’s (homologous) or the athlete’s own (autologous) blood administered prior to a contest to acutely increase circulating hemoglobin. Homologous blood can be transfused at any convenient time to enhance performance in competition but when performed by untrained
