Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


blood administered prior to a contest to acutely increase circulating hemoglobin. Homologous blood can be transfused at any convenient time to enhance performance in competition but when performed by untrained personal in non-clinical environments risks transfusion reaction, blood-borne infectious disease, and long-term iron overload. By contrast, autologous transfusion reduces health risks but requires complex coordination as venesection itself is detrimental to performance, and it requires balancing recovery from blood withdrawal and loss of erythrocyte viability during long-term cryostorage with training and competition schedules. Although blood transfusion was first banned by the IOC in 1986, the first practical approach to banning blood doping was the introduction of hematocrit testing in 1997 by the international skiing and cycling federations. These regulations excluded athletes on health grounds from entering competition on the day if their hematocrit exceeds a safety threshold (0.50). However, this encouraged hematocrit titration to just below threshold and only prevented competing until hematocrit returned under that threshold, which could be quickly accomplished by venesection. The first ADRV’s for blood manipulation involving hematocrit threshold and titration were in 2001. Homologous blood transfusion creates a bimodal population of blood group antigens which is detectable by flow cytometry using a panel of 12 minor blood group antigens ( 158 ), from the wider array of blood group antigens ( 159 ), which can detect a <5% contamination of exogenous erythrocytes. Subsequent refinements simplified and improved test sensitivity so that a panel of 8 antigens can detect contamination comprising a minor admixture population of 0.3-2.0% with no false positives but high sensitivity (~80%), the latter depending on the magnitude of the minor contaminating mixture ( 160 , 161 ). Alternatives based on genotyping for the admixture population of leukocytes have also been proposed ( 162 , 163 ). As a test proving unequivocally the presence of non-endogenous erythrocytes in the circulation, this method is definitive if performed to the required standard. A remotely hypothetical defense against a positive test, based on stable marrow chimerism from a vanished twin, was raised by a cyclist who subsequently admitted transfusion ( 162 ). Based on risk of detection as well as to health risks, homologous transfusion has now largely disappeared in favor of autologous transfusion ( 164 ). Autologous Transfusion The biggest gap in current anti-doping tests is the lack of a specific test to detect autologous transfusion ( 165 ). Research to identify robust physicochemical or
