Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


). Autologous Transfusion The biggest gap in current anti-doping tests is the lack of a specific test to detect autologous transfusion ( 165 ). Research to identify robust physicochemical or biological markers for direct identification of a subpopulation of ex-vivo aged erythrocytes is underway using flow cytometry ( 166 ) but the dilution and rapid clearance of effete erythrocytes make for challenging detection problems ( 167 ). In the interim, other indirect methods have been developed. These include measuring urinary excretion of phthalates, plasticizers that leach out from the polyvinylchloride blood packs used to store venesected blood ( 168 ). This test has brief window of detection (2 days) so will detect auto-transfusion during or immediately before events (characteristic in road cycling, according to convicted dopers) but may miss earlier auto-transfusion. Furthermore, the ubiquity of low-level environmental phthalate exposure requires establishing detection thresholds and non-plastic blood containers can be used. An alternative is the measurement of total hemoglobin mass ( 169 ), a measure with good stability and reproducibility even during exercise and circumvents influence of variations in plasma volume such as due to dehydration or dilutional masking ( 169 , 170 ). However, as this requires inhalation of carbon monoxide (CO), which has transient detrimental effects on performance, it is not ideal for routine anti-doping use and its sensitivity may be insufficient to detect all EPO micro-dosing ( 171 , 172 ). Furthermore, there is some evidence that chronic, intermittent low dose CO inhalation may be used to artificially increase erythropoiesis and hemoglobin ( 173 ). Nevertheless, alternative methods for serial measurement of total hemoglobin mass remain attractive. Other hypothetical methods include the detection of microRNA ( 174 ) or immune reactions to transfusion ( 175 ) but the sensitivity and specificity of these proposed tests remains to be fully evaluated. The best detection test for autologous hemoglobin doping at present is the hematological module of the ABP introduced in 2009 ( 176 ). Conceptually, it is a biomarker test which adopts a Bayesian approach of creating serially adaptive, person-specific reference limits, based on using all prior testing, to supplant population-based thresholds. Combining all of an individual’s previously collected hematological data creates a probabilistic test of whether any new result deviates significantly from that individual’s personal reference limits ( 177 ). These person-specific thresholds allow for ongoing refinement and reinforcement by further testing. The thresholds are calculated by a
