Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


result deviates significantly from that individual’s personal reference limits ( 177 ). These person-specific thresholds allow for ongoing refinement and reinforcement by further testing. The thresholds are calculated by a variety of algorithms incorporating routine hematological parameters, notably hematocrit and reticulocyte counts. Those were developed over recent decades to create the ABP hematological model which is sensitive to both direct and indirect hemoglobin doping ( 178 ). The first attempts to regulate hemoglobin doping in the late 1990’s sought to prevent road cyclists or cross-country skiing athletes competing on health risk grounds when their hematocrit exceeded pre-determined, population-based safety criteria (e.g. hematocrit 0.50 or hemoglobin 170 g/L for cycling). However, while this excluded extreme hemoglobin doping only until the short period when the safety threshold was no longer exceeded, it allowed an increase in an athlete’s natural hematocrit, typically averaging ~0.45, up to the permitted ceiling threshold which fostered titrated hemoglobin doping and manipulations like hemodilution by saline or plasma volume expander infusions to avoid detection ( 179 ). More sophisticated hematological algorithms were then developed to detect hemoglobin doping initially for the Sydney 2000 Olympics ( 180 , 181 ), the first generation of algorithms developing validated tests for ongoing and for recent cessation of hemoglobin doping, using a combination of biochemical variables related to erythropoiesis physiology. This approach was simplified by a second-generation algorithm using only routine hematological parameters (hemoglobin, reticulocytes) ( 182 ), and was subsequently combined with the concept of a sequential development of individual-specific reference ranges ( 183 ) into a third-generation algorithm ( 184 , 185 ), which were refined for the ABP ( 176 , 177 ). The hematological module of the ABP currently employs an algorithm involving 8 parameters derived from routine hematological profile (hemoglobin, hematocrit, erythrocyte count, reticulocyte count and percentage, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration) ( 186 ). This is capable of detecting any form of hemoglobin doping, whether direct or indirect, with good but imperfect sensitivity ( 170 - 172 ) and using only routine hematological tests. The reported increasing use of very low EPO doses (“micro-dosing”) ( 187 ) would markedly reduce the magnitude of any dose-dependent ergogenic benefits ( 172 ) while still carrying risks of detection, disqualification, and disgrace. Stimulation of Erythropoiesis Indirect methods to increase hemoglobin include administration of recombinant human EPO or its analogs as well as hypoxia-mimetic drugs
