Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


still carrying risks of detection, disqualification, and disgrace. Stimulation of Erythropoiesis Indirect methods to increase hemoglobin include administration of recombinant human EPO or its analogs as well as hypoxia-mimetic drugs (hypoxia-inducible factor stabilizers, iron chelation, cobalt, 2,3 diphosphoglycerate analogs) or artificial oxygen carriers (perfluorocarbons, hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers). Related but non-banned methods include altitude training or its simulation by sleeping in hypoxic rooms which are less effective than hemoglobin doping ( 156 ). The identification of the human EPO gene in 1985 led to the marketing of recombinant human EPO (rhEPO) between 1987-9. Despite the IOC’s prohibition of EPO’s use in sports in 1990, the commercial availability of rhEPO created powerful new opportunities for indirect hemoglobin doping which were soon proven experimentally ( 188 ). A drug, which circulates for hours to days, but with potent and long-lasting ergogenic effects after its disappearance due to the 4-month lifespan of erythrocytes, is both attractive for doping and a challenge to anti-doping testing. Expiry of the rhEPO patent in 2004 allowed marketing of a profusion of generic EPO (“biosimilar”) products, estimated globally at over 80 ( 189 ), as well as modified EPO analogs (darbepoeitin, pegylated EPO, peginesatide, EPO fusion proteins). A fatal cluster involving deaths of 18 Dutch and Belgian road cyclists, presumably due inadvertent over-dosage during empirical attempts to maximize ergogenic effects of illicit rhEPO, was reported ( 190 ), although difficult to verify ( 191 ). A similar excess of unexpected deaths of road cyclists was also reported again in 2003-5 when novel EPO analogs and EPO biosimilars were marketed. Detection of EPO in urine is difficult because of the prevailing low concentrations and need to distinguish exogenous recombinant from endogenous EPO. The first effective method for rhEPO in urine was a double immunoblot ( 192 , 193 ), which was capable of detecting urinary excretion of a variety of exogenous EPO products and analogs according to their differences in glycosylation sidechains, and differences in primary amino acid sequence where they exist, while distinguishing them from endogenous EPO. Although further refined ( 194 ) and extended to other EPO analogs ( 195 ), the immune-electrophoresis test is sensitive but relatively laborious and provides only a short window of detection of up to a week post-administration ( 196 ). More sensitive methods based on proteomics (for EPO analogs with differences in primary structure) together with glycomics (for biosimilars and analogs which
