Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


up to a week post-administration ( 196 ). More sensitive methods based on proteomics (for EPO analogs with differences in primary structure) together with glycomics (for biosimilars and analogs which have host-cell specific variations in side-chain glycosylation, but unchanged natural EPO primary structure ( 197 )) are possible but not yet approved. Additional applications to detect EPO and analogs using dried blood spots have been reported ( 198 ). Similarly preliminary investigations have proposed a EPO-induced gene expression signatures as a biomarker to detect EPO administration but specificity relative to exercise and other physiological effects remain to be clarified ( 199 ). Other EPO mimetics such as hypoxia mimetic drugs including hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) stabilizers and related small molecules represent growing threats as potential indirect hemoglobin doping agents ( 200 ). These non-peptide chemicals interfere with various steps of the molecular oxygen sensing mechanism to mimic renal hypoxia and thereby induce EPO secretion resulting in increased blood hemoglobin. As a convenient orally active alternative to the lucrative pharmaceutical market for injectable erythropoiesis-stimulating peptides (~$7-8 billion ( 201 )) to counteract anemias of chronic renal failure or marrow failure due to myeloproliferative disease or cytotoxic cancer therapy, they constitute a very active area of pre-clinical patent-based clinical drug development ( 200 ). Experience suggests that such innovator products can enter the doping black market before marketing approval ( 178 , 200 ). Despite the profusion of pre-clinical leads, they represent families of related chemical structures disclosed in patents for which LC and/or GC-MS detection tests should, in principle, be effective. Understanding the metabolism of these drugs when they come to market may identify long-lasting metabolites that can extend the windows of detection. Coupled with evidence from the ABP, manipulation of the EPO pathway may be detected in conjunction with corroborative measurement of inappropriately suppressed or elevated endogenous EPO for the prevailing hemoglobin level. HIF is a key generic biological mechanism for tissue sensing of hypoxia and triggering local (neovascularization, angiogenesis) and systemic (EPO) defensive reactions. The promoter of the EPO gene contains enhancer and inhibitor regions with the hypoxia-responsive element which binds HIF and a GATA binding site which enhance and inhibit, respectively, EPO gene transcription. HIF is a heterodimer formed by constitutively expressed subunits with the β subunit in excess and availability of α subunit limiting formation of bioactive HIF. The 3 HIFα subunit isoforms are subject to hydroxylation of
