Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


by constitutively expressed subunits with the β subunit in excess and availability of α subunit limiting formation of bioactive HIF. The 3 HIFα subunit isoforms are subject to hydroxylation of specific proline residues by prolyl hydroxylase enzymes which inactivate HIFα by ubiquitination, a tag which targets it to proteosomal degradation. HIFα subunit inactivation is strongly dependent on tissue oxygenation being active during normoxia but reduced during hypoxia when persistence of HIFα stabilizes the HIF heterodimer. Notably, during hypoxia the expression of HIFα in renal cortical cells stimulates EPO gene expression so that HIF stabilization by prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors leads to increased EPO secretion and circulating hemoglobin. Hence inhibiting prolyl hydroxylase activity via blocking its required cofactors (ascorbate, ketoglutarate, iron) using cobalt, nickel, iron chelation, ketoglutarate analogs or mechanism-based chemical inhibitors can result in increased hemoglobin via stimulation of EPO secretion ( 200 ). Similarly, small molecule GATA inhibitors potently stimulate circulating EPO, hemoglobin and performance in mice ( 202 ) although none have yet been marketed so their human efficacy and safety remain to be determined. Another approach to increase oxygen delivery to muscle has been to exploit the ability of 2,3 diphophoglycerate (2,3 DPG), whose binding to hemoglobin reduces its affinity for oxygen with the left-shift of its oxygen dissociation curve as an oxygen unloading mechanism in tissues. 2,3 DPG analogs, developed as radiation sensitizers for hypoxic radio-resistant tumors, enhance tissue oxygen delivery in vivo ( 203 , 204 ) but would feature only short-term, acute effects readily detectable by mass spectrometry ( 205 , 206 ). Adverse effects from use of rhEPO or its analogs are well known in medicine but poorly recognized in doping. They include immunogenicity (with risk of EPO autoantibody mediated pure red cell aplasia) ( 207 , 208 ), cardiovascular complications (including venous thromboembolism, stroke, hypertension and myocardial infarction) and premature death ( 209 - 212 ). In routine clinical use of EPO to correct renal anemia, the goal is a gradual increase to subnormal hemoglobin targets so that the excessive and/or rapid rises in hematocrit and blood viscosity ( 213 ) may explain the excess unexplained deaths among young European road cyclists in the late 1980s. In addition, use of rhEPO may deplete iron stores which limits hemoglobin synthesis so that athletes may also use oral or injectable iron supplements, which carry their own risks such as iv iron supplementation’s potentially adverse effects
