Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


iron stores which limits hemoglobin synthesis so that athletes may also use oral or injectable iron supplements, which carry their own risks such as iv iron supplementation’s potentially adverse effects in enhanced tissue oxidative damage and excess mortality in chronic kidney disease ( 214 ). Although clinical safety experience with ESAs is restricted to patients with serious medical disorders, there is evidence from the general community that higher natural hematocrit is associated with worse long-term cardiovascular health outcomes ( 215 - 217 ). GROWTH HORMONE Growth hormone (GH) is a tissue growth promoter in children but after puberty it is predominantly a metabolic hormone although latent tissue growth promoting effects may be unleashed under non-physiological circumstances, such as during recovery from tissue injury. There is consistent anecdotal evidence that GH has been used in elite sports for decades ( 218 ). Nevertheless, ergogenic effects of GH remain unproven and largely speculative as discussed in excellent recent reviews ( 219 - 221 ). Claims of GH benefits in sport have included increases in muscle mass and strength, especially in conjunction with androgens, and/or improved tissue healing with more rapid recovery from either major injuries or minor repetitive injuries, such as from intense physical training allowing for more effective training. The biological basis of ergogenic effects of GH has been tested in these two different scenarios with largely inconclusive findings. Evidence for direct enhancement of athletic performance by GH has been investigated in two well-controlled RCTs with a primary focus on athletic performance. In one study, 96 recreational sub-elite athletes (63 male, 33 female, mean age 28 yr) were administered 8 weeks of daily sc injections of GH or placebo with the men also having weekly im injections of T enanthate or saline placebo for the last 5 weeks ( 222 ). GH increased lean (muscle) mass (by +2.7 kg) and reduced fat mass (by -1.4 kg) while T increased lean mass (alone by +2.4 kg, by +5.8 kg with GH). The effects of GH were marginally significant for anaerobic sprint capacity (by +3.9%, p=0.05) when pooling male and female participants but this was due to significant effects in men only (by +5.5% alone and +8.3% with GH). However, there were no significant effects on maximal Vo 2 consumption, dead lift or jump height ( 222 ). A second study involved 30 healthy non-athletes (15 male, 15 female, mean age 25 yr)
