Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


significant effects on maximal Vo 2 consumption, dead lift or jump height ( 222 ). A second study involved 30 healthy non-athletes (15 male, 15 female, mean age 25 yr) who were administered daily sc injections of GH at high (4.6 mg/day) or low (2.3 mg/day) doses or placebo ( 223 ). There was no significant effect on muscle mass or maximal Vo 2 consumption. Additional controlled studies of GH effects but with less focus on athletic performance have also shown that (a) a single dose of GH (~0.8 mg) in 9 recreational athletes did not affect maximal Vo 2 or power output in repeated 30 min bursts of bicycle ergometry ( 224 ), (b) short term (6 days), low dose GH (~1.7 mg/day) treatment of 48 male androgen abusers withdrawn from androgens for 12 weeks significantly increased maximal Vo 2 more than placebo ( 225 ), (c) daily sc injections of a GH receptor antagonist (pegvisomant) or placebo for 16 days to 20 sedentary men did not change maximal Vo 2 although time to exhaustion at 90% maximal Vo 2 was reduced ( 226 ) and (d) 4 weeks of daily sc injections of GH (~5 mg/day) increased whole body protein synthesis ( 227 ), lipolysis and glucose uptake ( 228 ) with uncertain significance for athletic performance. Overall, these studies indicate that GH has, at most, a modest ergogenic effect in men only and there through enhancing T effects. That is consistent with the fact that young women have markedly greater growth hormone secretion than young men so that growth hormone cannot explain the sex differences in athletic performance ( 229 ). A meta-analysis concluded that “… GH administration … does not increase either muscle strength or aerobic exercise capacity in healthy, young subjects ” ( 230 ). It is also claimed that GH may enhance injury healing, thereby facilitating more intensive training and/or recovery from muscle, connective tissue or bone injury, notably in contact sports. This claim is difficult to evaluate and no well-controlled studies of recovery from sports injuries or tolerance of training intensity in elite athletes are reported. The most germane surrogate evidence available arises from investigations on the use of GH in recovery from injuries due to burns, fracture, or for wound healing. A recent Cochrane meta-analysis review of GH treatment effects on recovery from burns injury and healing of donor skin graft sites
