Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


injuries due to burns, fracture, or for wound healing. A recent Cochrane meta-analysis review of GH treatment effects on recovery from burns injury and healing of donor skin graft sites suggests that GH has a small benefit in skin healing with large burns and reduced hospital stay but there was no benefit in reducing mortality or scarring and adverse effects, notably hyperglycemia, were increased ( 231 ). In practice, the increased mortality due to administration of high dose GH in critical illness ( 232 ) has led to GH treatment not being widely adopted in clinical practice of treatment of burns. Similarly, the only well controlled study of GH effects on bone healing from fracture reported that, among over 400 patients with tibial fractures treated for up to 16 weeks with GH (1, 2 or 4 mg/day) or placebo, there was no benefit of GH for overall healing ( 233 ). Finally, while there are numerous experimental studies of GH or growth factors on wound healing in animal models a wide variety of findings are reported with detrimental, neutral or beneficial effects but no well-controlled human studies are available. In summary, the available evidence for improved tissue repair or regeneration is minimal. Important caveats on interpreting these few well-designed studies are that the effects of higher GH and T doses, as used in doping, have not been studied so that more potent higher dose and/or interactive effects cannot be excluded in the absence of well controlled, high dose, placebo-controlled studies. Nevertheless, the hypothesis that high dose GH exposure would enhance muscular function is inconsistent with the experience of acromegaly in which patients experience much higher (25-100 times) growth hormone exposure than doses that can be ethically administered to healthy human volunteers ( 234 ) yet characteristically display muscular weakness rather than increased muscle size or strength ( 235 ). Anti-doping science history suggests that caution is required before rejecting evidence for claimed ergogenic effects without investigations replicating the pharmacological doses used. Furthermore, safety analysis is not feasible based on the few, small, short-term studies of GH’s potential ergogenic effects; however, there are significant safety concerns about the long-term risk of cancer following GH administration. Even standard therapeutic GH doses administered to GH deficient children are associated with increased risk of second cancers in some ( 236 - 238 ) but not all ( 239 ) follow-up studies although these risks
