Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


to measure the ratio of circulating isoforms of GH recognizing the fact that the pituitary secretes not only the major 22 kD isoform (65-80%) but also a variety of minor isoforms including a wide variety of minor isoforms and their multimeric variants ( 254 ). Administration of exogenous GH suppresses endogenous pituitary GH secretion leading to a predominance of circulating 22 kD GH. This is the basis for the GH isoform ratio test whereby a serum sample is measured by two different GH immunoassays, one with predominant 22 kD GH specificity (“rec” assay) and the other recognizing the broad spectrum of pituitary GH isoforms (“pit” assay) and the ratio of results (“rec”/”pit” ratio) is an index to detect administration of exogenous recombinant GH ( 250 , 255 ). This ratio test then serves to detect administration of exogenous recombinant human 22kD GH analogous to detect exogenous T by the urine T/E ratio and exogenous insulin by analysis of serum C peptide ( 256 ). The differential GH isoform ratio test has undergone extensive validation involving standardization of the two GH immunoassays with distinctive immunoreactivities to quantify 20kD and 22kD epitopes as well as its application to various populations of elite athletes and evaluating physiological factors which might impact on the validity of test read-out. A strength of this test is that it is aimed at the exogenous doping agent itself, although it cannot definitively distinguish it from its endogenous counterpart. The major limitations of this differential isotope ratio test are its narrow window of detection (24-36 hours post administration) and its inability to detect indirect GH doping. While pituitary-derived human GH might not be detected, human pituitary GH, once obtained from national scale pituitary collection and purification programs, has not been available since 1985 when its risks of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease were identified ( 257 , 258 ) with recombinant human GH replacing pituitary-extracted GH worldwide. This differential isoform test was first introduced for the 2004 Olympics ( 259 ) and led in 2010 to the first successful detection of out of competition GH doping ( 260 ). A complementary detection test with a wider window of detection has been developed based on biomarkers of GH action. This uses two serum biomarkers of tissue GH effects, circulating IGF-1 as a short-term marker of hepatic GH action, and N-terminal peptide of procollagen type III (PIII-NP) as a long-term marker of GH-dependent collagen
