Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


IGF-I alone, and later with its major binding protein recombinant human IGF binding protein 3 (IGF-BP3) ( 269 ), for treatment of diabetes, insulin or GH insensitivity or motor neuron disease, together with the availability of IGF-1 analogs for laboratory use, creates the possibility of IGF doping ( 270 ). Time-series analysis of elite sports performance ( 271 ) is consistent with the occurrence of IGF-1 doping but its prevalence is unknown ( 64 ). As the biological basis for ergogenic effects of IGFs is due to its GH-like effects, this remains largely speculative and accompanied by the same safety concerns. IGF-1, IGF-2 and their analogs ( 272 ) as well as insulin and its analogs ( 273 ) are all readily detectable by LC-tandem MS and preliminary evidence suggests that biomarkers for IGF-1 administration (IGF-2, IGFBP2) may widen the window of detection ( 274 ). However, a specific test to detect IGF doping remains to be established ( 275 ). MGF is a splice variant of IGF-I which, although not known to appear in the circulation, have any pharmacological effects, or be approved for human use ( 276 ), is advertised on the black-market and internet ( 277 ) for alleged anabolic or tissue repair/regeneration benefits. Like other short peptides with known structure, it is readily detectable using LC- tandem MS ( 277 ). Insulin has long been used in doping and was prohibited in sports since 1999 ( 278 , 279 ). Other than its proper medical use in diabetics, the use of insulin and its analogs for doping is based solely on its easy availability coupled with anecdotal information from other drug users. There are no clinical studies showing any ergogenic effects of insulin or its analogs in non-diabetic individuals. The doping folklore appears to arise from the classification of insulin as being “anabolic”, in a loose generalization and mistaken analogy to androgens. In healthy non-diabetic individuals, insulin and its synthetic analogs stimulate weight gain via hypoglycemia and increasing appetite but produce fat rather than muscle gain. The adverse effects include hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, injection-related infections, and weight (fat) gain. Doping detection tests for insulin and its analogs ( 280 ) and mimetics ( 281 ) continue to evolve and focus on highly sensitive and specific quantitative MS-based proteomics ( 282 , 283 ). Growth Factors, GH Releasing and Other Peptides For the unscrupulous in pursuit of the
