Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


evolve and focus on highly sensitive and specific quantitative MS-based proteomics ( 282 , 283 ). Growth Factors, GH Releasing and Other Peptides For the unscrupulous in pursuit of the unlawful, the increasingly stringent detection of androgen and hemoglobin doping, the two most potent classes of ergogenic drugs, has led to new, highly speculative form of doping involving peptide growth factors and GH releasing peptides. These are within the size range of automated bulk custom peptide synthesis and are marketed cheaply by chemical manufacturers. While notionally sold solely for laboratory research, these unregulated products are available for purchase over the internet. Promoted by speculative fantasies on their mode of action coupled with testimonials to their efficacy but without objective testing or assurance of safety in humans, they are believed to be widely used by gullible and/or desperate athletes and their trainers. As unregistered drugs, this growing range of peptides appears to constitute a greater threat to athlete’s health than a risk of effective cheating. The S2 category of Prohibited Substances lists, in addition to GH and IGF-1, GH fragments and releasing peptides, a wide array of growth factors and modulators and, crucially, a generic catch-all provision for unnamed growth factors and peptides which may affect connective, vascular, muscular, or regenerative tissues or energy utilization and other substances with similar chemical structure or biological effects. The major category of oligopeptides used for doping is the class of GH releasing peptides analogs of the endogenous GH releasing peptides, GHRH and ghrelin, whereby their analogs aim to increase endogenous GH secretion and are therefore banned ( table 5 ). Most of these peptide were developed in the pharmaceutical industry from the 1990s aiming to provide cheaper, orally active, non-peptide agonists with capacity for sustained stimulation of endogenous GH secretion to “rejuvenate the GH/IGF-1 axis” ( 284 ), an unusually explicit acknowledgment of the regular nexus between hormonal rejuvenation and doping ( 285 ). However, none of these hormonal peptides have been registered for human therapeutic use with only one (pralmorelin) registered for single-dose, diagnostic use (for GH deficiency) in Japan and unacetylated cyclin ghrelin marketed in Europe for Prader-Willi syndrome. Although they may stimulate GH release initially, many failed to achieve sustained GH release due to desensitization, and none achieved meaningful clinical improvements in any target diseases. If their unproven ergogenic benefits are due to sustained GH release this renders them unlikely to
