Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


release due to desensitization, and none achieved meaningful clinical improvements in any target diseases. If their unproven ergogenic benefits are due to sustained GH release this renders them unlikely to be beneficial; nevertheless, the caveat on not accepting negative conclusions without direct testing are also relevant to this class of peptides. Like other short peptides, once chemical structures are known, detection is readily feasible using LC-MS ( 286 , 287 ). The illicit nature of this market raises the risks of counterfeit and unsafe products with attendant risks of infection and residual toxic contaminants unlike the purity pharmaceutical product manufacturers are required to demonstrate by batch release testing. GLUCOCORTICOIDS Glucocorticoids have many medical uses in the general community and consequently are often used by athletes; however, supraphysiological doses of synthetic glucocorticoids are performance enhancing and they are prohibited during competition under the WADA Code. Physiological glucocorticoid replacement therapy for primary or secondary adrenal insufficiency and for congenital adrenal hyperplasia are well known but infrequent indications among elite athletes. These are acceptable under a Therapeutic Use Exemption where the athlete has a proven medical need for such treatment. Much more frequent is the use of pharmacological doses of synthetic glucocorticoids for anti-inflammatory and/or immunosuppressive effects for a wide variety of diseases. Such pharmacological glucocorticoid therapeutics, typically using supraphysiological oral or parenteral administration, considered necessary for medical care is not prohibited by WADA outside of competition. However, as supraphysiological glucocorticoid doses over days to a week have proven ergogenic effects ( 288 , 289 ), consequently they are prohibited for use in competition ( 290 ). The ergogenic mechanism is unclear but likely involves acute mood elevation to blunt fatigue perception and/or metabolic effects improving muscle force energetics and efficiency and these effects are evident in short-term (days), but not single dose, studies ( 288 ). Use in competition is defined as oral or parenteral (injection by all routes) delivery on the day of the event (defined as starting from the midnight before the day of competition) and prohibited usage can be detected by the measured glucocorticoid concentrations exceeding drug-specific thresholds from defined by pharmacologically established washout periods for each drug ( 288 , 291 - 293 ). THYROID HORMONES Thyroid hormones (TH), thyroxine (T4) and its more potent metabolite, triiodothyronine (T3), have long been reported as used by some athletes but TH are not prohibited in sport. Unlike androgens and glucocorticoids,
