Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


(TH), thyroxine (T4) and its more potent metabolite, triiodothyronine (T3), have long been reported as used by some athletes but TH are not prohibited in sport. Unlike androgens and glucocorticoids, there is not only no evidence that THs are ergogenic, but the available evidence suggests that supraphysiological exogenous TH ingestion, beyond physiological replacement doses, is likely to be detrimental to exercise performance in creating a hyperthyroidal state detrimental to health and exercise performance ( 294 ). Hence in the absence of any plausible ergogenic effects, TH are not prohibited in sport. Advocacy for TH use mostly arises in bodybuilding street folklore but lacks objective or even plausible supportive evidence for performance enhancement. The wished-for objectives include weight loss or improved body composition (reducing fat rather than muscle), overcoming reduced circulating T3 and/or boosting androgen effects, increasing alertness, and other extrapolated in vitro biochemical effects; however, none of these has sound physiological basis or empirical evidence in humans. On the contrary the likelihood is that exogenous TH use, beyond replacement doses, would be detrimental to exercise performance ( 294 ). Supraphysiological TH doses are likely to create hyperthyroidism which would be detrimental to health and exercise performance including creating muscular weakness and adverse metabolic effects. Low serum T3 in athletes are likely the result of intense training and/or nutritional deficits, termed the Reduced Energy Deficiency in Sports (REDS) ( 295 , 296 ), a variant of non-thyroidal illness syndrome and not hypothyroidism warranting TH treatment ( 297 ). One study of 500 Australian athletes reported that there was minimal use of TH declared on their doping control forms, completed at each antidoping test, nor any biochemical evidence of TH abuse ( 298 ). Detection of TH doping would be difficult to achieve. Detecting TH doping would most likely be feasible by using blood samples, including dried blood spots, to measure serum TSH as an index of thyroidal status, together with serum T4 and T3 concentrations. This would be most effective when deployed in an Athletes Biological Passport (ABP) Bayesian format, whereby serial measurements within an individual provide sensitive detection of significant suppression of serum TSH. An alternative has been proposed based on measuring multiple biologically inactive metabolites of T4 and T3 to potentially serve as biomarkers of exogenous TH administration. However, available evidence from a study of one individual administered TH and observations from athlete samples comparing those who did and
