Performance Enhancing Hormone Doping in Sport
KEYWORDS: pubmed, doping, detection, blood, sports, growth, drug, test, hormone, human, effects, use, anal, mass, testosterone


to potentially serve as biomarkers of exogenous TH administration. However, available evidence from a study of one individual administered TH and observations from athlete samples comparing those who did and did not declare TH use on their Doping Control Forms ( 299 ), has not established that inactive metabolites can distinguish between endogenous and exogenous sources of TH, requiring substantial further research to evaluate its potential to detect TH doping. PROGRESS, GAPS, AND FUTURE PROSPECTS Anti-doping science continues to make major progress over recent decades especially since the advent of WADA with its harmonization and focus on deterrence through standardized testing. Progress from improved MS-based testing methodologies and instrumentation, summarized annually in the major antidoping science journal, Drug Testing and Analysis ( 300 ), is evident from the increasing numbers of ADRV findings among frozen stored urine samples now banked for 10 years from previous Olympics. Like any efforts to combat human malfeasance, the quest for drug-free and safe sport requires ongoing vigilance and continual renewal of intelligence-based detection testing. While great progress has been made in the two canonical forms of doping, androgen and hemoglobin doping, human ingenuity continually finds way to challenge the testing just as traditional frauds are supplanted by cyber-crime and ingenious computer hacking. It is important to bear in mind that the winning margin (defined as the difference in performance between gold and silver medals, getting a medal or not, making a final or not in the Olympic athletic or swimming events) is <1% ( 299 ) so even small systematic advantages may be important motives and unfair advantages for doping. The major gaps remaining in anti-doping science are (a) the lack of a definitive test for autologous blood transfusion, (b) need for more sensitive detection tests for peptide hormone doping with wider windows of detection and (c) more economical, affordable, and robust sample handling and storage procedures including dried blood spot sampling. These challenges must be met by adapting novel technologies such as quantitative proteomics, genomics, and metabolomics as well as implementing more out of competition blood testing. Such progress depends on innovative applied research which is supported by WADA, Partnership for Clean Competition, and certain national anti-doping organizations together with regular peer-review research granting agencies. Finally, the development of effective forensic intelligence investigations, focused on non-laboratory elements of doping including the acquisition, possession, and distribution of prohibited substances, involving analysis of suspicious movements
