Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


Archived This chapter has been superceded by newer chapters (See Homepage). However this Chapter, written originally by Dr Samuel Refetoff and updated by Drs Franklyn and Shephard, remains a treasure trove of information on many now-obscure thyroid tests, and references. For that reason we maintain it as a part of our Archive for use of MDs who may wish to investigate a bit of the history of thyroid testing. L De Groot, MD The possibility of thyroid disease is considered when signs or symptoms suggest hyper- or hypothyroidism or some physical abnormality of the thyroid gland. Evaluation of the patient should include a thorough history and physical examination. Since most thyroid diseases require prolonged periods of treatment, it is crucial that a firm diagnosis be established before embarking on such a program. Further, a number of medications, in particular those used in the treatment of thyroid disease, may alter the results of thyroid function tests in such a way that reinvestigation after therapy has begun may provide ambiguous results. EVALUATION BY LABORATORY TESTS During the past three decades, clinical thyroidology has witnessed the introduction of a plethora of diagnostic procedures. These laboratory procedures provide greater choice, sensitivity, and specificity which have enhanced the likelihood of early detection of occult thyroid diseases presenting with only minimal clinical findings or obscured by coincidental nonthyroid diseases. They also assist in the exclusion of thyroid dysfunction when symptoms and signs closely mimic a thyroid ailment. On the other hand, the wide choice of complementary and overlapping tests indicates that each procedure has its limitations and that no single test is always reliable. Thyroid tests can be classified into broad categories according to the information they provide at the functional, etiologic, or anatomic levels ( Table 6-1 ). 1. Tests that directly assess the level of the gland activity and integrity of hormone biosynthesis. These tests such as thyroidal radioiodide uptake and perchlorate discharge are carried out in vivo. 2. Tests that measure the concentration of thyroid hormones and their transport in blood. They are performed in vitro and provide indirect assessment of the level of the thyroid hormone dependent metabolic activity. 3. Another category of tests attempts to more directly measure the impact of thyroid hormone on peripheral tissues. Unfortunately, tests available to assess this important parameter are nonspecific, since they are often altered by a variety of nonthyroidal processes. 4. The presence of
