Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


thyroid hormone on peripheral tissues. Unfortunately, tests available to assess this important parameter are nonspecific, since they are often altered by a variety of nonthyroidal processes. 4. The presence of several substances, such as thyroid autoantibodies, usually absent in healthy individuals, are useful in establishing the etiology of some thyroid illnesses. 5. Invasive procedures, such as biopsy, for histological examination or enzymatic studies are occasionally required to establish a definite diagnosis. Gross abnormalities of the thyroid gland, detected by palpation, can be assessed by scintiscanning and by ultrasonography. 6.The integrity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis can be evaluated by (a) the response of the pituitary gland to thyroid hormone excess or deficiency; (b) the ability of the thyroid gland to respond to thyrotropin (TSH); and (c) the pituitary responsiveness to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). These tests are intended to identify the primary organ affected by the disease process that manifests as thyroid dysfunction; in other words, primary (thyroid), secondary (pituitary), or tertiary (hypothalamic) malfunction. 7.Lastly, a number of special tests will be briefly described. Some are valuable in the elucidation of the rare inborn errors of hormone biosynthesis, and others are mainly research tools. Each test has inherent limitations, and no single procedure is diagnostically adequate for the entire spectrum of possible thyroid abnormalities. The choice, execution, application and interpretation of each test requires the understanding of thyroid physiology and biochemistry dealt with in the preceding chapters. Thyroid tests serve not only in the diagnosis and management of thyroid illnesses but also to better understand the pathophysiology underlying a specific disease. Table 6-1 Tests of Thyroid Function and Aids in the Diagnosis of Thyroid Diseases View in own window In Vivo Tests of Thyroid Gland Activity and Integrity of Hormone Synthesis and Secretion Thyroidal Radioiodide Uptake (RAIU) Early Thyroid RAIU and 99mPertechnetate Uptake Measurements Perchlorate Discharge Test Saliva to Plasma Radioiodide Ratio Measurement of Hormone Concentration and Other Iodinated Compounds and Their Transport in Blood Measurement of Total Thyroid Hormone Concentration in Serum Iodometry Radioligand and Immunometric Assays TT4 TT3 Measurement of Total and Unsaturated Thyroid Hormone-Binding Capacity in Serum In vitro Uptake Tests TBG Measurement Estimation of Free Thyroid Hormone Concentration Dialysable T4 and T3 by Isotopic Equilibrium Free T4 and T3 Index Methods Estimation of FT4 and FT3 by TBG Measurement Two-step Immunoassays Analogue (one-step) Immunoassays Measurements of Iodine-Containing Hormone Precursors and Products of Degradation 3.3',5'-triiodothyronine of Reverse T3 (rT3)
