Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


thyrotoxicosis, but this application has been supplanted by measurement of serum TSH and thyroid hormone concentrations in blood. Also, alterations of thyroid gland activity and in handling of iodine are not necessarily coupled to the amount of hormone produced and secreted. The tests are time consuming, relatively expensive and expose the patient to irradiation. Nevertheless, they still have some speccific applications including the diagnosis of inborn errors of thyroid hormonogenesis. Administration of isotopes is required for thyroid gland scanning used to demonstrate ectopic thyroid tissue and to establish the etiology of some forms of thyrotoxicosis. Finally, measurement of the thyroidal radioiodide uptake can be used as a means for estimating the dose of radioiodide to be delivered in the therapy of thyrotoxicosis and thyroid carcinoma. To understand the physiological basis of this category of tests, one should remember the following facts. Iodine is an integral part of the thyroid hormone molecule. Although several other tissues (salivary glands, mammary glands, lacrimal glands, the choroid plexus, and the parietal cells of the stomach) can extract iodide from blood and generate a positive tissue to serum iodide gradient, only the thyroid gland stores iodine for an appreciable period of time. 1 Since the kidneys continually filter blood iodide, the final fate of most iodine atoms is either to be trapped by the thyroid gland or to be excreted in the urine. When a tracer of iodide is administered to the patient, it rapidly becomes mixed with the stable extrathyroidal iodide pool and is thereafter handled identically as the stable isotope. Thus, the thyroidal content of radioiodine gradually increases and that in the extrathyroidal body pool gradually declines, until virtually no free iodide is left. Normally this end point is reached between 24 and 72 hours. From data of the radioiodide uptake by the thyroid gland and/or urinary excretion and/or stable iodide concentration in plasma and urine, the following parameters can be derived: (1) the rate of thyroidal iodine uptake (thyroid iodide clearance), (2) the fractional thyroid radioactive iodide uptake (RAIU), (3) the absolute iodide uptake (AIU) by the thyroid gland, and (4) the urinary excretion of radioiodide, or iodide clearance. After the complete removal of the administered radioiodide from the circulation, depletion of the radioisotope from the thyroid gland can be monitored by direct counting over the gland. Reappearance of the radioiodine in the circulation in protein-bound form can be measured and can
