Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


ß (2.12 MeV) 0.10 15 0.1 50b 99mTc04- 141 Isometric transition 0.25 0.2 0.01 2,500 aCalculations take into account the rate maximal uptake, and residence time of the isotope as well as gland size. For the iodine isotopes, average data for adult euthyroid persons used were: t-1/2 of uptake 5 hours, biologic t-1/2 50 days, maximal uptake 20%, and gland size 15 g (see also refs. [Quimby, 1970 #628;MIRD, 1975 #629;MIRD, 1976 #630]). bDose used for early thyroidal uptake studies. Thyroidal Radioiodide Uptake (RAIU) This is the most commonly used thyroid test requiring the administration of a radioisotope. It is usually given orally in a capsule or in liquid form and the quantity accumulated by the thyroid gland at various intervals of time is measured using a gamma scintillation counter. Correction for the amount of isotope circulating in the blood of the neck region, by subtracting counts obtained over the thigh, is of particular importance during the early periods following its administration. A dose of the same radioisotope, usually 10%, placed in a neck "phantom" is also counted as a "standard". The percentage of thyroidal radioactive iodide uptake (RAIU) is calculated from the counts cumulated per constant time unit. The percentage of RAIU 24 hours after the administration of radioiodide is most useful, since in most instances the thyroid gland has reached the plateau of isotope accumulation, and because it has been shown that at this time, the best separation between high, normal, and low uptake is obtained. Normal values for 24-hour RAIU in most parts of North America are 5 to 30 percent. In many other parts of the world, normal values range from 15 to 50 percent. Lower normal values are due to the increase in dietary iodine intake following the enrichment of foods, particularly mass produced bread (150 µg of iodine per slice), with this element. 8 The inverse relationship between the daily dietary intake of iodine and the RAIU test is clearly illustrated in Figure 6-1 . The intake of large amounts of iodide (>5 mg/day), mainly from the use of iodine-containing radiologic contrast media, antiseptics, vitamins, and drugs such as amiodarone, suppresses the RAIU values to a level hardly detectable using the usual equipment and doses of the isotope. Depending upon the type of iodine preparation and the period of exposure, depression of RAIU can last for weeks, months, or even years. Even external application
