Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


doses of the isotope. Depending upon the type of iodine preparation and the period of exposure, depression of RAIU can last for weeks, months, or even years. Even external application of iodide may suppress thyroidal radioiodide uptake. The need to inquire about individual dietary habits and sources of excess iodide intake is obvious. Figure 6-1 Relation of 24 hour thyroidal radioiodide (I131) uptake (RAIU) to dietary content of stable iodine (I12 7 ). The uptake increases with decreasing dietary iodine. With iodine intake below the amount provided from thyroid hormone degradation, the latter contributes a larger proportion of the total iodine taken up by the thyroid. Under current dietary habits in the United States, the average 24-hour thyroidal RAIU is below 20 percent. The test does not measure hormone production and release but merely the avidity of the thyroid gland for iodide and its rate of clearance relative to the kidney. Disease states resulting in excessive production and release of thyroid hormone are most often associated with increased thyroidal RAIU and those causing hormone underproduction with decreased thyroidal RAIU (Figure 6-2, below). Important exceptions include high uptake values in some hypothyroid patients and low values in some hyperthyroid patients. Increased thyroidal RAIU with hormonal insufficiency co-occur in the presence of severe iodide deficiency and in the majority of inborn errors of hormonogenesis (see Chapter 20 and 16 ). In the former, lack of substrate, and in the latter, a specific enzymatic block of hormone synthesis cause hypothyroidism poorly compensated by TSH-induced thyroid gland overactivity. Decreased thyroidal RAIU with hormonal excess is typically encountered in the syndrome of transient thyrotoxicosis (both de Quervain's and painless thyroiditis), 9 ingestion of exogenous hormone (thyrotoxicosis factitia), iodide-induced thyrotoxicosis (Jod-Basedow disease), 10 and in patients with thyrotoxicosis on moderately high intake of iodide (see Table 6-3 ). High or low thyroidal RAIU as a result of low or high dietary iodine intake, respectively, may not be associated with significant changes in thyroid hormone secretion. Figure 6-2 Examples of thyroidal RAIU curves under various pathological conditions. Note the prolonged uptake in renal disease due to decreased urinary excretion of the isotope and the early decline in thyroidal radioiodide content in some patients with thyrotoxicosis associated with a small but rapidly turning over intrathyroidal iodine pool. Various factors including diseases that affect the value of the 24-hour thyroidal RAIU are listed in Table 6-3 . Several variations
