Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


a small but rapidly turning over intrathyroidal iodine pool. Various factors including diseases that affect the value of the 24-hour thyroidal RAIU are listed in Table 6-3 . Several variations of the test have been devised which have particular value under special circumstances. Some of these are briefly described. Table 6-3 Diseases and Other Factors That Affect the 24-Hour Thyroidal RAIU Increased RAIU Hyperthyroidism (Graves' disease, Plummer's disease, toxic adenoma, trophoblastic disease, pituitary resistance to thyroid hormone, TSH-producing pituitary adenoma) Non-toxic goiter (endemic, inherited biosynthetic defects, generalized resistance to thyroid hormone, Hashimoto's thyroiditis) Excessive hormonal loss (nephrosis, chronic diarrhea, hypolipidemic resins, diet high in soybean) Decreased renal clearance of iodine (renal insufficiency, severe heart failure) Recovery of the suppressed thyroid (withdrawal of thyroid hormone and anti-thyroid drug administration, subacute thyroiditis, iodine-induced myxedema) Iodine deficiency (endemic or sporadic dietary deficiency, excessive iodine loss as in pregnancy or in the dehalogenase defect) TSH administration Decreased RAIU Hypothyroidism (primary or secondary) Defect in iodide concentration (inherited "trapping" defect, early phase of subacute thyroiditis, transient hyperthyroidism) Suppressed thyroid gland caused by thyroid hormone (hormone replacement, thyrotoxicosis factitia, struma ovarii) Iodine excess (dietary, drugs and other iodine contaminants) Miscellaneous drugs and chemicals (see Tables 39-10 and 39-12) Early Thyroid RAIU and 99mPertechnetate Uptake Measurements In some patients with severe thyrotoxicosis and low intrathyroidal iodine concentration, the turnover rate of iodine may be accelerated causing a rapid initial uptake of radioiodide, reaching a plateau before 6 hours, followed by a decline through release of the isotope in hormonal or other forms (Figure 6-2, above). Although this phenomenon is rare, some laboratories choose to routinely measure early RAIU, usually at 2, 4 or 6 hours. Early measurements require the accurate determination of background activity contributed by the circulating isotope. Radioisotopes with a shorter half-life, such as 123I and 132I, are more suitable. Since thyroidal uptake in the very early period following administration of radioiodide reflects mainly iodide trapping activity, 99mTc as the pertechnetate ion (99mTcO4-) may be used. In euthyroid patients, thyroid trapping is maximal at about 20 minutes and is approximately 1% of the administered dose 11 . This test, when coupled with the administration of T3, can theoretically be used to evaluate thyroid gland suppressibility in thyrotoxic patients treated with antithyroid drugs (see below). Perchlorate Discharge Test This test is used to detect defects in intrathyroidal iodide organification. It is based on the following physiological
