Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


in thyrotoxic patients treated with antithyroid drugs (see below). Perchlorate Discharge Test This test is used to detect defects in intrathyroidal iodide organification. It is based on the following physiological principle. Iodide is "trapped" by the thyroid gland through an energy-requiring active transport mechanism. Once in the gland, it is rapidly bound to thyroglobulin and retention no longer requires active transport. Several ions, such as thiocyanate (SCN-) and perchlorate (ClO4-), inhibit active iodide transport and cause the release of the intrathyroidal iodide not bound to thyroid protein. Thus, measurement of intrathyroidal radioiodine loss following the administration of an inhibitor of iodide trapping would indicate the presence of an iodide-binding defect. In the standard test, epithyroid counts are obtained at frequent intervals (every 10 or 15 minutes) following the administration of radioiodide. Two hours later, 1g of KClO4 is administered orally and repeated epithyroid counts continue to be obtained for an additional 2 hours. In normal individuals, radioiodide accumulation in the thyroid gland ceases after the administration of the iodide transport inhibitor but there is little loss of the thyroidal radioactivity accumulated prior to induction of the "trapping" block. A loss of 5% percent or more indicates an organification defect (see Chapter 16 ). 12 The severity of the defect is proportional to the extent of radioiodide discharged from the gland and is complete when virtually all the activity accumulated by the gland is lost (see Fig . 16-2, below). The test is positive in the inborn defect of iodide organification, which can be associated with deafness (Pendred's syndrome), during the administration of iodide organification blocking agents, in many patients with thyroiditis, or following treatment with radioactive iodide. Figure 6-2 Examples of thyroidal RAIU curves under various pathological conditions. Note the prolonged uptake in renal disease due to decreased urinary excretion of the isotope and the early decline in thyroidal radioiodide content in some patients with thyrotoxicosis associated with a small but rapidly turning over intrathyroidal iodine pool. Measurement of Hormone Concentration and Other Iodinated Compounds and Their Transport in Blood Measurements of T4 and T3 in serum and the estimation of their free concentration have become the most commonly used tests for the evaluation of the thyroid hormone-dependent metabolic status. This approach results from the development of simple, sensitive, and specific methods for measuring these iodothyronines and because of the lack of specific tests for the direct measurement of the
