Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


This approach results from the development of simple, sensitive, and specific methods for measuring these iodothyronines and because of the lack of specific tests for the direct measurement of the metabolic effect of these hormones. Other advantages are the requirement of only a small blood sample and the large number of determinations that can be completed by a laboratory during a regular workday. The thyroid gland is the principal source of all hormonal iodine-containing compounds or their precursors and peripheral tissue are the source of the products of degradation. Their chemical structures, and normal concentrations in serum are given in Figure 6-3 . It is important to note that the concentration of each substance is dependent not only upon the amount synthesized and secreted but also upon its affinity for carrier serum proteins, distribution in tissues, rate of degradation, and finally, clearance. Figure 6-3 Iodine-containing compounds in serum of healthy adults. a. Iodothyronine concentration in the euthyroid population are not normally distributed. Thus, calculation of the normal range on the basis of 95% confidence limits for a Gaussian distribution is not accurate. b. Significant decline with old age. c. Probably an overestimation due to cross-reactivity by related substances. The main secretory product of the thyroid gland is t4t3 being next in relative abundance. Both compounds are metabolically active when administered vivo. They synthesized and stored as a part larger moleculethyroglobulin. 18 Under normal circumstances, only minute amounts of Tg escape into the circulation. On a molar basis, it is the least abundant iodine-containing compound in blood. With the exception of T4, Tg, and small amounts of DIT and MIT, all other iodine-containing compounds found in the serum of normal man are produced mainly in extrathyroidal tissues by a stepwise process of deiodination of T4. 19 An alternative pathway of T4 metabolism that involves deamination and decarboxylation but retention of the iodine residues gives rise to TETRAC and TRIAC. 20,21 Conjugation to form sulfated iodoproteins also occurs. 22 Circulating iodoalbumin is generated by intrathyroidal iodination of serum albumin. 23 Small amounts of iodoproteins may be formed in peripheral tissues 24 or in serum 25,26 by covalent linkage of T4 and T3 to soluble proteins. Although the physiological function of circulating iodine compounds other than T4 and T3 remains unknown, measurement of changes in their concentration is of research interest. Measurement of Total Thyroid Hormone Concentration in Serum Iodometry. Iodine constitutes an
