Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


compounds other than T4 and T3 remains unknown, measurement of changes in their concentration is of research interest. Measurement of Total Thyroid Hormone Concentration in Serum Iodometry. Iodine constitutes an integral part of the thyroid hormone molecule. It is thus not surprising that determination of iodine content in serum was the first method suggested almost six decades ago for the identification and quantitation of thyroid hormone. 27 Measurement of the Protein-Bound Iodine (PBI) was the earliest method used routinely for the estimation of thyroid hormone concentration in serum. This test measured the total quantity of iodine precipitable with the serum proteins, 28 90% of which is T4. The normal range was 4 - 8 µg I/dl of serum. Efforts to measure serum thyroid hormone levels with greater specificity and with lesser interference from nonhormonal iodinated compounds, led to the development of the butanol extractable iodine (BEI) and T4I by column techniques. All such chemical methods for the measurement of thyroid hormone in serum have been replaced by the ligand assays which are devoid of interference by even large quantities of nonhormonal iodine-containing substances. Radioimmunoassays. Concentrations of thyroid hormones in serum can be measured by radioimmunoassays (RIA). The principle of these assays is the competition of a hormone (H), being measured, with the same isotopically labeled compound (H*) for binding to a specific class of IgG molecules present in the antiserum [antibody (Ab)]. H is the ligand and the Ab is either a polyclonal antiserum to H or a monoclonal IgG. The reaction obeys the law of mass action. Thus, at equilibrium, the amount of H* bound to Ab to form the complex Ab-H* is inversely proportional to the concentration of H, forming the complex Ab-H, provided the amounts of Ab and H* are kept constant. AbH* + [H] AbH + H* The radioisotope content in Ab-H* or in the unbound (free) H* is determined after their separation by precipitation of the antibody-ligand complex or adsorption of the free ligand. Some RIAs are carried out with the Ab fixed to a solid support, reacting with H and H* in solution. Increments of known amounts of H are added to a series of reactions to construct a standard curve that describes the curvilinear stoichiometric relationship between Ab-H* and H. It can be converted to a straight line by a number of mathematical transformations, such as the logit-log plot. Blank reactions contain H*
