Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


curvilinear stoichiometric relationship between Ab-H* and H. It can be converted to a straight line by a number of mathematical transformations, such as the logit-log plot. Blank reactions contain H* but not specific Ab or, a large excess of H in a full reaction. 29 The sensitivity of the assay is dependent upon the affinity of the Ab and specific activity of H*. Under optimal conditions, as little as 1 pg of H can be measured. In assays for thyroid hormones, the hormone needs to be liberated from serum binding proteins, mainly TBG. Methods to achieve this include extraction, competitive displacement of the hormone being measured, or inactivation of thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG). 31-34 Rarely, some patients develop circulating antibodies against thyronines that interfere with the RIA carried out on unextracted serum samples. Depending on the method used for the separation of bound from free ligand, values obtained may be either spuriously low or high in the presence of such antibodies. 38,39 A wide choice of commercial kits is available for most RIA procedures, making these assays accessible to all medical centers. RIAs have been adapted for the measurement of T4 in small samples of dried blood spots on filter paper and are used in screening for neonatal hypothyroidism. 40 Non-radioactive Methods. More recently, assays have been developed that are based on the principle of the radioligand assay but do not use radioactive material. These assays, which use ligand conjugated to an enzyme have largely replaced RIAs. The enzyme-linked ligand competes with the ligand being measured for the same binding sites on the antibody. Quantitation is carried out by spectrophotometry of the color reaction developed after the addition of the enzyme substrate. 42 Both homogeneous [enzyme-multiplied immunoassay technique (EMIT)] and heterogeneous [enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)] assays for T4 have been developed. 43-45 In the homogeneous assays, no separation step is required, thus providing easy automation. 43 In one such assay, T4 is linked to malate dehydrogenase, inhibiting the enzyme activity. The enzyme is activated when the T4-enzyme conjugate is bound to T4-specific antibody. Active T4 conjugates to other enzymes, such as peroxidase 44 and alkaline phosphatase, 45 have also been developed. The assay has been adapted for the measurement of T4 in dried blood samples used in mass screening programs for neonatal hypothyroidism. 45 Other non-radioisotope immunoassays use fluorescence excitation for detection of the labeled ligand, a technique which is finding
