Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


in dried blood samples used in mass screening programs for neonatal hypothyroidism. 45 Other non-radioisotope immunoassays use fluorescence excitation for detection of the labeled ligand, a technique which is finding increasing application. Such assay methods utilize a variety of chemiluminescent molecules such as 1,2-dioxetanes, luminol and derivatives, acridinium esters, oxalate esters and firefly luciferins, as well as many sensitizers and fluorescent enhancers. 45a One such assay which employes T4 conjugated to ß-galactosidase and fluoresence measurements of the hydrolytic product of 4-methyl-umbelliferyl-ßD-galactopyranoside has been adapted for use in a microanalytical system requiring only 10µl of serum. 45b Serum Total Thyroxine (TT4). The usual concentration of TT4 in adults ranges from 5 to 12 µg/dl (64 - 154 nmol/L). When concentrations are below or above this range in the absence of thyroid dysfunction, they are usually the result of an abnormal level of serum TBG. The hyperestrogenic state of pregnancy and administration of estrogen-containing compounds are the most common causes of a significant elevation of serum TT4 levels in euthyroid persons. Less commonly, TBG excess is inherited. 50 Serum TT4 is virtually undetectable in the fetus until midgestation. Thereafter, it rapidly increases, reaching high normal adult levels during the last trimester. A further acute but transient rise occurs within hours after delivery. 51 Values remain above the adult range until 6 years of age, but subsequent age related changes are minimal so that in clinical practice, the same normal range of TT4 applies to both sexes and all ages. Small seasonal variations and changes related to high altitude, cold, and heat have been described. Rhythmic variations in serum TT4 concentration are of two types: variations related to postural changes in serum protein concentration 56 and true circadian variation. 31 Postural changes in protein concentration do not alter the free T4 (FT4) concentration. Although levels of serum TT4 below the normal range are usually associated with hypothyroidism, and above this range with thyrotoxicosis, it must be remembered that the TT4 level may not always correspond to the FT4 concentration which represents the metabolically active fraction (see below). The TT4 concentration in serum may be altered by independent mechanisms: (1) an increase or decrease in the supply of T4 , as seen in most cases of thyrotoxicosis and hypothyroidism, respectively; (2) changes due solely to alterations in T4 binding to serum proteins; and (3) compensatory changes in serum TT4 concentration due to high or
