Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


or antibodies against T4 38,39 produce apparent elevations in the measured TT4 concentration, whereas the metabolic status remain normal. The variant albumin is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait termed familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) (see Chapter 16 ). Another possible cause of discrepancy between the observed serum TT4 concentration and the metabolic status of the patient is divergent changes in the serum TT3 and TT4 concentrations with alterations in the serum T3/T4 ratio. The most common situation is that of elevated TT3 concentration. The source of T3 may be endogenous, as in T3 thyrotoxicosis, or exogenous, as during ingestion of T3. In the former situation, contrary to the common variety of thyrotoxicosis, elevation in the serum TT3 concentration is not accompanied by an increase in the TT4 level. In fact, the serum TT4 level is normal and occasionally low. 60 This finding indicates that in T3 thyrotoxicosis the hormone is predominantly secreted as such rather than arising from the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3. Ingestion of pharmacologic doses of T3 results in thyrotoxicosis associated with severe depression of the serum TT4 concentration. A moderate hypersecretion of T3 can be associated with euthyroidism and a low serum TT4 concentration. This circumstance, occasionally referred to as T3 euthyroidism, may be more prevalent than T3 thyrotoxicosis. It is believed to constitute a state of compensatory T3 secretion as a physiologic adaptation of the failing thyroid gland, such as after treatment for thyrotoxicosis, in some cases of chronic thyroiditis, or during iodine deprivation. 61,62 Serum TT4 concentration is also low in normal persons receiving replacement doses of T3. Conversely, serum TT4 levels are above the upper limit of normal in 15-50% of patients treated with exogenous T4. 63 Because of the relatively slow rate of metabolism and large extrathyroidal T4 pool, the serum concentration of the hormone varies little with the time of sampling in relation to ingestion of the daily dose. 64 Serum Total Triiodothyronine (TT3). Normal serum TT3 concentrations in the adult are 80-190 ng/dl (1.2 - 2.9 nmol/L). While sex differences are small, those with age are more dramatic. In contrast to serum TT4, TT3 concentration at birth is low, about one-half the normal adult level. It rises within 24 hours to about double the normal adult value followed by a rapid decrease over the subsequent 24 hours to a level in the upper adult range, which persists for the
