Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


hours to about double the normal adult value followed by a rapid decrease over the subsequent 24 hours to a level in the upper adult range, which persists for the first year of life. 51 A decline in the mean TT3 level has been observed in old age, although not in healthy subjects. 52,53 so that a fall in TT3 may refelct the prevalence of nonthyroidal illness rather than to age alone. 67 Although a positive correlation between serum TT3 level and body weight has been observed, it may be related to overeating. 68 Rapid and profound reductions in serum TT3 level can be produced within 24-48 hours of total calorie or only carbohydrate deprivation. 69-71 Most conditions causing serum TT4 levels to increase are associated with high TT3 concentrations. Thus, serum TT3 levels are usually elevated in thyrotoxicosis and reduced in hypothyroidism. However, in both conditions the TT3/TT4 ratio is elevated relative to normal euthyroid persons. This elevation is due to the disproportionate increase in serum TT3 concentration in thyrotoxicosis and a lesser diminution in hypothyroidism relative to the TT4 concentration. 72 Accordingly, measurement of the serum TT3 level is a more sensitive test for the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism, and that of TT4 more useful in the diagnosis of hypothyroidism. There are circumstances in which changes in the serum TT3 and TT4 concentrations are either disproportionate or in opposite direction ( Table 6-5 ). These include the syndrome of thyrotoxicosis with normal TT4 and FT4 levels (T3 thyrotoxicosis). In some patients, treatment of thyrotoxicosis with antithyroid drugs may normalize the serum TT4 but not TT3 level, producing a high TT3/TT4 ratio. In areas of limited iodine supply 62 and in patients with limited thyroidal ability to process iodide, 61 euthyroidism can be maintained at low serum TT4 and FT4 levels by increased direct thyroidal secretion of T3. Although these changes have a rational physiologic explanation, the significance of discordant serum TT4 and TT3 levels under other circumstances is less well understood. Table 6-5 Conditions That May be Associated with Discrepancies Between the Concentration of Serum TT3 and TT4 View in own window Serum( + = up, - = down, N=normal) Metabolic Status TT3/TT4 Ratio TT3 TT4 Thyrotoxic Euthyroid Hypothyroid + + N T3-thyrotoxicosis (endogenous) Endemic iodine deficiency (T3 autoantibodies)a ---- + N - Treated thyrotoxicosis (T4 autoantibodies) Endemic cretins (severe iodine deficiency) + + - Pharmacologic doses of T3
