Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


+ + N T3-thyrotoxicosis (endogenous) Endemic iodine deficiency (T3 autoantibodies)a ---- + N - Treated thyrotoxicosis (T4 autoantibodies) Endemic cretins (severe iodine deficiency) + + - Pharmacologic doses of T3 (exogenous T3-toxicosis) Partially treated thyrotoxicosis T3 replacement (especially 1 to 3 h after ingestion) Endemic iodine deficiency (T3 autoantibodies) - - N Most conditions associated with reduced conversion of T4 to T3 Chronic or severe acute illness b Trauma (surgical, burns) Fasting and malnutrition Drugs c (T3 autoantibodies)a - N + Severe nonthyroidal illness associated with thyrotoxicosis Neonates (first three weeks of life) T4 replacement Familial hyperthyroxinemia due to T4-binding albumin-like variant (T4 autoantibodies)a - - + At birth Acute nonthyroidal illness withtransient hyperthyroxinemia (T4 autoantibodies)a a Artifactual values dependent upon the method of hormone determination in serum. b Hepatic and renal failure, diabetic ketoacidosis, myocardial infarction, infectious and febrile illness, malignancies c Glucocorticoids, iodinated contrast agents, amiodarone, propranolol, propylthiouracil The most common cause of discordant serum concentrations of TT3 and TT4 is a selective decrease of serum TT3 due to decreased conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues. This reduction is an integral part of the pathophysiology of a number of nonthyroidal acute and chronic illnesses and calorie deprivation (see Chapter 5 ). In these conditions, the serum TT3 level is often lower than that commonly found in patients with frank primary hypothyroidism. Yet, these persons do not present clear clinical evidence of hypometabolism. In some individuals, decreased T4 to T3 conversion in the pituitary gland 75 or in peripheral tissues 76 is thought to be an inherited condition. A variety of drugs may also produce changes in the serum TT3 concentration without apparent metabolic consequences (see Chapter 6 ). Drugs that compete with hormone binding to serum proteins decrease serum TT3 levels, generally without affecting the free T3 concentration (Table 5-5). Some drugs, such as glucocorticoids, 77 depress the serum TT3 concentration by interfering with the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3. Others, such as phenobarbital, 78 depress the serum TT3 concentration by stimulating the rate of intracellular hormone degradation. The majority have multiple effects. These effects are combinations of those described above, as well as inhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis or thyroidal hormonogenesis. 79 Changes in serum TBG concentration have an effect on the serum TT3 concentration similar to that on TT4 (see Chapter 16 ). The presence of endogenous antibodies to T3 may result in
