Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


serum TBG concentration have an effect on the serum TT3 concentration similar to that on TT4 (see Chapter 16 ). The presence of endogenous antibodies to T3 may result in apparent elevation of the serum TT3 but as in the case of high TBG, it does not cause hypermetabolism. 38 Administration of commonly used replacement doses of T3, usually in the order of 75 µg/day or 1 µg/kg body weight per day, 80 results in serum TT3 levels in the thyrotoxic range. Furthermore, because of the rapid gastrointestinal absorption and relatively fast degradation rate, the serum level varies considerably according to the time of sampling in relation to hormone ingestion. 64 Measurement of Total and Unsaturated Thyroid Hormone-Binding Capacity in Serum Because the concentration of thyroid hormone in serum is dependent on its supply as well as on the abundance of hormone-binding sites on serum proteins, the estimation of the latter has proved useful in the correct interpretation of values obtained from the measurement of the total hormone concentration. These results have been used to provide an estimate of the free hormone concentration, which is important in differentiating changes in serum total hormone concentration due to alterations of binding proteins in euthyroid patients from those due to abnormalities in thyroid gland activity giving rise to hypermetabolism or hypometabolism. In Vitro Uptake Tests: In vitro uptake tests measure the unoccupied thyroid hormone-binding sites on TBG. They use labeled T3 or T4 and some form of synthetic absorbent to measure the proportion of radiolabeled hormone that is not tightly bound to serum proteins. Because ion exchange resins are often used as absorbents, the test became known as the resin T3 or T4 uptake test (T3U or T4U), describing the technique rather than the entity measured. The test is usually carried out by incubating a sample of the patient's serum with a trace amount of labeled T3 or T4. The labeled hormone, not bound to available binding sites on TBG present in the serum sample, is absorbed onto an anion exchange resin and measured as resin-bound radioactivity. Values correlate inversely with the concentration of unsaturated TBG. Various methods use different absorbing materials to remove the hormone not tightly bound to TBG. 83 Labeled T3 is usually used because of its less firm yet preferential binding to TBG. Depending upon the method, typical normal results for T3U are 25-35% or 45-55%. Thus, it is
