Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


T3 is usually used because of its less firm yet preferential binding to TBG. Depending upon the method, typical normal results for T3U are 25-35% or 45-55%. Thus, it is more valuable to express results of the uptake tests as a ratio of the result obtained in a normal control serum run in the same assay as the test samples. Normal values will then range on either side of 1.0, usually 0.85-1.15. The uptake of the tracer by the absorbent is inversely proportional to the amount of unsaturated binding sites (unoccupied by endogenous thyroid hormone) in serum TBG. Thus, the uptake is increased when the amount of unsaturated TBG is reduced as a result of excess endogenous thyroid hormone or a decrease in the concentration of TBG. In contrast, the uptake is decreased when the amount of unsaturated TBG is increased as a result of a low serum thyroid hormone concentration or an increase in the concentration of TBG. Since the test can be affected by either or both independent variables, serum total thyroid hormone and TBG concentrations, the results cannot be interpreted without knowledge of the hormone concentration. As a rule, parallel increases or decreases in both serum TT4 concentration and the T3U test indicate hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, respectively, whereas discrepant changes in serum TT4 and T3U suggest abnormalities in TBG binding. However, abnormalities in hormone and TBG concentrations may coexist in the same patient. For example, a hypothyroid patient with a low TBG level will typically show a low TT4 level and normal T3U result ( Figure 6-4 ). Several nonhormonal compounds, due to structural similarities, compete with thyroid hormone for its binding site on TBG. Some are used as pharmacologic agents and may thus alter the in vitro uptake test as well as the total thyroid hormone concentration in serum. A list is provided in Table 5-2 . Figure 6-4 Graphic representation of the relationship between the serum total T4 concentration, the RT3U test, and the free T4 (FT4) concentration in various metabolic states and in association with changes in TBG. The principle of communicating vessels is used as an illustration. The height of fluid in the small vessel represents the level of FT4; the total amount of fluid in the large vessel, the total T4 concentration; and the total volume of the large vessel, the TBG capacity. Dots represent resin beads and black dots, those carrying
