Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


of fluid in the large vessel, the total T4 concentration; and the total volume of the large vessel, the TBG capacity. Dots represent resin beads and black dots, those carrying the radioactive T3 tracer (T3*). The RT3U test result (black dots) is inversely proportional to the unoccupied TBG binding sites represented by the unfilled capacity of the large vessel. (From S. Refetoff, Endocrinology, L.J. DeGroot (ed). 1979, Grune & Straton Inc.) TBG and TTR Measurements. The concentrations of TBG and TTR in serum can be either estimated by measurement of their total T4-binding capacity at saturation or more usually measured directly by immunologic techniques. 87,88 TBG concentration in serum can be determined by RIA, 88 and both TBG and TTR can be measured by Laurell's rocket immunoelectrophoresis, 89,90 by radial immunodiffusion, 91 or by enzyme immunoassay; 87 commercial methods are available. The true mean value for TBG is 1.6 mg/dl (260 nmol/L), with a range of 1.1 - 2.2 mg/dl(180 - 350 nmol/L) serum. In adults, the normal range for TTR is 16 - 30 mg/dl (2.7 - 5.0 µmol/L). The concentrations of TBG and TTR in serum vary with age, sex, pregnancy, and posture. Determination of the concentration of these proteins in serum is particularly helpful in evaluation of extreme deviations from normal, as in congenital abnormalities of TBG. In most instances, however, the in vitro uptake test, in conjunction with the serum TT4 level, gives an approximate estimation of the TBG concentration. Estimation of Free Thyroid Hormone Concentration A minute amount of thyroid hormone circulates in the blood in a free form, not bound to serum proteins. It is in reversible equilibrium with the bound hormone and represents the diffusible fraction of the hormone capable of traversing cellular membranes to exert its effects on body tissues. 94 Although changes in serum hormone-binding proteins affect both the total hormone concentration and the corresponding fraction circulating free, in the euthyroid person the absolute concentration of free hormone remains constant and correlates with the tissue hormone level and its biologic effect. Information concerning this value is probably the most important parameter in the evaluation of thyroid function as it relates to the metabolic status of the patient. With few exceptions, the free hormone concentration is high in thyrotoxicosis, low in hypothyroidism, and normal in euthyroidism even in the presence of profound changes in TBG concentration, 97 provided the patient is in
