Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


free hormone concentration is high in thyrotoxicosis, low in hypothyroidism, and normal in euthyroidism even in the presence of profound changes in TBG concentration, 97 provided the patient is in a steady state (see Fig . 5-4). Notably, free T4 (FT4) concentration may be normal or even low in patients with T3 thyrotoxicosis and in those ingesting pharmacologic doses of T3. On occasion, the concentration of FT4 may be outside the normal range in the absence of an apparent abnormality in the thyroid hormone-dependent metabolic status. This is frequently observed in severe nonthyroidal illness during which both high and low values have been reported. 98-100 As expected, when a euthyroid state is maintained by the administration of T3 or by predominant thyroidal secretion of T3, the FT4 level is also depressed. More consistently, patients with a variety of nonthyroidal illnesses have low FT3 levels. 101 This decrease is characteristic of all conditions associated with depressed serum TT3 concentrations due to a diminished conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues (see Chapter 5 ). Both FT4 and FT3 values may be out of line in patients receiving a variety of drugs (see below). Marked elevations in both FT4 and FT3 concentrations in the absence of hypermetabolism are typical of patients with resistance to thyroid hormone (see Chapter 16 ). The FT3 concentration is usually normal or even high in hypothyroid persons living in areas of severe endemic iodine deficiency. Their FT4 levels are, however, normal or low. 62 Direct Measurement of Free T4 and Free T3. Direct measurements of the absolute FT4 and FT3 concentrations are technically difficult and have, until recently, been limited to research assays. In order to minimize perturbations of the relationship between the free and bound hormone, these must be separated by ultrafiltration or by dialysis involving minimal dilution and little alteration of the pH or electrolyte composition. The separated free hormone is then measured directly by radioimmunoassay or chromatography. 97,97a These assays are probably the most accurate available, but small, weakly bound, dialyzable substances or drugs may be removed from the binding proteins and the free hormone concentration measured in their presence may not fully reflect the free concentration in vivo. Isotopic Equilibrium Dialysis. This method has been the "gold standard" for the estimation of the FT4 or FT3 concentration for almost 30 years. It is based on the determination of proportion of T4 or
