Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


method has been the "gold standard" for the estimation of the FT4 or FT3 concentration for almost 30 years. It is based on the determination of proportion of T4 or T3 that is unbound, or free, and is thus able to diffuse through a dialysis membrane, i.e., the dialyzable fraction (DF). To carry out the test, a sample of serum is incubated with a tracer amount of labeled T4 or T3. The labeled tracer rapidly equilibrates with the respective bound and free endogenous hormones. The sample is then dialyzed against buffer at a constant temperature until the concentration of free hormone on either side of the dialysis membrane has reached equilibrium. The DF is calculated from the proportion of labeled hormone in the dialysate. The contribution from radioiodide present as contaminant in the labeled tracer hormone should be eliminated by purification 98 and by various techniques of precipitation of the dialyzed hormone.102 FT4 and FT3 levels can be measured simultaneously by addition to the sample of T4 and T3 labeled with two different radioiodine isotopes.103 Ultrafiltration is a modification of the dialysis technique. 98 Results are expressed as the fraction (DFT4 or DFT3) or percent (%FT4 or %FT3) of the respective hormones which dialyzed and the absolute concentrations of FT4 and FT3 are calculated from the product of the total concentration of the hormone in serum and its respective DF. Typical normal values for FT4 in the adult range from 1.0 to 3.0 ng/dl (13 - 39 pmol/L) and for FT3 from 0.25 to 0.65 ng/dl (3.8 - 10 nmol/L). Results by these techniques are generally comparable to those determined with the direct, one step, methods (see below) but are more likely to differ with extremely low or extremely high TBG concentrations or in the presence of circulating inhibitors of protein binding, especially in situations of non-thyroidal illness. 104, 104a,104b The measured DF may be altered by the temperature at which the assay is run, the degree of dilution, the time allowed for equilibrium to be reached and the composition of the diluting fluid. 105 The calculated value is dependent on an accurate measurement of total T4 or T3 and may be incorrect in patients with T4 or T3 autoantibodies. Some of these problems, particularly those arising from dilution, may be superceded by commercially available dialysis methods or ultrafiltration methods of free from bound hormone which do not necessitate serum
