Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


Some of these problems, particularly those arising from dilution, may be superceded by commercially available dialysis methods or ultrafiltration methods of free from bound hormone which do not necessitate serum dilution. Index Methods. As the determination of free hormone by equilibrium dialysis is cumbersome and technically demanding, many clinical laboratories have used a method by which a free T4 index (FT4I) or free T3 index (FT3I) is derived from the product of the TT4 or TT3 (determined by immunoassay) and the value of an in vitro uptake test (see below). While not always in agreement with the values obtained by dialysis, these techniques are rapid and simple. They are more likely to fail at extremely low or extremely high TBG concentrations, in the presence of abnormal binding proteins, in the presence of circulating inhibitors of protein binding , and their reliability has been questioned in patients with non-thyroidal illness. The theoretical contention that the FT4I is an accurate estimate of the absolute FT4 concentration can be confirmed by the linear correlation between these two parameters. This is true provided results of the in vitro uptake test (T3U or T4U) are expressed as the thyroid hormone binding ratio (THBR), determined by dividing the tracer counts bound to the solid matrix by counts bound to serum proteins. 106 Values are corrected for assay variations using appropriate serum standards and are expressed as the ratio of a normal reference pool. 106,107 The normal range is slightly narrower than the corresponding TT4 in healthy euthyroid patients with a normal TBG concentration. It is 6.0 - 10.5 µg/dl or 77 - 135 nmol/l when calculated from TT4 values measured by RIA. In thyrotoxicosis, FT4I is high and in hypothyroidism it is low irrespective of the TBG concentration. Euthyroid patients with TT4 values outside the normal range as a result of TBG abnormalities have a normal FT4I. 83 Lack of correlation between the FT4I and the metabolic status of the patient has been observed under the same circumstances as those described for similar discrepancies when the FT4 concentration was measured by dialysis. Methods for the estimation of the FT3I are also available 103 but are rarely used in routine clinical evaluation of thyroid function. Like the FT4I, it correlates well with the absolute FT3 concentration. The test corrects for changes in TT3 concentration resulting from variations in TBG concentration. Estimation of FT4 and FT3 Based on
