Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


FT4I, it correlates well with the absolute FT3 concentration. The test corrects for changes in TT3 concentration resulting from variations in TBG concentration. Estimation of FT4 and FT3 Based on TBG Measurements. Since most T4 and T3 in serum are bound to TBG, their free concentration can be calculated from their binding affinity constants to TBG and molar concentrations of hormones and TBG. 109,110 A simpler calculation of the T4/TBG and T3/TBG ratios yields values that are similar to but less accurate than the FT4I and FT3I, respectively. 106 Two-step Immunoassays. In these assays, the free hormone is first immunoextracted by a specific bound antibody (first step), frequently fixed to the tube (coated tube). 111,112 After washing, labeled tracer is added and allowed to equilibrate between the unoccupied sites on the antibody and those of serum thyroid hormone-binding proteins. The free hormone concentration will be inversely related to the antibody bound tracer and values are determined by comparison to a standard curve. Values obtained with this technique are generally comparable to those determined with the direct methods. They are more likely to differ in the presence of circulating inhibitors of protein binding and in sera from patients with non-thyroidal illness. Analog (One-Step) Immunoassays. In these assays, a labeled analog of T4 or T3 directly competes with the endogenous free hormone for binding to antibodies. 113 In theory, these analogs are not bound by the thyroid hormone binding proteins in serum. However, various studies have found significant protein binding to the variant albumin-like protein, 113a to transthyretin and to iodothyronine autoantibodies. 114 This results in discrepant values to other assays in a number of conditions including non-thyroidal illness, pregnancy and in individuals with familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH). 113a A growing number of commercial kits is available some of which have been modified to minimize these problems, 113b . Nonetheless, their accuracy remains controversial, although such comercial methods are being increasingly adopted in the routine clinical chemistry laboratory. 112 Considerations in Selection of Methods for the Estimation of Free Thyroid Hormone Concentration. None of the available methods for the estimation of the free hormone concentration in serum is infallible in the evaluation of the thyroid hormone-dependent metabolic status. Each test possesses inherent advantages and disadvantages depending upon specific physiologic and pathologic circumstances. For example, methods based on the measurement of the total thyroid hormone and TBG concentrations cannot be used in patients
