Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


advantages and disadvantages depending upon specific physiologic and pathologic circumstances. For example, methods based on the measurement of the total thyroid hormone and TBG concentrations cannot be used in patients with absent TBG due to inherited TBG deficiency. Under such circumstances, the concentration of free thyroid hormone is dependent upon the interaction of the hormone with serum proteins that normally play a negligible role (TTR and albumin). When alterations of thyroid hormone binding do not equally affect T4 and T3, discrepant results of FT4I are obtained when using labeled T4 or T3 in the in vitro uptake test. For example, euthyroid patients with the inherited albumin variant (FDH) or having endogenous antibodies with greater affinity for T4 will have high TT4 but a normal T3U test which will result in an overestimation of the calculated FT4I. In such instances, calculation of the FT4I from a T4U test may provide more accurate results. Conversely, reduced overall binding affinity for T4 which affects T3 to a lesser extent will underestimate the FT4I derived from a T3U test. Similarly, use of the T4U and T3U for estimation of the free hormone concentration, is satisfactory in the presence of alterations in TBG concentration but not alterations of the affinity of TBG for the hormone. 116,117 Methods based on equilibrium dialysis are most appropriate in the estimation of the free thyroid hormone level in patients with all varieties of abnormal binding to serum proteins provided the true concentration of total hormone has been accurately determined. All methods for the estimation of the FT4 concentration may give either high or low values in patients with severe nonthyroidal illness. 96-100 , 119 , 120 This has been attributed to the presence of inhibitors of thyroid hormone binding to serum proteins as well as to the various adsorbents used in the test procedures. 121,122 Some of these inhibitors have been postulated to leak from the tissues of the diseased patient. 123,124 Such discrepancies are even more pronounced during transient states of hyperthyroxinemia or hypothyroxinemia associated with acute illness, after withdrawal of treatment with thyroid hormone and in acute changes in TBG concentration (see Chapters 5 and 16 ). The contribution of various drugs that interfere with binding of thyroid hormone to serum proteins or with the in vitro tests should also be taken into account in the choice and interpretation of tests (see Table 5-2 ). Although the
