Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


thyroid hormone to serum proteins or with the in vitro tests should also be taken into account in the choice and interpretation of tests (see Table 5-2 ). Although the free thyroid hormone concentration in serum seems to determine the amount of hormone available to body tissues, factors that govern their uptake, transport to the nucleus and functional interactions with nuclear receptors ultimately determine their biological effects. Measurements of Iodine-Containing Hormone Precursors and Products of Degradation The last two decades have witnessed the development of RIAs for the measurement of a number of naturally occurring, iodine-containing substances that possess little if any thyromimetic activity. Some of these substances are products of T4 and T3 degradation in peripheral tissues. Others are predominantly, if not exclusively, of thyroidal origin. Since they are devoid of significant metabolic activity, measurement of their concentration is of value only in the research setting in detecting abnormalities in the metabolism of thyroid hormone in peripheral tissues, as well as defects of hormone synthesis and secretion. 3,3',5'-Triiodothyronine or Reverse T3 (rT3). rT3 is principally a product of T4 degradation in peripheral tissues (see Chapter 3). It is also secreted by the thyroid gland, but the amounts are practically insignificant. 126 Thus, measurement of rT3 concentration in serum reflects both tissue supply and metabolism of T4 and identifies conditions that favor this particular pathway of T4 degradation. When total rT3 (TrT3) is measured in unextracted serum, a competitor of rT3 binding to serum proteins must be added. 127 Several chemically related compounds may cross-react with the antibodies. The strongest cross-reactivity is observed with 3,3'-T2 but this does not present a serious methodologic problem because of its relatively low levels in human serum. Though cross-reactivity with T3 and T4 is lesser, these compounds are more often the cause of rT3 overestimation due to their relative abundance, particularly in thyrotoxicosis. 128 Free fatty acids interfere with the measurement of rT3 by RIA. 129 The normal range in adult serum for TrT3 is 14-30 ng/dl (0.22 - 0.46 nmol/L) although varying values have been reported. It is elevated in subjects with high TBG and in some individuals with FDH. 132 Serum TrT3 levels are normal in hypothyroid patients treated with T4, indicating that peripheral T4 metabolism is an important source of circulating rT3. 126 , 133 Values are high in thyrotoxicosis and low in untreated hypothyroidism. High values are normally found in
