Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


and, depending upon the sensitivity of the assay, capable of detecting Tg in the serum of approximately 90% of the euthyroid healthy adults. When antisera are used in high dilutions, there is virtually no cross-reactivity with iodothyronines or iodotyrosines. Results obtained from the analysis of sera containing Tg autoantibodies may be inaccurate, depending upon the antiserum employed. 152 The presence of thyroid peroxidase antibodies does not interfere with the Tg RIA. Despite the relaibility of measurements of serum Tg, it is clear that different assay methods may result in values discrepant by up to 30%, even though refernce preparations are available. 152a Typically, IMA methods underestimate the serum Tg value, while RIA methods overestimate it, so it is essential that clinical decisions are based upon serial measurements using the same assay. Tg concentrations in serum of normal adults range from <1 to 25 ng/ml (<1.5 - 38 pmol/L), with mean levels of 5 - 10 ng/ml. 151 , 153-155 On a molar basis, these concentrations of Tg are minute relative to the circulating iodothyronines; 5,000-fold lower than the corresponding concentration of T4 in serum. Values tend to be slightly higher in women than in men. 151 In the neonatal period and during the third trimester of pregnancy, mean values are approximately 4- and 2-fold higher. 154,156 They gradually decline throughout infancy, childhood and adolescence. 157 The positive correlation between the levels of serum Tg and TSH indicates that pituitary TSH regulates the secretion of Tg. Elevated serum Tg levels reflect increased secretory activity by stimulation of the thyroid gland or damage to thyroid tissue, whereas values below or at the level of detectability indicate a paucity of thyroid tissue or suppressed activity. Tg levels in a variety of conditions affecting the thyroid gland have been reviewed 158 and are listed in Table 6-6 . Table 6-6 Conditions Associated with Changes in Serum Tg Concentration Listed According to the Presumed Mechanism View in own window IncreasedTSH mediated Acute and transient (TSH and TRH administration, neonatal period) Chronic stimulation Iodine deficiency, endemic goiter, goitrogens Reduce thyroidal reserve (lingual thyroid) TSH-producing pituitary adenoma Generalized resistance to thyroid hormone TBG deficiencyNon-TSH mediated Thyroid stimulators IgG (Graves' disease) hCG (trophoblastic disease) Trauma to the thyroid (needle aspiration and surgery of the thyroid gland, 131I therapy) Destructive thyroid pathology Subacute thyroiditis "Painless thyroiditis" Postpartum thyroiditis Abnormal release Thyroid nodules (toxic, nontoxic, multinodular goiter) Differentiated nonmedullary thyroid
