Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


(needle aspiration and surgery of the thyroid gland, 131I therapy) Destructive thyroid pathology Subacute thyroiditis "Painless thyroiditis" Postpartum thyroiditis Abnormal release Thyroid nodules (toxic, nontoxic, multinodular goiter) Differentiated nonmedullary thyroid carcinoma Ab normal clearance (renal failure) DecreasedTSH suppression Administration of thyroid hormoneDecreased synthesis Athyreosis (postoperative, congenital) Tg synthesis defect Interpretation of a serum Tg value should take into account the fact that Tg concentrations may be high under normal physiologic conditions or altered by drugs. Administration of iodine and antithyroid drugs increase the serum Tg level, as do states associated with hyperstimulation of the thyroid gland by TSH or other substances with thyroid-stimulating activity. This is due to increased thyroidal release of Tg rather than changes in its clearance. 159 Administration of TRH and TSH also transiently increases the serum level of Tg. 160 Trauma to the thyroid gland, such as that occurring during diagnostic and therapeutic procedures including percutaneous needle biopsy, surgery, or 131I therapy, can produce a striking, although short-lived, elevation in the Tg level in serum. 154 , 161,162 Pathological processes with destructive effect on the thyroid gland also produce transient, though more prolonged increases. 163 Tg is undetectable in serum after total ablation of the thyroid gland as well as in normal persons receiving suppressive doses of thyroid hormone. 158 It is thus a useful test in the differential diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis factitia, 164 especially when transient thyrotoxicosis with a low RAIU or suppression of thyroidal RAIU by iodine are alternative possibilities. The most striking elevations in serum Tg concentrations have been observed in patients with metastatic differentiated nonmedullary thyroid carcinoma even after total surgical and radioiodide ablation of all normal thyroid tissue. 154 , 165 It usually persists despite full thyroid hormone suppressive therapy, suggesting excessive autonomous release of Tg by the neoplastic cells. The determination is thus of particular value in the follow-up and management of metastatic thyroid carcinomas, particularly when they fail to concentrate radioiodide. 153 , 165 Follow-up of such patients with sequential serum Tg determinations helps the early detection of tumor recurrence or growth and the assessment of the efficacy of treatment. Measurement of serum Tg is also useful in patients with metastases, particularly to bone, in whom there is no evidence of a primary site and thyroid malignancy is being considered in the differential diagnosis. 154 , 165 On the other hand, serum Tg levels are of no value in
