Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


evidence of a primary site and thyroid malignancy is being considered in the differential diagnosis. 154 , 165 On the other hand, serum Tg levels are of no value in the differential diagnosis of primary thyroid cancer because levels may be within the normal range in the presence of differentiated thyroid cancer and high in a variety of benign thyroid diseases. 153,155 , 165 Whether early detection of recurrent thyroid cancer after initial ablative therapy could be achieved by serum Tg measurement without cessation of hormone replacement therapy is debated because Tg secretion by the tumor is modulated by TSH and is suppressed by the administration of thyroid hormone. 166-168 Detectable serum thyroglobulin during thyroid hormone suppression reliably indicated the presence residual or recurrent disease. Tg levels are high in the early phase of subacute thyroiditis. 163 Declining serum Tg levels during the course of antithyroid drug treatment of patients with Graves' disease may indicate the onset of a remission. 162 , 169 Tg may be undetectable in the serum of neonates with dyshormonogenetic goiters due to defects in Tg synthesis 170 but are very high in some hypothyroid infants with thyromegaly or ectopy. 171 Measurement of serum Tg in hypothyroid neonates is useful in the differentiation of infants with complete thyroid agenesis from those with hypothyroidism due to other causes, and thus in most cases obviates the need for the diagnostic administration of radioiodide. 171 , 172 Measurement of Thyroid Hormone and Its Metabolites in Other Body Fluids and in Tissues Clinical experience with measurement of thyroid hormone and its metabolites in body fluids other than serum and in tissues is limited for several reasons. Analyses carried out in urine and saliva do not appear to give additional information, not obtained from measurements carried out in serum. Amniotic fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, and tissues are less readily accessible for sampling. Their likely application in the future will depend on information they could provide beyond that obtained from similar analyses in serum. Urine Because thyroid hormone is filtered in the urine predominantly in free form, measurement of the total amount excreted over 24 hours offers an indirect method for the estimation of the free hormone concentration in serum. The 24-hour excretion of T4 in normal adults ranges from 4 to 13 µg and from 1.8 to 3.7 µg, depending upon whether total or only conjugated T4 is measured. Corresponding normal ranges
