Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


serum, whereas that of FrT3 is 25-fold higher. This is probably due to the presence in CSF of a larger proportion of TTR which has high affinity for rT3. 181 All the thyroid hormone-binding proteins present in serum are also found in CSF, although in lower concentrations. 181 The concentrations of TT4 and FT4 are increased in thyrotoxicosis and depressed in hypothyroidism. Severe nonthyroidal illness gives rise to increased TrT3 and FrT3 levels. 182 Milk TT4 concentration in human milk is of the order of 0.03 - 0.5 µg/dl. 183 Analytical artifacts were responsible for the much higher values formerly reported. 183,184 TT3 concentrations range from 10 to 200 ng/dl (015 - 3.1 nmol/L). 184,185 The concentration of TrT3 ranges from 1 - 30 ng/dl (15 - 460 pmol/L). 184 Thus, it is unlikely that milk would provide a sufficient quantity of thyroid hormone to alleviate hypothyroidism in the infant. Saliva It has been suggested that only the free fraction of small nonpeptide hormones which circulate predominantly bound to serum proteins would be transferred to saliva and that their measurement, in this easily accessible body fluid, would provide a simple and direct means to determine their free concentration in blood. This hypothesis was confirmed for steroid hormones, 186 not tightly bound to serum proteins. Levels of T4 in saliva range from 4.2 - 35 ng/dl (54 - 450 pmol/L) and do not correlate with the concentration of free T4 in serum. 187 This finding is, in part, due to the transfer of T4 bound to the small but variable amounts of serum proteins that reach the saliva. Effusions TT4 measured in fluid obtained from serous cavities bears a direct relationship to the protein content and the serum concentration of T4. Limited experience with Tg measurement in pleural effusions from patients with thyroid cancer metastatic to lungs suggests that it may be of diagnostic value. 165 Tissues Since the response to thyroid hormone is expressed at the cell level, it is logical to assume that hormone concentration in tissues should correlate best with its action. Methods for extraction, recovery, and measurement of iodothyronines from tissues have been developed but, for obvious reasons, data from thyroid hormone measurements in human tissues are limited. Preliminary work has shown that under several circumstances, hormonal levels in tissues such as liver, kidney, and muscle usually correlate with those found in serum. 188 Measurements of T3
