Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


limited. Preliminary work has shown that under several circumstances, hormonal levels in tissues such as liver, kidney, and muscle usually correlate with those found in serum. 188 Measurements of T3 in cells most accessible for sampling in humans, namely, red blood cells gave values of 20 - 45 ng/dl (0.31 - 0.69 nmol/L) or one-fourth those found in serum. 189 They are higher in thyrotoxicosis and lower in hypothyroidism. The concentrations of all iodothyronines have been measured in thyroid gland hydrolysates. 18 , 133 , 139 In normal glands, the molar ratios relative to the concentration of T4 are on average as follows: T4/T3 = 10; T4/rT3 = 80; T4/3,5'-T2 = 1,400; T4/3,3'-T2 = 350; T4/3',5'-T2 = 1,100; and T4/3'-T1 = 4,400. Information concerning the content of iodothyronines in hydrolysates of abnormal thyroid tissue is limited, and the diagnostic value of such measurements has not been established. Measurement of Tg in metastatic tissue obtained by needle biopsy may be of value in the differential diagnosis, especially when the primary site is unknown and the histological diagnosis is not conclusive. Tests Assessing the Effects of Thyroid Hormone on Body Tissues Thyroid hormone regulates a variety of biochemical reactions in virtually all tissues. Thus, ideally, the adequacy of hormonal supply should be assessed by the tissue responses rather than by parameters of thyroid gland activity or serum hormone concentration which are several steps removed from the site of thyroid hormone action. Unfortunately, the tissue responses (metabolic indices) are nonspecific because they are altered by a variety of physiologic and pathologic mechanisms unrelated to thyroid hormone deprivation or excess. The following review of biochemical and physiologic changes mediated by thyroid hormone has a dual purpose: (1) to outline some of the changes that may be used as clinical tests in the evaluation of the metabolic status, and (2) to point out the changes in various determinations commonly used in the diagnosis of a variety of nonthyroidal illnesses, which may be affected by the concomitant presence of thyroid hormone deficiency or excess. Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) The BMR has a long history in the evaluation of thyroid function. It measures the oxygen consumption under basal conditions of overnight fast and rest from mental and physical exertion. Since standard equipment for the measurement of BMR may not be readily available, it can be estimated from the oxygen consumed over a timed interval by analysis of
