Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


physical exertion. Since standard equipment for the measurement of BMR may not be readily available, it can be estimated from the oxygen consumed over a timed interval by analysis of samples of expired air. 190 The test indirectly measures metabolic energy expenditure or heat production. Results are expressed as the percentage of deviation from normal after appropriate corrections have been made for age, sex, and body surface area. Low values are suggestive of hypothyroidism, and high values reflect thyrotoxicosis. The various nonthyroidal illnesses and other factors affecting the BMR, including sources of errors, have been reviewed. 191 Although this test is no longer a part of the routine diagnostic armamentarium, it is still useful in research. Deep Tendon Reflex Relaxation Time (Photomotogram) Delay in the relaxation time of the deep tendon reflexes, visible to the experienced eye, occurs in hypothyroidism. Several instruments have been devised to quantitate various phases of the Achilles tendon reflex. Although normal values vary according to the phase of the tendon reflex measured, the apparatus used and individual laboratory standards, the approximate adult normal range for the half-relaxation time is 230-390 msec. Diurnal variation, differences with sex, and changes with age, cold exposure, fever, exercise, obesity, and pregnancy have been reported. However, the main reason for the failure of this test as a diagnostic measure of thyroid dysfunction is the large overlap with values obtained in euthyroid patients and alterations caused by nonthyroidal illnesses. 192 Tests Related to Cardiovascular Function Thyroid hormone induced changes in the cardiovascular system can be measured by noninvasive techniques. One such test measures the time interval between the onset of the electrocardiographic QRS complex (Q) and the arrival of the pulse wave at the brachial artery, detected by the Korotkoff sound (K) at the antecubital fossa. 193 Related tests which determine the systolic time interval (STI) measure the preejection period (PEP), obtained by subtraction of the left ventricular ejection time (LVET) from the total electromechanical systole (Q-A2). 194 The left ventricular ejection time (LVET) which is also affected by the thyroid status can be measured by the M mode echocardiogram 195 ( Figure 6-5 ). The PEP/LVET ratio is also useful in the assessment of thyroid hormone action in the cardiovascular system. 196 As with other tests of thyroid hormone action, the principal deficiency of these measurements is their alteration in a variety of nonthyroidal illnesses. Figure 6-5 Simultaneous tracings of
