Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


+ = increased; - = decreased. aIn children bIn neonates. Measurement of Substances Absent in Normal Serum Tests that measure substances present in the circulation only under pathologic circumstances do not provide information on the level of thyroid gland function. They are of value in establishing the cause of the hormonal dysfunction or thyroid gland pathology. Thyroid Autoantibodies The humoral antibodies most commonly measured in clinical practice are directed against thyroglobulin (Tg) or thyroid cell microsomal (MC) proteins. The latter is principally represented by the thyroid peroxidase (TPO). 296-298 More recently, immunoassays have been developed using purified and recombinant TPO. 299, 299a, 299b Other circulating immunoglobulins, which are less frequently used as diagnostic markers, are those directed against a colloid antigen, T4 and T3. Antibodies against nuclear components are not tissue specific. Immunoglobulins possessing the property of stimulating the thyroid gland will be discussed in the next section. A variety of techniques have been developed for the measurement of Tg and MC antibodies. These procedures include a competitive binding radioassay, complement fixation reaction, 300 tanned red cell agglutination assay, 301 the Coon's immunofluorescent technique, 302 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 299 , 303 Although the competitive binding radioassay 304,305 is a sensitive test, agglutination methods combine sensitivity and simplicity and have now largely superceded other methods. Current commercial kits utilize synthetic gelatin beads rather than red cells. 305a In the assay of Tg and MC antibodies by hemagglutination (TgHA and MCHA), particulate material is coated with either human Tg or solubilized thyroid MC proteins (TPO) and exposed to serial dilutions of the patient's serum. Agglutination of the coated particulates occurs in the presence of antibodies specific to the antigen attached to their surface. To detect false-positive reactions, it is important to include a blank for each sample using uncoated particles. Because of the common occurrence of prozone or blocking phenomenon, it is necessary to screen all serum samples through at least six consecutive two-fold dilutions. 306 Results are expressed in terms of the highest serum dilution, or titer, showing persistent agglutination. The presence of immune complexes, particularly in patients with high serum Tg levels, may mask the presence of Tg antibodies. Assays for the measurement of such Tg-anti-Tg immune complexes have been developed. 307 Normally, the test response is negative but results may be positive in up to 10% of the adult population. The frequency of positive test results is higher in
