Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


developed. 307 Normally, the test response is negative but results may be positive in up to 10% of the adult population. The frequency of positive test results is higher in women and with advancing age. The presence of thyroid autoantibodies in the apparently healthy population is thought to represent subclinical autoimmune thyroid disease rather than false-positive reactions. Nonetheless, it is difficult to compare results from such studies since some laboratories using agglutination methods report low titres (1/100-1/400) as positive. It is important when reporting values that a method-specific normal range is utilized and assays calibrated against internationally available refernce preparations. The availability of such preparations allows the reporting of results in International Units. 305a TPO antibodies are detectable in approximately 95% of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and 85% of those with Graves' disease, irrespective of the functional state of the thyroid gland. Similarly, Tg antibodies are positive in about 60 and 30% of adult patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease, respectively. 305,306 , 308,309 Tg antibodies are less frequently detected in children with autoimmune thyroid disease. 310 Although higher titers are more common with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, quantitation of the antibody titer carries little diagnostic implication. The tests are of particular value in the evaluation of patients with atypical or selected manifestations of autoimmune thyroid disease (ophthalmopathy and dermopathy). Positive antibody titers are predicative of post partum thyroiditis. 311 Low antibody titers occur transiently in some patients after an episode of subacute thyroiditis. 312 There is no increased incidence of thyroid autoantibodies in patients with multinodular goiter, thyroid adenomas, or secondary hypothyroidism. In some patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and undetectable thyroid autoantibodies in their serum, intrathyroidal lymphocytes have been demonstrated to produce TPO antibodies. Other antibodies directed against thyroid components or other tissues have been described in the serum of some patients with autoimmune thyroid disease. They are less frequently measured, and their diagnostic value in thyroid disease has not been fully evaluated. Circulating antibodies capable of binding T4 and T3 have also been demonstrated in patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases which may interfere with the measurement of T4 and T3 by RIA techniques. 38,39 , 314 Antibodies reacting with nuclear components, which are not tissue specific, and with cellular components of parietal cells and adrenal, ovarian, and testicular tissues are more commonly encountered in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease. 315 Their presence reflects the frequency of coexistence of several
