Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


components of parietal cells and adrenal, ovarian, and testicular tissues are more commonly encountered in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease. 315 Their presence reflects the frequency of coexistence of several autoimmune disease processes in the same patient (see Chapter 7 ). Thyroid-Stimulating Immunoglobulins (TSI) A large number of names have been given to tests which measure abnormal ?-globulins present in the serum of some patients with autoimmune thyroid disease, in particular Graves' disease. 317 The interaction of these unfractionated immunoglobulins with thyroid follicular cells usually results in a global stimulation of thyroid gland activity and only rarely causes inhibition. It has been recommended that these assays all be called TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) with a phrase "measured by .................. assay" to identify the type of method used for their determination. 106 The tests will be described under three general categories: (1) those measuring the thyroid stimulating activity using in vivo or in vitro bioassays; (2) tests based on the competition of the abnormal immunoglobulin with binding of TSH to its receptor; and (3) measurement of thyroid growth promoting activity of immunoglobulins. Tests employ both human and animal tissue material or cell lines. Thyroid-Stimulation Assays. The earliest assays employed various modifications of the McKenzie mouse bioassay. 318,319 The abnormal ?-globulin with TSH-like biological properties has relatively longer in vivo activity, hence its name, long-acting thyroid stimulator (LATS). The assay measures the LATS induced release of thyroid hormone from the mouse thyroid gland prelabeled with radioiodide. The presence of LATS in serum is pathognomonic of Graves' disease. However, depending upon the assay sensitivity, a variable percent of untreated patients will show a positive LATS response. LATS may be found in the serum of patients with Graves' disease even in the absence of thyrotoxicosis. Although it is more commonly present in patients with ophthalmopathy, especially when accompanied by pretibial myxedema, 320 LATS does not appear to correlate with the presence of Graves' disease, its severity, or course of complications. LATS crosses the placenta and may be found transiently in newborns from mothers possessing the abnormal ? globulin. 321 Attempts to improve the ability to detect thyroid stimulating antibodies (TSAb) in autoimmune thyroid disease lead to the development of several in vitro assays using animal as well as human thyroid tissue. The ability of the patient's serum to stimulate endocytosis in fresh human thyroid tissue is measured by direct count of intracellular colloid droplets
