Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


animal as well as human thyroid tissue. The ability of the patient's serum to stimulate endocytosis in fresh human thyroid tissue is measured by direct count of intracellular colloid droplets formed. Using such a technique, human thyroid stimulator (HTS) activity has been demonstrated in serum samples from patients with Graves' disease that were devoid of LATS activity measured by the standard mouse bioassay. 322 TSAb can be detected by measuring the accumulation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) or stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in human thyroid cell cultures and thyroid plasma membranes, respectively. 323 Accumulation of cAMP in the cultured rat thyroid cell line FRTL5 has also been used as an assay for TSAb. 324 Stimulation of release of T3 from human 325 and porcine 326 thyroid slices is another form of in vitro assay for TSAb. An in vitro bioassay using a cytochemical technique depends upon the ability of thyroid-stimulating material to increase lysosomal membrane permeability to a chromogenic substrate, leucyl-ß-naphthylamide, which then reacts with the enzyme naphthylamidase. Quantitation is by scanning and integrated microdensitometry. 327 The cloning of the TSH receptor 328,329 lead to the development of an in vitro assay of TSab using cell lines that express the recombinant TSH receptor. 330,331 This assay, based on the generation if cAMP, is specific for the measurement of human TSH receptor antibodies that have thyroid stimulating activity and thus contrasts with assays based on binding to the TSH receptor (see below) that cannot distinguish between antibodies with thyroid-stimulating and TSH-blocking activity. Accordingly, the recombinant human TSH receptor assay measures antibodies relevant to the pathogenesis of autoimmune thyrotoxicosis and is more sensitive than formerly used TSab assays. 331a For example, 94% of serum samples were positive for TSab compared to 74% when the same samples were assayed using FRTL5 cells. 332 Thyrotropin-Binding Inhibition Assays. The principal of binding-inhibition assays dates to the discovery of another class of abnormal immunoglobulins in patients with Graves' disease; those which neutralize the bioactivity of LATS tested in the mouse. 333 This material, known as LATS protector (LATS-P), is species specific having no biologic effect on the mouse thyroid gland but capable of stimulating the human thyroid. 334 The original assay was cumbersome, limiting its clinical application. Techniques used currently, which may be collectively termed radioreceptor assays, are based on the competition of the abnormal immunoglobulins and TSH for a common receptor-binding site on thyroid
