Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


clinical application. Techniques used currently, which may be collectively termed radioreceptor assays, are based on the competition of the abnormal immunoglobulins and TSH for a common receptor-binding site on thyroid cells. The test is akin in principle to the radioligand assays, in which a natural membrane receptor takes the place of the binding proteins or antibodies. Various sources of TSH-receptors are employed including, human thyroid cells, 335 their particulate or solubilized membrane, 336,337 and cell membranes from porcine thyroids 338 or from guinea pig fat cells 339 or recombinant human TSH receptor expressed in mammalian cells. 340 Since the assays do not directly measure thyroid-stimulating activity, the abnormal immunoglobulins determined have been given variety of names, such as thyroid binding inhibitory immunoglobulins (TBII) or antibodies (TBIAb) and thyrotropin-displacing immunoglobulins (TDI). This type of assay has indicated that not all the antibodies detected do stimulate the thyroid, and some are inhibitory. Even using modern techniques, 305a the presence of inhibitory antibody is less sensitive and specific for Graves' disease than the presence of styimulatory antibody activity. 331 The stimulatory and inhibitory effects can be differentiated only by functional assays, typically measuring the production of cyclic AMP. Thyroid Growth-Promoting Assays. Assays have been also developed that measure the growth promoting activity of abnormal immunoglobulins. One such assay is based on the staining by the Feulgen reaction of nuclei from guinea pig thyroid cells in S-phase. 341 Another assay measures the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into DNA in FRTL cells. 342 Whether the thyroid growth stimulating immunoglobulins (TGI) measured by these assays represent a population of immunoglobulins distinct from that with stimulatory functional activity remains a subject of active debate. Clinical Applications. Measurement of abnormal immunoglobulins that interact with thyroid tissue by any of the methods described above is not indicated as a routine diagnostic test for Graves' disease. It is useful, however, in a few selected clinical conditions: (1) in the differential diagnosis of exophthalmos, particularly unilateral exophthalmos, when the origin of this condition is otherwise not apparent; the presence of TSI would obviate the necessity to undertake more complex diagnostic procedures described elsewhere; 343 (2) in the differential diagnosis of pretibial myxedema, or other forms of dermopathy, when the etiology is unclear and it is imperative that the cause of the skin lesion be ascertained; (3) in the differentiation of Graves' disease from toxic nodular goiter, when both are being considered as
