Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


and it is imperative that the cause of the skin lesion be ascertained; (3) in the differentiation of Graves' disease from toxic nodular goiter, when both are being considered as the possible cause of thyrotoxicosis, when other tests such as thyroid scanning and thyroid autoantibody tests have been inconclusive, and particularly when such a distinction would play a role in determining the course of therapy; (4) when non-autoimmune thyrotoxicosis is suspected in a patient with hyperthyroidism and diffuse or nodular goiter 344,345 ; (5) in Graves' disease during pregnancy, when high maternal levels of TSAb are a warning for the possible occurrence of neonatal thyrotoxicosis; (6) in neonatal thyrotoxicosis, where serial TSAb determinations showing gradual decrease may be helpful to distinguish between intrinsic Graves' disease in the infant and transient thyrotoxicosis resulting from passive transfer of maternal TSAb. 321 , 346 Some investigators have found the persistence of TSAb's to be predicative of the relapse of Graves' thyrotoxicosis following a course of antithyroid drug therapy. 347 Other Substances with Thyroid-Stimulating Activity Some patients with trophoblastic disease develop hyperthyroidism as a result of the production and release of a thyroid stimulator which has been termed molar or trophoblastic thyrotropin or big placental TSH. 348 It is likely that the thyroid-stimulating activity in patients with trophoblastic disease is entirely due to the presence of high levels of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). 350 Thus, the RIA of hCG can be useful in the differential diagnosis of thyroid dysfunction. Exophthalmos-Producing Substance (EPS) A variety of tests have been developed for measuring exophthalmogenic activity in serum. 351-354 Although a great uncertainty still exists regarding the pathogenesis of thyroid associated eye disease, the role of the immune system appears to be central. Exophthalmogenic activity has also been detected in IgG fractions of some patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy. The role of assays to detect specific antibodies is discussed further in Chapter 7 . Tests of Cell-Mediated Immunity (CMI) Delayed hypersensitivity reactions to thyroid antigens are present in autoimmune thyroid diseases (see Chapters 7 ). CMI was measured in several ways: (1) the migration inhibition test, which measured the inhibition of migration of sensitized leukocytes when exposed to the sensitizing antigen; (2) the lymphotoxic assay, which measured the ability of sensitized lymphocytes to kill target cells when exposed to the antigen; (3) the blastogenesis assay, which scored the formation of blast cells after exposure of lymphocytes to a
