Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


ability of sensitized lymphocytes to kill target cells when exposed to the antigen; (3) the blastogenesis assay, which scored the formation of blast cells after exposure of lymphocytes to a thyroid antigen; and (4) thymus-dependent (T) lymphocyte subset quantitation utilizing monoclonal antibodies. More recently, measures of T-cell proliferation, determined by uptake of 3Hthymidine, has become the standard test of CMI employed in the research setting. 354a, 354b The tests require fresh leukocytes from the patient, are variable in their response, and are difficult to perform. Anatomic and Tissue Diagnoses The purpose of the procedures described in this section is to evaluate the anatomic features of the thyroid gland, localize and determine the nature of abnormal areas and eventually provide a pathologic or tissue diagnosis. All of these tests are performed in vivo. Thyroid Scintiscanning Normal and abnormal thyroid tissue can be externally imaged by three scintiscanning methods: (1) with radionuclides that are concentrated by normal thyroid tissues such as iodide isotopes, and 99mTc given as the pertechnetate ion; (2) by administration of radiopharmaceutical agents which are preferentially concentrated by abnormal thyroid tissues; and (3) fluorescent scanning, which uses an external source of 241Am and does not require administration of radioactive material. Each has specific indications, advantages, and disadvantages. The physical properties, dosages, and radiation delivered by the most commonly used radioisotopes are listed in Table 6-2 . The choice of scanning agents depends on the purpose of the scan, the age of the patient, and the equipment available. Radioiodide scans cannot be performed in patients who have recently ingested iodine-containing compounds. 123I and 99mTcO4- are the radionuclides of choice because of the low radiation exposure. 355-357 Iodine-131 is still used for the detection of functioning metastatic thyroid carcinoma by total body scanning. Radioiodide and 99mPertechnetate Scans. 99mTcO4- is concentrated, and all iodide isotopes are concentrated and bound, by thyroid tissue. Depending upon the isotope used, scans are carried out at different times after administration: 20 minutes for 99mTcO4-, 4 or 24 hours for 123I-; 24 hours for 125I- and 131I-; and 48, 72, and 96 hours when 131I- is used in the search for metastatic thyroid carcinoma. The appearance of the normal thyroid gland on scan may be best described as a narrow-winged butterfly. Each "wing" represents a thyroid lobe, which in the adult measures 5 ? 1 cm in length and 2.3 ? 0.5 cm in width. 358 Common
