Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


as a narrow-winged butterfly. Each "wing" represents a thyroid lobe, which in the adult measures 5 ? 1 cm in length and 2.3 ? 0.5 cm in width. 358 Common variants include the absence of a connecting isthmus, a large isthmus, asymmetry between the two lobes, and trailing activity extending to the cricoid cartilage (pyramidal lobe). The latter is more commonly found in conditions associated with diffuse thyroid hyperplasia. Occasionally, collection of saliva in the esophagus during 99mTcO4- scanning may simulate a pyramidal lobe, but this artifact can be eliminated by drinking water. The indications for scanning are listed in Table 6-8 . In clinical practice, scans are most often requested for evaluation of the functional activity of solitary nodules. Normally, the isotope is homogeneously distributed throughout both lobes of the thyroid gland. This distribution occurs in the enlarged gland of Graves' disease and may be seen in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. A mottled appearance may be noted in Hashimoto's thyroiditis and can occasionally be seen in Graves' disease especially after therapy with radioactive iodide. Irregular areas of relatively diminished and occasionally increased uptake are characteristic of large multinodular goiters. The traditional nuclear medicine jargon classifies nodules as "hot", "warm," and "cold," according to their isotope-concentrating ability relative to the surrounding normal parenchyma ( Figure 6-6 ). Hot, or hyperfunctioning, nodules are typically benign, although the presence of malignancy has been reported. 359,360 Cold, or hypofunctioning, nodules may be solid or cystic. Some may prove to be malignant, but the great majority are benign. This differentiation cannot be made by scanning. 77 , 361 Occasionally, a nodule which is functional on a 99mTcO4- scan will be found to be cold on an iodine scan; this pattern is found with both benign and malignant nodules. The scan is of particular value in identifying autonomous thyroid nodules since the remainder of the gland is suppressed. Search for functioning thyroid metastases is best accomplished using 2-10 mCi of 131I after ablation of the normal thyroid tissue and cessation of hormone therapy to allow TSH to increase above the upper limit of normal. Recent studies have addressed the question of whether recombinant human TSH allows scanning without requiring cessation of hormone therapy. 362 Uptake is also found outside the thyroid gland in patients with lingual thyroids and in the rare ovarian dermoid tumor containing functioning thyroid tissue. Figure 6-6 Thyroid Scans. (a) Normal thyroid imaged with
