Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


found outside the thyroid gland in patients with lingual thyroids and in the rare ovarian dermoid tumor containing functioning thyroid tissue. Figure 6-6 Thyroid Scans. (a) Normal thyroid imaged with 123I. (b) Cold nodule in the right lobe imaged by 99mTc. (c) Elderly woman with obvious multinodular goiter and the corresponding radioiodide scan on the right. Table 6-8. I ndications for Radionuclide Scanning Detection of anatomic variants and search for ectopic thyroid tissue (thyroid hemiagenesis, lingual thyroid, struma ovarii) Diagnosis of congenital athyreosis Determination of the nature of abnormal neck or chest (mediastinal) masses Evaluation of solitary thyroid nodules (functioning or non-functioning) Evaluation of thyroid remnants after surgery Detection of functioning thyroid metastases Evaluation of focal functional thyroid abnormalities (suppressed or nonsuppressible tissue) The scan can be used as an adjunct during TSH stimulation and T3 suppression tests to localize suppressed normal thyroid tissue or autonomously functioning areas, respectively (see below). Applications other than those listed in Table 6-8 are of doubtful benefit and are rarely justified considering the radiation exposure, expense, and inconvenience. 123I single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) may also be useful in the evaluation of thyroid abnormalities. 363 Other Isotope Scans. Because most test procedures, short of direct microscopic examination of thyroid tissue, fail to detect thyroid malignancy with any degree of certainty, efforts have been made to find other radioactive materials that would hopefully be of diagnostic use. Several such agents that are concentrated by metabolically active tissues, irrespective of whether they have iodide-concentrating ability, have been tried. However, despite claims to the contrary, they have either had only limited value or their diagnostic usefulness has not been fully evaluated. These agents include 75Se methionine, 125Ce, 67Ga, citrate, 32P, pyrophosphate 99mTc, and 201Thallium. 364 Scanning with 131I-labeled anti-TG for the detection of occult metastatic thyroid malignancy that fails to concentrate 131I showed early promising results. 365 However, the procedure has not proved clinically useful. Ultrasonography Ultrasonography, or echography, is used to outline the thyroid gland and to characterize lesions differing in density from the surrounding tissue. The technique differentiates interphases of different acoustic densities, using sound frequencies in the megahertz range that are above the audible range. A transducer fitted with a piezoelectric crystal produces and transmits the signal and receives echo reflections. Interfaces of different acoustic densities reflect dense echoes, liquid transmits sound without reflections, and air-filled spaces do not transmit the ultrasound. 368
