Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


and transmits the signal and receives echo reflections. Interfaces of different acoustic densities reflect dense echoes, liquid transmits sound without reflections, and air-filled spaces do not transmit the ultrasound. 368 One of the most useful applications of the ultrasonogram is the differentiation of solid from cystic lesions. 368,369 Purely cystic lesions are entirely sonolucent, whereas solid lesions produce multiple echoes due to multiple sonic interphases. Many lesions, however, are mixed (solid and cystic) called complex lesions. Some tumors may have the same acoustic characteristics as the surrounding normal tissue thus, escaping echographic detection. While high-resolution ultrasonography can detect thyroid nodules of the order of few millimeters, 370 lesions need to be larger than 0.5 cm to allow differentiation between solid and cystic structures. A sonolucent pattern is frequently noted in glands with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, but this has also been described in multinodular glands and in patients with Graves' disease. 368 , 371 , 372 Because sonography localizes the position as well as the depth of lesions, the procedure has been used to guide the needle during aspiration biopsy. 373 In complex lesions, the sonographic guiding insures sampling from the solid portion of the nodule. With experience and proper calibration, sonography can be used for the estimation of thyroid gland size. 374,375 Several recent reports have described treatment of toxic nodules by the injection of alcohol under sonographic guidance. 376 Although ultrasonography has found virtually the same applications as scintiscanning, claims that the former may differentiate benign from malignant lesions are unfounded. Also, ultrasonography cannot be used for the assessment of substernal goiters because of interference from overlying bone. The procedure is simple and painless, and at the frequencies of sound used, do not produce tissue damage. Since it does not require the administration of isotopes, it can be safely used in children and during pregnancy. Also, because the procedure is independent of iodine-concentrating mechanisms, it is valuable in the study of suppressed glands. X-Ray Procedures A simple X-ray film of the neck and upper mediastinum may provide valuable information regarding the location, size, and effect of goiter on surrounding structures. X-rays may show an asymmetric goiter, an intrathoracic extension of the gland, and displacement or narrowing of the trachea. If there is any suggestion of posterior extension of the mass, it is useful to take films during the swallow of X-ray contrast material. The soft tissue X-ray technique may disclose
