Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


there is any suggestion of posterior extension of the mass, it is useful to take films during the swallow of X-ray contrast material. The soft tissue X-ray technique may disclose calcium deposits. Large deposits in flakes or rings are typical of an old multinodular goiter, whereas foci of finely stippled flecks of calcium are suggestive of papillary adenocarcinoma. Information, not related to anatomic abnormalities of the thyroid gland may be obtained from X-ray studies. In children with a history of hypothyroidism, an X-ray film of the hand to determine the bone age could aid in estimating the onset and duration of thyroid dysfunction. 294,295 Hypothyroidism leads to retardation in bone age and in infants produces a dense calcification of epiphyseal plates most easily seen at the distal end of the radius. Long-standing myxedema produces pituitary hypertrophy which, especially in children but also in adults, causes enlargement of the sella turcica demonstrable on imaging of the pituitary region. Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). These techniques provide useful information on the location and architecture of the thyroid gland as well as its relationship to surrounding tissues. 378 They are, however, too costly relative to other procedures which provide similar information. An important application of CT is the assessment and delineation of obscure mediastinal masses and large substernal goiters. 379 The necessity to infuse iodine containing contrast agents limits the application of CT in patients being considered for radioiodide therapy. CT and MRI have found firm application in another area of thyroid diseases, namely, in the evaluation of ophthalmopathy 343 and mediastinal masses. 379 Other Procedures A barium swallow may be useful in evaluating impingement of a goiter on the esophagus, while a flow volume loop 380 may be useful in documenting functional impingement on the upper airway. Biopsy of the Thyroid Gland Histologic examination of thyroid tissue for diagnostic purposes requires some form of an invasive procedure. The biopsy procedure depends on the intended type of microscopic examination. Core biopsy for histologic examination of tissue with preservation of architecture is obtained by closed needle or open surgical procedure; aspiration biopsy is performed to obtain material for cytologic examination. Core Biopsy. Closed core biopsy is an office procedure carried out under local anesthesia. A large (about 15-gauge) cutting needle of the Vim-Silverman type is most commonly used. 384 The needle is introduced under local anesthesia through a small skin nick
