Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


, 388 In one clinic in which the procedure is used routinely, the number of patients operated upon decreased by one-third, whereas the percentage of thyroid carcinomas among the patients who underwent surgery doubled. 389 When results are suggestive of a follicular neoplasia, surgery is required as follicular adenoma cannot be differentiated from follicular cancer by cytology alone. As the sample obtained may not always be representative of the lesion, surgical treatment is indicated for lesions highly suspicious of being malignant on clinical grounds. Other uses of aspiration biopsy include presumed lymphoma or invasive anaplastic carcinoma when biopsy may spare the patient an unnecessary neck exploration. Another application of needle aspiration is in the confirmation and treatment of thyroid cysts and autonomous thryoid nodules. 389a Evaluation of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid Axis The development of an RIA for the routine measurement of TSH in serum and the availability of synthetic TRH 390,391 have placed increased reliance on tests assessing the hypothalamic-pituitary control of thyroid function. These tests allow the diagnosis of mild and subclinical forms of thyroid dysfunction, and provide a means to differentiate between primary, pituitary (secondary) or hypothalamic (tertiary), thyroid gland failure. Thyrotropin (TSH) The routine measurement of TSH in clinical practice used initially RIA techniques. These first generation assays had a sensitivity level of 1 mU/L which did not allow the separation of normal from reduced values. A major problem with early TSH RIAs was cross-reactivity with gonadotropins (LH, FSH, and hCG) sharing with TSH a common a-subunit. 399 Nevertheless, even older RIA methods for measurement of pituitary TSH correlated well with values obtained using bioassay techniques. 401 Another uncommon source of error is the presence in the serum sample of heterophilic antibodies induced by vaccination with materials contaminated with animal serum, 402 or endogenous TSH antibodies. 403 RIA techniques for measurement of TSH in dry blood spots on filter paper are used for the screening of neonatal hypothyroidism. 33 Newer techniques have been developed using multiple antibodies to produce a "sandwich" type assay in which one antibody (usually directed against the a subunit) serves to anchor the TSH molecule and an other (usually monoclonal antibodies directed against the ß subunit) is either radioiodinated (Immunoradiometric assay, IRMA) or is conjugated with an enzyme (Immunoenzymometric, IEMA) or a chemiluminescent compound (Chemiluminescent assay, ICMA). 112 , 404 In these assays, the signal should be directly related to the amount of the
