Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


conjugated with an enzyme (Immunoenzymometric, IEMA) or a chemiluminescent compound (Chemiluminescent assay, ICMA). 112 , 404 In these assays, the signal should be directly related to the amount of the ligand present rather than being inversely related as in RIAs measuring the bound tracer. 405 This results in decreased background "noise" and a greater sensitivity, decreased interference from related compounds as well as an expanded useful range. 112 , 404 , 406 Initial improvements of the TSH assay resulted in assays with sensitivity limit of 0.1 mU/L, a normal range of approximately 0.5 - 4.5 mU/L and the ability to distinguish between low and normal TSH values. Recently, commercial assays have been developed with even higher sensitivity limit of 0.005 - 0.01 mU/L and a similar normal range but an expanded range between the lower limit of normal and the lower limit of sensitivity. 407,408 The nomenclature for differentiating these various assays has not been standardized with manufacturers applying various combinations of "high(ly)", "ultra" and "sensitive". It has been recommended that the sensitivity limit be used in defining the assays with the early radioimmunoassays detecting values ?1 mU/L designated "first generation assays", those with a lower sensitivity limit of 0.1 mU/L designated as "second generation assays" and those with a lower sensitivity limit of ? 0.01 mU/L designated as "third generation assays". 112 The determination of the appropriate sensitivity level has also been controversial. Some define it based on the level with a coefficient of variation less than 20% and others as the lowest level which can be reliably differentiated from the zero TSH standard.112,406 At a minimum, for a TSH assay to be considered "sensitive", the overlap of TSH values in sera from clinically hyperthyroid and euthyroid individuals should be less than 5% and preferably less than 1%. 112 In a number of these "third generation" assays, TSH detected in clinically toxic patients and elevated values found in euthyroid subjects were not confirmed when the samples were measured in other assays. In some cases, this has been attributed to the presence of antibodies directed against the animal immunoglobulins used in the assay. 409-411 These act to bind the anchoring and detecting antibodies and lead to an over-estimation of TSH. In some cases, this effect may be blocked by the addition of an excess of non-specific immunoglobulin of the same species. 411 TSH appears abruptly in the pituitary and serum
