Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


In some cases, this effect may be blocked by the addition of an excess of non-specific immunoglobulin of the same species. 411 TSH appears abruptly in the pituitary and serum of the fetus at midgestation, and can also be detected in amniotic fluid. 51 , 412,413 The mean TSH level is higher in cord than in maternal blood. A substantial increase, to levels several fold above the upper range in adults, is observed during the first half-hour of life. 413 Levels decline to near the normal adult range by the third day of life. Minimal changes reported to occur during adult life and in early adolescence 414 have no significant effect on the overall range of normal. In the absence of pregnancy, no significant sex differences have been observed. Although early studies failed to show diurnal TSH variation, 415 significantly higher values have been recorded during the late evening and early night which are partially inhibited by sleep. 416 This diurnal rhythm of TSH is superimposed upon continuous high-frequency, low-amplitude variations. The nocturnal TSH surge persists in patients with mild primary hypothyroidism, 417,418 and is abolished in hypothalamic hypothyroidism 417 , 419 and in some patients during fasting 420 and with non-thyroidal illness. 421,422 It is enhanced by oral contraceptives, 423 and is abolished by high levels of glucocorticoids. 424 The presence of seasonal variation has not been a uniform finding, but it is unlikely to affect the clinical interpretation of serum values. 425 Various types of stressful stimuli have no significant effect on the basal serum TSH level, except for a rise during surgical hypothermia in infants but not in adults. 426 Various stimuli, such as administration of insulin, vasopressin, glucagon, bacterial pyrogens, arginine, prostaglandins, and chlorpromazine, which elicit in normal humans a secretory response of some pituitary hormones, have no effect on serum TSH. However, administration of any of a growing list of drugs has been found to alter the basal concentration of serum TSH and/or its response to exogenous TRH (see Table 5-4 ). In the presence of a normally functioning hypothalamic-pituitary system, there is an inverse correlation between the serum concentration of FT4 and TSH. Changes in the serum concentration of TT4 as a result of TBG abnormalities, or drugs competing with T4 binding to TBG, have no effect on the level of serum TSH. The pituitary is exquisitely sensitive to both minimal decreases and increases
