Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


TBG abnormalities, or drugs competing with T4 binding to TBG, have no effect on the level of serum TSH. The pituitary is exquisitely sensitive to both minimal decreases and increases in thyroid hormone concentration, with a logarithmic change in TSH levels in response to changes in T4 404 , 408 , 427 , 428 ( Figure 6-7 ) Thus, serum TSH levels should be elevated in patients with primary hypothyroidism and low or undetectable in thyrotoxicosis. Indeed, in the absence of hypothalamic pituitary disease, illness or drugs, TSH is an accurate indicator of thyroid hormone status and the adequacy of thyroid hormone replacement. 404 , 429 Figure 6-7 Correlation of the serum TSH concentration and the free thyroxine index (FT4I) in three individuals given increasing doses of L-T4. Note the logarithmic correlation between TSH and FT4I and the variable individual requirement of free T4 to normalize the TSH level. Normal ranges are included in the heavy lined box and those for subjects on L-T4 replacement in the light liquid box. (From D. Sarne and S. Refetoff, Endocrinology, L.J. DeGroot (ed). 1995, Grune & Straton Inc.) In patients with primary hypothyroidism of whatever cause, levels may reach 1,000 µU/ml or higher. The magnitude of serum TSH elevation grossly correlates with the severity and in part with the duration of thyroid hormone deficiency. 430,431 TSH concentrations above the upper limit of normal have been observed in the absence of clinical symptoms and signs of hypothyroidism and in the presence of serum T4 and T3 levels well within the normal range. 430 , 432 This condition is most commonly encountered in patients developing hypothyroidism due to Hashimoto's thyroiditis or with limited ability to synthesize thyroid hormone because of prior thyroid surgery, radioiodide treatment, or severe iodine deficiency. 430 , 433 There is disagreement on whether such patients have subclinical hypothyroidism or a "compensated state" in which euthyroidism is maintained by chronic stimulation of a reduced amount of functioning thyroid tissue through hypersecretion of TSH. Transient hypothyroidism, may occur in some infants during the early neonatal period. 434 There are two circumstances in which the usual reverse relationship between the serum level of TSH and T4 is not maintained in patients with proven primary hypothyroidism. Treatment with replacement doses of T4 may normalize or even produce serum levels of thyroid hormone above the normal range before the high TSH levels have reached the normal
