Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


hypothyroidism. Treatment with replacement doses of T4 may normalize or even produce serum levels of thyroid hormone above the normal range before the high TSH levels have reached the normal range. 404 , 431 , 435 This is particularly true in patients with severe or long-standing primary hypothyroidism who may require three to six months of hormone replacement before TSH levels are fully suppressed. Conversely, serum TSH concentration may remain low or normal for up to five weeks after withdrawal of thyroid hormone replacement when serum levels of T4 and T3 have already declined to values well below the lower range of normal. 404 , 436 Causes for discrepancies between TSH and free T4 and T3 levels are listed in Table 6-9 . Table 6-9 Discrepancies Between TSH and Free Thyroid Hormone Levels View in own window Elevated Serum TSH Value Without Low FT4 or FT3 Values Subclinical hypothyroidism (inadequate replacement therapy, mild thyroid gland failure) Recent increase in thyroid hormone dosage Drugs Inappropriate TSH secretion syndromes Laboratory artefact Subnormal Serum TSH Value Without Elevated FT4 or FT3 Values Subclinical hyperthyroidism (excessive replacement therapy, mild thyroid gland hyperfunction, autonomous nodule) Recent decrease in suppressive thyroid hormone dosage Recent treatment of thyrotoxicosis (Graves' disease, toxic multinodular goiter, toxic nodule) Resolution thyrotoxic phase of thyroiditis Nonthyroidal illness Drugs Central hypothyroidism At this time, it is uncertain as to what TSH level is appropriate for suppressive thyroid hormone therapy. The frequency with which patients have subnormal, but detectable, TSH values depends on both the population studied and the sensitivity of the assay (Figure 6-8, below). Using an assay with a sensitivity limit of 0.1 mU/L, 3 to 4% of hospitalized patients have been noted to have a subnormal TSH. 432 , 437 When patients with an undetectable TSH in such an assay were re-evaluated in an assay with a sensitivity limit of 0.005 mU/L, 3 of 77 (4%) with thyrotoxicosis and 32 of 37 (86%) with non-thyroidal illness or on drugs were found to have a subnormal but detectable TSH level. 407 Thus, the more sensitive the assay, the more likely that patients with clinical thyrotoxicosis will have undetectable serum TSH while those with illness will have a subnormal but detectable level. However, with progressively more sensitive assays, the likelihood of a clinically toxic patient to have a detectable TSH will increase, and if patients on suppressive therapy are treated until the TSH
