Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


with progressively more sensitive assays, the likelihood of a clinically toxic patient to have a detectable TSH will increase, and if patients on suppressive therapy are treated until the TSH is undetectable, the more likely they will have symptoms of thyrotoxicosis. Fig ure 6-8. The effect of serum TSH assay sensitivity on the discrimination of euthyroid subject (Euth) from those with thyrotoxicosis (Toxic). (From C. Spencer, Clinical Diagnostics, Eastman Kodak Co., 1992). A persistent absence of a reverse correlation between serum thyroid hormone and TSH concentration has a very different connotation. A low serum level of thyroid hormone without clear elevation of the serum TSH concentration is suggestive of trophoprivic hypothyroidism, especially when associated with obvious clinical stigmata of hypothyroidism. 433 An inherited defect of the TSH receptor has been shown to produce marked persistent hyperthyrotropinemia in the presence of normal thyroid hormone levels. 438 In some cases, a mild elevation of the serum TSH level measured by RIA is probably due to the presence of immunoreactive TSH with reduced biologic activity. 397 Distinction between pituitary and hypothalamic hypothyroidism can be made on the basis of the TSH response to the administration of TRH (see below). In another group of pathologic conditions, serum TSH levels may not be suppressed despite a clear elevation of serum free thyroid hormone levels. Because such a finding is incompatible with a normal thyroregulatory control mechanism of the pituitary, which is preserved in the more common forms of thyrotoxicosis, it has been termed inappropriate secretion of TSH. 439 It implicitly suggests a defective feedback regulation of TSH. When associated with the classical clinical and metabolic changes of thyrotoxicosis, it is usually due to TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma or isolated pituitary resistance to the feedback suppression by thyroid hormone. 439 The existence of hypothalamic hyperthyroidism can be questioned. 440 Precise diagnosis requires further studies, including radiologic examination of the pituitary gland and a TRH test. In addition, the presence of high circulating levels of the a-subunit of pituitary glycoprotein hormones (a-SU), giving rise to a disproportionately high a-SU/TSH molar ratio in serum, is characteristic, if not pathognomonic, of TSH-secreting pituitary tumors. 439 , 441 Normal, and occasionally high serum TSH levels, associated with a clear elevation in serum FT4 and FT3 but no clear clinical evidence of hypothyroidism or symptoms and signs suggestive of both thyroid hormone deficiency and excess are typical of resistance to thyroid hormone
