Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


serum FT4 and FT3 but no clear clinical evidence of hypothyroidism or symptoms and signs suggestive of both thyroid hormone deficiency and excess are typical of resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) 442 (see Chapter 16 ). Although TSH has been implicated in the pathogenesis of simple, nontoxic goiter, unless hypothyroidism supervenes or iodide deficiency is very severe, TSH levels are characteristically normal. Elevated TSH levels may occur in the presence of normal thyroid hormone levels and apparent euthyroidism in nonthyroidal diseases 437 , 443 (see also Chapter 5 ) and with primary adrenal failure. 444 A more common occurrence in severe acute and chronic illnesses is a normal or low serum TSH concentration despite low levels of T3 and even low T4 levels. 407 , 429 , 445 TSH values may be transiently elevated during the recovery phase.446 Various hypotheses to explain these anomalous findings have been proposed, but a satisfactory explanation is not at hand. A specific RIA for the ß subunits of human TSH is also available but has not found clinical application. 447 Thyrotropin-Releasing Hormone (TRH) TRH. The hypothalamic tripeptide TRH (protirelin) plays a central role in the regulation of pituitary TSH secretion. 391 , 419 It is thus not surprising that attempts have been made to measure its concentration in a variety of body fluids, with the purpose of deriving information relevant to the function of the thyroid gland in health and in disease. Several methods have been used for quantitation of TRH, 448-451 but for many reasons, measurement in humans has failed to provide information of diagnostic value. These include, high dilution of TRH by the time it reaches the systemic circulation, rapid enzymatic degradation and ubiquitous tissue distribution. 448 , 450,451 Mean serum TSH levels of 5 and 6 pg/ml have been reported. It is uncertain whether measurements carried out in urine truly represent TRH. 449 TRH Test. The TRH test measures the increase of pituitary TSH in serum in response to the administration of synthetic TRH. The magnitude of the TSH response to TRH is modulated by the thyrotroph response to active thyroid hormone and is thus almost always proportional to the concentration of free thyroid hormone in serum. The response is exquisitely sensitive to minor changes in the level of circulating thyroid hormones, which may not be detected by direct measurement. 427,428 A direct correlation between basal serum TSH values and the
