Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


sensitive to minor changes in the level of circulating thyroid hormones, which may not be detected by direct measurement. 427,428 A direct correlation between basal serum TSH values and the maximal response to TRH has been observed even in the absence of thyroid hormone abnormalities, suggesting that there may be a fine modulation of pituitary sensitivity to TRH in the euthyroid state. 452 TRH normally stimulates pituitary prolactin secretion and, under certain pathologic conditions, the release of GH and ACTH. 391 Accordingly, the test has been used for the assessment of a variety of endocrine functions, some unrelated to the thyroid. In clinical practice, the TRH test is used mainly (1) to assess the functional integrity of the pituitary thyrotrophs and thus to aid in differentiating hypothyroidism due to intrinsic pituitary disease from hypothalamic dysfunction and (2) in the diagnosis of mild thyrotoxicosis when results of other tests are equivocal, and (3) in the differential diagnosis of inappropriate TSH secretion, in particular when a TSH-secreting adenoma is suspected. TRH is effective when given intravenously as a bolus or by infusion, 414 , 453 intramuscularly, 454 or orally 455 in single or repeated doses. Doses as small as 6 µg can elicit a significant TSH response, and there is a linear correlation between the incremental changes in serum TSH concentrations and the logarithm of the administered TRH dose. 414 The standard test uses a single TRH dose of 400 µg/1.73 m2 body surface area, given by rapid intravenous injection. Serum is collected before and at 15 minutes and then at 30 minute intervals over 120-180 minutes although many clinicians chose to obtain a single post-injection sample at 15, 20 or 30 minutes. In normal persons there is a prompt increase in serum TSH, with a peak level at 15-40 minutes, which is, on the average, 16 µU/ml, or fivefold the basal level. The decline is more gradual, with a return of serum TSH to the preinjection level by three to four hours. 414 , 453 Results can be expressed in terms of the peak level of TSH achieved, the maximal increment above the basal level (?TSH), the peak TSH value expressed as a percentage of the basal value, or the integrated area of the TSH response curve. Determination of TSH before and 30 minutes after the injection of TRH provides information concerning the presence or absence of TSH responsiveness but cannot
