Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


area of the TSH response curve. Determination of TSH before and 30 minutes after the injection of TRH provides information concerning the presence or absence of TSH responsiveness but cannot detect delayed or prolonged responses. The stimulatory effect of TRH is specific for pituitary TSH, its free a- and ß- subunits, 447 and prolactin. Under normal circumstances, no significant changes are observed in the serum levels of other pituitary hormones 456 or potential thyroid stimulators. 457 Responsiveness is present at birth, 458 is greater in women than in men, particularly in the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, 459 and may be blunted in older men, 414 , 454,455 but this is not a consistent finding. 460 On the average, the magnitude of the response is greater at 11 P.M. than at 11 A.M., 452 in accordance with the diurnal pattern of the basal TSH level which correlates to its response to TRH. Repetitive administration of TRH to the same subject at daily intervals causes a gradual obtundation of the TSH response, 453 presumably due to the increase in thyroid hormone concentration 461 and also in part due to TSH "exhaustion". 462 However, more than one hour must elapse between the increase in thyroid hormone concentration and TRH administration for inhibition of the TSH response to occur. A number of drugs (see Table 5-4 ) and nonendocrine diseases (see Chapter 5 ) may affect to various extents the magnitude of the response. TRH-induced secretion of TSH is followed by a release of thyroid hormone that can be detected by direct measurement of serum TT4 and TT3 concentrations. 160 Peak levels are normally reached approximately four hours after the administration of TRH and are accompanied by an increase in serum Tg concentration. The incremental rise in serum TT3 is relatively greater, and the peak is, on the average, 50% above the basal level. Measurement of changes in serum thyroid hormone concentration after the administration of TRH has been proposed as an adjunctive test and is useful in the evaluation of the integrity of the thyroid gland or bioactivity of endogenous TSH. 463 Increase in RAIU is minimal and occurs only with high doses of TRH given orally. 455 Side effects from the intravenous administration of TRH, in decreasing order of frequency, include nausea, flushing or a sensation of warmth, desire to micturate, peculiar taste, light-headedness or headache, dry mouth, urge to
