Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


the intravenous administration of TRH, in decreasing order of frequency, include nausea, flushing or a sensation of warmth, desire to micturate, peculiar taste, light-headedness or headache, dry mouth, urge to defecate, and chest tightness. They are usually mild, begin within a minute after the injection of TRH, and last for a few seconds to several minutes. A transient rise in blood pressure has been observed on occasion, but there are no other changes in vital signs, urine analysis, blood count, or routine blood chemistry tests. 456 , 464 The occurrence of circulatory collapse is exceedingly rare. 465 The test provides a means to distinguish between secondary (pituitary) and tertiary (hypothalamic) hypothyroidism ( Fig . 6-9). Although the diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism can be easily confirmed by the presence of elevated basal serum TSH levels, secondary and tertiary hypothyroidism are typically associated with TSH levels that are low or normal. On occasion the serum TSH concentration may be slightly elevated due to the secretion of biologically less potent molecules, 397 but it remains inappropriately low for the degree of thyroid hormone deficiency. Differentiation between secondary and tertiary hypothyroidism cannot be made with certainty without the TRH test. A TSH response is suggestive of a hypothalamic disorder, and a failure to respond is compatible with intrinsic pituitary dysfunction. 466 Furthermore, the typical TSH response curve in hypothalamic hypothyroidism shows a delayed peak with a prolonged elevation of serum TSH before return to the basal value ( Figure 6-9 ). The lack of a TSH response in association with normal prolactin stimulation may be due to isolated pituitary TSH deficiency. 467 Caution should be exercised in the interpretation of test results after withdrawal of thyroid hormone replacement or after treatment of thyrotoxicosis when, despite a low serum thyroid hormone concentration, TSH may remain low and not respond to TRH for several weeks. 404 , 433 , 436 , 468 Figure 6-9 Typical serum TSH responses to the administration of a single intravenous bolus of TRH at time 0 in various conditions. The normal response is represented by the shaded area. Data used for this figure are the average of several studies. (From S. Refetoff, Endocrinology, L.J. DeGroot (ed). 1979, Grune & Straton Inc.) In the most common forms of thyrotoxicosis, the mechanism of feedback regulation of TSH secretion is intact but is appropriately suppressed by the excessive amounts of thyroid hormone. Thus, both
