Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


In the most common forms of thyrotoxicosis, the mechanism of feedback regulation of TSH secretion is intact but is appropriately suppressed by the excessive amounts of thyroid hormone. Thus, both the basal TSH level and its response to TRH are suppressed unless thyrotoxicosis is TSH induced. 404 , 407 , 417 With the development of more sensitive TSH assays, the TRH test is generally not needed in the evaluation of a thyrotoxic patient with an undetectable TSH.407 Differential diagnosis of conditions leading to inappropriate secretion of TSH may be aided by the TRH test result. Elevated basal TSH values that do not respond by a further increase to TRH are typical of TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas. 439 , 441 Patients with inappropriate secretion of TSH due to resistance to thyroid hormone have a normal or exaggerated TSH response to TRH that, in most instances, is suppressed with supraphysiologic doses of thyroid hormone. 442 Because of the high sensitivity of the pituitary gland to the feedback regulation by thyroid hormone, small changes in the latter profoundly affects the response of TSH to TRH. Thus, patients with non-TSH-induced thyrotoxicosis of the mildest degree have a reduced TSH response to TRH whereas those with primary hypothyroidism exhibit an accentuated response that is prolonged ( Figure 6-9 , see above). These changes may occur in the absence of clinical or other laboratory evidence of thyroid dysfunction. The TSH response to TRH, is subnormal or absent in one-third of apparently euthyroid patients with autoimmune thyroid disease, and even members of their family, may not respond to TRH. 469,470 Most, but not all patients with reduced TSH response to TRH, will also show thyroid activity that is nonsuppressible by thyroid hormone. A common dissociation between these two tests is typified by a normal TRH response in a nonsuppressible patient. This finding is not surprising since patients with nonsuppressible thyroid glands often have limited capacity to synthesize and secrete thyroid hormone, due to prior therapy or partial destruction of their glands by the disease process. Clinically, euthyroid patients, who do not respond to TRH, admittedly have a slight excess of thyroid hormone. It is less easy to reconcile the rare occurrence of TRH unresponsiveness in a patient who is suppressible by exogenous thyroid hormone. It should be remembered, however, that a suppressed pituitary may take a variable amount of time to recover, a phenomenon that may be the
