Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


is suppressible by exogenous thyroid hormone. It should be remembered, however, that a suppressed pituitary may take a variable amount of time to recover, a phenomenon that may be the basis of such discrepancies. 404 , 436 , 468 Despite discrepancies between the results of the TRH and T3 suppression tests, 469,470 the use of the former is much preferred particularly in elderly patients in whom administration of T3 can produce untoward effects. Thyroid Suppression Test The maintenance of thyroid gland activity that is independent of TSH can be demonstrated by the thyroid suppression test. Under normal conditions, administration of thyroid hormone in quantities sufficient to satisfy the body requirement suppresses endogenous TSH resulting in reduction of thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion. Since thyrotoxicosis due to excessive secretion of hormone by the thyroid gland implies that the feedback control mechanism is not operative or has been perturbed, it is easy to understand why under such circumstances the supply of exogenous hormone would also be ineffective in suppressing thyroid gland activity. The test is of particular value in patients who are euthyroid or only mildly thyrotoxic but suspected of having abnormal thyroid gland stimulation or autonomy. Usually the test is carried out with 100 µg of L-T3 (liothyronine) given daily in two divided doses over a period of 7-10 days. 24 hour RAIU is obtained before and during the last two days of T3 administration.476 Normal persons show a suppression of the RAIU by at least 50% compared to the pre-L-T3 treatment value. No change or lesser reduction is not only typical of Graves' disease but also other form of endogenous thyrotoxicosis, including toxic adenoma, functioning carcinoma, and thyrotoxicosis due to trophoblastic diseases. The presence of nonsuppressibility indicates thyroid gland activity independent of TSH but not necessarily thyrotoxicosis. Euthyroid patients with autonomous thyroid function have a normal TSH response to TRH before the administration of L-T3. However, inhibition of TSH secretion by the exogenous T3 does not suppress the autonomous activity of the thyroid gland. This is the most commonly encountered discrepancy between the results of the two related tests. When the T3 suppression test is used in conjunction with the scintiscan, localized areas of autonomous function can be identified. The test can be carried out without the administration of radioisotopes by measuring serum T4 before and two weeks following the ingestion of L-T3. Although total suppression of T4 secretion never
