Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


test can be carried out without the administration of radioisotopes by measuring serum T4 before and two weeks following the ingestion of L-T3. Although total suppression of T4 secretion never occurs, even after prolonged treatment with L-T3, a reduction by at least 50% is normal. 477 Variants of the test have been proposed to reduce the potential risks of L-T3 administration in elderly patients and in those with angina pectoris or congestive heart failure. With the availability of sensitive TSH determinations and the TRH test, which are less dangerous, thyroid suppression tests are no longer indicated. Specialized Thyroid Tests A number of specialized tests are available for the evaluation of specific aspects of thyroid hormone biosynthesis, secretion, turnover, distribution, and absorption. Their primary application is of investigative nature. They are only briefly mentioned here for the sake of completeness. Iodotyrosine Deiodinase Activity The test involves the intravenous administration of tracer MIT or DIT labeled with radioiodide. Urine, collected over a period of four hours, is analyzed by chromatography or resin column separation. Normally, only 4-8% of the radioactivity is excreted as such; the remainder appears in the urine in the form of iodide. 480 Excretion of larger amounts of the parent compound indicates inability to deiodinate iodotyrosine. The test is useful in the diagnosis of a dehalogenase defect (see Chapter 16 ). Test for Defective Hormonogenesis After administration of RAI, the isotopically labeled compounds synthesized in the thyroid gland and those secreted into the circulation can be analyzed by immunologic, chromatographic, electrophoretic, and density gradient centrifugation techniques. 481 Such tests serve to evaluate the synthesis and release of thyroid hormone, as well as to delineate the formation of abnormal iodoproteins. Iodine Kinetic Studies The iodine kinetic procedure is used to evaluate overall iodide metabolism and to elucidate the pathophysiology of thyroid diseases. The analysis involves follow-up of the fate of administered radioiodide tracer by measurement of thyroidal accumulation, secretion into blood, and excretion in the urine and feces. 482 Double tracer techniques and programs for computer-assisted analysis of data are available. Absorption of Thyroid Hormone Failure to achieve normal serum thyroid hormone concentration after administration of replacement doses of thyroid hormone is usually due to poor compliance, occasionally to the use of inactive preparations, and rarely, if ever, to malabsorption. The last can be evaluated by the simultaneous oral and intravenous administration of the hormone labeled with two different iodine
