Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


use of inactive preparations, and rarely, if ever, to malabsorption. The last can be evaluated by the simultaneous oral and intravenous administration of the hormone labeled with two different iodine isotope tracers. The ratio of the two isotopes in blood is proportional to the net absorbed fraction of the orally administered hormone. 483,484 Under normal circumstances, approximately 80% of T4 and 95% of T3 administered orally are absorbed. Hypothyroidism and a variety of other unrelated conditions have little effect on the intestinal absorption of thyroid hormones. Absorption may be diminished in patients with steatorrhea, in some cases of hepatic failure, during treatment with cholestyramine, and with diets rich in soybeans. The absorption of thyroid hormone can also be evaluated by the administration of a single oral dose of 100 µg T3 or 1 mg T4, followed by their measurement in blood sampled at various intervals. 485,486 Turnover Kinetics of T4 and T3 Turnover kinetic studies require the intravenous administration of isotope-labeled tracer T4 or T3. 487-491 The half-time (t1/2) of disappearance of the hormone is calculated from the rate of decrease in serum trichloroacetic acid precipitable, ethanol extractable, or antibody precipitable isotope counts. Compartmental analysis can be used for the calculation of the turnover parameters. 488,489 The calculated daily degradation (D) or production rate (PR) is the product of the fractional turnover rate (K), the extrathyroidal distribution space (DS), and the average concentration of the hormone in serum. Noncompartmental analysis may be used for the calculation of kinetic parameters. 488 The metabolic clearance rate (MCR) is defined as the dose of the injected labeled tracer divided by the area under its curve of disappearance. The PR is then calculated from the product of the MCR and the average concentration of the respective nonradioactive iodothyronine measured in serum over the period of the study. Simultaneous studies of the T4 and T3 turnover kinetics can be carried out by injection of both hormones, labeled with different iodine isotopes. 488 , 490,491 Average normal values in adults for T4 and T3, respectively, are: t1/2 = 7.0 and 0.8 days; K = 10% and 90% per day; DS = 11 and 30 liters of serum equivalent; MCR = 1.1 and 25 liters/day; and PR = 90 and 25 µg/day. The hormonal PR is accelerated in thyrotoxicosis and diminished in hypothyroidism. In euthyroid patients with TBG abnormalities, the PR remains normal, since changes in the
