Evaluation of Thyroid Function in Health and Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, serum, hormone, tsh, concentration, normal, thyroid hormone, pubmed, patients, free, clin, gland, tbg, measurement, thyrotoxicosis


= 90 and 25 µg/day. The hormonal PR is accelerated in thyrotoxicosis and diminished in hypothyroidism. In euthyroid patients with TBG abnormalities, the PR remains normal, since changes in the serum hormone concentration are accompanied by compensatory changes in the fractional turnover rate and the extrathyroidal hormonal pool. 492 A variety of nonthyroidal illnesses may alter hormone kinetics 491 , 493 (see Chapter 5 ). Metabolic Kinetics of Thyroid Hormones and Their Metabolites The kinetics of production of various metabolites of T4 and T3 in peripheral tissues and their further metabolism can be studied. Most methods use radiolabeled iodothyronine tracers injected intravenously. 489-491 Their disappearance is followed in serum samples obtained at various intervals of time after injection of the tracers by means of chromatographic and immunologic techniques of separation. Kinetic parameters can be calculated by noncompartmental analysis or by two or multiple compartment analysis. Estimates have been made by the differential measurement in urine of the isotopes derived from the precursor and its metabolite. They are in agreement with measurements carried out in serum. 494 Conversion rates (CR) of iodothyronines, principally generated in peripheral tissues, can be calculated from the ratio of their PR, and that of their respective precursors. Some iodothyronines, such as T3, are secreted by the thyroid gland as well as generated in peripheral tissues. Studies to calculate the CR require administration of thyroid hormone to block thyroidal secretion. 493 On the average 35% and 45% of T4 are converted to T3 and rT3, respectively, in peripheral tissues. The conversion of T4 to T3 is greatly diminished in a variety of illnesses (see Chapter 5 ) of nonthyroidal origin and in response to many drugs (Table 5-3). Degradation and monodeiodination of iodothyronines can be estimated without the administration of isotopes. They are, however, less accurate. The conversion of T4 to T3 can be estimated semiquantitatively by the measurement of serum TT3 concentration after treatment with replacement doses of T4. 493 Measurement of the Production Rate and Metabolic Kinetics of Other Compounds The metabolism and PRs of a variety of compounds related to thyroid physiology can be studied using their radiolabeled congeners and application of the general principles of turnover kinetics. Studies of TSH have demonstrated changes related not only to thyroid dysfunction but also associated with age, kidney, and liver disease. 495,496 Studies of the turnover kinetics of TBG have shown that the slight increases and
