Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


not differ between 1988 and 1990 and between 1970 and 1974 (7). Clinical presentation Patients with toxic adenomas present with signs and symptoms of thyrotoxicosis and/or a thyroid nodule. The signs and symptoms of thyrotoxicosis do not differ from other etiologies. Features suggestive for Graves' disease such as endocrine ophthalmopathy, (pretibial) myxedema and acropachy are missing. The onset of thyrotoxicosis is often insidious and more common in older patients, who typically have larger adenomas. However, a toxic adenoma has even been documented as a cause of neonatal hyperthyroidism (8). Mechanical symptoms such as dysphagia or hoarseness are uncommon. Autonomously functioning nodules may remain stable in size, grow, degenerate or become gradually toxic. In one series, 10% of patients followed for 6 years became thyrotoxic (3). Thyrotoxicosis may develop independent of age, but is much more common in nodules ov er 3 cm in diameter (up to 20%). By sonography, the critical volume at which hyperthyroidism occurs is about 16 ml (9). Changes in nodule size were followed in 159 patients during a period of 1 to 15 years (3). An increase in size was seen in only 10%, 4% of nodules decreased, and a loss of function due to degenerative changes was observed in 4 nodules. Eight percent developed overt thyrotoxicosis during a follow-up of 3 to 5 years, and 3% developed subclinical hyperthyroidism (3). Diagnosis The measurement of serum TSH with a sensitive third-generation assay represents the best biochemical marker to establish the diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis because TSH and FT4 have an inverse log-linear relationship and a small decrease or increase in FT4 is thus associated with an exponential change in TSH levels (10). If the TSH is suppressed, measurement of serum (free) T4 and T3 permit to ascertain the severity of the thyroid overactivity. A thyroid scan can be performed with 123iodine, 131iodine, or 99technetium-labeled pertechnetate (11). Iodine isotopes, which are not only trapped but also organified in the thyroid, are preferred because 3-8% of nodules that appear functioning on pertechnetate scanning are nonfunctioning on radioiodine scanning. A scan will show uptake of the isotope that is either limited to the nodule, or preferential uptake in the adenoma compared to the surrounding tissue (Figure 1). Scintigraphically, an AFTN may be warm (uptake similar to surrounding tissue), hot (uptake increased without suppression of surrounding tissue), or toxic (uptake increased and suppression of the surrounding tissue). A toxic nodule is
