Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


may be warm (uptake similar to surrounding tissue), hot (uptake increased without suppression of surrounding tissue), or toxic (uptake increased and suppression of the surrounding tissue). A toxic nodule is associated with overt or subclinical hyperthyroidism. A warm nodule may develop into a hot nodule and ultimately into a toxic adenoma. Toxic adenomas are usually larger in size and often more than 3 cm in size (3, 12). In the case of incomplete suppression of the surrounding tissue, autonomous function of the nodule can be established by a suppression test. After the administration of thyroid hormone (e.g. 75 ï¿&frac12;g of levothyroxine for 2 weeks, followed by 150 ï¿&frac12;g for 2 weeks), a repeat thyroid scan would fail to show remaining uptake in the non-autonomous tissue because of the suppression of serum TSH, thereby unmasking the autonomy of the nodule (13). However, this procedure has no practical consequences and is therefore unnecessary in clinical practice. Ultrasound will confirm the presence of a solitary nodule and may show a small contralateral thyroid lobe. There is no indication to perform fine needle aspiration in patients with toxic adenomas because the risk of a thyroid carcinoma is extremely low and cytological evaluation will not permit distinguishing between a follicular adenoma and a follicular carcinoma (14, 15). Treatment In patients with overt thyrotoxicosis, definitive forms of treatment include surgical excision of the nodule, treatment with radioactive iodine, or percutaneous ethanol injection (11, 16). Treatment with antithyroid drugs is used infrequently as it requires long-term therapy and a relapse will almost invariably occur after discontinuation of the medication. Surgical excision permits to achieve a rapid and permanent control of hyperthyroidism with a very low operative complication rate. The disadvantage of a surgical approach includes the risks of general anesthesia and the potential complications of thyroid surgery. Usually the patient is treated preoperatively with antithyroid drugs and beta-blockers. The incidence of hypothyroidism after operation is low, but may occur. In a series of 60 patients operated for AFTNs, 6.6% became hypothyroid after operation (17). Two of these patients had previously received therapeutic doses of 131iodine or long-term treatment with antithyroid drugs. In a series of 35 patients with a solitary toxic adenoma, lobectomy resulted in 30 euthyroid and 5 hypothyroid outcomes, although hypothyroidism was only temporary in 3 patients (4). It remains unclear why some of these patients remained permanently hypothyroid after lobectomy; information about the presence
