Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


thyroid follicular cell is expected to result in clonal autonomous growth and function, and ultimately in a toxic adenoma (33). In line with this concept, somatic mutations were first discovered in the GNAS1 gene encoding the stimulatory Gs alpha subunit in toxic adenomas (34-36). Stimulatory Gs alph amutations impair the hydrolysis of guanine triphosphate (GTP) to guanine diphosphate (GDP), resulting in persistent activation of adenylyl cyclase. Stimulatory Gs alpha mutations are also found in 35-40 percent of somatotroph tumors in acromegalic patients (37), and mosaicism for Gs alpha mutations with onset during blastocyst development causes the McCune Albright syndrome (38). The observation that site-directed mutagenesis of a residue in the third intracellular loop of the alpha 1b-adrenergic receptor can lead to constitutive activation of this G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) in the absence of ligand led to the search and detection of naturally occurring activating mutations in numerous GPCRs (39). Somatic mutations in the TSH receptor were first discovered in toxic adenomas (40). The initially characterized mutations were clustered in the third intracellular loop and the sixth transmembrane domain of the receptor, but a wide variety of activating somatic mutations have been found in subsequent studies (see Chapter 16 A) (41-44). Mutations conferring constitutive activity occur in the entire transmembrane domain, as well as in the carboxy-terminal region of the extracellular domain. All mutations increase basal cAMP levels, but only a few amino acid substitutions activate the phospholipase C (PLC) cascade in a constitutive manner. Inositoltriphosphate (IP3) accumulation in response to TSH is usually retained. The reported prevalence of TSH receptor mutations in toxic adenomas varies widely, but is as high as 80% (43, 45). For example, in a study on 33 toxic adenomas from 31 patients from Belgium, 27/33 of adenomas were positive for a somatic mutation in the TSH receptor (46). In contrast, in a Japanese study that analyzed the part of the gene encoding the third cytoplasmic loop and the sixth transmembrane segment, only 1/38 toxic adenomas harbored a functionally silent mutation (45). Differences in sampling technique and methodological approach, as well as variations in iodine intake, may contribute to the reported differences (47). It is now well established that somatic, constitutively activating TSH receptor mutations play a predominant role in the pathogenesis of AFTNs, while Gs aalpha mutations are less common (48). It is likely that other somatic mutations are involved in the pathogenesis of the monoclonal
