Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


predominant role in the pathogenesis of AFTNs, while Gs aalpha mutations are less common (48). It is likely that other somatic mutations are involved in the pathogenesis of the monoclonal toxic adenomas that are negative for mutations in the TSH receptor and Gs alpha(49). Functionally, some of the mutations may alter the positions of the transmembrane helices, thereby mimicking the conformational changes induced by binding of ligand. Alternatively, some mutations may alter the structure of domains that inhibit coupling of the receptor to G proteins in the absence of TSH (50, 51). Activating mutations in the extracellular domain appear to result in a relief of a negative constraint present in the unliganded carboxy-terminal part of the extracellular domain (8, 43, 52-54). It has been suggested that iodine deficiency may be a predisposing factor for the development of AFTNs (55). Based on the fact that autonomous (multi)nodular goiters develop also in iodine-sufficient regions and that there is often a hereditary predisposition, others propose that hereditary and acquired heterogeneity among the thyrocytes play a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of AFTNs and that iodine deficiency only serves as a modulating factor (56). Pathology On macroscopic examination, a solitary toxic nodule is surrounded by normal thyroid tissue that is functionally suppressed. Toxic adenomas are histologically classified as encapsulated follicular neoplasms or adenomatous nodules without a capsule (57). Hemorrhage, calcifications and cystic degeneration are commonly present. In a study on 51 solitary adenomas, functional and pathologic characteristics were determined and compared to normal surrounding tissue (58). The adenomas displayed a higher number of cycling cells in the periphery of the adenomas, a high level of iodide trapping because of a high level of sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) gene expression, a high thyroperoxidase (TPO) mRNA and protein content, and low H2O2 generation. The adenomas secreted higher amounts of thyroid hormone than the quiescent tissue (58). The proliferation index was determined in 20 toxic adenomas using labeling with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki-67 epitope as markers (59). In line with the slow growth of these lesions, cell proliferation was found to be modestly increased compared to the surrounding tissue (59). Malignant AFTNs are uncommon. In a study of 306 patients presenting with AFTNs, Horst et al. did not find any thyroid malignancy (5). Sandler et al. concluded that most reported hyperfunctioning carcinomas resulted from the coexistence of small malignancies in or adjacent to a benign
