Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


al. did not find any thyroid malignancy (5). Sandler et al. concluded that most reported hyperfunctioning carcinomas resulted from the coexistence of small malignancies in or adjacent to a benign hot lesion (14). Isolated cases of carcinomas in hot nodules have, however, been reported (4, 60-62). Smith et al. reported the occurrence of 3 carcinomas in 30 consecutive patients operated for solitary hot nodules (62). In a series of 164 patients, 3 of 29 patients treated surgically were diagnosed with thyroid cancer (63). It is an open question whether the diagnosis of cancer would be established in all these cases using modern histological criteria and molecular markers (64). In most instances, the presence of an AFTN argues against the presence of a malignant lesion. TOXIC MULTINODULAR GOITER Definition Hyperthyroidism may occur due to AFTNs in a multinodular thyroid gland and this is discussed in detail in Chapter 17. Clinical presentation In addition to the signs and symptoms associated with hyperthyroidism, patients with large toxic multinodular goiters may also have dysphagia, shortness of breath, stridor, or hoarseness. Diagnosis The diagnostic approach is in general similar to patients with a solitary AFTN, but cross-sectional imaging with computer tomography and pulmonary function tests need to be considered in a subset of patients in whom compression by the goiter is evident or suspected. Treatment Therapeutically, surgery and radioiodine therapy are the most commonly used therapeutic modalities. Pathogenesis While the mechanisms underlying the development of nodules are of complex nature (65), it has become apparent that hyperfunctioning adenomas within multinodular goiters or autonomous areas within euthyroid goiters may also harbor somatic gain-of-function mutations in the TSH receptor (66-68). It is noteworthy that the mutations may differ among the adenomas within the same multinodular goiter (66). This observation is consistent with studies demonstrating distinct clonal origins of different thyroid adenomas within the same multinodular goiter (69). For example, in two adenomas from the same goiter, one neoplasm harbored a M453T mutation, the second adenoma a T632I substitution (66). In another study, L632I and F631L mutations were found in two distinct lesions within the same goiter, whereas another patient had two distinct toxic nodules with the same I630L mutation (67). These studies reveal that the pathogenesis of hyperfunctioning adenomas does not differ between solitary toxic adenomas and multinodular goiters. In a study analyzing hyperfunctioning and nonfunctioning areas from patients with toxic multinodular goiters, gain-of-function TSH receptor mutations
