Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


hyperfunctioning adenomas does not differ between solitary toxic adenomas and multinodular goiters. In a study analyzing hyperfunctioning and nonfunctioning areas from patients with toxic multinodular goiters, gain-of-function TSH receptor mutations were detected in 14 of 20 hyperfunctioning areas, whereas no mutation was identified in nonfunctioning nodules (70). On microscopic analysis, only two of the hyperfunctioning areas corresponded to classic adenomas surrounded by a capsule, whereas the remainder had the characteristic features of hyperplastic lesions. The development of multinodular goiters had been associated with a D727E germline polymorphism in the TSH receptor (71), but this finding could not be corroborated in other studies (72, 73). Constitutively activating TSH receptor mutations have also been detected in autoradiographically hyperfunctioning areas of goiters from euthyroid patients (74). The observation that TSH receptor mutations are rare in nonfunctioning adenomas, even if of monoclonal origin (68, 75), indicate that distinct mechanisms must be implicated in the abnormal growth leading to nonfunctioning nodules (65). HYPERTHYROID THYROID CARCINOMA Definition and Epidemiology As discussed above, hyperfunctioning nodules are most commonly benign. Rarely, follicular carcinoma is associated with thyrotoxicosis. Ehrenheim compiled 20 such cases in 1986 (76), and Salvatori et al. reviewed 54 similar cases reported in the literature (77). Age and sex distribution in these patients does not differ from that of patients with follicular carcinoma without thyrotoxicosis. Clinical presentation Most commonly, thyrotoxicosis and thyroid carcinoma are diagnosed at the same time because of signs of thyrotoxicosis and the finding of a thyroid nodule prompting fine needle aspiration. Diagnosis Patients with thyrotoxic thyroid cancer have predominantly T3 thyrotoxicosis (78). Thyroglobulin levels are elevated. Cytology reveals most commonly follicular thyroid cancer (79), but hyperfunctinoning papillary thyroid cancer has also been documented (80). In patients who are on levothyroxine substitution after total thyroidectomy, the presence of hyperfunctioning metastases may not be readily apparent. Gradual reduction or withdrawal of levothyroxine therapy is necessary in order to recognize whether the thyrotoxicosis is caused by excessive exogenous levothyroxine or hyperfunctioning metastases. Whole-body scanning with radioiodine is used for the localization of the hyperfunctioning metastases. Treatment Treatment of patients with functioning thyroid carcinomas does not differ from the therapy of thyroid cancer patients without thyrotoxicosis, but appropriate control of the hyperthyroid state with antithyroid drugs and beta-blockers is important before submitting a patient to thyroid surgery or 131iodine therapy. Exacerbation of the hypermetabolic state with precipitation of thyroid storm has been reported in a patient
