Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


and beta-blockers is important before submitting a patient to thyroid surgery or 131iodine therapy. Exacerbation of the hypermetabolic state with precipitation of thyroid storm has been reported in a patient undergoing radioiodine therapy for metastatic thyroid carcinoma without prior control with antithyroid drugs (81). Pathogenesis In well-differentiated thyroid cancers, mutations in the Gs alphA subunit and the TSH receptor genes occur only very rarely (36, 80, 82-86). Although constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway results in enhanced growth, it is not thought to be sufficient for malignant transformation of otherwise normal thyrocytes. A few patients with hyperthyroidism due to autonomously functioning thyroid cancers harboring mutations in the TSH receptor have, however, been identified. For example, Russo et al. reported a patient who presented with hyperthyroidism and increased uptake in two nodules, but suppressed uptake in the remainder of the gland (80). After surgical removal of the right thyroid lobe, histological examination revealed the presence of an insular papillary carcinoma with lymph node and lung metastases. Mutational analysis of the TSH receptor gene documented a somatic mutation, D633H, in DNA isolated from the primary tumor and metastatic tissue. Another mutation that activates both the cAMP and the IP3 pathways, I486F, was found in a hyperfunctioning well-differentiated follicular carcinoma in a patient presenting with hyperthyroidism and increased radioiodine uptake within the thyroid mass (86). It is conceivable that concomitant activation of these two signaling casca des may promote transformation. In a patient with an Hurthle cell carcinoma, Russo et al. identified a L677V TSH receptor mutation (85). Basal cAMP levels were increased in transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, but IP3 accumulation has not been determined. A somatic M453T substitution has been identified in a 11-year-old girl with a hyperfunctioning nodule and a papillary carcinoma (87). The same mutation has been found in the germline of two patients with congenital hyperthyroidism, but there was no suggestion that it is oncogenic (88, 89). Interestingly, however, overexpression of the M453T TSH receptor mutation in the FRTL-5 rat cell line was sufficient to induce neoplastic transformation as assessed by growth in semisolid medium and athymic mice (90). Follicular carcinomas have also been reported in patients with Graves' disease (91-93). It has been suggested that long-standing stimulation through TSH receptor-stimulating antibodies may play a role in the pathogenesis of these neoplasias (94). Whether thyroid carcinomas affecting patients with underlying Graves' disease behave more aggressively, as suggested
