Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


stimulation through TSH receptor-stimulating antibodies may play a role in the pathogenesis of these neoplasias (94). Whether thyroid carcinomas affecting patients with underlying Graves' disease behave more aggressively, as suggested by some authors (95), remains uncertain (96). FAMILIAL NON-AUTOIMMUNE HYPERTHYROIDISM WITH TSHR MUTATIONS Definition and Epidemiology Autosomal dominant familial hyperthyroidism without evidence of an autoimmune etiology has been first described by Thomas et al. in 1982 (Chapter 16 A) (97). Currently 27 families with a total of 152 affected individuals with non-autoimmune familial hyperthyroidism have been reported (For recent review see: (98)). The hyperthyroidism is caused by monoallelic gain-of-function germline mutations in the TSH receptor. Clinical presentation The typical signs associated with autoimmune hyperthyroidism, i.e. the presence of stimulatory TSH receptor antibodies, endocrine ophthalmopathy, myxedema, lymphocytic infiltration of the thyroid gland, are absent. The age of onset of hyperthyroidism is variable and depends, in part, on the activity of the mutated allele. The majority of patients has a goiter. Diagnosis Affected individuals have a suppressed TSH and elevated peripheral hormones in the absence of TSH receptor-stimulating antibodies and TPO antibodies. The family history is key in order to demonstrate familial clustering suggestive for an autosomal dominant disorder. Ultimately, the diagnosis requires sequence analysis of the TSH receptor gene in order to evaluate it for the presence of a monalllelic mutation. If the mutation is unknown, functional in vitro analyses are needed to demonstrate that the mutated allele confers constitutive activity to the receptor. Treatment In order to achieve permanent cure, it is necessary to destroy all thyroid tissue, either by thyroidectomy followed by radioiodine therapy, or radiotherapy alone (98). In younger patients, temporary therapy with thionamides can be considered. Because the condition may not be readily recognized and confused with Graves' disease, patients treated with thionamides or insufficient amounts of radioiodine have frequent relapses (98). Pathogenesis The molecular basis of hereditary non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism was elucidated by detecting activating germline mutations in the TSH receptor in the family reported by Thomas et al. (51). Gain-of-function mutations are by definition dominant, and alteration of one allele is thus sufficient for generating the phenotype. Interestingly, the onset of hyperthyroidism may vary in carriers of the same mutation in a given kindred. Hence, other factors, for example genetic background and/or iodine intake, appear to modulate the phenotypic expression (97, 99, 100). SPORADIC NON-AUTOIMMUNE HYPERTHYROIDISM Autoimmune neonatal hyperthyroidism is rare and occurs in less than
