Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


factors, for example genetic background and/or iodine intake, appear to modulate the phenotypic expression (97, 99, 100). SPORADIC NON-AUTOIMMUNE HYPERTHYROIDISM Autoimmune neonatal hyperthyroidism is rare and occurs in less than 2% of newborns that are the offspring of a mother with a history of Graves' disease (101), a condition with an estimated incidence of about 2 of every 1000 pregnancies (97). In these infants, the congenital hyperthyroidism is caused by transplacental passage of stimulating TSH receptor autoantibodies (102). Antibody-induced neonatal hyperthyroidism usually resolves within the first few months of life as the maternal antibodies are cleared from the circulation. Occasionally, thyroid hormone may be fluctuating between elevated and decreased levels because of the concomitant presence of stimulating and blocking antibodies (103). Constitutively activating germline neomutations in the TSH receptor have been found in a total of 15 patients with sporadic congenital non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism (Chapter 16 A) (104)(For recent review see:(98)). Congenital hyperthyroidism due to a toxic adenoma harboring a somatic TSH receptor mutation was reported as an unusual variant (8). The patients with non-autoimmune congenital hyperthyroidism must be differentiated from the much more common and transient autoimmune form of neonatal hyperthyroidism, because these patients have pronounced hyperthyroidism requiring a more aggressive therapeutic approach that may necessitate surgery and ablative radiotherapy early in life. Several of the children with severe neonatal hyperthyroidism were reported to have mild mental retardation (104-106), suggesting that high levels of thyroid hormone may have a negative impact on brain development (107). Alternatively, mental development may have been impaired because of premature closure of the cranial sutures. A subset of these children had proptosis (88, 89). Computer tomography of the retroorbital tissue in one of these children did, however, not demonstrate infiltration of the eye muscles (88). TSH-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA Definition and Epidemiology TSH-secreting adenomas (TSHomas) account for less than 2% of all pituitary adenomas and are a rare cause of thyrotoxicosis (Chapter 13) (108, 109). TSHomas and RTH form the two syndromes of "inappropriate TSH secretion", defined by normal or elevated TSH levels in combination with increased (free) T4 and T3 levels. Clinical presentation Patients with TSHomas present with signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism and an enlarged thyroid. In patients with RTH, the phenotype is more complex as some tissues are resistant to the action of the elevated peripheral hormones and thus hypothyroid, whereas other tissues can be excessively stimulated. The physiological negative feedback normally exerted
