Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


complex as some tissues are resistant to the action of the elevated peripheral hormones and thus hypothyroid, whereas other tissues can be excessively stimulated. The physiological negative feedback normally exerted by thyroid hormones is not operating in both conditions. TSHomas secrete TSH in an autonomous fashion, in RTH the thyrotropes are resistant to the high levels of thyroid hormone. Most patients are older, but TSHomas have also been documented in children (110). Diagnosis Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the pituitary will reveal a pituitary adenoma in patients with TSHomas. TSH is formed of a specific beta subunit and the glycoprotein alpha subunit common to TSH, FSH and LH/CG. Some clinicians measure the glycoprotein alpha subunit as a marker to distinguish between TSHomas and RTH. The alpha subunit and the beta subunit /TSH ratio are often elevated in patients with TSHomas (111). However, in one series of TSHomas, normal alpha subunit levels were observed in more than 60% of the patients, particularly in microadenomas (112). The TSH secreted by TSHomas is normal in terms of amino acid sequence, but has variable biological activity and is secreted in fluctuating amounts (113). Compared to controls, TSH burst frequency and basal secretion are increased, TSH secretion patterns are more irregular, but the diurnal rhythm is preserved at a higher mean in all patients (114). A more sensitive and specific test than measuring the alpha subunit consists in the T3 suppression test (80-100 µg of T3 per day per 8-10 days), which does not result in complete inhibition of T3 secretion in patients with TSHomas (108, 112, 115). An alternative consists in the TRH-stimulation test, but TRH is currently not available in the United States. After injection of TRH (200 µg i.v.) TSH and the alpha subunit do not increase in patients with TSHomas (108). Treatment Transsphenoidal surgery is the cornerstone for therapy of TSHomas. Complete resection may not be possible because these tumors can invade the sinus cavernosus and other adjacent structures. Prior to surgery, the hyperthyroidism should be controlled with thionamides and beta-blockers. In patients with residual tumor tissue and persistent secretion of TSH, both -knife radiotherapy (10 ï¿&frac12; 25 Gy) and medical therapies can be considered. The latter include the use of somatostatin analogues, such as octreotide and lanreotide. TSHomas express somatostatin receptors and somatostatin analogues are highly effective in reducing TSH secretion by neoplastic thyrotropes (116). If tolerated, somatostatin analogues are
