Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


somatostatin analogues, such as octreotide and lanreotide. TSHomas express somatostatin receptors and somatostatin analogues are highly effective in reducing TSH secretion by neoplastic thyrotropes (116). If tolerated, somatostatin analogues are effective in reducing TSH secretion in more than 90% of patients with consequent normalization of thyroid hormone levels and restoration of the euthyroid state. Tumor shrinkage does occur in about 45% of patients (117). Dopamine receptors are also present in TSHomas and dopamine agonists such as bromocriptine or cabergoline have been used in order to control TSH secretion (108). The response is, however, highly heterogeneous and best in tumors secreting both TSH and prolactin. In the case of a surgical cure, the postoperative TSH is undetectable and may remain low for weeks or months, causing central hypothyroidism. Permanent central hypothyroidism may also occur due to the mass effect exerted by the tumor or after radiotherapy. Thus, transient or permanent substitution therapy with levothyroxine may be necessary. Long-term evaluation of all pituitary axes is important, particularly in patients who underwent radiotherapy, in order to recognize and treat anterior pituitary deficiencies in a timely manner. Pathogenesis The molecular mechanisms leading to the formation of TSHomas remain unknown. TSHomas have been shown to be monoclonal by X-inactivation analyses suggesting that they arise from a single cell harboring one or several mutations in genes controlling proliferation and perhaps function (108). RESISTANCE TO THYROID HORMONE The syndrome of Resistance to Thyroid Hormone (RTH) is described in detail in Chapter 16 D. RTH is defined by elevated circulating levels of free thyroid hormones due to reduced target tissue responsiveness and normal, or elevated, levels of TSH (118, 119). Patients with RTH typically present with goiter. Their metabolic state may appear euthyroid or include signs of hypo- and hyperthyroidism. With the exception of the first studied kindred, a single sibship harboring a deletion of the entire coding sequence of the entire TRbeta gene and a recessive pattern of inheritance, RTH is most commonly caused by monoallelic mutations of the TRbeta gene. The mutation can be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner or occur as de novo mutation. The mutant receptors act in a dominant negative fashion to block the activity of the normal allele, thereby explaining the dominant inheritance. The gene defect remains unknown in about 15% of subjects with a RTH phenotype. It is likely that mutations in cofactors that are required for normal TR function
