Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


dominant inheritance. The gene defect remains unknown in about 15% of subjects with a RTH phenotype. It is likely that mutations in cofactors that are required for normal TR function are involved in the pathogenesis of RTH in these patients. The generation of mice with targeted deletion of TRbeta, as well as TR knockin models, have been essential for elucidating the physiology of thyroid hormone action and the pathophysiology of RTH (120). HCG-INDUCED GESTATIONAL HYPERTHYROIDISM Thyrotoxicosis and other forms of thyroid dysfunction in the pregnant patient are discussed in detail in Chapter 14. Definition and Epidemiology Gestational transient thyrotoxicosis of non-autoimmune origin is caused by stimulation of the TSH receptor through hCG (121, 122). hCG-induced hyperthyroidism occurs in about 1.4 % of pregnant women, mostly when hCG levels are above 70-80,000 IU/l (123, 124) . Clinical presentation Many signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism are not specific and overlap with those of normal pregnancy (125). Hence, the accuracy of clinical diagnosis is limited. Because of the decrease in the levels and bioactivity of hCG later in pregnancy, hCG-induced gestational hyperthyroidism is usually transient and limited to the first 3-4 months of gestation. In a subset of women, the manifestations of hCG-induced hyperthyroidism are more severe and they are often associated with hyperemesis. Goodwin et al. studied the relationship of serum hCG, thyroid function, and severity of vomiting among 57 hyperemesis patients and 57 controls matched for gestational age (126). Hyperemesis patients had significantly greater mean serum levels of hCG, free T4, total T3, and estradiol, and lesser serum TSH concentrations compared to controls. The degree of biochemical hyperthyroidism and hCG concentration correlated directly with the severity of vomiting. The hyperemesis may be caused by a marked hCG-induced increase in estradiol levels (122). However, the relation between hyperemesis and gestational hyperthyroidism varies among patients, and additional, unidentified mechanisms may be involved. Diagnosis The diagnosis is established by measuring TSH, free or total T4, and T3. The physiological decrease in TSH levels and the increase in total thyroid hormone concentrations associated with the increase in thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) have to be considered when interpreting the results. TBG levels increase in response to elevated estradiol levels and plateau by about 20 weeks of gestation (127). Therefore, total T4 and total T3 levels increase by approximately 1.5 fold. If free T4 levels are determined by analogue assays, serum concentrations are usually significantly lower than values
