Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


(127). Therefore, total T4 and total T3 levels increase by approximately 1.5 fold. If free T4 levels are determined by analogue assays, serum concentrations are usually significantly lower than values in non-pregnant women (128). Treatment Treatment with antithyroid medications is often not necessary. Women with hyperemesis need therapy with antiemetics. In patients in whom total T4 levels are higher than 1.5 times the upper reference range, therapy with antithyroid drugs may be indicated. Propylthiouracil (PTU) is the preferred medication during the first trimester and methimazole during the remainder of pregnancy in the United States (129, 130). A review by Mandel and Cooper has specifically addressed the use of thionamides during pregnancy and lactation (131). Overtreatment with antithyroid drugs can result in hypothyroidism in the fetus. Therefore, free T4 should be kept close or slightly above the normal range with the lowest possible dose of antithyroid drugs. Pathogenesis The pathophysiology of hCG-induced gestational thyrotoxicosis has been reviewed by Hershman (132). hCG and TSH share the common glycoprotein alpha subunit and the beta subunit is highly homologous. At high doses, hCG cross-reacts with the TSH receptor, and this stimulation can lead to an increase in secretion of T4 and T3, with subsequent suppression of TSH secretion (124, 133). The levels of hCG and TSH are inversely correlated during the first trimester (121). Free T4 levels determined between weeks 6-20 of gestation increase and show a linear relationship with the rising hCG levels (134). The thyroid gland of normal pregnant women may be stimulated by hCG to secrete slightly excessive quantities of T4 and induce a slight suppression of TSH, but it only induces overt hyperthyroidism in a subset of pregnant women. The increased secretion of hCG result only in the physiological decrease in TSH levels that are characteristic for the first trimester of pregnancy, or in overt hyperthyroidism. Of note, elevations of hCG are particularly pronounced in twin pregnancies (135). In a study characterizing the activity of hCG on the human thyroid gland, 1.0 U hCG was found to be roughly equivalent to 0.27 mU of TSH (136). LH also has intrinsic thyroid stimulating activity, but it is lower compared to hCG. TSH-binding and TSH-induced adenylyl cyclase stimulation are more effectively inhibited by desialylated variants of hCG than unmodified hCG (137). Nicked hCG preparations, obtained from patients with trophoblastic disease or by enzymatic digestion of intact hCG, showed approximately 1.5- to 2-fold
