Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


by desialylated variants of hCG than unmodified hCG (137). Nicked hCG preparations, obtained from patients with trophoblastic disease or by enzymatic digestion of intact hCG, showed approximately 1.5- to 2-fold stimulation of recombinant hTSH receptor compared with intact hCG (122). Deglycosylation and/or desialylation of hCG enhance its thyrotropic potency. Basic hCG isoforms with lower sialic acid content extracted from hydatiform moles were more potent in activating the TSH receptor. From these and other studies it seems that the biological effect of hCG is predominantly confined to hCG containing little or no sialic acid. hCG has also been found to increase iodide uptake in cultured FRTL-5 cells and it also causes a dose related increase of adenylyl cyclase activity and thymidine uptake (138, 139). FAMILIAL HYPERSENSITIVITY TO HCG An unusual form of familial gestational hyperthyroidism caused by a mutant TSH receptor displaying hypersensitivity to normal levels of hCG has been identified by Rodien et al. (140). The index patient had a history of two miscarriages that were accompanied by hyperemesis. Subsequently, she had two pregnancies that were complicated by hyperthyroidism, severe nausea and vomiting. She did not have any antibodies against the TSH receptor or TPO. Her hCG levels, determined during the second pregnancy, were in the normal range for the first trimester. The patient' s mother had a history of one miscarriage and two pregnancies that were complicated by hyperemesis gravidarum. Sequence analysis of the TSH receptor gene in the proband and her mother revealed the presence of a monoallelic point mutation resulting in the substitution of K183R. Functional studies in COS-7 cells transfected with the mutated receptor documented no differences in membrane expression, and similar levels of basal and TSH stimulated cAMP accumulation. In contrast to the wild-type TSH receptor, which reacts only minimally to high doses of hCG, the K183R mutant is hypersensitive to hCG, although it still is 1000 times less responsive to hCG than the LH/CG receptor. The K183R TSH receptor mutation is unique because sensitivity is increased for hCG but remains unaltered for the cognate ligand TSH (140). This observation also supports the possibility of an hCG-independent connection between hyperthyroidism and hyperemesis gravidarum. TROPHOBLAST TUMORS: HYDATIFORM MOLES AND CHORIOCARCINOMA Definition and Epidemiology Gestational trophoblastic diseases comprise hydatiform moles, invasive moles, choriocarcinomas and placental site trophoblastic tumors (141). Hydatiform moles and choriocarcinomas that secrete high amounts of hCG can cause hyperthyroidism (142). In 1955 Tisne et
