Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


comprise hydatiform moles, invasive moles, choriocarcinomas and placental site trophoblastic tumors (141). Hydatiform moles and choriocarcinomas that secrete high amounts of hCG can cause hyperthyroidism (142). In 1955 Tisne et al. described a patient with molar pregnancy that had increased thyroidal uptake of radioactive iodine and clinical signs of hyperthyroidism (143). Earlier reports also described molar pregnancies in combination with hyperthyroidism and in all cases a rapid return to normal thyroid function occurred after removal of the mole (143). In men, choriocarcinomas can arise in the testis and cause hyperthyroidism by secreting hCG (144). In a study of 20 patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasias, 2 patients were overtly thyrotoxic and this was confirmed by elevated serum T4 levels (145). These 2 patients had extremely high serum (3,220,000 IU/l and 6,720,000 IU/l) and urine hCG levels, which correlated closely with TSH-like activity exerted by the serum of these patients in a mouse thyroid bioassay. Patients with moderately increased serum hCG levels (110,000-310,000 IU/l) associated with trophoblastic neoplasia were euthyroid. A similar correlation between serum hCG levels and thyroid stimulating activity in both serum and urine was found in women who had widely metastatic choriocarcinoma and marked hyperthyroidism (145). In another patient with gestational choriocarcinoma serum thyroid stimulating activity correlated precisely with serum T4, with the beta subunit of hCG, and with the quantification of the tumor burden (146). Hyperthyroidism associated with choriocarcinoma in the male is extremely rare, but has been reported repeatedly (122). Orgiazzi et al. compiled four cases from the literature and reported a patient who had choriocarcinoma of the colon associated with gynecomastia and hyperthyroidism (147). Thyroid stimulating activity, measured by a mouse bioassay, was detected in the serum. Serum thyroid stimulating activity was partly inactivated by antibovine-TSH antiserum, but was completely neutralized by anti-hCG antiserum. Clinical presentation Most women with hydatiform moles present with uterine bleeding in the first half of pregnancy. The size of the uterus is large for the duration of gestation (141). Many women with molar pregnancies have nausea and vomiting, some have pregnancy-induced hypertension or (pre)-eclampsia. The signs and symptoms of thyrotoxicosis are present in some women, but they may be obscured by toxemic signs. The characteristic features belonging to Graves' disease are missing. The thyrotoxicosis is usually not severe because of a relatively short duration. Women with choriocarcinomas present within one year after conception. The tumor may be confined to the uterus,
