Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


missing. The thyrotoxicosis is usually not severe because of a relatively short duration. Women with choriocarcinomas present within one year after conception. The tumor may be confined to the uterus, more frequently it is metastatic to multiple organs such as the liver and lungs, among others. In men, choriocarcinomas of the testes is often widely metastatic at initial presentation. Gynecomastia is a common finding. Diagnosis Measurement of serum hCG concentrations is needed for the diagnosis of moles and choriocarcinomas, and hCG serves as a sensitive and specific tumor marker during therapy and surveillance (145). In women, hCG concentrations are significantly higher than those found during normal pregnancies. Ultrasonography of the uterus shows a characteristic "snowstorm" pattern. The diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis relies on the measurement of TSH, (free) T4 and T3. elevated thyroid hormone levels. Thyroidal radioiodine uptake is elevated. Treatment Hydatiform moles are treated by suction rather than curettage (148). Serum T4, T3, TSH, and hCG levels normalize rapidly after removal of the mole. Choriocarcinomas can be divided into two groups: 1) a low risk group treated by monotherapy, most often with methotrexate or actinomycine D and a success rate close to 100%, and 2) a high risk group treated with polychemotherapy (etoposide, methotrexate, actinomycine D, cyclophosphamide, vincristine) with a response of about 86%. In patients that are not responding to chemotherapy, the 5-year survival rate is about 43%. Longitudinal measurement of hCG as specific and sensitive tumor marker is key for long-term surveillance (148). Placental-site trophoblastic tumors, a rare form of gestational trophoblastic disease that does not secrete hCG, requires stage-adapted management with surgery, or surgery in combination with chemotherapy (149). STRUMA OVARII Definition and Epidemiology Struma ovarii is a rare tumor consisting primarily of thyroid components occurring in a teratoma or dermoid in the ovary (150). It forms less than 1% of all ovarian tumors and 2 to 4 % of all ovarian teratomas; 5 to 10% are bilateral, and 5 to 10% are malignant (151, 152). Thyrotoxicosis occurs in about 8% of affected patients (153). Clinical presentation The clinical presentation may include the finding of an abdominal mass, ascites, pelvic pain, and, rarely, a pseudo-Meigs syndrome with pleural effusions (154). A subset of women present with subclinical or overt thyrotoxicosis. Goiter is only presented in patients with associated thyroid disease. For example, coexistence of Graves' disease and struma ovarii has been reported (155). Diagnosis In patients with
