Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


or overt thyrotoxicosis. Goiter is only presented in patients with associated thyroid disease. For example, coexistence of Graves' disease and struma ovarii has been reported (155). Diagnosis In patients with thyrotoxicosis, TSH is suppressed and T3 and T4 levels are elevated. Thyroglobulin is secreted by benign and malignant ovarian strumae. Radioiodine uptake will reveal uptake in the pelvis, while the uptake in the thyroid is diminished or absent (156). Cross-sectional imaging with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging will demonstrate of uni- or bilateral ovarian masses (156). CA125 may be elevated (154). Malignant thyroid tissue shows the characteristic patterns of papillary or follicular thyroid cancer and can be positive for mutations in BRAF (157). Metastasis is uncommon but has been reported repeatedly (158). Treatment Unilateral or bilateral open or laparoscopic oophorectomy is the primary therapy (159). Thyrotoxic women should be treated with antithyroid drugs and, if needed, with beta-blockers prior to surgery. In the case of malignant lesions, the patient should undergo thyroidectomy followed by treatment with 131iodine (157). The subsequent surveillance for residual or recurrent thyroid cancer does not differ from primary thyroid carcinomas. IODINE-INDUCED HYPERTHYROIDISM I. IODINE-INDUCED THYROTOXICOSIS Definition and Epidemiology An excess of iodine through dietary intake, drugs or other iodine-containing compounds can lead to thyrotoxicosis through increased thyroid hormone synthesis in the presence of underlying thyroid disease, particularly multinodular goiters that contain zones of autonomy (160, 161). Iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis (IIT) has been recognized as early as 1821 by Coindet, who reported that goitrous individuals treated with iodine developed hyperthyroidism (162). The condition is now commonly called Jod-Basedow (Jod = iodine in German; Karl von Basedow = German physician describing the signs of thyrotoxicosis associated with exophthalmos and goiter, i.e. Graves' disease) (163). IIT may occur in patients from endemic goiter areas, patients with multinodular goiters in non-endemic areas, individuals with Graves' disease, and in individuals without previously apparent thyroid disease (164). The sources of iodide leading to IIT are manifold (Table 13-2). IIT has been reported after initiating iodine supplementation, but also with the use of iodinated drugs, contrast agents, and food components (165, 166). Use of non-ionic contrast agents does not prevent the development of IIT (167). Table 13-2 I odine-containing compounds potentially associated with IIT View in own window Radiological contrast agents Diatrizoate Ipanoic acid Ipodate Iothalamate Metrizamide Diatrozide Topical iodine preparations Diiodohydroxyquinolone Iodine tincture Povidone iodine Iodochlorohydroxyquinolone Iodoform gauze Solutions Saturated potassium iodide
