Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


IIT View in own window Radiological contrast agents Diatrizoate Ipanoic acid Ipodate Iothalamate Metrizamide Diatrozide Topical iodine preparations Diiodohydroxyquinolone Iodine tincture Povidone iodine Iodochlorohydroxyquinolone Iodoform gauze Solutions Saturated potassium iodide (SSKI) Lugol solution Iodinated glycerol Echothiopate iodide Hydriodic acid syrup Calcium iodide Drugs Amiodarone Expectorants Vitamins containing iodine Iodochlorohydroxyquinolone Diiodohydroxyquinolone Potassium iodide Benziodarone Isopropamide iodide Food components Kelp, Kombu and other algae Food colors: Erythrosine Iodine containing food: Hamburger thyroiditis For adults, the Dietary Reference Intake for iodine is 150 μg (168). The Tolerable Upper Intake Level for adults has been set to 1,100 μg/day and was assessed by analyzing the effect of supplementation on TSH (169). The thyroid gland needs no more than 70 μg/day to synthesize the required daily amounts of T4 and T3 (170). The higher recommended daily allowance (RDA) levels of iodine are recommended for optimal function of a number of organs such as the lactating breast, gastric mucosa, salivary glands, oral mucosa, thymus, epidermis, and the choroid plexus. The normal thyroid protects itself from acute excessive amounts of iodide by the Wolf-Chaikoff effect, which consists of an immediate reduction in iodide uptake, iodide organification, thyroid hormone biosynthesis and secretion (171). Remarkably, most individuals with a normal thyroid gland also tolerate a chronic excess of 30 mg up to 2 g iodide per day without clinical symptoms (161). Thyroid function tests remain within the reference range although T4 and T3 drop, and TSH rises (161). However, in some individuals, even exposure to modest amounts of excessive iodine can induce IIT or hypothyroidism. Fears that iodine supplementation would lead to IIT led to opposition against iodination programs in Switzerland, but initiation of salt supplementation with very low doses of iodine (3.75 parts per million) were shown to be safe (172). This contrasts with the observations from other iodination programs using higher amounts of iodide. For example, a steep rise of IIT has also been documented in 1966 in Tasmania (Australia), an area of iodine deficiency with a high prevalence of goiter (173). This was associated with the addition of potassium iodide to bread in early 1966. The increased incidence occurred predominantly in subjects older than 40 years, in whom a rise in incidence from 50 to a maximum of 130 cases per 100,000 was seen between 1967 and 1968. By 1974, the incidence decreased to the pre-epidemic level. Most thyrotoxic patients had nodular goiters and few patients
