Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


maximum of 130 cases per 100,000 was seen between 1967 and 1968. By 1974, the incidence decreased to the pre-epidemic level. Most thyrotoxic patients had nodular goiters and few patients had underlying Graves' disease. Later it was recognized that there was already a pre-epidemic increase in the incidence of thyrotoxicosis caused by the use of iodofor disinfectants on dairy farms (174, 175). Recent supplementation programs using inadequately high amounts of iodide in endemic goiter regions in Zimbabwe and eastern Zaire also resulted in a significant number of cases of severe and long-lasting IIT (176, 177). Three years after starting supplementation with iodized salt in China, the prevalence of overt hyperthyroidism in three cohorts was 1.6%, 2.0% and 1.2%, irrespective of the nutritional iodide intake, which varied between mildly deficient, adequate or excessive ((178, 179). The incidence of IIT during the first three years of supplementation was not determined. In these three communities, the cumulative 5-year incidences of overt hyperthyroidism for the 4th to 8th year of supplementation were 0.4%, 1.2% and 1.0%. At first glance, this seems to indicate a very low risk of IIT. However, the calculated 1-year incidence rates are 80, 240 and 200 per 100,000 individuals per year, figures that are much higher than the incidence rates published in other countries (180). In some patients, iodine excess causes overt clinical hypothyroidism. Patients with a history of Graves' disease treated with radioiodine or partial thyroidectomy, partial thyroidectomy for thyroid nodules, or autoimmune thyroiditis appear to be particularly predisposed to iodine-induced hypothyroidism (181-184). Even relatively small excessive doses of 750 ug may be sufficient to induce hypothyroidism (185). Clinical presentation The clinical presentation includes the typical signs of thyrotoxicosis and in most patients the finding of a multinodular goiter. Other patients may have underlying autoimmune thyroid disease. A pre-existing thyroid disorder is been present in at least 20% of patients. Diagnosis The diagnostic considerations are the same as for toxic nodular goiters. Treatment Spontaneous reversal to an euthyroid state may occur after a mean period of 6 months in about 50% of patients. Return to euthyroidism may be preceded by subclinical hypothyroidism (186). In patients with multinodular goiters, the therapeutic considerations are the same as discussed for toxic nodular goiters. Pathogenesis In a classical study, four euthyroid patients with a single autonomous nodule from the slightly iodine-deficient Brussels region received a supplement of 500 μg iodide per day (187).
