Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


goiters. Pathogenesis In a classical study, four euthyroid patients with a single autonomous nodule from the slightly iodine-deficient Brussels region received a supplement of 500 μg iodide per day (187). This caused a slow but constant increase of thyroid hormone. After four weeks, the patients became hyperthyroid . Later studies confirmed the original interpretation that the nodules were not producing excessive amounts of thyroid hormones because of the low iodine intake, but that they became toxic once presented with high amounts of iodine (188). The autonomy of function was secondary to gain-of-function mutations in the TSH receptor (54). Individuals with multinodular goiters living in iodine-replete regions can also develop hyperthyroidism, albeit at much higher doses of iodine (up to 180 mg) (189). Taken together, these observations confirm that individuals with (multi)nodular goiters are particularly prone to developing IIT (161). In regions with iodine deficiency, nodular goiters disappear slowly after the introduction of iodine supplementation and the incidence of hyperthyroidism then gradually decreases over the years (190, 191). More recent data suggest that autonomous nodules are not the only explanation for the pathogenesis of IIT. Several human and animal studies suggest that chronic excessive iodine intake may modulate thyroid autoimmunity and lead to thyrotoxicosis in genetically susceptible individuals. Mice prone to developing autoimmune disease that are first fed an iodine-deficient diet and then switched to iodine excess develop dose-dependent ultra-structural changes in thyrocytes that are consistent with autoimmune disease (192). A necrotic effect of excessive amounts of iodide has been demonstrated in vivo in various animal species and also in human thyroid follicles in vitro (193). Epidemiologic studies performed in China, Turkey and Denmark suggest that supplementation with iodized salt increases the prevalence of autoimmune thyroid disease, resulting in clinical or subclinical hypothyroidism (178), autoimmune hyperthyroidism (194), or both (195). In a population-based, cross-sectional study with 1085 participants exposed to excessive amounts of iodide (40-100 mg/kg salt) from Brazil, the prevalence of chronic autoimmune thyroiditis was 16.9%, women were more commonly affected (21.5 versus 9.1%), 8% were hypothyroid, and 3.3% were hyperthyroid (196). The authors concluded that the excessive iodine may have increased the prevalence of autoimmune thyroid disease and hypothyroidism in this population (196). In Denmark, a moderately iodine-deficient country, introduction of iodized salt at a dose that was calculated to increase iodine intake by only 50 ug per day, an increased incidence of hyperthyroidism was found mainly in younger
