Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


introduction of iodized salt at a dose that was calculated to increase iodine intake by only 50 ug per day, an increased incidence of hyperthyroidism was found mainly in younger patients between the age of 20 and 39 years and was presumably induced by autoimmune thyroid disease (194). In contrast, a study on children in Morocco did not find an effect of iodine supplementation on thyroid autoimmunity (197). It is noteworthy that IIT was also observed in individuals who probably had normal thyroid glands (164, 186, 198). It is well recognized that contrast agents may cause IIT. They contain between 30-50% of iodine and several grams are used freqeuently for radiological studies. Individuals with multinodular goiters or subjects who live in countries where iodine intake is low are at particular risk for developing IIT secondary to exposure to contrast agents (160). Clinicians should be aware that IIT often develops several weeks after their administration. Follow-up of such patients after radiological procedures is therefore advisable and in some cases prophylactic therapy with methimazole prior to the administration of contrast agents may be indicated. Considering the wide use of contrast agents, the probability of inducing IIT by these substances appears to be relatively low. However, the incidence of IIT appears to be inversely related to the nutritional iodine intake. II. AMIODARONE INDUCED THYROID DISEASE Definition and Epidemiology Amiodarone is a widely used anti-arrhythmic agent used for the therapy of ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias, among them atrial fibrillation. It has a very high iodine content of 37.3% by weight. About 3 mg of iodine are released into the circulation per 100 mg of amiodarone ingested. For comparison, the RDA for iodide is 150 μg per day. Its molecular structure has some similarities with iodothyronines and it may interfere with thyroid hormone transport into cells and with intracellular thyroid hormone metabolism and action (Figure 13-2) (199, 200). Amiodarone interferes with 5'-monodeiodination of thyroid hormones leading to a decrease of both intra- and extracellular T3 concentrations. Amiodarone-induced hyper- and hypothyroidism play an important role in clinical practice (200, 201). Amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis (AIT) is more common in iodine-deficient regions, but also occurs in patients with a normal nutritional iodine intake. Amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism is usually seen in iodine-sufficient areas. Reported incidences of AIT vary between 0.003% and 11.5%. In a study involving 1448 patients treated with amiodarone, 30 developed AIT (164). AIT is differentiated into two forms.
