Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


iodine-sufficient areas. Reported incidences of AIT vary between 0.003% and 11.5%. In a study involving 1448 patients treated with amiodarone, 30 developed AIT (164). AIT is differentiated into two forms. AIT Type I is caused by increased hormone synthesis because of exposure to high amounts of iodine, AIT Type II results from cytotoxic destruction of thyrocytes (200). Hypothyroidism occurs predominantly in patients with preexisting thyroid autoimmune disease and in areas of normal iodine intake (199, 202). AIT is more common in men than in women (203). Clinical presentation The signs of thyrotoxicosis are not apparent in all patients with AIT. They may be obscured by the underlying cardiac condition. Some patients have a nodular goiter. Diagnosis The total or free T4 levels are elevated in euthyroid, hypothyroid and hyperthyroid patients treated with amiodarone because of its inhibition of 5'-monodeiodination. In hyperthyroid patients, TSH is suppressed and T3 is elevated. The distinction between AIT Type I and II can be difficult on clinical grounds. The radioiodine uptake is typically low to normal in AIT Type I, and low to suppressed in AIT Type II. Serum interleukin 6 levels are normal to high in AIT Type I and markedly elevated in AIT Type II, but there is significant overlap and the test is of insufficient sensitivity. On Doppler ultrasound, AIT Type I is associated with normal to increased vascularity with patchy distribution, while Type II shows absent vascularity (204, 205). Treatment The therapy of AIT is a challenge. An algorithm for the management of patients with AIT is shown in Figure 13-3 (200). If possible, amiodarone should be discontinued. Patients with type 1 AIT are preferably treated with methimazole (initially 40-60 mg/day, followed by gradual adjustment of the dose), but the response to thionamides is modest. In selected patients, treatment with potassium perchlorate (1 g/day for 4 to 6 weeks) can be considered. Potassium perchlorate is a drug that can cause aplastic anemia and its use should be limited to patients who cannot be controlled by methimazole, or who are allergic to thionamides. For patients with AIT Type II, prednisone (0.5 - 0.7 mg /kg body weight per day) can be used for several months. Because the distinction between AIT Type I and II is difficult and not always clear, and because some patients have mixed forms of AIT, these therapies are occasionally combined. Patients with a history of AIT type II
