Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


and II is difficult and not always clear, and because some patients have mixed forms of AIT, these therapies are occasionally combined. Patients with a history of AIT type II are at risk for developing hypothyroidism if exposed to high amounts of iodide. Pathogenesis Two distinct mechanisms result in AIT. AIT Type I results from the iodine-induced increase in thyroid hormone synthesis. Patients developing AIT Type I usually have a preexisting nodular goiter. AIT Type II is caused by cytotoxic effects of the medication that results in the release of preformed thyroid hormones. Pathology On electron microscopy imaging, AIT Type II shows characteristic multilamellar lysosomal inclusions and intramitochondrial glycogen inclusions, and a morphological picture of thyrocyte hyperfunction (206). No inflammatory changes are present. THYROIDITIS Any form of thyroiditis can be associated with a thyrotoxic phase because the disruption of thyroid follicles can result in an increased release of stored iodothyronines. The thyrotoxic phase may be followed by transient or permanent hypothyroidism. I. ACUTE OR SUBACUTE (DE QUERVAIN'S) THYROIDITIS Definition This disorder, which is discussed in Chapter 19, leads to temporary thyrotoxicosis in approximately half of the patients due to discharge of stored hormone from the thyroid gland. Clinical presentation Patients with subacute thyroiditis often present with a history of a preceding respiratory tract infection (207). They may have fever, malaise, and soreness, and the gland is exquisitely tender on palpation and often displays a substantially increased consistency. Diagnosis The laboratory findings will fluctuate with the course of the disease and typically present with initial thyrotoxicosis, followed by a hypothyroid phase. The thyroid function may normalize or result in permanent underfunction. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate is markedly elevated. Thyroid antibodies are usually not detectable. The radioiodine uptake is extremely low or absent. Thyroglobulin levels are elevated because of the destruction of thyroid follicles. Treatment Symptomatic treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) or aspirin is often sufficient. A subset of patients needs therapy with prednisone for variable amounts of time. Addition of a beta-blocker should be considered based on the severity of the thyrotoxic signs. Therapy with levothyroxine may be necessary during the hypothyroid phase of the illness. While the majority of patients recover completely, about 10% of cases develop permanent hypothyroidism. Pathogenesis The pathogenesis is thought to involve a viral infection. Pathology Cytology and histology show characteristic giant cells. II. SILENT OR PAINLESS THYROIDITIS Definition and Epidemiology Silent thyroiditis is characterized
