Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


68 were female and the age at onset was 32.4 +/- 18.5 in females and 24.9 +/- 8.2 years in males (213). None of the patients presented with thyroid pain. The duration of the thyrotoxic phase was variable, but for the most part, it lasted less than one year. The mean duration was 3.6 months (range 1-12.5). Symptoms began 2.5 - 2.2 months preceding the initial evaluation. This period is shorter than is usually seen with Graves' disease and much shorter than in patients with toxic multinodular goiter. Exophthalmos and pretibial myxedema were absent. The thyroid gland is typically firm in consistency. Forty three percent of patients had an enlarged thyroid, which was generally symmetrical and enlargement was in most instances mild. The clinical course of the disease consists usually of an initial hyperthyroid phase, followed by a hypothyroid phase, and subsequent restoration of a euthyroid metabolic state (Figure 13-4). 57 out of 112 patients became euthyroid and did not develop clinical hypothyroidism. After a brief period of euthyroidism, transient biochemical hypothyroidism developed in 17 patients. In 32 patients clinical hypothyroidism was present (213). Development of Graves' disease, after painless thyroiditis has been documented and TSH receptor antibodies have been found in these patients (222). Diagnosis During the first phase of the disease, discharge of hormone from the inflamed thyroid results in increases in serum T4, T3 and a decrease in serum TSH. During this phase, there is no uptake of radioactive iodine in the thyroid. If thyrotoxicosis factitia is considered in the differential diagnosis, measurement of serum thyroglobulin levels is useful. During ingestion of levothyroxine, little or no thyroglobulin is present whereas serum thyroglobulin levels are elevated in silent thyroiditis. In 17 out of 71 patients with silent thyroiditis, moderate elevations of antithyroglobulin antibodies were present (213). Antimicrosomal antibodies were examined in 53 patients using the complement fixation test or by microsomal fluorescence. Using the former technique, 22 patients had positive antibodies, and by the latter 4 out of 7 were positive (213). In a small series of 7 patients with silent thyroiditis evaluated with a more sensitive radioimmuno assay (RIA) for human antithyroglobulin antibodies, all were positive (209). The white blood cell count is generally normal. In 53 episodes, 34 had elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), but it was greater than 40 mm/hr in only 8 (213). This contrasts with the typical marked elevation of the ESR in
