Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


episodes, 34 had elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), but it was greater than 40 mm/hr in only 8 (213). This contrasts with the typical marked elevation of the ESR in patients with subacute thyroiditis and helps to differentiate the two conditions. T4 and T3 reach subnormal levels in the hypothyroid range in 40% of patients (213). After the hypothyroid phase, patients gradually enter the euthyroid phase, heralded by an increase in thyroid hormone levels and resumption of thyroidal radioactive iodine uptake. The hypothyroid phase may last several months. In 26 episodes, patients became euthyroid after a mean period of 62 months after the onset of the hyperthyroid symptoms. TSH levels may increase during the recovery phase, and can remain elevated for many months. The delayed increase of TSH is due to its suppression during the thyrotoxic phase. Permanent hypothyroidism occurs in about 7% of patients with silent thyroiditis, but a subset of patients may ultimately become permanently hypothyroid. The echogenicity is decreased and a correlation between the decrease in the echo signal at the onset and nadir of the T3 level has been suggested (223) (Figure 13-5). Treatment As thyrotoxicosis is usually mild in silent thyroiditis, there is often no need for any treatment. In some patients, therapy with a beta-blocker can be considered during the thyrotoxic phase. In patients with more severe thyrotoxicosis, administration of NSAIDs and prednisone may be of benefit (224). After the thyrotoxic phase, many patients become temporarily hypothyroid and therapy with levothyroxine should be initiated in symptomatic patients. After a few months, levothyroxine therapy should be gradually withdrawn in order to assess whether the hypothyroidism is transient or permanent. Only a small proportion of patients remain permanently hypothyroid. Some patients, who initially recovered, may ultimately develop permanent thyroid failure (225). In a series of 54 patients, Nikolai et al. reported that about half of the patients developed permanent hypothyroidism (225). This is in contrast with subacute thyroiditis where permanent hypothyroidism is less common. Pathogenesis Although the disease was earlier considered to be a mild form of subacute (De Quervain's) thyroiditis, there is now convincing evidence that it is a lymphocytic thyroiditis (208, 209, 212-217, 222, 226). Many patients with silent thyroiditis have a personal or a family history of other autoimmune diseases, thereby indirectly supporting the concept that it is an autoimmune thyroiditis (227). There is no significant association with viral infections (211). There is
