Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


a family history of other autoimmune diseases, thereby indirectly supporting the concept that it is an autoimmune thyroiditis (227). There is no significant association with viral infections (211). There is a significant association with HLA genotype DR3. Postpartum thyroiditis (see below) is considered to be a form of silent thyroiditis occurring after delivery (228). Pathology On histological examination, follicles are disrupted and infiltrated by lymphocytes and plasma cells (211, 229). The infiltration is diffuse and/or focal, sometimes with the formation of lymphoid follicles. The follicular cells are heterogeneous in appearance. They can be cuboidal or columnar when stimulated by TSH. Some of the hypertrophic follicular cells have an oxyphilic cytoplasm (Hï¿&frac12;rthle or Ashkenazy cells). Thyroid tissue obtained during the hypothyroid or early recovery phase may show regenerating follicles with little colloid. In some patients, persistent mild lymphocytic thyroiditis is seen. Fibrosis is usually minimal, but can be extensive in some cases. Occasionally multinucleated giant cells, which are characteristic of subacute thyroiditis, are observed. The histological picture of postpartum thyroiditis is identical. III. POSTPARTUM THYROIDITIS Postpartum thyroiditis is considered to be a subform of silent (painless) thyroiditis (213). This condition is discussed in Chapter 14. IV. HASHIMOTO'S THYROIDITIS Occasionally, Hashimoto's thyroiditis is accompanied by mild symptoms of thyrotoxicosis, particularly in the early phases of the disease (230). This condition is discussed in Chapter 8. THYROTOXICOSIS FACTITIA Definition Factitious thyrotoxicosis is due to the voluntary or involuntary intake of supraphysiological amounts of exogenous thyroid hormone (231). Most commonly, it is iatrogenic, either intentionally in order to suppress TSH in thyroid cancer patients or unintentionally in patients treated for primary hypothyroidism. In both instances, subclinical thyrotoxicosis is more common. The risk of atrial fibrilliation is increased in patients with long-standing suppression of TSH (232). Several cardiac parameters can be affected (233), but the severity of these effects is somewhat controversial (234). Suppressive doses of thyroid hormones can also affect bone mineral density (235), but this has not been confirmed in all studies (236). Non-iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis factitia can occur in patients of all ages with psychiatric illnesses (231, 237). In addition, some patients may take excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, sometimes prescribed by physicians, for weight loss, treatment of depression, or infertility (207). These patients often deny the intake of thyroid hormones or an excessive intake. In these instances, a heightened suspicion is needed in order to readily diagnose the disorder. Thyrotoxicosis induced by
