Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


patients often deny the intake of thyroid hormones or an excessive intake. In these instances, a heightened suspicion is needed in order to readily diagnose the disorder. Thyrotoxicosis induced by excessive thyroid hormone intake due to consumption of meat containing bovine thyroid tissue has been reported repeatedly. For example, two events of this so called "hamburger thyyrotoxicosis" have been documented in the United States (220, 221). Inclusion of the thyroid in neck muscle trimmings is now prohibited by US Department of Agriculture regulations. Accidental dosing with veterinary levothyroxine preparations has also been reported as a cause of thyrotoxicosis factitia (238). Clinical presentation Patients are clinically thyrotoxic, however they do not show signs of endocrine ophthalmopathy. In patients with a history of thyroid cancer, the history and the finding of a necklace scar readily provide an explanation. The thyroid may be small because of long-standing suppression of TSH. Diagnosis Serum TSH is suppressed, (free) T4 and T3 levels are variably elevated. The T4 and T3 levels depend on the type of ingested thyroid hormone preparation. Both T4 and T3 are high with excessive intake of levothyroxine, while only T3 is elevated with the intake of T3 preparations. With combination therapies, the T4 and T3 increases are variable depending on the relative amounts. Poisoning with T3 may be particularly severe (239), but even very high doses are often well tolerated, especially by children (240). When the diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis factitia is suspected, measurement of serum thyroglobulin levels is useful. During ingestion of levothyroxine, little or no thyroglobulin is present. In contrast, serum thyroglobulin levels are elevated in silent thyroiditis. Mariotti et al. performed thyroglobulin measurements in 6 women with thyrotoxicosis factitia (241). They used a sensitive thyroglobulin assay and excluded the presence of thyroglobulin antibodies that can potentially interfere with the assay. In all 6 women thyroglobulin was undetectable in the serum (241). However, thyroglobulin levels may not be reliable in patients who have anti-thyroglobulin antibodies. In these patients, measurement of fecal T4 can be used to distinguish endogenous and exogenous thyroid hormone excess (242). The thyroidal uptake of radioiodine or technetium are decreased. Doppler sonography shows absent thyroidal vascularity and low-normal peak systolic velocity (243). In contrast, these signs are increased in Graves' disease (243). Thus, factitious thyrotoxicosis is not difficult to differentiate from thyrotoxic Graves' disease, toxic adenoma or toxic multinodular goiter, or subacute thyroiditis. However, it may be difficult
