Thyrotoxicosis of other Etiologies
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pubmed, patients, thyrotoxicosis, tsh, hyperthyroidism, receptor, endocrinol, thyroiditis, toxic, iodine, mutations, clin, disease, levels


in Graves' disease (243). Thus, factitious thyrotoxicosis is not difficult to differentiate from thyrotoxic Graves' disease, toxic adenoma or toxic multinodular goiter, or subacute thyroiditis. However, it may be difficult to readily distinguish silent thyroiditis from thyrotoxicosis factitia. In both situations, radioiodine uptake is very low or absent. In silent thyroiditis the serum thyroglobulin is, however, elevated. Suppressed radioactive uptake of the thyroid gland in combination with thyrotoxicosis may also exist in patients with hyperfunctioning metastases of well-differentiated thyroid carcinomas (76, 77). However, in these extremely rare patients, the thyroglobulin levels are elevated and radioactive iodine uptake will be detected in metastases by using whole body scanning. Treatment In most patients, adjustment or discontinuation of the thyroid hormone preparation is sufficient to normalize thyroid function tests. Patients with surreptitious intake of thyroid hormones for eating disorders or psychiatric illnesses can be difficult to treat and may need psychiatric consultation and assistance. In patients with severe intoxication, beta-blockers can be useful. Gastric lavage, induced emesis, activated charcoal, and, very rarely, plasmapheresis and exchange transfusion, can be considered in patients seen after acute ingestion of large amounts of thyroid hormone (231). SUMMARY Thyrotoxicosis can has a broad spectrum of etiologies (Table I). While it is most commonly caused by Graves' disease, it is of importance to recognize other etiologies in order to choose the most appropriate therapeutic option and long-term surveillance. Toxic adenomas are characterized by a single hyperactive nodule in the thyroid leading to clinical and biochemical thyrotoxicosis. Autonomous or toxic adenomas are most commonly caused by somatic gain-of-function mutations in the TSH receptor or the stimulatory Gs alpha subunit. A toxic adenoma is readily recognized on a thyroid scan. Toxic adenomas appear to be more common in countries with a low iodine intake. The possibility of developing thyrotoxicosis in a patient with a hot nodule with a diameter of 3 cm or larger is 20% in 6 years. This risk is substantially less in smaller nodules. Older patients with a hot nodule are more likely to become toxic as compared to younger patients. Definitive treatment consists in the administration of 131iodine, surgical removal of the nodule, or, less commonly used, percutaneous ethanol injection. The likelihood of malignancy in a toxic nodule is very low. In multinodular goiters, several nodules display an autonomous function. The pathogenesis is complex but may also include activating TSH receptor mutations. In addition to hyperthyroidism, some
