HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Published in final edited form as: Pancreas. 2014 November ; 43(8): 1143–1162. doi:. American Pancreatic Association Practice Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis: Evidence-Based Report on Diagnostic Guidelines Darwin L. Conwell, MD1, Linda S. Lee, MD2, Dhiraj Yadav, MD3, Daniel S. Longnecker, MD4, Frank H. Miller, MD5, Koenraad J. Mortele, MD6, Michael J. Levy, MD7, Richard Kwon, MD8, John G. Lieb, MD9, Tyler Stevens, MD10, Philip P. Toskes, MD11, Timothy B. Gardner, MD4, Andres Gelrud, MD12, Bechien U. Wu, MD13, Christopher E. Forsmark, MD11, and Santhi S. Vege, MD7 1Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Ohio 2Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Endoscopy, 3Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, MA MN System, Ann Arbor, MI PA 11Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition 13Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA Abstract th nd Ohio 43210, Office: 614-366-3433, Fax: 614-293-0861, . Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis remains challenging in early stages of the disease. This report defines the diagnostic criteria useful in the assessment of patients with suspected and established chronic pancreatitis. All current diagnostic procedures are reviewed and evidence based statements are provided about their utility and limitations. Diagnostic criteria for chronic pancreatitis are classified as definitive, probable or insufficient evidence. A diagnostic (STEP- wise; S-survey, T-tomography, E-endoscopy and P-pancreas function testing) algorithm is proposed that proceeds from a non-invasive to a more invasive approach. This algorithm maximizes specificity (low false positive rate) in subjects with chronic abdominal pain and equivocal imaging changes. Futhermore, a nomenclature is suggested to further characterize patients with established chronic pancreatitis based on TIGAR-O (T-toxic, I-idiopathic, G-genetic, A- autoimmune, R-recurrent and O-obstructive) etiology, gland morphology (Cambridge criteria) and physiologic state (exocrine, endocrine function) for uniformity across future multi-center research collaborations. This guideline will serve as a baseline manuscript that will be modified as new evidence becomes available and our knowledge of chronic pancreatitis improves. Keywords chronic pancreatitis; diagnosis; guidelines; evidence-based Introduction At the 2011 meeting of the American Pancreatic Association, a Chronic Pancreatitis Conference was held to review the medical literature to develop the first United States practice guideline for chronic pancreatitis. The APA Practice Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis is a three part
