HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


Conference was held to review the medical literature to develop the first United States practice guideline for chronic pancreatitis. The APA Practice Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis is a three part evidence-based document that reviews the current literature on the diagnosis (Part 1), treatment (Part 2) and management of complications (Part 3) of chronic pancreatitis. The objective of this report is to provide an initial platform on which to build further evidence-based recommendations for the management of chronic pancreatitis as new evidence becomes available. Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is characterized by chronic, progressive pancreatic inflammation and scarring, irreversibly damaging the pancreas, and resulting in loss of exocrine and endocrine function. It was first described in the medical literature in 1788 by Sir Thomas Cawley, however, a review in the New England Journal of Medicine review stated, despite the “thousands of reports dealing with this disease; it remains an enigmatic process of Fortunately, since that landmark publication there have been major advances in our understanding of CP pathogenesis and pathophysiology, including pancreatic fibrosis, etiologic risk factors, natural history, as well as associated genetic and epigenetic changes (2–6). Clinical diagnostic tools have also seen considerable improvement with advances in endoscopic and radiologic imaging techniques, and the development of endoscopy assisted prospective randomized trials are underway using clearly defined outcomes, including validated pain scales, cost analysis and disease-specific quality of life measures, to clarify Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the roles of endoscopy and surgery in the management of chronic pancreatitis and its complications (11–18). and diabetes, as well as numerous acute and chronic complications (16, 18, 19). Current treatments can only provide temporary pain relief and manage complications, but are unable to arrest or slow the progression of this often debilitating illness (13, 19, 20). Additionally, a subset of chronic pancreatitis patients develops pancreatic adenocarcinoma, which is generally advanced at the time of diagnosis due to the marked morphologic changes in the gland that can “mask” tumors, preventing early detection (21, 22). Both basic scientists and clinical researchers are actively investigating the pathogenesis of chronic pancreatitis (23–25). The resulting advances will certainly improve diagnosis, management and treatment of chronic pancreatitis in the future, but until then evidence- based current practice strategies are needed. Where there is no clear evidence, expert opinion from experienced basic scientists, gastroenterologists, therapeutic endoscopists and surgeons, who specialize
