HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


future, but until then evidence- based current practice strategies are needed. Where there is no clear evidence, expert opinion from experienced basic scientists, gastroenterologists, therapeutic endoscopists and surgeons, who specialize in pancreatology, must prevail. Unlike acute pancreatitis, there is a paucity of practice guidelines for chronic pancreatitis in the medical literature. Italian, German and Spanish Consensus Guideline for Chronic Pancreatitis have recently been published and both provide valuable insight into the numerous challenges facing diagnosis and management of this complex disorder. Methods The primary aim of this report is to provide current practice guidelines for chronic pancreatitis from an evidence-based review of the medical literature and expert opinion. The development of the APA Practice Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis involved the following steps: 1. A 1-day multidisciplinary symposium, led by leaders in the field of chronic pancreatitis, to review the literature on chronic pancreatitis as it pertains to diagnosis, treatment and management of complications. The organization committee (DC, SV, and CF) invited participation from speakers, moderators and thought leaders specializing in gastroenterology, surgery and therapeutic endoscopy, from numerous academic centers throughout the United States. 2. The final program was approved by the American Pancreatic Association and organized into three sessions: 1) Diagnostic Guidelines, 2) Treatment Guidelines and 3) Complications and Long Term Management. 3. Experts reviewed the medical literature, and presented evidence pertaining to chronic pancreatitis, epidemiology, diagnosis, treatment and management of its complications. 4. Each of the three sessions concluded with commentary from thought leaders summarizing the major challenges facing physicians treating patients with chronic pancreatitis. Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5. Open discussions and break-out meetings were organized after each session to allow for all 2011 APA conference attendees to participate in debate and discussion of controversial areas, and to assist in the development of future practice guidelines. 6. The conference lectures were transcribed and edited by the speakers, then reviewed and collated by session chairpersons and moderators into a working draft for each of the three sessions. 7. For recommendations, APA used the classification by the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) with slight changes. Strength of recommendation is either strong or conditional (weak). Factors influencing strong recommendation include the quality of evidence, presumed patient-important outcomes, and cost. Conditional recommendation denotes the variability in preferences and values, or more uncertainty, implying less certainty, higher
