HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


Factors influencing strong recommendation include the quality of evidence, presumed patient-important outcomes, and cost. Conditional recommendation denotes the variability in preferences and values, or more uncertainty, implying less certainty, higher cost, or resource consumption. Quality of evidence is high, A (further research unlikely to change confidence in confidence), low, C (further research very likely to impact confidence) and very low, D (an estimate of the effect is uncertain). However, in the GRADE approach, high quality evidence may not translate into strong recommendation and weak evidence may result in a strong recommendation. (26) 8. The conference organization committee reviewed and edited the session drafts, compiling a working draft of the APA Chronic Pancreatitis Practice Guidelines. 9. The working draft was submitted to independent reviewers, experts in each major session area, for critique and commentary. 10. A final draft was submitted to the APA Governing Board for editorial review. 11. After further editorial revisions, the official APA Practice Guideline for Chronic Pancreatitis was finalized and submitted for peer-reviewed publication. Evidence-Based Report on Diagnostic Guidelines Chronic pancreatitis should be in the differential diagnosis of a patient with typical features of epigastric pain with radiation to the back, steatorrhea, weight loss, or recurrent acute pancreatitis. Patients generally have known risk factors for chronic pancreatitis such as moderate to heavy alcohol or tobacco exposure. Because the disease is irreversible and carries a social stigma, the diagnosis needs to be certain (i.e., definitive, probable) before patients with a high suspicion of disease to rule out pancreas carcinoma that can mimic both its clinical and imaging presentation. In general, the radiologic and endoscopic evaluation of a patient with suspected chronic pancreatitis should progress from a least invasive to more invasive approach to establish a diagnosis. A CT scan of the pancreas is usually the initial imaging modality of choice. Patients with equivocal or mild CT imaging findings or refractory symptoms may be referred to specialized centers for additional studies such as magnetic resonance imaging Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (MRI)/secretin-enhanced magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (sMRCP) or endoscopic procedures such as endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and pancreas function testing. The post-test probability of chronic pancreatic disease is markedly influenced by the clinical history, physical examination, etiologic risk factor profile, and results of radiologic and endoscopic imaging tests. Despite exhaustive attempts at diagnosis, up to
