HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


pancreatic disease is markedly influenced by the clinical history, physical examination, etiologic risk factor profile, and results of radiologic and endoscopic imaging tests. Despite exhaustive attempts at diagnosis, up to 5 to 10% of patients cannot be clearly diagnosed with certainty because of disagreement or discordance between imaging and endoscopic findings. This manuscript is the first of a three part guideline proposed by the American Pancreatic Association to assist physicians caring for individuals with suspected chronic pancreatitis. We review the current epidemiology, pathology, radiology, endoscopy and physiologic testing methods and procedures that are currently utilized in the evaluation of suspected chronic pancreatitis. We present evidence to support a definitive diagnosis and propose a nomenclature that can be used at academic centers to standardize clinical research reporting of data. It is our hope that this initial document will serve as an initial platform on which to build further evidence-based recommendations as more knowledge becomes available and as our understanding of chronic pancreatitis pathophysiology improves. Topic 1. Epidemiology and Risk Factors PA (Lead discussant) Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. Data on population-based estimates of chronic pancreatitis is emerging 2. A small fraction of patients progress from acute to chronic pancreatitis 3. Alcohol and smoking are independent risk factors for chronic pancreatitis • both are associated with disease progression and their risks are likely multiplicative 4. The spectrum of risk factors for chronic pancreatitis have broadened 5. Genetic discoveries are rapidly uncovering new susceptibility factors • knowledge of gene, gene-environment interactions may translate into new diagnostic and treatment paradigms Level of evidence 1. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low 2. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - moderate 3. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - high 4. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5. Strong recommendation, level of evidence – moderate In the past 50 years we have learned a lot about the epidemiology and risk factors associated with chronic pancreatitis (CP). Most epidemiologic data for CP comes from large case series and cross sectional studies. Population-based data on CP is scarce due to its low incidence and prevalence; difficulty in establishing an early diagnosis; and, variable time course for progression from acute (AP) to CP. The overall incidence of CP (Table 1) ranges from 4.4 to 11.9 per 100,000 per year(26–33). The incidence is higher
