HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


2.8 [1.7–4.8]). More importantly, smoking cessation reduces the risk ratio estimate for CP by about 50% from 2.4 [1.8–4.2] in current smokers to 1.4 [1.1–1.9] in former shown to reduce the risk of developing calcifications, while continued smoking is associated with increased risk of disease progression(60). The risk associated with smoking and alcohol together is important and likely multiplicative(12). While alcohol and smoking increase the risk of progression individually, disease progression is more likely in the setting of continued alcohol and smoking(61). Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Several genetic variations have been associated with pancreatitis including PRSS1, PRSS2, SPINK1, CTRC, CASR and CFTR(62–72). The role of these gene mutations in CP is becoming increasingly recognized and better understood. It is important to note that these genetic mutations are all primarily linked to the trypsin pathway; the proportion of CP with known genetic mutations is small; and the association of these genetic variations is much stronger in the non-alcoholic etiologies compared to alcoholic pancreatitis (Table 3). Furthermore, specific mutations have been associated with varying degrees of genetic penetrance (80% for PRSS1), and varying risk of idiopathic pancreatitis (CFTR), tropical pancreatitis (CTRC) and non-alcoholic chronic pancreatitis (SPINK1). The pathogenesis of CP can likely be summarized by a two-hit hypothesis model. In the setting of Pre-existing Acute Pancreatitis Risk Factors (genetic, metabolic, environmental) an initial first Acute Pancreatitis hit initiates or activates the immune system, followed by Post-Acute Pancreatitis followed by complete recovery or progression to CP(73). In summary, population based data on the epidemiology of CP is emerging and improving our understanding of the epidemiology, risk factors and pathogenesis of the disease. The spectrum of risk factors for CP has broadened. Alcohol and smoking are independent risk factors for CP and interact in a multiplicative manner. Continuous alcohol and smoking abuse are associated with disease progression. Calculating attributable risk for individual risk factors is difficult due to the complex nature of the disease and the variability of genetic and epigenetic factors. However, it is likely that the attributable risk of alcohol for CP is approximately 40% and that of smoking approaches 25%. Only a small fraction of patients with AP progress to CP21,38,51,52. Genetic discoveries are rapidly unraveling new susceptibility factors and the knowledge of gene and gene-environment interactions will likely translate into targeted diagnostic and treatment strategies. Topic 2.
