HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


progress to CP21,38,51,52. Genetic discoveries are rapidly unraveling new susceptibility factors and the knowledge of gene and gene-environment interactions will likely translate into targeted diagnostic and treatment strategies. Topic 2. Pathologic Definitions discussant) Anatomic Pathology-Based statements 1. Chronic pancreatitis is characterized by atrophy and fibrosis of the exocrine tissue with or without chronic inflammation 2. Scarring of the parenchyma may be focal, patchy, or diffuse 3. Progressive fibrosis and atrophy may lead to exocrine insufficiency (steatorrhea) followed by endocrine insufficiency (diabetes) 4. Autoimmune pancreatitis can mimick pancreas carcinoma Level of evidence The usual level-of-evidence statements are generally not used in anatomic pathology. The pathology of chronic pancreatitis (CP) varies with etiology, but there are changes that are present in all types. Typical changes seen at the gross level include reduction in size of the pancreas, dilatation of ducts, loss of lobular pattern in areas of scarring, and the presence Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of stones in the ducts (Figure 1). Several of these features are variable and may not be seen in all cases. Histologically, the two most common features of CP are loss of acinar tissue (atrophy) and fibrosis. The fibrosis may surround the lobules (perilobular or interlobular fibrosis), or extend into the lobules of acinar tissue (intralobular fibrosis) (Figures 2 and 3). A chronic inflammatory infiltrate may be present (Fig. 2), but this feature is highly variable and disappears late in the course of CP (Figure 3). A diagnosis of CP may be made on the basis of atrophy and fibrosis in the absence of other changes. Islets often survive until late in the course of the disease—becoming more closely spaced as acinar tissue is lost (Figure 4). In cystic fibrosis which may be regarded as a special form of CP, there is dilation of ducts resulting from the abnormal secretions with progressive fibrosis and loss of acinar tissue (Figure 5). Chronic pancreatitis can be a patchy or localized process with regional involvement (Figure 6). This is best understood by considering the mechanisms of pathogenesis, in particular the necrosis-fibrosis hypothesis which posits that CP develops as a result of multiple episodes of acute pancreatitis with necrosis and scarring. This process may be patchy at first, progressing to a diffuse pattern following multiple episodes. This is commonly considered to be the mechanism in alcoholic CP, paraduodenal
