HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


necrosis and scarring. This process may be patchy at first, progressing to a diffuse pattern following multiple episodes. This is commonly considered to be the mechanism in alcoholic CP, paraduodenal CP and likely hereditary pancreatitis. On the other hand, duct obstruction can lead to progressive fibrosis and loss of acinar tissue that may be localized or segmental, as in the presence of an obstructing neoplasm, or may be diffuse as is characteristic of cystic fibrosis. In a review focused on alcoholic pancreatitis, we find the statement that “both alcoholic and non-alcoholic chronic pancreatitis result in indistinguishable pancreatic damage” (74). A recently reported international comparison study provides evidence that the participating pathologists did not distinguish between alcoholic and obstructive CP, although they did become proficient at recognizing autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP) and its subtypes (75). AIP is probably the most histologically distinct type of CP (Figure 7). However, some expert providing a basis for subclassification. Klöppel provides a histologic classification that includes alcoholic, hereditary, autoimmune, paraduodenal, and obstructive CP based on differences in the prevalence of various criteria such as necrosis, pseudocyst, fibrosis, duct lumen, duct contents, and duct epithelium (76). For example, necrosis and pseudocyst are much more likely to be seen in alcoholic CP than in the other forms. However, there is clearly an overlap of most histologic features among all types. A universal histologic grading and scoring system is needed to correlate clinical features with surgical pathologic findings. In summary, atrophy and fibrosis of the exocrine tissue are the key features seen in CP. There may or may not be evidence of chronic inflammation, but it is quite appropriate to refer to CP as a fibroinflammatory disease. The scarring can be focal initially and may progress to become diffuse. The loss of acinar tissue may result in exocrine insufficiency and ultimately loss of islet tissue with diabetes. Acute phase pseudocysts may persist in CP that has developed via the necrosis-fibrosis pathway. Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Topic 3. CHRONIC PANCREATITIS: ULTRASOUND AND COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. Ultrasound and CT are best for the late findings of chronic pancreatitis but are limited in the diagnosis of early or mild pancreatitis. 2. Intraductal pancreatic calcifications are the most specific and reliable sonographic and CT signs of chronic pancreatitis. 3. CT is helpful for the diagnosis of complications
