HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


early or mild pancreatitis. 2. Intraductal pancreatic calcifications are the most specific and reliable sonographic and CT signs of chronic pancreatitis. 3. CT is helpful for the diagnosis of complications of chronic pancreatitis. 4. CT is helpful for diagnosis of other conditions that can mimic chronic pancreatitis. Level of evidence 1. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence – moderate 2. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - moderate 3. Strong recommendation, level of evidence – moderate 4. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low and frustrating for patients and treating physicians. Diagnosis of CP by Ultrasound and CT imaging relies on changes in morphology of the pancreas, easily detected in the setting of advanced disease, but challenging in early CP. The frequent lack of histopathologic confirmation of the diagnosis further complicates evaluation. The key findings are parenchymal loss (glandular atrophy), chronic inflammation, and fibrosis of the pancreas. Important ductal findings include beading, dilated side branch radicals, enlargement of the main pancreatic duct as well as dystrophic intraductal calcifications. Transabdominal ultrasound has been used for many years to evaluate the pancreas. While there have been improvements in hardware and high resolution transducers, there have not been any recent studies to evaluate the diagnosis of CP using ultrasound. Ultrasound is a noninvasive, inexpensive and rapid method of evaluating morphological changes in the pancreas, however, considerable limitations reduce its diagnostic utility. Initially, bowel gas and the patient’s body habitus may obscure the pancreas. Assuming adequate visualization, the majority of transabdominal ultrasound findings are neither specific nor sensitive in the diagnosis of CP. The classic sonographic findings of CP are pancreatic calcifications (Figure 8). These are seen as multiple echogenic foci in as many as 40% of patients.(77) These foci may or may not shadow based on their size and may show color Doppler twinkling artifact. (78) There is no correlation between exocrine function and the number of calcifications.(79, 80) Late findings seen on ultrasound include alterations of the size and echogenicity of the gland, pancreatic calcifications, pancreatic duct dilatation and irregularity, and biliary dilatation. Ultrasound can be used to visualize pseudocysts and complications of chronic pancreatitis, including biliary dilatation and splenic vein thrombosis. Pancreatic Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript parenchymal echogenicity may be normal or decreased in CP, making it an unreliable diagnostic feature.(77, 81, 82) CT is considered by many to be
