HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript parenchymal echogenicity may be normal or decreased in CP, making it an unreliable diagnostic feature.(77, 81, 82) CT is considered by many to be the best initial imaging test for CP.(82–85) It is widely available and allows for comprehensive detailed evaluation of the pancreas. Despite marked improvements in CT, including the development of MDCT, there have not been any recent studies evaluating the sensitivity or specificity for CP. The classical CT findings in chronic pancreatitis are dilatation of the pancreatic duct, pancreatic calcifications, and parenchymal atrophy.(82–85) A retrospective study from the Mayo Clinic published in 1989 studied 56 patients with documented chronic pancreatitis(Figure 9).(86) A dilated pancreatic duct and secondary radicals was the most common findings seen in 68% of patients (Figure 8).(86) Intraductal calcifications were seen in as many as 50% of patients (Figure 10).(86) These were scattered or clustered, focal or diffuse. Calcifications develop from deposition of calcium carbonate in inspissated intraductal protein plugs. Calcifications, however, are associated with advanced or severe CP (Figure 11).(87) Other findings include pancreatic parenchymal atrophy (54%), although this is variable and the pancreas can even be enlarged (30%) or normal in appearance (7%) making the diagnosis difficult (Figure 12) .(86) Unfortunately, parenchymal atrophy is neither sensitive nor specific and can be seen as a normal aging process. Many patients may have a normal-appearing pancreas on CT despite severe exocrine dysfunction. Other CT findings include main pancreatic duct dilatation and dilated secondary radicals. The main pancreatic duct is classically beaded and irregular; however, the main duct may also be regularly contoured. CT is especially helpful in identifying complications of CP, including pseudocysts, portosplenic venous thrombosis, collaterals and arterial pseudoaneurysms, and pancreatico-pleural fistulas.(82–85) CT is especially helpful because it can exclude other causes of abdominal pain or weight loss besides CP. In the literature, studies evaluating the CT features of chronic pancreatitis are from the 1980s. Since then vast improvements in CT technology, including multidetector CT, multiple phase imaging following contrast enhancement and thinner collimation, have undoubtedly improved the sensitivity of the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis. Reevaluation of chronic pancreatitis using CT is long overdue.(82) It is important to distinguish chronic pancreatitis from cancer using imaging studies, however this is not always possible.(88–90) Features that favor CP is intraductal or parenchymal calcifications, lack of obstructing mass, irregular dilatation of the pancreatic duct, and relatively limited atrophy of the
