HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


this is not always possible.(88–90) Features that favor CP is intraductal or parenchymal calcifications, lack of obstructing mass, irregular dilatation of the pancreatic duct, and relatively limited atrophy of the gland. The presence of a “duct-penetrating” sign, that is a dilated duct or branches which penetrate an apparent mass, favors chronic pancreatitis(Figure 13).(88) Features favoring cancer include pancreatic duct dilatation with associated mass at the site of obstruction with associated atrophy of the pancreas, vascular invasion and metastases. In summary, CT is useful as an initial radiologic test; helpful to visualize calcifications and duct abnormalities, and exclude other non-CP etiologies for pain or weight loss. In addition, ultrasound and CT are best for the late findings of CP but have limitations especially in the early diagnosis of mild to chronic pancreatitis. Imaging is quite helpful for the diagnosis of complications of CP. Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Topic 4. MRI Imaging (Lead discussant) Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. Compared to US and CT, MRI is a more sensitive imaging tool for the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis. 2. Ductal abnormalities are very specific and reliable MRI signs of chronic pancreatitis. 3. Signal intensity changes in the pancreas, seen on MRI, may precede ductal abnormalities and suggest early chronic pancreatitis. 4. Stimulation of the pancreas using IV secretin may improve the diagnostic accuracy in the detection of ductal and parenchymal abnormalities seen in chronic pancreatitis. Level of evidence 1. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence – moderate 2. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence – low 3. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence – low 4. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence – low Chronic pancreatitis (CP) leads to irreversible parenchymal and ductal changes in the pancreas. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be able to provide an early diagnosis of CP so patients can be treated early on, or patients can be applied treatment options that may prevent progression. The diagnosis of early CP typically relies on the presence of clinical symptoms, pancreatic exocrine function testing (the “gold” standard) and imaging. MRI is highly sensitive and specific to make the diagnosis of CP by evaluating both parenchymal and ductal changes, especially in patients with more advanced CP. However, MRI can also help in the diagnosis of early CP by evaluating the exocrine response of both the ducts and parenchyma after hormonal stimulation of the gland
