HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


advanced CP. However, MRI can also help in the diagnosis of early CP by evaluating the exocrine response of both the ducts and parenchyma after hormonal stimulation of the gland using intravenous secretin. When applying a standard MRI/MRCP protocol, radiologists should look, from a ductal perspective, for changes that are induced by the periductal fibrosis, the resultant duct ectasia, and obstructed outflow. These changes of side-branch abnormalities, main duct dilation, and strictures, or presence of intraductal stone and intraparenchymal cyst formation can be graded using the Cambridge Classification (Figure 14). In addition to evaluating the ductal changes, MRI is also very sensitive to detect parenchymal abnormalities; what radiologists specifically should look for is subtle signal intensity decreases within the gland, especially on fat-suppressed T1-weighted images. It is very important to realize that these parenchymal abnormalities may precede the ductal abnormalities. Therefore, CT or ultrasound may be falsely negative in the detection of early CP because of their lack of detecting subtle ductal abnormalities. These tests fail to depict these parenchymal changes that are only detected with MRI. Another important conventional MRI feature of CP is the delayed and diminished Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript enhancement of the gland following gadolinium chelates administration. Therefore, in summary for conventional MRI/MRCP, the parenchymal features of CP include, in addition to atrophy (Figure 15), abnormal decreased signal intensity on the fat-suppressed T1- weighted images (Figure 16) and delayed and limited enhancement following contrast administration (Figure 17). As mentioned above, one could currently explore the MRI appearances of early CP following hormonal stimulation of the pancreas, using IV secretin, and look for new or improved detection of ductal and parenchymal abnormalities (Figure 18). One’s primary assessment in evaluating the pancreas with secretin-enhanced MRCP should focus on the pancreatic duct compliance (PDC) which defines a normal distention (of approximately 1 mm) of the ducts following secretin stimulation and then a recovery of the duct diameter to baseline (10 minutes after IV secretin injection). Several investigators have evaluated the time to peak main pancreatic duct dilation after IV secretin stimulation to differentiate a normal pancreas from a pancreas in patients who have CP. Patients with early CP may have completely normal conventional MRCP/MRI studies and only the secretin stimulation will depict the mild abnormal pancreatic ductal compliance. Furthermore, one should also evaluate the IV secretin-augmented
