HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


early CP may have completely normal conventional MRCP/MRI studies and only the secretin stimulation will depict the mild abnormal pancreatic ductal compliance. Furthermore, one should also evaluate the IV secretin-augmented MRCP images for increased number of side branches or new recognition of side branches, and evaluate the exocrine pancreatic function by assessing the production and excretion of bicarbonate and fluid by the gland. The latter can be evaluated both quantitatively and semi-qualitatively. Semi-qualitatively, one can apply a rudimentary grading system that evaluates the filling of the duodenal and jejunal loops of bowel following stimulation. A much more accurate way is to actually measure the exact amount of fluid that gets produced by the gland using a multislice fast T2-weighted sequence and a very simple mathematical model. Measuring the signal intensity of the fluid and the 3-D area of fluid before and after the stimulation of the pancreas with IV secretin allows measuring how much fluid is being produced by the gland over time and can provide a flow rate chart. This quantitative model has been used successfully to evaluate the exocrine fluid flow rate in patients with CP pre and post secretin administration. Lastly, some future MRI applications are on the horizon that may have immediate impact on the way we image patients with CP. The more universal use of high field strength magnets now allows for increased signal-to-noise in the pancreas, and using those high field strength magnets, we can depict more subtle abnormalities in the pancreas compared with lower field strength magnets. Perfusion MRI explores that fact that the pancreas in patients with CP has decreased and delayed enhancement and aims to detect subtle alterations in pancreatic parenchymal perfusion. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging measures the restriction of free Brownian motion (diffusion) of water molecules in the gland. The more fibrosis there is the more likely there will be less diffusion of water molecules (the latter is measured as ADC – apparent diffusion coefficient); therefore, ADC values will be lower in patients with CP than in normal patients. Exploiting this idea, one can actually evaluate the gland using diffusion MRI after IV secretin stimulation and enhance the sensitivity to depict subtle abnormalities in diffusion restriction, and separate normal patients from those with early CP. In summary, MRI is a great tool to detect ductal and parenchymal changes in CP patients; both at “baseline” or after stimulation with IV secretin. The
