HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


those with early CP. In summary, MRI is a great tool to detect ductal and parenchymal changes in CP patients; both at “baseline” or after stimulation with IV secretin. The complexity of the disease, Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript however, remains challenging and limits the accuracy of MRI. Ductal changes may be preceded by parenchymal changes and vice versa. Additional findings can only be detected if one stimulates the gland with IV secretin. There probably is a need for a “EUS like” MRI based staging system, which doesn’t exist at this point, combining the ductal changes with the parenchymal changes, and with the findings following IV secretin stimulation. TOPIC 5. ENDOSCOPIC ULTRASOUND discussant) Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. The ideal threshold number of EUS criteria necessary to diagnose CP has not been firmly established, but presence of ≥5 and ≤2 strongly suggests or refutes the diagnosis of CP. 2. EUS features of CP are not necessarily pathologic and may occur as a normal aging, as a normal variant, or due to non-pathologic asymptomatic fibrosis in the absence of endocrine or exocrine dysfunction. 3. The relatively poor interobserver agreement (IOA) for EUS CP features limits the diagnostic accuracy and overall utility of EUS for diagnosing CP. Level of evidence 1. Strong recommendation, level of evidence – low 2. Strong recommendation, level of evidence – low 3. Strong recommendation, level of evidence – moderate EUS is an often used diagnostic tool for evaluating chronic pancreatitis due to the ability to visualize subtle alterations in pancreatic structure before other imaging modalities and functional tests are abnormal. While the EUS sensitivity is enhanced as one lowers the necessary number of criteria for diagnosis, the already poor specificity further decreases, often leading to unnecessary and often risky interventions. Some have even performed total pancreatectomy and auto-islet cell transplant for pain secondary to presumed CP, only to find normal histology in the resected specimen. The EUS diagnosis is based on ductal and parenchymal criteria described by the International Working Group using minimum standard terminology (MST) and the criteria have been linked to distinct pathologic correlates identified on histological examination. (Figure 19) (91–93) While the MST system classically lists 9 potentially abnormal features, others also consider two additional features including an enlarged pancreas and narrowing of the pancreatic duct. The number of EUS criteria needed to
