HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


system classically lists 9 potentially abnormal features, others also consider two additional features including an enlarged pancreas and narrowing of the pancreatic duct. The number of EUS criteria needed to diagnose CP varies among endosonographers and institutions. The ideal threshold number of EUS criteria necessary to diagnose CP has not been firmly established. For patients with no pancreatic pathology and those with severe CP, EUS provides reliable and accurate diagnosis. However, the diagnosis is seldom in doubt for such Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript patients. EUS offers the greatest potential to impact patient care in persons with early or mild CP, however it is in this subset of patients that results are most uncertain and unreliable. Previously there was broad agreement that the presence of 5 or more features reliably establishes the diagnosis of CP and that absence of all features reliably excludes CP. (91, 94) However, given that some EUS features are actually physiologic and others pathologic, the 5 criteria threshold may not be appropriate. It has been suggested that the presence of 1–2 EUS features should be regarded as a normal gland and that the presence of 3–4 criteria may indicate early or mild CP. Diagnosing CP based solely on minimal EUS criteria, with otherwise negative or inconclusive findings, is strongly discouraged. It is important to patients with possible early or indeterminate disease. Pancreatic injury is a progressive process that leads to increasing structural abnormalities and functional deficits over time. The degree of injury necessary to designate CP is not clearly defined. While exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in the form of steatorrhea does not typically occur until 70–90% or more of functional capacity is lost, the occurrence, timing and severity of disease manifestations greatly vary. Our goal is to accurately diagnose early CP to allow effective intervention to positively influence the natural disease course. However, there is a paucity of data confirming the impact of any currently available therapies or interventions. Efforts to enhance early diagnosis are typically associated with over-diagnosis and decreased diagnostic specificity. Given the limited impact of early interventions and risk of delivering unnecessary and risky care, most set test parameters to favor a greater positive predictive value at the cost of a somewhat delayed diagnosis. Many have questioned the predictive value of individual EUS criteria and suggested their respective predictive values may differ
