HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


greater positive predictive value at the cost of a somewhat delayed diagnosis. Many have questioned the predictive value of individual EUS criteria and suggested their respective predictive values may differ significantly. Rajan et al evaluated 120 patients without evidence of pancreatic disease who underwent EUS for a non-pancreaticobiliary indication. (95) They identified at least one parenchymal and/or ductal EUS abnormality in 28% of patients, with a trend toward increasing numbers of abnormal features with age: <40 years (23%), 40 to 60 years (25%), and >60 years (39%); (p = 0.13). Hyperechoic stranding (n = 22) was the most common finding in all age groups. They concluded that ductal or parenchymal calculi, duct narrowing, duct dilatation, or the presence of more than 3 features appeared to be the most specific features for diagnosing CP regardless of age. Others have reported similar findings. (93, 96) The Rosemont classification was developed from a consensus conference that included 32 internationally-recognized endosonographers. (97) Participants defined each EUS CP criterion and applied these features in a manner that was felt to optimize the diagnostic accuracy. Major and minor criteria were developed and subdivided into major A and major B because of a perceived difference in predictive accuracy. Parenchymal major A criteria included (1) hyperechoic foci with shadowing and (2) well-circumscribed lobularity and the only ductal major A criteria was main pancreatic duct (MPD) calculi. The only parenchymal major B criteria was lobularity with honeycombing. Minor parenchymal criteria were cysts, stranding, non-shadowing hyperechoic foci, and lobularity with noncontiguous lobules. Minor ductal criteria were dilated ducts (body ≥3.5 mm and tail ≥1.5 mm), irregular MPD Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript contour, dilated side branches ≥1 mm, hyperechoic duct margin. The diagnosis of CP based on the “Rosemont Classification” was “consistent” if one of the following was present (A) 1 major A feature (+) ≥3 minor features (B) 1 major A feature (+) major B feature (C) 2 major A features. All other combinations of features were categorized as “suggestive”, “indeterminate” or “normal.” While this classification system represents an important step forward due to the use of weighted criteria, their findings were based solely on expert opinion. It is uncertain which EUS features are pathologic, normal age-related findings, normal anatomic variants, or due to non-diagnostic asymptomatic fibrosis in the absence of endocrine or exocrine dysfunction. (95) Such
