HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


It is uncertain which EUS features are pathologic, normal age-related findings, normal anatomic variants, or due to non-diagnostic asymptomatic fibrosis in the absence of endocrine or exocrine dysfunction. (95) Such “asymptomatic” fibrosis has been reported in alcoholism, advanced age, male gender, obesity, and cigarette smoking. These features have been associated with abnormal pancreatic imaging and histology in patients without of CP. While some of these patients may have mild disease destined to increase in severity over time, the lifetime risk of CP in alcoholics is only 2–5%, far less than the presence of fibrosis alone. EUS findings must be interpreted with caution due to the inability to distinguish this clinically and metabolically benign “asymptomatic” fibrosis from true CP. One of the greatest limitations in the use of EUS for evaluating CP is the relatively poor interobserver agreement (IOA). Wallace et al studied the interpretations from 11 expert for the presence of 9 CP criteria among 33 patients with CP. (92) While agreement was good in 2 features, duct dilatation (kappa = 0.6) and lobularity (kappa = 0.51), agreement was poor for the other 7 features (kappa < 0.4). There was moderate overall agreement for the final diagnosis of CP (kappa = 0.45). Topazian et al assessed IOA for interpretation of EUS in persons at high risk for pancreatic cancer using recorded video clips and found similar results. (98) In summary, while EUS is an important diagnostic tool for evaluating many gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal disorders, the same may not be true for suspected CP. Despite advances in EUS technology and training, there has been no meaningful progress in EUS- based diagnosis since initial reports. The limitations of EUS are greatest for patients within the early/ indeterminate CP and definite CP diagnostic range [>2, <5]. Definitive diagnosis in this vulnerable patient population must include pancreas function testing and advanced radiologic imaging such as MRI and S-MRCP. Further study is needed to refine the definitions of EUS features of CP, to determine the relative predictive value of each feature, to establish an ideal threshold number of criteria and to consider the composite results in a manner that optimizes their diagnostic and prognostic utility. We must also improve our understanding of the impact of factors such as aging, obesity, and smoking on imaging. Any meaningful advance in the use of EUS will mandate broader reproducibility in image interpretation and improved interobserver agreement. If we
