HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


factors such as aging, obesity, and smoking on imaging. Any meaningful advance in the use of EUS will mandate broader reproducibility in image interpretation and improved interobserver agreement. If we are to error in the use of EUS, we should do so in a manner that favors more stringent diagnostic criteria to avoid over- diagnosis and delivery of unnecessary and potentially risky therapies. This approach will lead to failed diagnosis in some patients, but is favored given the current lack of reliably effective therapies. Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Topic 6. ERCP MI (Lead discussant) Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. Endoscopic retrograde pancreatogram (ERP) is rarely used for diagnostic purposes. 2. The correlation between the Cambridge Criteria and histology is highest in advanced chronic pancreatitis. 3. Multiple confounders limit the interpretation of ductal changes by Cambridge Criteria. Level of evidence 1. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - moderate 2. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - moderate 3. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - low With the widespread availability of cross-sectional imaging (CT and MRI) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), endoscopic retrograde pancreatograms (ERP) are rarely, if ever, used to diagnose chronic pancreatitis and instead, have largely been relegated to a therapeutic procedure. ERP had been utilized to identify ductal abnormalities or obstructions, to clarify ductal anatomy prior to surgical intervention, and to confirm the patency of post-surgical anastomoses, including pancreaticojejunostomies(99). Now recent guidelines, published by the ASGE in 2006, recommend that ERP should be reserved for patients in whom the diagnosis still remains unclear after pancreatic function testing or other noninvasive (CT or MRI) or less invasive imaging studies (EUS) have been performed(100). The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis by ERP is made on the basis of changes in the main pancreatic duct and side branches, requiring a quality pancreatogram to most accurately delineate the ductal anatomy (101). Contrast should be injected through the length of the pancreatic duct to the tail, as well as into the secondary branches while avoiding acinarization of contrast (101). It is also important to avoid intraductal air bubbles and movement artifact, which will contribute to misinterpretation of the pancreatogram. The most accepted criteria for scoring ductal changes on pancreatograms are the Cambridge Criteria (101) (Figure 20a) which grade pancreatograms from normal or equivocal to mild, moderate or severe chronic pancreatitis based on main duct and
