HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


ductal changes on pancreatograms are the Cambridge Criteria (101) (Figure 20a) which grade pancreatograms from normal or equivocal to mild, moderate or severe chronic pancreatitis based on main duct and side branch abnormalities (Figure 20b–e). Main duct abnormalities include dilation, narrowing, strictures, filling defects and leaks or cavities. Identification of these abnormalities can be subjective as their definitions are not clear. Average normal main duct diameters were 3.6, 2.7 and 1.6 mm in the head, body and tail respectively(101), though the upper limited normal may be as high as 6.5, 5 and 3 mm in the head, body and tail, respectively(101–103). Main duct dilation is either general (involving more than 2/3 of the main duct) or local (< 2/3 of the ducts). Severe dilation was defined as being > 1 cm. Side branch abnormalities include decreased number, Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript shortened length and dilated or narrowed caliber, however, the criteria to distinguish normal from abnormal are not clearly defined. There are several limitations which account for the decline in the use of ERP for diagnostic purposes. The ERP procedure is invasive and carries a risk of post-procedure complications, including acute pancreatitis. ERP can be operator dependent and the interpretation of pancreatograms is subject to interobserver variability(104). Moreover, pancreatograms allow visualization of the ductal anatomy only, without any parenchymal imaging. Other potential confounders to interpretation of pancreatograms include age-related ductal changes(101, 105–107), post-acute pancreatitis ductal changes(108, 109), as well as PanIN-related branch duct changes(110, 111), which are indistinguishable from ductal changes related to CP. The experts at the Cambridge conference admitted that pancreatography “does not imply coincidence with the severity of disease pathology or functional status”(101). A recent study of 31 patients who underwent both ERCP and pancreatic resection showed a correlation between the Cambridge criteria and histology in 74% (n=23)(112). This correlation between pancreatogram and histology was higher in patients with moderate and marked disease (77%) by ERP than those with normal, equivocal or mild changes (67%)(112). In a post- mortem study of 69 patients without chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic duct abnormalities on pancreatograms led to a diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis in 81% of the patients (minimal 37%, moderate 33%, severe 11%). Therefore, considering ductal abnormalities alone can lead to a misdiagnosis of chronic pancreatitis (107). In terms of correlation with other tests, there is good correlation
