HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


37%, moderate 33%, severe 11%). Therefore, considering ductal abnormalities alone can lead to a misdiagnosis of chronic pancreatitis (107). In terms of correlation with other tests, there is good correlation between ERP and MRCP(113, 114). The correlation with pancreatic function testing may be modest, particular with early disease(115, 116) and is the subject of a later discussion. In summary, ERP can yield useful diagnostic information though it is rarely used as a diagnostic modality in chonic pancreatitis. The correlation of abnormalities on pancreatogram with histology and function is higher in advanced disease than early disease. Topic 7. Indirect Pancreatic Function Testing discussant) Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. Indirect pancreatic function tests generally are sensitive for steatorrhea, and useful in quantifying the degree of exocrine insufficiency. 2. Indirect pancreatic function tests are moderately sensitive and specific for diagnosing advanced chronic pancreatitis, but are less so for diagnosing early chronic pancreatitis. 3. The fecal elastase assay, the polyclonal assay more than the monoclonal, can be limited in specificity, especially if the stool sample is watery and/or in the presence of small bowel disease. Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. Fecal chymotrypsin may be useful in detecting compliance with exogenous pancreatic enzyme supplementation. 5. Fecal fat assays are sensitive for steatorrhea but are of limited utility due to the cumbersome nature of patient collection and lab handling of samples. In addition, strict adherence to dietary recommendations for several days is required. Level of Evidence 1. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low 2. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - strong 3. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low 4. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low 5. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - moderate Indirect pancreatic function tests, such as serum trypsinogen, fecal elastase and fecal fat indirect pancreatic function tests are sensitive only for late chronic pancreatitis (when steatorrhea is already present).(118) Thus they are best used to quantify the degree of insufficiency in established chronic pancreatitis, rather than diagnosing chronic pancreatitis. (119) For example, indirect pancreatic function tests are modestly sensitive and specific even for advanced chronic pancreatitis.(120–122) In general, indirect tests of pancreatic function should always be accompanied by cross sectional CT or MRI imaging studies to rule out malignancy. In rare circumstances when direct pancreatic function testing may not be available or tolerated, indirect pancreatic function tests may
