HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


cross sectional CT or MRI imaging studies to rule out malignancy. In rare circumstances when direct pancreatic function testing may not be available or tolerated, indirect pancreatic function tests may be used to assist in the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis. In this setting, it is crucial to understand the characteristics of the type of assay being used (serum trypsin by RIA vs ELISA and monoclonal vs polyclonal fecal elastase assays) and whether the patient has complied with pretesting preparations (high fat diet for fecal fat measurement, etc). Laboratory factors also play a role; for example, a fecal elastase test should be performed on a solid stool sample to avoid falsely positive results.(123) Serum amylase and lipase measurement should not be entirely discounted as a potentially useful indirect test of pancreatic function especially if they have a low value.(124–127) Typically when performing indirect tests to diagnose chronic pancreatitis, the reference values should likely meet a more stringent threshold than when performed in patients with established/obvious chronic pancreatitis. In this setting, at least 2 indirect pancreatic function tests, sampling different substrates (blood, stool), should be performed. For example, a serum trypsin measured by RIA of less than 20pg/dL (128) and a fecal elastase <50μg/dL stool by monoclonal antibody in the same patient are probably diagnostic of chronic pancreatitis, though further study is needed in this area. Classic false-positives fecal elastase measurements (low levels) occur in small bowel bacterial overgrowth and watery stool.(129, 130) Conversely, classic false-negative serum trypsin measurements (normal/high levels) occur when performed in the setting of acute pancreatic inflammation.(131) In the Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript absence of other supporting evidence, intermediate indirect pancreatic function test results (monoclonal fecal elastase 50–200μg/dL, or trypsin 20–29pg/dL by RIA) should be interpreted with caution when used to diagnose chronic pancreatitis. A polyclonal fecal elastase may be a better test,(132) however, the monoclonal assay is currently better standardized, yet some large US commercial reference labs reflexively use the polyclonal assay. Newer methods such as 13C-MTG triglyceride breath testing, while shown to be sensitive and specific in select tertiary referral centers,(133, 134) have not yet been universally adopted in the United States. Fecal fat measurement alone is highly nonspecific and in isolation cannot diagnose chronic pancreatitis. Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (steatorrhea) in the setting of established chronic pancreatitis is currently defined as more than
