HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


fat measurement alone is highly nonspecific and in isolation cannot diagnose chronic pancreatitis. Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (steatorrhea) in the setting of established chronic pancreatitis is currently defined as more than 7 grams of fat per 24 hours measured by a 72 hour fecal fat test.(135) This reference value is valid only in the appropriate clinical context: small bowel bacterial overgrowth and celiac sprue/short gut and inflammatory bowel disease have been excluded. A positive qualitative fecal fat (more than 6 droplets per high power field), which is a fairly insensitive test for steatorrhea,(136, 137) or monoclonal fecal elastase (<50μg/dL) under similar circumstances would also support the diagnosis of exocrine insufficiency. Fecal chymotrypsin is currently only available through one company in the U.S., however, because it detects porcine pancreatic elastase, it may be useful to evaluate patient compliance with exogenous pancreatic enzyme supplementation.(138) The role of tests of endocrine function such as a serum pancreatic polypeptide level, other than traditional definitions of diabetes such as a hemoglobin A1C, a fasting glucose or glucose tolerance test, has not been well characterized in the assessment of chronic pancreatitis and these endocrine tests are probably neither sensitive nor specific for CP but may serve as outcome measures worthy of further investigation. (139, 140) Topic 8: Direct Pancreatic Function Tests discussant) Evidence-Based Statements 1. Direct pancreatic function tests have high sensitivity for detecting late chronic pancreatitis, but lower sensitivity (70–75%) for early chronic pancreatitis. 2. The traditional secretin and CCK PFTs performed with the oro-duodenal tube pancreas fluid collection are highly accurate, but require fluoroscopy for confirmation of tube placement and are not widely utilized. 3. The endoscopic PFT (ePFT) has good correlation with the traditional Dreiling PFT. Level of evidence 1. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - low 2. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - moderate 3. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - moderate Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Direct pancreatic function tests (PFT) have a long history, from traditional testing dating back to the early 1900s to newer techniques, including the endoscopically assisted and the purely endoscopic methods. Direct PFT may be limited by, among other factors, false positives for at least several months following a bout of acute pancreatitis and false negatives in some patients who have early chronic pancreatitis. Direct PFT is capable of detecting secretory dysfunction in patients with
