HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


several months following a bout of acute pancreatitis and false negatives in some patients who have early chronic pancreatitis. Direct PFT is capable of detecting secretory dysfunction in patients with at least 30% pancreas damage and therefore has a high sensitivity for late chronic pancreatitis, but certainly will miss patients with less severe pancreatic damage. Sensitivity of the traditional Dreiling tube test for early chronic pancreatitis decreases to 70–75%. (1,2,3) The original secretin stimulated direct PFT was performed with the Dreiling tube and popularized at the University of Florida (Figure 21). This test is highly accurate and measures duct cell function. This double lumen, 26 French oro-duodenal tube with both gastric and duodenal ports is introduced using fluoroscopy guidance. The patient’s oropharynx is medicated with topical anesthesia. Under fluoroscopic guidance, the weighted tip of the Dreiling tube is swallowed and advanced close to the ligament of Treitz and the tapered radiopaque portion of the tube is positioned at the pylorus. Low, constant suction is applied to collect duodenal fluid at 0, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes following an intravenous bolus injection of secretin, and the fluid is analyzed for pH, volume, and bicarbonate concentration. Drawbacks of this procedure may include patient discomfort, need for fluoroscopy, and limited availability of the traditional Dreiling tubes. Patients with nausea, gastroparesis, and pyloric stenosis pose a challenge to performing this procedure. technique using two double lumen tubes for perfusion and aspiration of both gastric and duodenal contents. This test measures acinar cell function. This test incorporates a marker perfusion system to account for the amount of gastric and duodenal fluid that is “lost” or escapes aspiration into the distal small bowel lumen to accurately calculate the total pancreatic enzyme secretory output. Disadvantages of this procedure include limited availability of the special “dual tube” system, need for fluoroscopy, utilization of a PEG/ mannitol marker and need for continuous intravenous CCK infusion during the duration of the test. (4) Combining secretin and CCK injection does not appear to yield improved results and, in fact, peak bicarbonate concentration over 1 hour is the best correlate to histologic findings. Several endoscopic variations of pancreas function testing have been developed. (5–11) The the patient to be moderately sedated, typically with a long acting benzodiazepine and narcotic, for the upper endoscopy while pancreas fluid is suctioned via the upper EGD or EUS endoscope. (6) Following intravenous bolus injection of
