HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


typically with a long acting benzodiazepine and narcotic, for the upper endoscopy while pancreas fluid is suctioned via the upper EGD or EUS endoscope. (6) Following intravenous bolus injection of secretin (0.2mcg/kg), duodenal fluid is aspirated from the duodenal bulb. When performing ePFT, it is important to completely aspirate gastric secretions to avoid contamination of duodenal fluid by the acidic gastric contents. Placing the patient at 30 degrees or in Trendelenburg prevents distal migration and loss of duodenal fluid. It is also very important to aspirate and discard approximately 2–4 mL of duodenal fluid before each collection to rinse residual gastric fluid from the suction channel. For the full one-hour test, normal peak bicarbonate level is greater Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript than or equal to 80 mEq/L. The shortened screening test uses a peak bicarbonate cutpoint of 75 meq/L. Advantages of this test include its simplicity, universal availability of upper endoscopy, and lack of need for fluoroscopy. While modest sedation does not affect ePFT results, the impact of heavy sedation and/or general anesthesia on ePFT results is unclear and may confound function test result interpretation.(7) There is good correlation between the traditional Dreiling test and the ePFT test. (Figure 22) A newer disposable, latex-free version of the Dreiling tube can also be endoscopically placed over a guidewire with fluoroscopic assistance (Figure 23) while the Liguory tube (Frank Burton method) can be advanced over a wire during upper endoscopy without fluoroscopy. (10) The disposable Liguory tube has a pigtail tip with side ports at the end (Figure 24). Following placement of the tube, the patient is transferred to the recovery area where secretin is administered and pancreatic function test performed. The average time for endoscopic Dreiling tube placement is approximately 10 minutes in combination with 2 minutes of fluoroscopy time. Intraductal PFT performed during ERCP requires cannulation of the pancreatic duct followed by injection of secretin, and aspiration of pancreatic secretions from within the pancreatic duct for approximately 15 minutes. Following secretin injection, the bicarbonate level in pancreas fluid continues to rise and does not plateau for about 15 to 30 minutes (see Figure 22). Therefore, timing of aspirations is critical for accurate functional assessment. A recent study comparing intraductal PFT during ERCP to the standard Dreiling test reported a 20% specificity and 80% sensitivity for the intraductal
