HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


aspirations is critical for accurate functional assessment. A recent study comparing intraductal PFT during ERCP to the standard Dreiling test reported a 20% specificity and 80% sensitivity for the intraductal test. (11) In summary, the one-hour ePFT and Dreiling tube collection methods are the non-histologic gold standards for diagnosis of early chronic pancreatitis. A shortened 30–45 minute ePFT test may be used to screen for chronic pancreatitis. In practice, patients referred with chronic abdominal pain undergoing evaluation for early CP may undergo screening for CP using EUS combined with the shortened 45-minute ePFT to assess for both structural and functional changes of CP. Because the 45-minute test has slightly lower specificity than the full 1-hour test, patients with borderline results should undergo a full 1-hour PFT with the endoscopic or Dreiling tube method. TOPIC 9. CORRELATION OF IMAGING AND FUNCTION WITH HISTOLOGY Evidence-Based Medicine Statements 1. As structural severity worsens in CP, exocrine function declines 2. Both EUS and PFT results correlate with fibrosis in CP 3. A combined approach (e.g. EUS/ePFT) could improve detection of minimal change chronic pancreatitis (MCCP) Level of evidence 1. Strong recommendation, level of evidence - moderate 2. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3. Conditional recommendation, level of evidence - low Mild exocrine insufficiency is frequently present in mild and severe CP, and progressive structural fibrosis is reflected in exocrine function decline. However, this relationship is not linear, nor are imaging and PFT results perfectly concordant. Multiple studies have shown suboptimal concordance of ERCP and PFT results, with the greatest discrepancy in mild disease. In one example, the concordance rate for secretin PFT and ERCP in non-calcific CP was only 47% (141). EUS is now favored over ERCP for the endoscopic diagnosis of CP diagnosis due to increased safety and the ability to evaluate both the ductal and parenchymal architecture. As with ERCP, similar discordance has been seen between EUS criteria and PFT results. The overall concordance rates between EUS and secretin PFT range from 48 to 70% in 3 past studies comparing EUS and secretin PFT (142–144). In 302 patients undergoing a combined EUS and secretin endoscopic PFT, a moderate correlation was observed between peak bicarbonate concentration and EUS score (r= −0.59) (144). Only a few recent studies evaluating ERCP, EUS, and PFT have incorporated
