HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


secretin endoscopic PFT, a moderate correlation was observed between peak bicarbonate concentration and EUS score (r= −0.59) (144). Only a few recent studies evaluating ERCP, EUS, and PFT have incorporated histological reference standards. Two studies compared secretin and cholecystokinin PFT results with histological fibrosis. Twenty-five patients underwent a PFT prior to surgery for painful CP (145). A discriminative analysis revealed moderate correlations of certain PFT parameters (e.g. peak bicarbonate and trypsin concentrations) with specific histological features (e.g. atrophy, small duct dilation). Weaker correlations were observed between other parameters. Another study compared PFT results with pancreatic histology in 108 patients undergoing a variety of abdominal surgeries (146). Most patients had surgery done for non-pancreatic indications (e.g. cholecystectomy) that included performance of a wedge biopsy of the pancreas. A significant correlation (r=0.59) was observed between the overall PFT and histological rating scales. Three recent studies (147–149) have compared preoperative EUS criteria with histology in patients undergoing pancreatic resections or operative biopsy, using Ammann’s pancreatic fibrosis score (150). These studies differ in the patient populations (CP vs. pancreatic masses) disease severity (minimal change vs. calcific), and the fibrosis score cutpoint used to diagnose CP. The overall correlation coefficients for EUS vs. fibrosis scores range from 0.40 to 0.85, suggesting a ‘moderate’ to ‘very good’ correlation. The sensitivity and specificity estimates for EUS compared with the histological reference standard range from 83–91% and 80–100%, respectively. Another study reported preoperative EUS results in 50 patients undergoing total pancreatectomy with autologous islet cell transplant (151). One to 3 wedge biopsies were obtained for histological examination prior to enzymatic digestion of the gland for islet cell isolation. The histological findings of fibrosis, atrophy, or inflammation were considered individually diagnostic of CP. This study was less encouraging for EUS as a diagnostic test. Compared with histology, the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve was only 0.593, indicating poor discrimination. Furthermore, the negative and positive predictive values were poor even when the EUS cut point was optimized for each. It is controversial whether EUS or PFT is most sensitive for detecting early CP. It is clear that some patients with significant structural changes have preserved exocrine function; Pancreas. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 May 17. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript while others have minimal or no EUS features and might still have an abnormal PFT indicating early CP. In a recent study, EUS and/or
