HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, chronic, manuscript, author manuscript, author, chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic, manuscript author, patients, eus, evidence, pancreas, diagnosis, level, duct


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript while others have minimal or no EUS features and might still have an abnormal PFT indicating early CP. In a recent study, EUS and/or a secretin endoscopic PFT were done in 25 patients within one year of resection or open biopsy (149). Twelve patients had both tests done and had histological fibrosis indicating CP. Correlations for EUS and ePFT were 0.72 and 0.57 respectively (Figure 25). Of these, all 25 had either an abnormal EUS or ePFT, indicating 100% sensitivity of the combined approach (Figure 26). Although the sample size is small, these results imply that combining structural with function testing may optimize the detection of minimal change CP. In summary, the overall correlation of EUS and PFT with histology appears to be in the moderate to very good range. The studies comparing EUS and PFT with histology have significant limitations. Most were done using a highly selected sample of patients undergoing planned pancreatic surgery. The studies are heavily weighted with severe disease, which may falsely elevate sensitivity (i.e. spectrum bias). Also, not all patients undergoing the EUS or PFT go on to receive a histological diagnosis, which produces verification bias. The use of wedge pancreatic biopsies in some studies may lead to sampling bias. A combined EUS/ePFT approach may be most useful for the evaluation of patients with chronic abdominal pain and suspected early or “minimal change” chronic pancreatitis. Summary of Diagnostic Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis Columbus, Ohio (Lead discussant) Confirming a diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis is clear in highly suspicious patients (recurrent pancreatitis, alcohol or smoking abuse) with steatorrhea, weight loss and marked/ moderate morphologic changes in the gland. The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis still remains challenging in early stages (equivocal and mild morphologic or physiologic changes) of the disease. These patients should not be classified as having CP until definitive diagnostic features are evident. Our guidelines propose a diagnostic algorithm that proceeds from a non-invasive to more invasive diagnostic approach (Figure 27a–b). This algorithm maximizes specificity (low false positive rate) in subjects with chronic abdominal pain and equivocal imaging changes. The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis is made based on definitive criteria. All patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis should have a dedicated pancreatic protocol CT scan or MRI/MRCP to rule out pancreas carcinoma. Our guidelines define the diagnostic evidence for chronic pancreatitis as definitive, probable and insufficient based on current knowledge of
