Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


ABSTRACT Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a prevalent, autosomal co-dominant disorder of lipid metabolism that results in elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and premature atherosclerosis. Screening for and identifying heterozygous FH in childhood is critical, given its high prevalence and asymptomatic presentation. Furthermore, treatment of FH in childhood is effective at lowering LDL-C levels and has the potential to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) events in adulthood. Selective screening based on family history had previously been recommended to identify children and adolescents with FH or other lipid disorders. However, studies indicated that many individuals with heterozygous FH were missed with this approach, and therefore in 2011 the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Expert Panel recommended universal screening of children and adolescents between ages 9 and 11 years and again at ages 17 to 21 years, in addition to selective screening, in order to identify pediatric individuals with heterozygous FH. This approach was affirmed in the 2018 American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) Cholesterol Guidelines, along with endorsing cascade screening as another reasonable approach to identifying children with FH. Once FH is diagnosed, prompt treatment with lifestyle modification should be initiated. When lifestyle interventions are not sufficient, pharmacotherapy using statins has been shown to be effective at lowering LDL-C, generally safe in short and medium- term studies, and may be beneficial at reducing ASCVD events. Other medications can be useful at lowering LDL-C in conjunction with statin therapy, although generally statins are sufficient in young patients. Homozygous FH is a rare disorder manifesting as extremely high LDL-C and ASCVD in childhood, requiring aggressive multimodal management. Overall, studies are needed to determine the optimal timing and intensity of statin therapy, and to better understand long-term safety and ASCVD outcomes in adulthood for lipid-lowering pharmacotherapy initiated in pediatric patients with heterozygous FH. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), as classically described, is the most common single gene disorder of lipoprotein metabolism and causes severely elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. The prevalence of FH is 1 in 200 to 1 in 300 individuals of different ethnicities ( 1 , 2 ), and it is strongly associated with premature coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 3 ). Data from observational studies suggest that untreated FH is associated with ~90-fold increase in mortality due to atherosclerotic
