Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


is strongly associated with premature coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 3 ). Data from observational studies suggest that untreated FH is associated with ~90-fold increase in mortality due to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in young adults ( 4 ). Since early treatment may significantly reduce CAD-related morbidity and mortality in individuals with heterozygous FH ( 5 ), early identification and intervention during childhood may greatly improve outcomes in adulthood. EPIDEMIOLOGY The prevalence of FH varies substantially, depending upon the criteria used to define the disorder and the ancestry of the population. Previously, the prevalence had been described as 1 in 500 individuals based on early work by Drs. Brown and Goldstein ( 6 , 7 ). More recent analysis of white European populations, which tend to be less ethnically and racially diverse than the US, show higher prevalence rates ( 8 , 9 ). An analysis using a modified version of the Dutch Lipid Clinic (DLC) criteria applied to participants in the 1999 to 2012 National Health and Education National Surveys (NHANES), a nationally representative survey of the US population, suggest FH affects 1 in 250 US adults ( 1 ). The prevalence of FH in US children and adolescents is not as well characterized, although presumably it is similar. Some estimate that as few as 10% of individuals with FH have been identified in the US. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND GENETICS FH was initially defined by Brown and Goldstein as a disorder or defect in the LDL receptor (LDL-R) ( 3 ). More recently, the description of FH has been expanded and used to describe any defects in LDL-C processing and/or signaling that may lead to a phenotype characteristic of FH ( 10 ). FH may be more common and complicated than previously thought, with many different genetic variants leading to pathogenesis. Overall, nine genes are causative for autosomal forms of FH, and up to 50 polymorphic loci contribute to polygenic susceptibility to elevated LDL- cholesterol levels ( 11 ). Some etiologies for the FH phenotype include defects in apoB100 lipoprotein, the major atherogenic lipoprotein component of LDL-C, as well as gain of function mutations in proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), which promotes the degradation of the LDLR, resulting in reduced LDL-C clearance ( 7 ). Gene mutations in LDL-R, the apolipoprotein B gene, or in PCSK9 occur in approximately 93, 5, and 2 percent of individuals with a phenotype
