Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


reduced LDL-C clearance ( 7 ). Gene mutations in LDL-R, the apolipoprotein B gene, or in PCSK9 occur in approximately 93, 5, and 2 percent of individuals with a phenotype consistent with FH, respectively ( 12 ). The associated impairment in function of these receptors or proteins results in overall reduced clearance of LDL particles from the circulation and elevation in plasma LDL-C. There is also increased uptake of modified LDL by macrophage scavenger receptors, resulting in lipid accumulation in macrophages and foam cell formation, a precursor to atherosclerotic plaque development ( 13 ). Thus, the typical lipid profile of FH is characterized by elevated LDL-C (as high as 300 mg/dL) with subsequently increased total cholesterol (TC) levels; in general, triglycerides are normal, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL-C) can be low or normal. FH has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern which results in hypercholesterolemia and early ASCVD events. There are various genetic mutations that can cause FH, which can either be monogenic or polygenic in nature. See Table 1 below for a list of genes that are associated with FH. Table 1. Genes Associated with FH View in own window Monogenic Autosomal Dominant LDLR APOB PCSK9 APOE* Autosomal Recessive LDLRAP1 LIPA (Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency**) ABCG5 and ABCG8 (Sitosterolemia**) Polygenic Genetic variants associated with FH which together can impact LDL-C levels * Specific mutations or candidate regions associated with FH. ** Refer to specific Endotext sections on lysosomal acid lipase deficiency and sitosterolemia for more information. In general, homozygotes for mutations in the LDL-R gene are more adversely affected than heterozygotes, reflecting a “gene dosing effect” of inheritance. Unless there is consanguinity in a family in which heterozygous FH is present, homozygous FH is less prevalent and may affect as many as 1 in 160,000–300,000 individuals ( 14 ). Additionally, the homozygous FH phenotype can be seen in compound heterozygotes which can occur in offspring of unrelated parents due to a different disease-causing mutation on each allele. The severity of the FH phenotype does not necessarily depend upon the presence of true homozygosity or compound heterozygosity inheritance; rather it is determined by the degree of disturbance in LDL metabolism. For additional information on the genetics as well as pathophysiology, refer to “Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond” by Warden et al ., www.endotext.org ( 15 ). FH PHENOTYPE Clinical Symptoms HOMOZYGOUS FH Due to the excessively high plasma LDL-C levels in homozygous
