Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


of life (reported as early as age two years), and are at increased risk for CAD-related mortality in the first and second decades ( 16 ). Additionally, patients with homozygous FH can develop cholesterol and calcium deposits that can lead to aortic stenosis and occasionally to mitral regurgitation. Heterozygotes are also at increased risk for early-onset CAD between the ages of 30-60 years ( 18 ). Children with heterozygous FH have thicker carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT), an anatomic measure of arterial thickness associated with atherosclerosis, compared to unaffected siblings and healthy controls ( 19 , 20 ). One study showed those treated with statin medications (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) at younger ages had less carotid atherosclerosis compared to the placebo group. Results from long-term studies of statins in children with FH are just emerging, and indicate that statin treatment during childhood may slow progression of cIMT and reduce the risk of CVD in adulthood ( 21 ). SCREENING Given the high prevalence of FH and the improved outcomes with early treatment, pediatric lipid screening has become very important for the detection of FH. However, the approach to lipid screening in childhood and adolescences has varied over the past decades and is somewhat controversial, with the US Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recently concluding that that the current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening for lipid disorders in children and adolescents ( 22 ). Selective screening of young individuals with a family history of hypercholesterolemia and/or early CV events or patients at risk for atherosclerosis for other medical conditions has been recommended for several decades ( 23 – 25 ). However, screening individuals based only on family history may miss 30-50% of children with elevated LDL ( 24 – 26 ). Thus, the 2011 Expert Panel, supported by the more recent 2018 ACC/AHA Cholesterol Guidelines ( 27 ), recommended universal lipid screening, which involves screening in childhood at two time points, once between ages 9 and 11 years, and then again between ages 17 and 21 years ( 28 ). Universal screening is recommended in those not already selectively screened based on family history or personal risk factors ( Table 3 ). Selective screening for FH involves obtaining a fasting or non-fasting lipid panel in individuals ages 2 to 21 years with: 1. Family history of early atherosclerosis or high cholesterol. 2. Relatives of individuals
