Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


FH involves obtaining a fasting or non-fasting lipid panel in individuals ages 2 to 21 years with: 1. Family history of early atherosclerosis or high cholesterol. 2. Relatives of individuals with identified FH. Lipid testing should also be performed in the presence of risk factors or medical diagnoses that increase risk for CVD (including hypertension, current cigarette smoking, body mass index ≥ 85 th percentile, diabetes mellitus type I and II, chronic kidney disease/end-stage renal disease, chronic inflammatory diseases, human immunodeficiency virus infection, and nephrotic syndrome) ( 28 ). Universal screening involves obtaining either a fasting lipid profile or a non-fasting non-HDL, (calculated by subtracting HDL from TC) in childhood at two time points: 1. Between ages 9-11 years. 2. Between ages 17-21 years. Table 3. Screening for Hypercholesterolemia View in own window Approach Age in Years Population Selective 2-21 Family history of early atherosclerosis or high cholesterol Presence of risk factors or medical conditions that increased early CVD risk* Universal 9-11 and 17-21 All * Selective screening is indicated in individuals with hypertension, current cigarette smoking, body mass index ≥ 85 th percentile, diabetes mellitus type I and II, chronic kidney disease/end-stage renal disease, chronic inflammatory diseases, human immunodeficiency virus infection, and nephrotic syndrome. DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of FH can be made clinically and through genetic testing; genotype needs to be interpreted in the context of phenotype. For heterozygous FH, the clinical diagnosis is made based on the presence of high levels of total and LDL cholesterol in combination with one or more of following ( 17 ): 1. Family history of hypercholesterolemia (especially in children) or known FH. 2. History of premature CAD in the patient or in family members. 3. Physical examination findings of abnormal deposition of cholesterol in extravascular tissues (e.g., tendon xanthoma), although these rarely occur in childhood. There are several clinical scoring systems used to diagnose FH, and these vary based on the weight given for each diagnostic criteria ( 11 ). In general, clinical diagnosis of homozygous FH can be made in individuals with the following criteria ( 14 ): 1. Untreated LDL-C >500mg/dL (>13 mmol/L) or treated LDL-C ≥300 mg/dL (>8 mmol/L), AND 2. Cutaneous or tendon xanthoma before age 10 years, OR 3. Elevated LDL-C levels consistent with heterozygous FH in both parents. There are various disease states or other factors that can increase LDL-C levels and should be considered when
