Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


OR 3. Elevated LDL-C levels consistent with heterozygous FH in both parents. There are various disease states or other factors that can increase LDL-C levels and should be considered when diagnosing FH. Some of these include the following: Obesity Hypothyroidism Diabetes mellitus Nephrotic syndrome Chronic renal failure Cholestasis Biliary atresia Hepatitis Biliary cirrhosis HIV infection/AIDS Various drugs/medications Alcohol Pregnancy Very low carbohydrate ketogenic diets Genetic Testing Identifiable gene defects in LDLR, APOB, or PCSK9 have been identified in 60 to 80% of individuals with a heterozygote FH phenotype. Genetic testing has not routinely been performed in the clinical setting due to concerns about cost to the patient and because it was not likely to alter management, given that treatment decisions were usually based on LDL-C levels. However, FH genetic testing has recently been recommended to become the standard of care for patients with definite or probable FH, and the rationale for such testing includes the following: 1) facilitation of definitive diagnosis of FH lowers the concern for other secondary causes of high LDL-C; 2) pathogenic variants correlate with higher cardiovascular risk, which indicates the potential need for more aggressive lipid lowering; 3) increase in initiation of and adherence to therapy; and 4) cascade testing of at-risk relatives ( 29 ). Overall, the clinical significance of normal or moderately elevated LDL-C levels in the setting of a genetic defect in the LDLR or other possibly pathogenic defects is unknown. TREATMENT The guidelines for initiating treatment in patients with the FH phenotype are based on age, severity of LDL-C elevation, as well as family and medical histories. Lifestyle therapy is recommended for all children and adolescents with LDL-C levels ≥ 130 mg/dL. If lifestyle intervention is insufficient, medications can be considered in children beginning at age 10 years, or as early as age 8 in high-risk patients and in the presence of a very high-risk family history. For healthy children and adolescents ages 10-21 years, lifestyle therapy should be provided to those with an LDL-C ≥ 130 mg/dL, and medication should be initiated if LDL-C remains ≥ 190 mg/dL despite 6 or more months of lifestyle modification. If there is a family history of early atherosclerotic disease, then medication should be started in individuals with LDL-C levels ≥ 160 mg/dL who do not respond sufficiently to lifestyle modification. If an individual has a high-risk medical condition, as noted above, medication can be
