Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


in individuals with LDL-C levels ≥ 160 mg/dL who do not respond sufficiently to lifestyle modification. If an individual has a high-risk medical condition, as noted above, medication can be considered for those with a persistently elevated LDL-C ≥ 130 mg/dL. In general, the goal of treatment is to maintain an LDL-C level ≤ 130 mg/dL or ≥ 50% reduction in LDL concentration; lower ranges may be considered in high-risk patients. Medications should be initiated in all patients with homozygous FH at the time of diagnosis, regardless of age, and additional treatments should also be considered. Lifestyle Treatment The mainstay of treatment for pediatric lipid disorders is lifestyle modification. A low saturated fat diet, without trans-fat, and high in fruits and vegetables, is the recommended diet for lowering LDL-C. This dietary approach has been shown to be both safe and beneficial in the general pediatric population ( 28 , 30 , 31 ). Additionally, nutritional and physical activity interventions have been shown to lower LDL-C and improve CVD risk factors in children with obesity in meta-analyses ( 32 ). Despite this, in adults with FH, lifestyle modifications have been shown to only lower LDL-C modestly ( 33 ). Furthermore, the effect of physical activity on LDL-C levels has not been well studied in children with FH. Pharmacotherapy STATINS The majority of patients with FH are treated with medications, and statins are the recommended first line pharmacotherapy. In a Cochrane meta-analysis of pediatric patients with FH, statins were shown to lower LDL-C by 32% ( 34 ). Furthermore, more intensive statin therapy in high doses has been shown to lower LDL-C even more significantly, by up to 50% ( 35 , 36 ). Follow-up data from a statin trial in pediatric Dutch patients suggest efficacy and safety, as well as decreased atherosclerosis compared to the subjects’ parents ( 37 ). Most recently, the use of statins in children with FH have shown reduced CVD risk in adulthood for these patients compared to their untreated parents with FH, after a 20 year follow-up ( 21 ). Although this study was not a controlled or placebo study, it suggests that long-term statin use in childhood may prevent ASCVD compared to not treating. Several different formulations of statin therapy are available and approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in children. Treatment is initiated at a low dose (generally 5-20mg
