Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


different formulations of statin therapy are available and approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in children. Treatment is initiated at a low dose (generally 5-20mg depending on the statin potency), which is given once a day, often at night. If needed, the dose is increased to meet the goals of therapy. Side effects with statins are rare, but include myopathy, new-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (reported in adult primary prevention statin trials), and hepatic enzyme elevation. In pediatric clinical trials, rates of side effects with statin therapy were low and adherence to statin therapy was generally good ( 38 ). Side effects of statins are more likely at higher doses and in patients taking other medications, particularly cyclosporine , azole antifungal agents, and other medications and foods (such as grapefruit) that impact the cytochrome P450 system. Adolescent females should be counseled about the possibility of drug teratogenicity and appropriate contraceptive methods while receiving statin therapy. Additionally, providers should be aware that oral contraceptive pills can increase lipid levels. The NHLBI guidelines recommend the following baseline laboratory evaluation when initiating statin therapy ( 28 ): Fasting lipid profile. Serum creatine kinase (CK). Hepatic enzymes (i.e., serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT] and aspartate aminotransferase [AST]). Screening for type 2 diabetes is also reasonable prior to starting statins. Fasting lipid profiles are repeated at four weeks after the initiation of statin therapy to titrate dose and are repeated every six months in patients on stable therapy. Liver function tests, CK, and hemoglobin A1C should be obtained if signs of adverse effects arise, and may be obtained at regular intervals, for example after dose changes based on best clinical judgement. Ongoing monitoring of growth, other measures of general and cardiovascular health, and review for the presence of additional ASCVD risk factors, such as smoking exposure, should also occur at each visit. BILE ACID BINDING RESINS Although bile acid binding resins or bile acid sequestrants have been shown to lower LDL-C by ~10-20% in pediatric trials ( 39 , 40 ), they are often difficult to tolerate given their unpalatability and associated adverse effects (such as bloating and constipation) ( 41 ). For these reasons, bile acid binding resins are used relatively infrequently. However, they may be useful in combination with a statin for patients who fail to meet target LDL-C levels ( 42 ). The sequestrants are not absorbed systemically,
