Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


relatively infrequently. However, they may be useful in combination with a statin for patients who fail to meet target LDL-C levels ( 42 ). The sequestrants are not absorbed systemically, remain in the intestines, and are excreted along with bile containing cholesterol. Therefore, they are considered to be very safe. They can be used in patients who prefer to avoid statins, although they may not lower LDL-C sufficiently to achieve goal levels. CHOLESTEROL ABSORPTION INHIBITORS (EZETIMIBE) Ezetimibe is a lipid-lowering mediation that inhibits absorption of cholesterol and plant sterols in the intestines. This agent can be useful in pediatric patients with FH who are not able to reach LDL-C treatment goals on high-intensity statin therapy. Ezetimibe further lowers serum LDL-C and in adults has been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes without altering the side effect profile ( 43 – 45 ). Specifically in the pediatric population, ezetimibe has been shown to be safe and effective at lowering LDL-C by up to almost 30%, even when used as monotherapy ( 44 , 46 , 47 ) PCSK9 INHIBITORS PCSK9 inhibitors ( evolocumab and alirocumab ) are human monoclonal antibodies that bind to PCSK9 and promote plasma LDL cholesterol clearance. In Europe, evolocumab is approved in adolescents (≥12 years old) with homozygous FH. In the US, alirocumab is approved only for use in adult patients, and evolocumab is approved for use in adults with heterozygous FH and in homozygous FH, ages 13 and older, who have not responded to other LDL-C lowering therapies. Overall, PCSK9 inhibitors appear to have a good safety and side effect profile in adults ( 48 ). These medications have been shown to be very effective, reducing LDL-C by more than 15% in patients with homozygous FH and by 35% in patients with heterozygous FH ( 49 – 51 ). The main disadvantage of PCSK9 inhibitors is that they require injection for administration; cost is also a concern. Inclisiran is another medical therapy that targets PCSK9 synthesis through a different mechanism. It is a small interfering RNA molecule that triggers the breakdown of messenger RNA coding for the PCSK9 protein. This medication has been recently approved for clinical use and has been shown to be safe and effective in adult patients with heterozygous FH ( 49 ). Clinical trials of inclisiran are currently underway in adolescent patients with heterozygous and homozygous FH ( 50 ). EMERGING MEDICAL THERAPIES
