Familial Hypercholesterolemia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, familial, children, hypercholesterolemia, www, internet, nih, published online, gov, published, http www, online, http


in adult patients with heterozygous FH ( 49 ). Clinical trials of inclisiran are currently underway in adolescent patients with heterozygous and homozygous FH ( 50 ). EMERGING MEDICAL THERAPIES There are several promising therapies that aim to reduce LDL-C through different approaches. These include Bempedoic Acid, Lomitapide, and Evinacumab. Bempedoic acid blocks the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway upstream of HMG-CoA reductase through inhibition of adenosine triphosphate citrate lyase. This therapeutic agent has been shown to be effective in treating statin-resistant hypercholesterolemia and in reducing ASCVD in adults ( 51 , 52 ). Bempedoic acid is currently being studied in children with heterozygous FH. Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) plays an essential role in the formation of apoB-containing lipoproteins and has been shown to be inhibited by Lomitapide ( 53 ). This drug can reduce LDL-C by approximately 58% and has been approved for use in adults with homozygous FH. So far, Lomitapide has been observed to be safe and effective in pediatric patients with homozygous FH ( 54 ). Evinacumab is a human monoclonal antibody that targets angiopoietin-like 3 (ANGPTL3), which results in the reduction of LDL-C levels via an LDL-receptor independent mechanism ( 55 – 57 ). This drug has been shown to significantly reduce LDL-C in patients with homozygous FH who show little to no LDL-receptor activity and who have had poor response to other treatments ( 58 ). Additionally, patients with heterozygous FH have also shown improvements in LDL-C by 50% reduction ( 59 ). Evinacumab was approved in early 2021 by the FDA for the treatment of homozygous FH patients starting at age 12 years ( 60 ). Lipoprotein Apheresis Although statin therapy has been shown to be effective in reducing LDL and prolonging life expectancy in patients with homozygous FH ( 61 ), medical treatment alone may not be adequate to achieve recommended treatment goals. Therefore, it is suggested that lipoprotein apheresis (LA) be initiated in patients with homozygous FH as young as 2 years. The efficacy is dependent upon the type of apheresis but can reduce LDL-C by as much as 45 to 80%. Studies in pediatric patients are limited, but there is some evidence suggesting that LA therapy is safe and effective in children with homozygous FH ( 62 ). SUMMARY FH is an autosomal dominant disorder of LDL metabolism that affects 1 in 200 to 300 individuals. Screening involving lipid measurements, family
