Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


and inform clinical practice. In parallel, new basic, genetic, and clinical research is required to improve our knowledge on the role of estrogen in male reproductive function and men’s health in general. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION From an historical perspective, estrogens were identified about 85 years ago and estradiol was identified in 1940, reviewed in ( 1 , 2 ). The first evidence of estrogen production in the male was provided in 1934 by Zondek ( 3 ), who documented that male stallions excrete high levels of estrogens in the urine and hypothesized that estrogen production in the male occurs via the intratesticular conversion of androgens into estrogens ( 1 , 3 , 4 ). In men, the conversion of androgens into estrogens was first demonstrated a few years later, when an increase in urinary estrogens after the administration of exogenous testosterone was recorded in normal men ( 5 ) ( Figure 1 ). Figur e 1. Milestones in the advancement of research in the area of estrogens in men. [ E 2 : 17β-estradiol; ER: estrogen receptor; ERKO: Estrogen Receptor Knock out; ARKO: Aromatase Knock out ]. A more detailed demonstration of estrogen production in the human male was provided several years later in 1979 by MacDonald et al . who showed that the aromatization of androgens to estrogens can occur also peripherally in several tissues other than in the testes ( 2 , 6 ). Prior to the demonstration of estrogen production in males, the effects of estrogen excess on the development of male reproductive organs had been evident since the 1930s ( 7 ). Thus, the concept that male tissues are responsive to estrogens was not new, but it was thought that only a great amount of estrogens was able to induce such changes in males ( 2 ). Notwithstanding the large amount of data accumulated in the last eighty years, research in the field of estrogen excess and its role on male reproductive system is still ongoing ( 8 ) ( Figure 1 ). The pioneering studies of Zondek and MacDonald opened the way for an appreciation of the physiological roles of estrogens in the male beyond their effects during embryogenesis ( 2 ). Several studies, year after year, provided further data on estrogen’s role in men ( 9-12 ), since the
