Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


estrogens in the male beyond their effects during embryogenesis ( 2 ). Several studies, year after year, provided further data on estrogen’s role in men ( 9-12 ), since the first pilot studies on estrogens and male reproductive function ( 13 , 14 ). The progressive development of immunohistochemical studies and the subsequent progress in the field of molecular biology highlighted the actions of estrogens in the male [for further details see ( 4 )] and opened the way for the creation of estrogen null mice, a useful animal model to study the physiological role of estrogens in vivo ( 15 ) ( Figure 1 ). The detailed characterization of estrogen receptors’ structure and function ( 15 , 16 ) together with the discovery and the characterization of genes involved in estrogens synthesis ( 17 ) disclosed the biomolecular mechanisms and related pathways involved in estrogen function and dysfunction. It is now clear that estrogen effects in the male are not confined to reproductive organs but are pleiotropic ( 18 ). In addition, the development of male transgenic mice lacking functional estrogen receptors or the aromatase enzyme (responsible for estrogen biosynthesis) further contributed to advancements in this field ( 15 , 16 ). Finally, the discovery of mutations in both the human estrogen receptor alpha ( 19 ) and aromatase ( 20 , 21 ) genes contributed to an understanding of estrogen’s role in human male physiology and pathophysiology ( 11 , 12 , 22-25 ) ( Figure 1 ). Nowadays, notwithstanding this long history of studies, reviewed in ( 26-28 ), the role of estrogens in the physiology of the male reproductive tract is still not fully understood. The presence of estrogens in the human testis is well documented ( 29 , 30 ), and there is clear evidence that estrogens exert a wide range of biological effects in both men and women ( 10 , 12 , 18 , 24 , 25 , 31 ). PHYSIOLOGY Estrogen Biosynthesis in Males The term estrogen refers to any substance, natural or synthetic, able to interact with the estrogen receptor (ER) ( 32 , 33 ). 17β-estradiol (estradiol) is the prevalent endogenous estrogen form in mammals, although many of its metabolites could be detected with several degrees of estrogenic activity ( 34 ). In humans, the three major endogenous estrogens are estrone (E1), estradiol (E2), and estriol (E3) ( 33 )
