Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


could be detected with several degrees of estrogenic activity ( 34 ). In humans, the three major endogenous estrogens are estrone (E1), estradiol (E2), and estriol (E3) ( 33 ) ( Figure 2 ). In males, estrogens mainly derive from circulating androgens. The key step in estrogen biosynthesis is the aromatization of the C19 androgens, testosterone and androstenedione, to form estradiol and estrone, respectively ( 32 ). This step is under the control of the aromatase enzyme ( 32 , 35 ) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Biochemical pathway of testosterone conversion into estrogen. However, a wide number of other endogenous products belongs to the category of estrogenic compounds, such as 27-hydroxycholesterol, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), 7-oxo-DHEA, 7α-hydroxy-DHEA, 16α-hydroxy-DHEA, 7β-hydroxyepiandrosterone, Δ4-androstenedione, Δ5-androstenediol, 3α-androstanediol (3α-Adiol), 3β-androstanediol (3β-Adiol), 2-hydroxyestradiol, 2-hydroxyestrone, 4-hydroxyestradiol, and 4-hydroxyestrone and 16α-hydroxyestrone ( 33 ). In particular, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), an androgenic metabolite of testosterone that is synthesized by the enzyme 5 alpha reductase, can be metabolized into 3 β-Adiol, an intermediate metabolite with estrogenic activity ( 32 , 36 ). All these molecules differ in terms of ER affinity ( 33 ). Various exogenous substances also show estrogenic activity, such as bisphenol A, metalloestrogens, phytoestrogens (e.g., coumestrol, daidzein, genistein, miroestrol) and mycoestrogens (e.g., zeranol) ( 37 ). These exogenous estrogens can influence human physiology via environmental exposure or ingestion, however the real impact in vivo as well as critical thresholds and cumulative amount of exposure remain to be fully elucidated ( 38 ). The aromatase enzyme is a P450 mono-oxygenase enzyme complex ( 17 ) present in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, which acts through three consecutive hydroxylation reactions, with the final reaction being the aromatization of the A ring of androgens ( 17 , 34 ) ( Figure 2 ). This enzymatic complex is composed of a ubiquitous and non-specific NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase, together with the regulated form of cytochrome P450 aromatase ( 17 , 29 ). The latter is highly specific for androgens ( 39 , 40 ). The conversion of androgens into estrogens takes place mainly in the testes, adipose tissue and muscle tissue, even though other male tissues are also involved to a lesser extent ( 17 , 34 , 35 ) ( Figure 2 ) . The P450 aromatase enzyme is encoded by the CYP19A1 gene: a gene of 123 kb of length, which consists of at least 16 exons and is located on the long
