Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


The P450 aromatase enzyme is encoded by the CYP19A1 gene: a gene of 123 kb of length, which consists of at least 16 exons and is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 in the q21.2 region in humans ( 9 , 17 , 34 ) ( Figure 3 ). This gene belongs to the cytochrome P450 superfamily, similar to other enzymes involved in steroidogenesis ( 32 ). Figure 3. Schematic representation of the human aromatase ( CYP19 ) gene. [ Red bars: first exons associated with upstream alternative, tissue-specific promoters; yellow bars: coding exons; black bar: heme-binding region ]. Circulating estrogens are mainly reversibly bound to sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), a β-globulin, and, to a lesser degree, to albumin ( 41 ). The amount of circulating free estradiol depends on several factors, of which the concentrations of albumin and SHBG are the most important ( 41 ). Serum free estradiol may be calculated by a complicated formula using total estradiol, SHBG, and albumin levels or may be measured by means of equilibrium dialysis or centrifugal ultrafiltration methodology; both, however, are too time consuming and expensive to be employed in routine clinical practice ( 41 ). When calculating free estradiol, the reliability of the value of total serum estradiol should be considered, since assays commonly used for estradiol in clinical laboratories have poor accuracy when measuring the low serum estrogen characteristic in males ( 42-44 ). Estrogen Actions in Males Estrogen action is mediated by interaction with specific nuclear estrogen receptors (ERs), which are ligand-inducible transcription factors regulating the expression of target genes after hormone binding ( 10 , 34 , 45 ). Two subtypes of ERs have been described: estrogen receptor α (ERα) and the more recently discovered estrogen receptor β (ERβ) ( 34 , 45 ). These two ER subtypes show different ligand specificity and transcriptional activity, and mediate the classical, direct, ligand-dependent pathway involving estrogen response elements in the promoters of targets genes and protein-protein interactions with several transcription factors ( 45 ). These two different ERs have different transcriptional activity ( 46 ). In particular, ERβ shows a weaker transcriptional activity compared to ERα ( 45 ). This difference is due to the presence of different ERβ isoforms, which can modulate estrogen signaling using different pathways and lead to different impacts on the regulation of target genes ( 45 , 46 ). In addition,
