Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


of different ERβ isoforms, which can modulate estrogen signaling using different pathways and lead to different impacts on the regulation of target genes ( 45 , 46 ). In addition, it should be remarked that the co-expression of both ERα and ERβ in the same cell determines a complex cross-talk finally resulting in the antagonistic effect exerted by ERβ on ERα-dependent transcription ( 45 , 46 ). Thus, the presence/absence of ER subtypes together with their cross-talk determines a cell’s ability to respond to different ligands as well as the regulation of transcription of different target genes ( 45 ). ERα in humans is encoded by the ESR1 gene located on the long arm of chromosome 6, while the ESR2 gene encodes ERβ and is located on band q22-24 of human chromosome 14 ( 45 , 46 ). The two ER proteins have a high degree of homology at the amino acid level ( 45 ) ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Estrogen receptor gene structure showing the 9 exons (lower panel), cDNA domains (indicating exons), and protein structures of both ERα and ERβ (upper panels: colored boxes denote the different functional domains of the protein). ERs are nuclear receptors in which structurally and functionally distinct domains are recognized. Estrogens bind the COOH-terminal multifunctional ligand-binding domain (LBD), whereas the DNA-binding domain recognizes and binds DNA ( 45 , 46 ). The NH2-terminal domain, the most variable domain, is involved in the transcriptional activation ( 45 ). This domain recruits a range of coregulatory protein complexes to the DNA-bound receptor ( 45 ). The two ER forms share a high degree of sequence homology except in their NH2-terminal domains. This specificity accounts for different transcriptional effects on different target genes ( 45 , 46 ). The ER genomic pathway begins with the binding of estrogen to ER ( 45 ). This interaction induces conformational changes in the ER, allowing receptor dimerization and subsequent nuclear translocation prior to binding to estrogen response elements or to other regulatory sites within target genes ( 45 , 46 ). Thereafter, the availability of several coregulatory proteins influences the transcriptional response to estrogen ( 45 , 46 ). While it is clear that estrogens regulate transcription via nuclear interaction with their receptors, a non-genomic action of estrogens has been also demonstrated, suggesting a different molecular mechanism involved in some estrogen actions ( 34 , 45-48 ).
