Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


via nuclear interaction with their receptors, a non-genomic action of estrogens has been also demonstrated, suggesting a different molecular mechanism involved in some estrogen actions ( 34 , 45-48 ). In vitro studies show a very short latency time between the administration of estrogens and the appearance of its biological effects. These actions seem to be mediated by a cell-surface G protein-coupled receptor, known as GPR30, that does not act through a transcriptional mechanism ( 34 , 47 , 48 ). Rapid effects of estrogens result from the actions of specific receptors localized most often to the plasma membrane; in particular it seems that a monomeric portion of the ERα is translocated from the nucleus to the plasma membrane ( 47 , 48 ). Recently, immunohistochemical analysis of murine tissues reported the presence of GPR30 in the male reproductive tract, including testes, epididymis, vas deferens, seminal vesicles and prostate ( 49 ). Furthermore, a rapid response to estradiol suggests that non-genomic estrogen actions are involved also in human spermatozoa ( 50 , 51 ). The different intracellular pathways of estrogen action are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Characteristics of Estrogen Actions and Related Biomolecular Pathways View in own window Estrogen Actions Receptors Mechanism/Pathway Final effect Features Genomic (Nuclear actions) ERα Transcriptional: nuclear interaction with estrogen-responsive elements Modulation of estrogen target gene expression Slow effects (minutes or hours) ERβ Transcriptional: nuclear interaction with estrogen-responsive elements Modulation of estrogen target gene expression Slow effects (minutes or hours) Non-genomic (cell membranes actions) Estrogen receptors on cells membrane (GPR30) Cells membrane changes Changes in ionic transport through cell surface Rapid effects (seconds) [ERα: estrogen receptor alpha; ERβ: estrogen receptor beta]. Aromatase enzyme and ERs are widely expressed in the male reproductive tract both in animals and humans ( 52 , 53 ), implying that estrogen biosynthesis occurs at this site and that both locally produced and circulating estrogens may interact with ERs in an intracrine/paracrine and/or endocrine fashion ( 34 ). Today, it is clear that not only testicular somatic cells, but also germ cells constitute a source of estrogens in human ( 29 , 54 ). Thus, the concept of a key role for estrogen in the male reproductive tract is strongly supported by the ability of the male reproductive structures to produce and respond to estrogens ( 26 , 52 ). In men, the aromatase enzyme and ERs are expressed in
