Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


supported by the ability of the male reproductive structures to produce and respond to estrogens ( 26 , 52 ). In men, the aromatase enzyme and ERs are expressed in several tissues including those involved in male reproduction. The distribution and expression of aromatase and ERs described below concerns the male reproductive organs. Aromatase and ERs in the Male Reproductive Tract The distribution of ERs and aromatase in both the developing and adult male reproductive tract of rodents and humans is summarized below. DISTRIBUTION OF ERs AND AROMATASE IN FETAL RODENTS Aromatase and ERs are found at a very early stage of development in the rodent testis, thus suggesting a role for estrogens in influencing testicular development ( 4 , 26 , 55-57 ). Leydig cells in fetal rodent testis express ERα before the androgen receptor. Moreover, ERα is abundant in the developing efferent ductules, which are the first male reproductive structures to express ERs during fetal development ( 58-60 ). Furthermore, the epididymis also expresses ERα in the fetal rodent. By contrast, it is unclear whether ERα is present within the seminiferous tubules of the fetal testis since conflicting results have been reported in literature ( 26 , 29 , 57 ). ERβ is found early in fetal testis, particularly in gonocytes, Sertoli and Leydig cells, with the gonocytes showing the highest expression between 10-16 days post coitum ( 61 ). This suggests a role for estrogens in their maturation. In addition, ERβ is expressed by rat Wolffian ducts, the structures from which the efferent ductules and epididymis arise ( 26 , 57 ). ERα is widely expressed in efferent ductules from fetal life to adulthood, implying a crucial role in male reproduction that has been well documented in adult rodents ( 27 , 52 , 60 ). On the other hand, ERβ is mainly expressed during fetal life, suggesting a major role in the development of male reproductive structures until birth ( 26 ). A recent study suggests that estradiol is also able to increase the production of stem cell factors by fetal human Sertoli cells, finally resulting in the proliferation and growth of spermatogonial stem cells ( 62 ). With this in view, estrogen deficiency during fetal life may conditioning the total amount of spermatogonia available in the future for the spermatogenetic maturation. Aromatase is expressed in both Leydig and Sertoli cells in the fetal rodent testis,
