Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


life may conditioning the total amount of spermatogonia available in the future for the spermatogenetic maturation. Aromatase is expressed in both Leydig and Sertoli cells in the fetal rodent testis, but not in gonocytes and immature structures of the seminal tract. ER and aromatase distribution in the fetal testes as summarized in Table 2. The presence of both aromatase and ERs in the developing fetal testis implies a possible involvement of estrogens in the process of differentiation and maturation of developing rodent testis just starting from an early stage of embryogenesis, with ERβ possibly playing a greater role than ERα ( 53 , 55 , 56 ). Both ERα and ERβ are expressed in the fetal penile tissue and estrogens seem to be important for penile growth as well as for the normal differentiation of the terminal part of the urethra ( 63 , 64 ). In particular estrogen takes part together with androgens in the final fusion of the penile urethra ( 64 ) and estrogen deficiency due to both ERs disruption and aromatase deficiency may cause hypospadias in rodents ( 63-65 ). Table 2. ERs and Aromatase Distribution in the Rodent Fetal Testis and Efferent Ducts View in own window ERα ERβ Aromatase Leydig cells ++ ++ + Sertoli cells - ++ ++ Gonocytes - +++ - Efferent Ducts + + - Penile tissue ++ ++ ? The proposed distribution is based on information from various studies including immunohistochemical and mRNA expression studies. [ERα: estrogen receptor alpha; ERβ: estrogen receptor beta]. DISTRIBUTION OF ERs AND AROMATASE IN ADULT RODENT REPRODUCTIVE TRACT ERα is expressed (both in terms of mRNA and protein) in the Leydig cells of both adult rats and mice ( 66 ) but not in Sertoli cells, and is mainly expressed in the proximal ( rete testis , efferent ductules, proximal epididymis), rather than in the distal ( corpus and cauda of the epididymis, vas deferens ) reproductive ducts ( 26 ). However, in neonatal and prepubertal rats, estradiol increases the expression of proteins involved in the proliferation and differentiation of Sertoli cells and of proteins involved in the adhesion of germ cells to Sertoli cells ( 67 ). Furthermore, ERα has been immunolocalized in ciliated and non-ciliated cell nuclei of the epididymal epithelium ( 59 , 68 ). This peculiar distribution explains several important estrogen actions in the proximal ducts, especially within the efferent ductules
