Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


+ + ++ + Efferent ductules ++++ + ? + The proposed distribution is based on information from various studies including immunohistochemical and mRNA expression studies. [ER α: estrogen receptor alpha; ERβ: estrogen receptor beta; GPR30: G protein-coupled receptor]. GPR30 is widely expressed (both in terms of mRNA and protein) in rodent testis ( 77 ). In particular, this receptor is expressed in rat Leydig cells ( 78 ) and Sertoli cells ( 79 , 80 ), in the spermatogonia GC-1 cell line ( 81 ), in rat pachytene spermatocytes ( 70 ), and in round spermatids ( 82 ). Rodent Leydig cells show higher aromatase expression than Sertoli cells ( 83 ). Aromatase is also expressed at high levels in germ cells throughout all stages of maturation, with its expression increasing as germ cells mature into spermatids. Aromatase mRNA expression and enzyme activity are present in both rat and mouse germ cells from the pachytene spermatocyte stage, and during their subsequent maturation into round spermatids ( 57 , 60 , 83 ) (Table 3). Carreau et al. demonstrated that aromatase activity in germ cells was more than 50% of that of the whole testis ( 29 ). This intensive activity suggests that germ cells may be a major source of estrogen in adult rodents ( 57 , 60 , 83 ) (Table 3). Specifically, when fully developed spermatids are released from the epithelium, aromatase is present in the residual body (the remains of the spermatid cytoplasm that is removed during spermiation) and is subsequently phagocytosed by the Sertoli cell. Aromatase activity also remains detectable in the cytoplasmic droplet attached to the flagellum when sperm passes through the epididymis, suggesting that mature spermatozoa are able to synthesize their own estrogen as they pass through the efferent ducts ( 29 , 84 ). The ability to synthesize estrogen gradually decreases as the droplet slowly moves to the end of the tail during epididymal transit until it is finally lost. The demonstration of aromatase in sperm is important as it suggests that the sperm itself could control the levels of estrogen present in the luminal fluid, and might directly modulate some functions such as the reabsorption of fluid from the efferent ductules ( 60 ). DISTRIBUTION OF ERs AND AROMATASE IN THE HUMAN MALE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM ERs are present in human testis and reproductive tract ( 29 , 60 , 85 ,
