Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


( 60 ). DISTRIBUTION OF ERs AND AROMATASE IN THE HUMAN MALE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM ERs are present in human testis and reproductive tract ( 29 , 60 , 85 , 86 ). In the male fetus both ERβ and aromatase are expressed in Sertoli, Leydig and germ cells from 13 to 24 weeks, whereas ERα expression is absent ( 86 , 87 ). Furthermore, ERβ immunoreactivity in the epididymis suggests a putative role for locally produced estrogens, the actions of which are likely mediated by ERβ in this site. This supports the importance of estrogens for the prenatal development and function of male reproductive structures, which is well documented in literature ( 87 ). In particular, estrogens play an important role in the development of the rete testis, efferent ductules, epididymis, and vas deferens ( 88 ). Aromatase and ERβ, but not ERα, continue to be expressed (both in terms of mRNA and protein) during the prepubertal period in men, but their function during infancy remains unclear, especially if the very low levels of both circulating and locally produced sex steroids in this period of life is taken into account ( 89 ). In adult men, ERα is expressed only in Leydig cells, while ERβ has been documented in both Leydig and Sertoli cells and in the efferent ducts ( 74 ) (Table 4). The presence of ERs in the human epididymis is still a matter of debate ( 27 ), even though ERα has been detected in the nuclei of epithelial cells of the caput of the epididymis ( 90 ), and recent data confirms its presence in the epididymis ( 86 ). Both ERs (ERα and β) have been identified in isolated immature germ cells ( 29 ). Furthermore, they were localized in mature spermatozoa ( 91 ) and in ejaculated spermatozoa ( 92 ). Luconi et al. first described an estrogen receptor-related protein in the sperm membrane ( 50 , 51 ). This protein is able to bind steroid hormones and may act through a calcium-calmodulin dependent pathway, accounting for a well-documented rapid non-genomic action ( 50 , 51 ). Subsequently, the expression (both in terms of mRNA and protein) of both ERs in human ejaculated spermatozoa ( 92 , 93 ) reinforced the concept that estrogens are able to modulate the spermatogenic process from its onset within the testes through to the final process of sperm
