Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


testicular biopsies was examined ( 98 ). Immunohistochemical analysis of testicular sections identified the GPR30 receptor in the cytoplasm of Leydig cells, Sertoli cells and spermatogonia ( 98 ). This pattern of localization was further demonstrated by the analysis of GPR30 expression (both in terms of mRNA and protein) in isolated germ cells and in Sertoli cell culture ( 98 ). This peculiar distribution suggests that GPR30 may be involved in germ cell differentiation ( 98 ). Furthermore, the presence of GPR30 in human spermatozoa has been confirmed at both the mRNA and protein level, with this receptor being localized in the sperm mid-piece ( 99 ). The co-expression of the two classic ERs and of the GPR30 receptor in the same area within the spermatozoa (mid-piece and acrosome region) suggests a complex cross-talk among all these receptors able to influence physiological processes and pathological implications, such as tumorigenesis ( 100 ). Aromatase expression in the human testis is present in both somatic and germ cells ( 53 , 88 ). Specifically, it is expressed in Leydig and Sertoli cells ( 101 , 102 ), in immature germ cells, from pachytene spermatocytes through elongated spermatids ( 57 , 101 ), and ejaculated sperm cells ( 103 ). Locally produced estrogens in sperm are proposed to exert a protective action on sperm DNA by preventing sperm DNA damage ( 104 ), thus accounting for estrogen’s potential role as a survival factor during sperm transit through the seminal vesicles ( 105 ). Unlike rodents, aromatase expression in human gametes persists during the transit through the genital tracts, since P450 aromatase has been demonstrated in human ejaculated spermatozoa at three different functional levels: mRNA expression, protein production and activity ( 92 ). Therefore, as in rodents, human sperm are considered a potential site of estrogen biosynthesis ( 4 , 92 , 101 , 102 , 104 ). The presence of functional aromatase in human spermatozoa allows the conversion of androgens into estrogens as they transit the reproductive tract, providing free estrogens in the seminal fluid able to act on the cells of the reproductive ducts. Thus, human spermatozoa should be considered a mobile endocrine unit ( 53 , 54 , 88 , 106 ). In summary, the testes are able to synthesize and respond to estrogens throughout their development ( 53 , 88 ). The localization of ERα, ERβ and aromatase suggests that
