Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


). In summary, the testes are able to synthesize and respond to estrogens throughout their development ( 53 , 88 ). The localization of ERα, ERβ and aromatase suggests that estrogen action is likely to be important for testicular and efferent ductule function. Differences among various polymorphisms of ER genes may account for different responses to estrogens in term of sperm count and sperm quality ( 107 , 108 ). The role of estrogens in the male reproductive system is clearer in rodents (see below), and the mapping of ERs and aromatase distribution in the human male reproductive system has led to the suggestion that estrogen plays a role in human male reproduction ( 4 , 53 , 55 ). As a consequence, a new field of research has evolved, aimed at improving our knowledge on estrogen action on male reproduction, and the molecular mechanisms involved in both animal models and in men. ROLE OF ESTROGENS IN MALE REPRODUCTION Estrogens in Animal Male Reproduction: Effects of Estrogen Deficiency Estrogen-deficient knockout mice are useful models to investigate estrogen action in rodents ( 16 , 26 ). At present, four different lines of estrogen receptor-deficient knockout mice have been generated: 1) ERα knockout (α-ERKO) mice with disrupted ERα gene ( 109-111 ); 2) ERβ knockout (β-ERKO) mice, with an inactivated Erβ ( 112 ), 3) double ERα and ERβ knockout (αβ-ERKO) mice with non-functioning ERα and ERβ ( 16 ), and 4) GPR30 knockout mice ( 113-115 ). The αERKO, βERKO and αβERKO mice provide very helpful information on the loss of ER function, leading to estrogen resistance. The knockout of the aromatase gene in aromatase knockout (ArKO) mice is an experimental model useful for investigating the congenital lack of both circulating and locally produced estradiol ( 16 , 26 , 116 , 117 ). Estrogen-resistant mice (αERKO, βERKO, and αβERKO) have high levels of circulating estrogens with the non-genomic pathway still likely functional. Aromatase-deficient mice have no circulating estradiol however estrogen receptors could be activated by other estrogenic compounds produced outside the aromatase pathway (e.g. 3β-Adiol) or introduced by diet (e.g. phytoestrogens) ( 26 ). Furthermore, in 2009, Sinkevicius et al. created transgenic mice with a G525L point mutation in the ligand-binding domain of ERα (ENERKI mice) ( 118 ). This allows differentiation of ligand-dependent vs ligand-independent ER actions since these two different pathways could lead to different actions in vivo.
