Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


ligand-binding domain of ERα (ENERKI mice) ( 118 ). This allows differentiation of ligand-dependent vs ligand-independent ER actions since these two different pathways could lead to different actions in vivo. The study of fertility of the ENERKI mouse shows that the efferent ductule fluid reabsorption is regulated by ligand-independent actions of ERα, whereas germ cell production and/or viability requires ligand-dependent ERα actions ( 118 ). Recently, Yao et al. mapped the Era-binding sites in the efferent ductules of male mice and they found 12105 peaks, of which about 50% were shared by the androgen receptor ( 119 ). Recently, the creation of the knockout mice lacking GPR30 estrogen receptor ( 113 , 115 ) allowed an investigation of the reproductive phenotype of mice lacking a functional GPR30, with the results suggesting a minor role of this receptor in male fertility. GPR30 knockout mice did not show abnormalities of endocrine organs, alterations of spermatogenesis and mating behavior, or decreased fertility ( 114 , 120 ). A detailed study of spermatogenesis in this mouse model is, however, still lacking. Studies on transgenic mice lacking ERs or the aromatase enzyme demonstrate that the lack of estrogen action is compatible with life ( 22 , 121 ). Congenital estrogen deficiency in mice leads to an impairment of male reproductive function ranging from normal fertility with a fully male phenotype in βERKO mice, to complete infertility in both αERKO and αβERKO mice. An intermediate pattern exists for the ArKO mice in which spermatogenesis is normal in young mice, but progressively worsens during aging ( 16 , 26 , 60 , 69 , 109-112 , 116 , 122 ). Reproductive characteristics of male mouse models are summarized in Table 5. Table 5. Reproductive Phenotype of Male Mouse Models of Estrogen Deficiency View in own window αERKO βERKO αβERKO ArKO Infertility Fully fertile Similar to αERKO mice Normal fertility in young mice, infertility with advancing age Normal FSH Elevated LH Elevated testosterone Elevated estradiol -- -- Normal FSH Elevated LH Elevated testosterone Undetectable estradiol Germ cell loss and dilated seminiferous tubules Normal testicular histology Testicular histology similar to αERKO mice Histology of the testis is disrupted with advancing age Impairment of sexual behavior Normal sexual behavior Complete suppression of sexual behavior Impairment of sexual behavior The G protein-coupled receptor (GPR30) knockout mice have normal reproductive phenotype. [ERKO: estrogen receptor knockout mice; α: estrogen receptor alpha; β: estrogen
