Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


When germ cells from αERKO mice are transplanted in wild type mice, they show normal development ( 127 ). Recently, it has been demonstrated that some genes playing important role in the efferent ductules are regulated by Erα both independently by estrogens or in combination with androgens where estrogen responsive elements colocalize with androgen responsive elements ( 119 ). The αERKO mouse is also characterized by a reduced number, motility, and fertilizing capacity of the sperm levels (Table 5). In addition, αERKO male mice show increased serum luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone as well as Leydig cells hyperplasia, together with normal serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels (Table 5) ( 16 ). The production of both ArKO ( 122 ) and βERKO ( 112 ) mice added further insights in this field, supporting the idea that estrogen actions on the male reproductive tract are more complex than previously suggested on the basis of the studies performed on αERKO mice ( 16 ). In fact, unlike αERKO mice, male ArKO mice are initially fully fertile ( 122 ), but fertility decreases with advancing age (Table 5) ( 26 , 116 , 117 ). Furthermore, βERKO mice are fully fertile and apparently reproductively normal in adulthood (Table 5) ( 112 ). The mechanism involved in the development of infertility in ArKO male mice therefore differs from that of the αERKO mice ( 26 ). Transgenic mice models suggest that ligand-independent ERα signaling is essential for concentrating epididymal sperm via regulation of efferent ductule fluid reabsorption, while ligand-dependent ERα is involved in germ cell production and/or viability ( 118 ). Thus, the lack of estrogen action at the level of the seminiferous epithelium rather than a problem due to impaired fluid reabsorption probably explains infertility in ArKO male mice ( 26 , 50 ). Accordingly, estradiol seems to be necessary for round spermatid survival and estrogen deficiency seems to promote apoptosis before differentiation into elongated spermatid ( 26 , 92 , 105 ). Studies of αβERKO mice showed a male phenotype very close to that of αERKO mice characterized by infertility and dilated seminiferous tubules ( 16 , 26 ). On the contrary, βERKO male mice were fully fertile ( 112 ). These findings lead to the hypothesis that estrogen activity in the male reproductive tract depends on both the type of estrogen receptor involved, and the site of action through the male reproductive
