Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


lead to the hypothesis that estrogen activity in the male reproductive tract depends on both the type of estrogen receptor involved, and the site of action through the male reproductive tract. Interestingly, results from mice lacking functional ERs or aromatase point to an important role for estrogen in the maintenance of mating behavior in male mice. For this reason, infertility in αERKO, αβERKO and ArKO mice is at least in part due to the reduction of various components of mating behavior from an early age (Table 5) ( 16 , 26 ). The function of the hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis is impaired in both αERKO and ArKO male mice, leading to elevated serum LH levels in the presence of normal values of FSH, while, as expected, testosterone is augmented and estrogens are higher than normal or undetectable in αERKO and ArKO mice, respectively ( 26 ). Thus, negative effects on male reproduction are the direct result of estrogen deprivation in the reproductive structures or of indirect changes in the regulation of sex steroid secretion. Taken together, all these studies support the concept that a functional ERα, but not ERβ and GPR30, is needed for the development and maintenance of a normal fertility in male mice ( 15 , 16 , 52 , 55 , 59 , 60 , 69 , 111 , 112 ). Anyhow, it should be remarked that estrogens are also able to self-regulate all these estrogen-related pathways in the male reproductive tract since estrogen receptor expression is regulated by estradiol in rats. In particular ERα positively regulates the expression of both ERα and ERβ while androgen receptor and ERβ negatively regulates ERs expression ( 128 ). Estrogens in Human Male Reproduction: Effects of Estrogen Deficiency The demonstration of wide expression of the aromatase enzyme, ERα and ERβ throughout the male reproductive system and within human sperm underlines the role of estrogens in human male reproductive function ( 4 , 29 , 55 , 106 , 129 ). Accordingly, estrogens seem to modulate sperm maturation ( 50 , 129 ), since spermatozoa express ERα and ERβ, and are responsive to estrogens throughout their journey from the testes to the urethra. The characterization of human diseases leading to estrogen deficiency have increased our knowledge about the role of estrogen in male reproductive function as well as on other important physiological functions ranging from longitudinal growth, bone mass acquisition, and metabolic alterations
