Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


135 ). For this reason, the different degree of fertility impairment found in men with congenital estrogen deficiency does not allow us to establish with certainty whether sperm abnormalities are a consequence of the lack of estrogen action or are an epiphenomenon. Again, this spermatogenetic pattern is different from that observed in ArKO mice ( 16 , 26 , 52 , 116 , 117 , 122 ). Table 6. Reproductive Phenotypes of Men with Congenital Estrogen Deficiency View in own window Estrogen resistance Aromatase deficiency Total subjects 2 16 Subjects diagnosed during adulthood 1 11 Age at diagnosis (mean + DS; min-max) 23 years; 18-28 25.8 + 8.6 years; 1-44 REPRODUCTIVE HORMONES LH High Normal to high FSH High High Testosterone Normal Normal to high Estradiol High Undetectable EXTERNAL GENITALIA Size testis Normal Small to normal Cryptorchidism Absent 4 cases Hypospadias - 1 case SEMEN ANALYSIS Sperm count Normozoospermia Oligo to normozoospermia Viability Asthenozoospermia Asthenozoospermia Testis biopsy Not performed Depletion or germ cell arrest at primary spematocyte level [LH: luteinizing hormone; FSH: follicle-stimulating hormone]. The frequency of sperm abnormalities in these patients together with the results from rodent studies suggests a possible role for estrogen in human spermatogenesis, however this requires further elucidation ( 4 , 12 , 24 , 30 ). Our knowledge on estrogen’s role in human male reproduction in vivo remains far from complete. The data available in the literature suggests that the action exerted by estrogens on male reproductive organs is more complex than that seen in mice and that estrogen alone does not directly control spermatogenesis to the same extent than in rodents, but are involved in a more complex and evolved network ( 26 , 118 , 164 ) In addition to human models of congenital estrogen deficiency, other experimental settings have provided information on the role of estrogens on human male fertility. Studies on the association between ER polymorphisms and infertility in men showed that two polymorphisms of ERα ( XbaI and PvuII ) are associated with azoospermia, severe oligospermia and impaired sperm motility ( 165-168 ) and the multiallele (TA)n polymorphism with male infertility ( 108 ). However, data available in literature provides conflicting results since Pvull resulted strongly associated with infertility ( 166 ), but also a strong protective factor of male fertility ( 169 ), depending on the research setting. The RsaI polymorphism of the ERβ has been associated with
