Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


( 166 ), but also a strong protective factor of male fertility ( 169 ), depending on the research setting. The RsaI polymorphism of the ERβ has been associated with male infertility in one study ( 107 ), but not confirmed in another study ( 167 ). The ERβ ( RsaI) polymorphism AluI was also associated with sperm motility, while no association with motility was found for the RsaI polymorphism ( 167 ). Thus, the association of polymorphisms of estrogen-related genes with both sperm concentration and motility, but not with sperm morphology, further supports a putative role of estrogen in controlling sperm production and quality ( 170 ). Furthermore, the investigation of ERs in the nuclear matrix of human spermatozoa showed a reduction of ER levels in the nucleus of idiopathic infertile men compared to normospermic fertile men ( 171 ). Interventional research studies show that the administration of aromatase inhibitors to infertile men with documented impaired testosterone-to-estradiol ratio may result in an improvement of their fertility rate, but further evidence is needed to verify their efficacy and safety (see paragraph below ‘Anti-estrogen treatment in men’ for further details) ( 172 , 173 ). These results suggest that such modulation of estrogen metabolism will influence sex hormone balance and the HPT axis while dissecting out direct effects of estrogen on spermatogenesis in vivo is extremely challenging. It seems that exposure to increasing estradiol concentrations might influence glucose metabolism in spermatozoa and that the increase of aromatase activity and estradiol enhances glucose metabolism in capacitated, but not in non-capacitated sperm ( 93 ). Recently, intratesticular T and E2 were strongly correlated to aromatase expression in Leydig cells in infertile men; intratesticular T was higher and E2 lower in men with obstructive azoospermia compared to those with nonobstructive azoospermia, suggesting that an imbalance in aromatase expression and thus in the intratesticular T to E2 ratio might play a role in the pathogenesis of male infertility ( 174 ). In addition, serum estradiol was directly correlated with motility, sperm count and sperm morphology in male partners of infertile couples enrolled prospectively and low estradiol entered among risk factors for decreased semen quality in multivariate analysis ( 175 ). It seems probable that most of estrogen actions operating in mice, such as regulation of sperm motility, sperm capacitation, acrosome reaction, and sperm metabolism also occur in men, but the contribution of estrogens to these
