Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


of estrogen actions operating in mice, such as regulation of sperm motility, sperm capacitation, acrosome reaction, and sperm metabolism also occur in men, but the contribution of estrogens to these processes is quantitatively less important in humans. It seems likely that most of these processes in humans are also regulated by other factors in a complex crosstalk system involving also estrogens. This could also explain why high amounts of estrogens or the exposure to an excess of environmental estrogens (or to xenoestrogens with high estrogenic potency) could negatively impact on male fertility. For these reasons, it is apparently difficult to reconcile existing data about effects of both estrogen deficiency and excess on male reproductive function ( 13 , 31 , 176-178 ). Regulation of Gonadotropin Feedback The regulation of gonadotropin feedback is an important and well-documented action of estrogen in males. While testosterone has been classically considered the key hormone for the control of gonadotropin feedback in the male , a role for estrogens was recently clarified in studies performed in normal and GnRH-deficient men. We now know that ERs are expressed both in the hypothalamus and the pituitary. In particular, GnRH neurons express ERβ but not ERα ( 179 , 180 ), thus the inhibitory effects of estrogens on these cells is mediated through other neuromediators (e.g. kisspeptin, neurokinin B) released by other neurons expressing also the ERα ( 181 ). ERs, especially ERα are expressed in gonadotropes cells ( 182 ). The response of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis to androgens is confirmed by the administration of dihydrotestosterone (DHT), which is able to partially decrease LH and FSH with a concomitant reduction in serum testosterone and estradiol ( 183 ). However, the discovery of men with congenital estrogen deficiency has provided further evidence for a relationship between estrogens and gonadotropin secretion also in men ( 22 ). In fact, serum gonadotropins are high in all adult patients with aromatase deficiency, notwithstanding normal to increased serum testosterone levels ( 135 ), thus implying that estrogens are also important for the regulation of circulating gonadotropins levels in men. The effects of estrogens on gonadotropin secretion have been investigated in GnRH-deficient men whose gonadotropin secretion was normalized by pulsatile GnRH administration. Moreover, in order to determine the precise role of sex steroids on the hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis, several studies characterized by the administration of testosterone, testosterone plus testolactone (an aromatase inhibitor), or estradiol have
