Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


order to determine the precise role of sex steroids on the hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis, several studies characterized by the administration of testosterone, testosterone plus testolactone (an aromatase inhibitor), or estradiol have been performed ( 184 , 185 ). Testosterone alone induced a significant decrease in mean basal LH and FSH levels as well as of LH pulse amplitude, demonstrating a direct suppressive effect on the pituitary of testosterone and its metabolites. In general, mean LH levels and LH pulse frequency are suppressed to a greater extent in normal control subjects under testosterone administration, suggesting the involvement of a hypothalamic site of action of testosterone (or its metabolites) in suppressing GnRH secretion. In order to discriminate the impact of testosterone from its aromatized products, both groups of subjects were treated with testosterone plus testolactone. The addition of this aromatase inhibitor completely inhibited the testosterone effect on gonadotropin secretion both in normal and GnRH-deficient men, thus leading to a significant increase in mean LH levels in both groups. The latter was greater in normal men who received testolactone alone than in normal men who received testosterone plus testolactone, thus confirming a direct effect of androgens on gonadotropin secretion in normal men. On the basis of the results of these studies, it is clear that the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol is, at least in part, required for normal gonadotropin feedback at the pituitary level ( 185 ). In fact, when the same experimental model was applied using estradiol administration instead of testolactone, mean LH and FSH levels as well as LH pulse amplitude decreased significantly during the treatment ( 184 ). These studies have demonstrated an important direct inhibitory effect of estradiol on gonadotropin secretion in both GnRH-deficient and normal men ( 184 , 185 ) and support the concept that, at least in part, the inhibitory effect on gonadotropin secretion is mediated by the conversion of testosterone to estradiol ( 4 , 186 ). Accordingly, the administration of the aromatase inhibitor letrozole to healthy adult males is able to suppress aromatase activity and serum estradiol levels leading to an increase of gonadotropins ( 187 ). Only the restoration of normal circulating estrogens, by means of transdermal estrogen administration, normalized gonadotropin secretion in this setting ( 187 ). In contrast, it seems that the 5α-reduction of testosterone to DHT does not play a very important role in pituitary secretion of gonadotropins ( 188
