Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


this setting ( 187 ). In contrast, it seems that the 5α-reduction of testosterone to DHT does not play a very important role in pituitary secretion of gonadotropins ( 188 ); DHT, in fact, slightly decreases LH and FSH only after long-term administration ( 183 ). All these studies suggest possible estrogen action at the level of hypothalamus. In order to clarify the role of estrogen on the feedback regulation of gonadotropin secretion at hypothalamic level, Hayes et al . ( 189 ) conducted a study involving men affected by idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), whose gonadotropin secretion was normalized by long-term pulsatile GnRH therapy, followed by treatment with the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole. They observed that the inhibition of estradiol synthesis led to an increase in mean gonadotropin levels that was greater in normal subjects than in IIH men, suggesting a hypothalamic involvement. The rise in mean LH concentrations in normal subjects due to anastrozole was due to increased LH pulse frequency and amplitude. The authors concluded that estrogen acts at the hypothalamic level by decreasing GnRH pulse frequency and pituitary responsiveness to GnRH ( 189 ). Subsequently, the same group ( 190 ) demonstrated that the administration of estradiol in normal subjects, whose endogenous testosterone and estradiol synthesis was inhibited through the use of ketoconazole, reduced mean LH levels by lowering LH pulse frequency, but not amplitude. These authors went on to report that the sex steroid component to FSH negative feedback was not androgenic but rather was mediated by estradiol effects on the frequency of GnRH stimulation ( 190 , 191 ). For many years another important unresolved issue has been the relative role of circulating vs. locally produced estrogens in the control of gonadotropin secretion. Now we know that the effects of circulating estrogen are more relevant than that of locally produced, at both the hypothalamic and pituitary level ( 187 ) (Figure 5 ). Accordingly, the administration of both the aromatase inhibitor letrozole and estradiol at different dosages showed that serum testosterone and gonadotropins were inversely related to circulating estradiol, depending on the dose of exogenous estradiol ( 187 ). The serum estradiol required to obtain the same levels of gonadotropins were not different compared to that at baseline, suggesting that aromatase inhibition and the blockade of locally produced estrogens are less important than previously thought ( 187 ). In the same year, our group reached the
