Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


at baseline, suggesting that aromatase inhibition and the blockade of locally produced estrogens are less important than previously thought ( 187 ). In the same year, our group reached the same conclusions using a different approach. In men with aromatase deficiency, we demonstrated that circulating rather than locally produced estrogens are the main inhibitors of LH secretion ( 157 ). This implies that the role of locally produced estradiol on gonadotropin feedback at hypothalamic and pituitary levels is relatively modest in vivo (Figure 5 ). However, the role of locally produced estrogens has been poorly investigated since evaluating the effects of locally produced estrogens in vivo is challenging ( 186 ). Data available in the literature demonstrate that (i) circulating estrogens are involved in gonadotropin suppression both at pituitary ( 187 ) and hypothalamic level ( 157 , 190 ), and (ii) estrogen effects on hypothalamus are independent from central aromatization, but requires adequate amounts of circulating estrogens in normal healthy men ( 187 ), in men with IHH ( 190 , 191 ), and in men with aromatase deficiency ( 157 ). The effects of estrogen on gonadotropin secretion at the pituitary level operate from early- to mid-puberty ( 186 , 192 , 193 ) into old age in men ( 194 ). The administration of an aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole 1 mg daily for 10 weeks) to young men aged 15-22 years ( 192 ) resulted in a 50% decrease in serum estradiol concentrations, an increase in testosterone concentrations and an increase in both LH and FSH values during the study protocol. These hormonal parameters were restored after the discontinuation of anastrozole treatment ( 192 ). In addition, the administration of letrozole increased serum LH levels, LH pulse frequency and amplitude and the response of LH to GnRH administration in boys during early and mid-pubertal phases, confirming that estrogens act at the pituitary level during early phases of puberty ( 193 ), the role of estrogens in infancy and at the beginning of puberty remaining less known ( 186 ). The same mechanism continues to operate during adulthood and early senescence ( 195 ), as shown in fifteen eugonadal men, aged 65 years treated with 2 mg anastrozole for 9 weeks, in which serum FSH and LH levels increased significantly, in spite of an increase in serum testosterone levels ( 194 ). Similar results were replicated by using letrozole
