Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


9 weeks, in which serum FSH and LH levels increased significantly, in spite of an increase in serum testosterone levels ( 194 ). Similar results were replicated by using letrozole in older men ( 173 ). For these reasons, the use of aromatase inhibitors as blockers of the negative feedback on gonadotropin has been tested as a possible strategy useful for the treatment of late-onset male hypogonadism ( 196 ). The rationale was that increasing endogenous serum testosterone through the inhibition of the rate of conversion of testosterone into estradiol led to the consequent LH and FSH increase ( 196 ). After the first encouraging results ( 197-199 ), this kind of treatment seems to be not effective, especially on large-scale clinical trials and for long periods of time ( 195 , 196 , 200 , 201 ). Figure 5. Sex steroid control of gonadotropin secretion after recent advances: estrogens, but not androgens, are the main regulator of gonadotropins and the action of circulating estradiol prevails with respect to that of locally produced estradiol. [T: testosterone; DHT: dihydrotestosterone; E2: estradiol; GnRH: gonadotropin releasing hormone; LH: luteinizing hormone; FSH: follicle-stimulating hormone]. Previous data suggest that estradiol may modulate GnRH receptor number and function at hypothalamic-pituitary level ( 202 ), since ERs were detected in GnRH secreting neurons ( 203 ). Moreover, both genomic and non-genomic estrogen actions seems to be involved in the regulation of the gonadotropin feedback in males ( 203 , 204 ), although the precise mechanism remains unclear ( 205 ). Nevertheless, it is now well established that androgens need to be converted to estrogens in order to ensure the integrity of the gonadotropin feedback mechanism in men, testosterone itself having a lesser role than previously thought (Figure 5 ), and circulating estrogen, rather than locally produced estrogen, having a major role at the hypothalamic pituitary level ( 157 , 187 , 191 ). In a complementary way, our knowledge on the role of estrogens in gonadotropin feedback has been enhanced through studies of men with congenital estrogen deficiency. The description of a man lacking a functional ERα ( 19 ) revealed a remarkable hormonal pattern consisting of normal serum testosterone, high estradiol and estrone levels, but increased serum FSH and LH concentrations; the serum testosterone remained in the normal range because of increased aromatization of testosterone to estradiol ( Table 6 ). Other important information about estrogen’s
