Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


not testosterone, was able to restore normal FSH serum levels ( 191 ). Due to the concomitant impairment of the patient's spermatogenesis, complete normalization of serum FSH was not achieved in all aromatase-deficient men during estradiol treatment, even in the presence of physiological levels of circulating estradiol ( 135 ), only supraphysiological levels of estrogens were able to normalize FSH ( 21 , 135 , 154 , 155 ). A detailed study of the effects of different doses of transdermal estradiol on pituitary function in two men with congenital aromatase deficiency demonstrated that estrogens might control not only basal secretion of gonadotropins but also their responsiveness to GnRH administration ( 138 , 155 , 157 ). In these studies, estrogen administration to three male patients with aromatase deficiency caused a decrease in both basal and GnRH-stimulated LH, FSH and α-subunit secretion with a dose-dependent response to GnRH administration ( 138 , 155 , 157 ). In 2006, Rochira et al . ( 157 ), demonstrated that estrogen’s effects on LH secretion are exerted both at pituitary and hypothalamic level, as shown by the decrease of basal and GnRH-stimulated secretion of LH and the LH pulse amplitude, and the reduction of the frequency of LH pulses respectively, during estrogen treatment to normalize estradiol serum levels in two aromatase-deficient men. In normal physiology, these data provide evidence that the negative feedback effects of circulating estrogens is more important than estrogen locally produced at the hypothalamic level ( 157 ). As previously explained, these data confirm data from healthy men ( 186 ). Notwithstanding recent advances in the study of estrogen’s role in males, some difficulties remain when data from men with congenital estrogen deficiency are interpreted, particularly if phenotype heterogeneity is considered ( 161 , 186 ). No abnormalities were found in either gonadotropin secretion or in testis position and size in the patient with congenital aromatase deficiency diagnosed in childhood ( 137 ), unlike female newborns ( 206 ). For these reasons, the role of estrogens in the hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis should become relevant in a later stage of life than infancy in men. Furthermore, the smaller than expected increase in FSH levels (given the prevailing serum testosterone levels and impaired spermatogenesis) in two estrogen-deficient men ( 157 ), suggests a possible role of estrogens in priming and maturation of hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis in men ( 155 , 156 ). Thus, the control
