Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


in two estrogen-deficient men ( 157 ), suggests a possible role of estrogens in priming and maturation of hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis in men ( 155 , 156 ). Thus, the control of gonadotropin feedback exerted by sex steroids during early infancy and childhood remains a matter of debate in the human male ( 186 ). In conclusion, estrogens are the main sex steroids involved in the control of gonadotropin secretion in men, testosterone having a minor but determinant role as demonstrated by evidence coming from complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS) syndrome in which serum LH is above normal as a consequence of androgen resistance notwithstanding elevated circulating estradiol ( 207 ). Estrogens and Prostate Androgens regulate prostate gland growth and differentiation, particularly during its development. Estrogens also act on prostate growth and differentiation through both ERα, and ERβ ( 208 , 209 ). In rodents, the prostate is sensitive to estrogen exposure during development ( 210 ). Studies on animals have helped to better understand estrogen’s role in prostate growth. Studies in mice overexpressing aromatase (AROM+) demonstrated that prostate lobes are significantly reduced as a consequence of estrogen excess ( 211 ). On the other hand, aromatase-deficient mice presented a hyperplastic prostate gland probably due to the excess of circulating androgens ( 212 ) and consistent with hyperplasia of the epithelial, interstitial and luminal compartments ( 210 ). Furthermore, McPherson et al ., using tissue recombination and an ERβ-specific agonist, demonstrated that ERβ activation results in an anti-proliferative response not influenced by systemic androgen levels, or activation of ERα ( 212 ). Moreover, studies on ArKO mice demonstrated that the administration of an ERβ-specific agonist reverted the existing hyperplastic epithelial pathology ( 212 ). In terms of prostate carcinogenesis, it is generally assumed that androgenic hormones play a major role in tumor development, since the prostate gland is an androgen-dependent tissue, as is prostate cancer ( 213 ). However, considering the fact that testosterone can be converted to estradiol, and that ERs are present in the prostate epithelium ( 214 ), theoretically estrogen might also be involved in the induction of prostate cancer. Some polymorphisms (rs2470152, rs10459592, and rs4775936) of the CYP19A1 aromatase gene were associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer ( 215 , 216 ). Besides, patients with prostate cancer who are carriers of the rs4775936 polymorphism of the CYP19A1 aromatase gene show a significantly shorter time of cancer-specific
