Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


cancer ( 215 , 216 ). Besides, patients with prostate cancer who are carriers of the rs4775936 polymorphism of the CYP19A1 aromatase gene show a significantly shorter time of cancer-specific survival compared to patients who do not carry this polymorphism ( 215 ). In line with this Bosland et al . found that combined treatment of rats with estradiol and testosterone lead to an increased incidence of prostate cancer from 35-40% with androgen alone to 90-100% ( 217 ). The estrogen pathways that may be involved at the molecular level in the process of prostate carcinogenesis are very complex ( 209 ). Several studies demonstrate that both ERα and β are involved in the transduction of estrogen signaling in prostate cancer such as cell proliferation pathways ( 209 ). Furthermore, ERβ seems mainly involved in pro-apoptotic pathways (e.g. FOXO3 and p-53), while ERα is involved in chronic inflammation, and the two ERs seem to act differently on oncogenes playing suppressive (ERβ) and oncogenic (ERα) roles ( 209 ). Proliferation of prostatic cells seems to be promoted by the activation of the ERα while ERβ and GPER seems to exert an antiproliferative action ( 218 , 219 ). The different effects of each ER on the proliferation of prostate cells may accounts for the contrasting results (proliferative/antiproliferative) available in literature, depending on the prevailing activated pathway. However, estrogens also display a biphasic effects in vitro on prostate cells growth, which is enhanced by low estradiol and inhibited by high dose of estradiol ( 220 ). Probably, different pathways are activated in presence of estrogen excess, thus leading to a shift in the final effect on cell growth ( 218 , 220 ). At present studies on estrogen signaling in prostate cancer tissue are also providing promising results in term of the utilization of this signature as biomarker useful to tailor hormonal treatment ( 218 ). Prostate was normal in aromatase-deficient men and did not change in volume during estrogen replacement therapy (Carani & Rochira; data not published data). Besides, the administration of selective inhibitors of aromatase are helpful for the evaluation of estrogen in vivo effects on prostate. Recently, the combined therapy with transdermal testosterone and the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole in older men with low or low-to-normal serum testosterone (< 350 ng/dL) prevented the increase of prostate volume, but not that of prostate-specific antigen seen in patients treated with testosterone alone
