Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


older men with low or low-to-normal serum testosterone (< 350 ng/dL) prevented the increase of prostate volume, but not that of prostate-specific antigen seen in patients treated with testosterone alone ( 221 ). Similarly, high serum estradiol resulted directly related to prostate volume in 239 Chinese men with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( 222 ) even though these data are limited by the poor accuracy of estradiol measured by immunometric assay. This is in line with the above-mentioned experimental results suggesting an active role of estrogens in prostate cell proliferation in prostate carcinogenesis. Traditionally, exogenous estrogens have been used for the treatment of prostate cancer since the 1940s thanks to their potent inhibitory effect on the HPT axis resulting in the suppression of circulating testosterone ( 223 ). However, diethylstilbestrol (DES) used in the past for prostate cancer was strongly associated with thromboembolic side effects( 223 ). Recently, the use of exogenous estrogens for the therapy of prostate cancer is being reconsidered ( 224 ). Transdermal estradiol (patch) seems to be effective in inhibiting gonadotropins and in reducing serum testosterone in men with prostate cancer without increasing cardiovascular events ( 224 ).In the near future, if estrogen’s role in the prostate will be further elucidated, new treatment strategies will become available for benign prostate hypertrophy and cancer, especially in men with concomitant hypogonadism ( 225 ). Estrogens and Male Sexual Behavior Sex steroids act on several aspects of male sexual behavior ( 226 ). Sex steroids, mainly testosterone, modulate adult male sexual behavior in mammals ( 227 ). In men, sexual behavior is more complex than in other species since it results also from cognitive processes, cultural environment, and an individual system of beliefs ( 226 , 228 ). Thus, sexual behavior does not depend only on hormonal and genetic prerequisites in men ( 226 , 228 ). Traditionally, it was thought that only testosterone, the male hormone, is responsible for the control of male sexual behavior ( 229 ). In the last two decades, the possibility that estrogens may be involved in the control of male sexual behavior has received more attention, and an impact of estradiol on male sexuality has become evident ( 199 ). Testosterone is mainly involved in the control of sexual desire and sexual drive and in the facilitation and maintenance of a normal sexual genital response ( 226 ). Erections, especially nocturnal erections, are also
