Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


in the control of sexual desire and sexual drive and in the facilitation and maintenance of a normal sexual genital response ( 226 ). Erections, especially nocturnal erections, are also under the control of androgens ( 230 , 231 ). The role of estrogen on male sexual behavior has been poorly investigated and knowledge derives mainly from studies performed on animals or from rare models of human estrogen deficiency. The increasing interest on the treatment of transgender people ( 232 ) and on the cross actions of male and female hormones on both sexual behavior ( 233 ) and other physiological functions ( 234 ) probably have contributed to a better focus on this area of research. In recent years, however, several in vivo experimental settings have addressed this issue. As a result, nowadays all studies on steroid sex hormones action on male sexual behavior tend to investigate androgens and estrogens separately ( 199 , 235-238 ). Furthermore, steroid sex hormones may influence both gender-identity and sexual orientation ( 239 , 240 ), even though in humans this action is mitigated by the strong influence of psychosocial factors. Estrogens and Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation Testosterone aromatization to estradiol in the brain was traditionally considered the key step in the development of a male brain and in determining sexual dimorphism of the central nervous system in non-primate mammals ( 241-243 ). According to Dörner’s hypothesis ( 244 ), prenatal and perinatal brain exposure to estrogens may be responsible for the establishment of a male brain ( 240 , 245 ), an event occurring only in the male, but not female, brain. Accordingly, ovaries release a very small amount of estrogen, soon inactivated in rodents ( 4 , 245 ), while the testes produce a greater amount of androgen that is converted into estrogen. Thus, circulating estrogens are paradoxically greater in males than in females during fetal life ( 240 , 246 ) and this accounts for the sexual dimorphism of hypothalamic structures in rodents and other species like sheep ( 245-247 ). The same mechanism seems to be also involved in the differentiation in hypothalamic structures between men and women ( 244 , 246 , 248 ). Prenatal hormonal exposure is classically considered to be involved in determining sexual orientation, on the basis of some differences in hypothalamic structures between heterosexual and homosexual men ( 243 , 248 ). This
