Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


acetate), resulting in testosterone and estradiol suppression ( 199 ). In order to investigate the placebo effect and the effects of testosterone and estradiol, subjects were assigned to receive i) placebo, ii) testosterone treatment at different dosages, and iii) testosterone at different dosages plus the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole ( 199 ). In the testosterone group, serum testosterone and estradiol varied from physiological levels to low levels according to the different doses of exogenous testosterone in each group and the estradiol to testosterone ratio remaining substantially unchanged in all groups ( 199 ). This pharmacologic scheme allowed testing the effects of lowering both serum testosterone and estradiol in a similar way on several physiological functions; the result was a decline of both sexual desire and erectile function in parallel with the decrease of both sex steroids ( 199 ). In the testosterone plus anastrozole group, the decline of serum testosterone paralleled that obtained in the testosterone group, while serum estradiol was quite suppressed and changed to a lesser degree in each testosterone dose group, thus fluctuating across very low values ( 199 ). In this group, both sexual desire and erectile function were severely affected in patients with low serum levels of estradiol despite normal serum testosterone in patients taking the higher doses of testosterone ( 199 ). Conversely, goserelin treatment resulted in the maximum reduction of both sexual desire and erectile function in the placebo group ( 199 ). These results confirm observations in aromatase-deficient men ( 135 , 153 , 156 ) and suggest that estrogen deficiency is largely responsible for the impairment in sexual function occurring when serum testosterone is suppressed in hypogonadal men ( 199 ). A possible role of estrogen on male sexual function is also provided by further studies showing that testosterone therapy is more effective on libido when the treatment produces serum estradiol levels greater than 5 ng/dL ( 235 ) and that this serum estradiol is directly related to sexual function in men ( 236 ). In particular, serum estradiol is associated with sexual activity and desire, but not with erectile function ( 263 ). In addition, exogenous estradiol improves sexual desire in men with low testosterone and prostate cancer ( 264 ). Notwithstanding these studies, the role of estrogen in male sexual behavior remains controversial ( 257 ) since several studies reached opposite conclusions. In particular, Sartorius et al. found that DHT
