Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


Notwithstanding these studies, the role of estrogen in male sexual behavior remains controversial ( 257 ) since several studies reached opposite conclusions. In particular, Sartorius et al. found that DHT was effective in maintaining male sexual function in healthy, older men, despite its suppressive effect on both testosterone and estradiol, suggesting that male sexual function can be ensured without aromatization ( 237 ). Furthermore, other cross-sectional studies failed to demonstrate a clear association between serum estradiol and male sexual function ( 238 , 265 ). To add further complexity, estrogen action on erectile function seems to be biphasic, since estrogen deficiency may affect the ability to achieve an erection, yet estrogen excess and an increased estradiol to testosterone ratio is associated with an impaired erectile function. A Chinese group reported that serum estradiol is higher in a large sample of adult men with erectile dysfunction compared to men with normal erectile function, while it was not different among men with and without premature ejaculation ( 266 , 267 ). The same group has proposed that high serum estradiol and reduced estradiol to testosterone ratio may be independent risk factor for organic erectile dysfunction ( 268 ). Similar results have been obtained by other authors in hypogonadal men where high serum estradiol was associated to more severe erectile dysfunction ( 269 ). Also in an experimental rabbit model of the metabolic syndrome (a model used to investigate erectile function), erectile dysfunction is associated with high serum estradiol rather than low testosterone in line with the above mentioned clinical data ( 270 ). Conversely, other authors did not find any correlation between testosterone to estradiol ratio and erectile dysfunction ( 271 ). All these data, however, needs to be confirmed by further studies since the strength of evidence is weak due to many flaws such as the lack of data on the cause of sexual dysfunction, the poor accuracy of estradiol assay, and the retrospective collection of data. A possible explanation for these results is that a serum estradiol in the normal male range is required for a fully normal male sexual function in addition to testosterone, while both estrogen deficiency and estrogen excess have a negative impact on male sexual activity ( 156 , 236 , 238 ). Finally, estrogen receptors and the aromatase enzyme have been identified in the penile tissue of a large number of species, including humans (
