Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


( 156 , 236 , 238 ). Finally, estrogen receptors and the aromatase enzyme have been identified in the penile tissue of a large number of species, including humans ( 272-274 ) suggesting direct estrogenic activity within the penis. At present, knowledge on estrogen action within the penis derives from the observation that: i) male offspring exposure to estrogen-like endocrine disruptors in utero induces micropenis and hypospadias ( 176 ), and that ii) penile development and function is estrogen-dependent in animals ( 275 ). OTHER NON-REPRODUCTIVE PHYSIOLOGICAL ESTROGEN ACTIONS IN MEN Estrogens, Metabolism, and Cardiovascular Disease in Men The role of estrogen on glucose and insulin metabolism in men is difficult to establish since it is challenging to differentiate androgen from estrogen actions in vivo. In estrogen-deficient men, both insulin resistance and fasting glucose are increased and improve during estrogen treatment ( 150 , 158 , 161 ), confirming data from mice models ( 16 ). Thus, severe estrogen to testosterone ratio imbalance (increased androgens and decreased estrogens) seems to favor the development of insulin resistance in men ( 150 , 151 , 158 ), and not only in estrogen-deficient men ( 276 ). In healthy men, the administration of an aromatase inhibitor in a double blind, randomized, controlled, crossover study led to a decrease of insulin sensitivity ( 277 ). Several other clinical studies confirmed that aromatase inhibition worsens insulin sensitivity in older men ( 278 ), and in obese men, independently from the increase in serum testosterone ( 279 ). The same results come from studies comparing exogenous estradiol to GnRH analogues for the treatment of prostate cancer showing that fasting both fasting glucose and cholesterol decreased in men treated with estradiol ( 224 ). In accordance with this findings, relative estrogen deficiency is found in men with type 2 diabetes mellitus and low serum testosterone who display also low serum estradiol ( 280 ). Furthermore, congenital estrogen deﬁciency is associated with an altered lipid proﬁle ( 22 , 161 ), mainly characterized by higher total cholesterol and triglycerides serum levels, higher low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and very low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ( 11 , 135 ). In these patients, estradiol treatment induces a moderate increase of HDL-cholesterol together with a small reduction of triglycerides, total cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol ( 21 , 135 , 138 , 150 ), resembling the effects of estrogen on lipid metabolism
