Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


HDL-cholesterol together with a small reduction of triglycerides, total cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol ( 21 , 135 , 138 , 150 ), resembling the effects of estrogen on lipid metabolism exerted in females ( 10 ). The administration of aromatase inhibitors leads to no change in serum lipids after 12 months of therapy ( 278 ). Outside the context of rare congenital diseases, the effects of estrogens and antiestrogens on serum lipids remains not well established due to conflicting results, and additional studies are needed ( 24 ). In community-based men aged 20-70 years, high serum E2 is associated with reduced carotid plaque and serum E2 is directly related to carotid intima media thickness ( 281 ). The T to E2 ratio was associated with increased atheromatous plaque inflammation and increased risk of subsequent major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in men with documented atherosclerotic disease ( 282 ). In an aromatase-deficient man the normalization of serum E2 induced by estradiol replacement was able to reduce carotid atherosclerotic plaque volume on ultrasonography ( 150 ). While serum E2 may exert protective effects against atherosclerosis, the serum T to E2 ratio maybe a marker of low serum T and increased adiposity, especially in overweight and obese men and may be associated with increased cardiovascular (CV) risk ( 282 , 283 ). However, these clinical studies suffer from serum E2 measurement with commercially available immunoassay that are unreliable for E2 values in the normal male serum range ( 41 , 42 , 131 ). An association between coronary artery calcification (a surrogate radiological markers of coronary atherosclerosis) and both low serum testosterone and low serum estradiol measured by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has been found in men participating to the Framingham Heart Study ( 284 ). In hypogonadal men, estrogen deficiency, but not testosterone deficiency is responsible for vasomotor symptoms (i.e., hot flushes). In men treated with an LHRH analogue and replaced with placebo, different dosages of T alone or T plus aromatase inhibitors, only estrogen deficiency resulted in the occurrence of vasomotor symptoms ( 285 ). The main role of estrogen deficiency in the occurrence of hot flushes has been also confirmed in men with prostate cancer treated with exogenous estradiol or LHRH analogue, being hot flushes significantly more prevalent in men with estrogen deficiency due to LHRH therapy. Taken together these results reinforce the concept that in men with hypogonadism
