Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


and increases bone mass despite low serum T ( 309 , 310 ). The degree or relative estrogen deficiency in hypogonadal men depends on several factors, including aromatase functioning ( Figure 6). Estrogens, Body Composition, and Obesity in Men The role of sex steroids action on body composition and adipose tissue metabolism in humans is long been recognized ( 311 ). Testosterone has been largely considered the main sex steroid involved in fat pathophysiology in men ( 311 , 312 ). However, it has become clear that estrogen also plays an important role in adipose tissue physiology in men since the first description of human cases of congenital estrogen deficiency ( 11 , 135 , 151 ) and the generation of knock-out mice models of estrogen deficiency ( 16 , 117 , 313 , 314 ) showing a phenotype of increased adiposity in spite of normal to increased serum testosterone. Accordingly, both aromatase enzyme and ERs are expressed in the adipose tissue and in the skeletal muscle ( 12 , 18 , 24 , 25 ). BODY COMPOSITION Testosterone increases muscle mass and reduces fat mass in vivo ( 312 ). However, it is now clear that much these effects are due to its conversion into estradiol. In the context of an experimental in vivo setting, healthy younger men treated with GnRH analogues and then substituted with different doses of exogenous testosterone alone together with placebo or in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, showed an increase in both subcutaneous and visceral fat mass mainly in presence of estrogen deficiency induced by the aromatase inhibitor ( 199 ). Similar results demonstrate that fat mass increases only in the group of healthy men with relative estrogen deficiency (below 15 pg/mL) induced pharmacologically by the short-term administration of GnRH analogue and aromatase inhibitors, but not in men with estradiol in the normal range ( 315 ). In accordance obese men treated with supraphysiological doses of transdermal testosterone or dutasteride showed an increase in fat mass only in the group taking an aromatase inhibitor compared to placebo ( 279 ). Similarly, men treated with androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer increase their fat mass and weight and loose muscle mass ( 316-318 ). However, a double-blind randomized study tested the effects of 6 months of transdermal estradiol therapy in men on androgen deprivation therapy, and this study showed no beneficial effect of estradiol to
