Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


a double-blind randomized study tested the effects of 6 months of transdermal estradiol therapy in men on androgen deprivation therapy, and this study showed no beneficial effect of estradiol to prevent the increase of fat mass ( 319 ). This study was prematurely stopped due to Covid 19 pandemic, and the premature discontinuation might have resulted in insufficient power to detect a benefit ( 319 ). Estradiol therapy also seems to not influence fat-free mass and muscle size ( 199 ). Congenital human models of sex steroids deficiency also support the importance of estrogen deficiency in the body fat mass increase since men with congenital estrogen deficiency show increased adiposity ( 11 , 135 , 150 , 151 ) and patients with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome do not accumulate fat mass even in absence of testosterone action thanks to a normal production of estrogens ( 320 ). The mechanisms through which estrogens modulate fat mass in men are not fully understood and several, different actions are involved and interlinked in a complex network. ESTROGENS AND THE GH/IGF-1 AXIS Estrogens modulate the GH/IGF-1 axis by enhancing both the GH and IGF-1 secretion in men ( 321 ). Thus, estrogen deficiency indirectly leads to body composition changes related to the inhibition of the GH-IGF-1 axis ( 321 ). ESTROGEN ACTION ON ADIPOSE TISSUE It is well known that the expression of the ERα within adipose tissue is decreased in obese women ( 322 ) and that the deletion of the ERS1 gene encoding for the ERα in adipocytes increases the adipocytes volume and total fat mass in both male and female rodents ( 323 ), but the underlying mechanisms needs to be fully ascertained. Recently, the study performed in approximately 700 women and 800 men demonstrates that the expression of the estrogen receptor ESR1 within adipose tissue is inversely associated with abdominal fat mass and insulin insensitivity ( 324 ). Therefore, men with relative estrogen deficiency due to lower ESR1 expression in adipose tissue or low circulating estradiol, or both, tend to have higher fat mass and insulin resistance, thus pointing out on a main role of estrogens on weight and body composition in men. The reduction of ESR1 expression was associated with mitochondrial dysfunction of adipocytes, and these effects seem to be mediated by the reduction of expression of Polg1, a subunit of the polymerase enzyme involved in mitochondrial DNA replication
