Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


with mitochondrial dysfunction of adipocytes, and these effects seem to be mediated by the reduction of expression of Polg1, a subunit of the polymerase enzyme involved in mitochondrial DNA replication and transcription ( 324 ). Reduced ESR1 expression in both white and brown adipocytes of ERKO mice (with deleted ESR1 gene) leads to increased fat in the former and reduced energy burning in the latter ( 324 ). Accordingly, in healthy adults of both sexes, serum E2 regulates brown adipose tissue thermogenesis, the latter being increased in women compared to men and associated with serum E2 ( 325 , 326 ). ESTROGENS AND FEEDING BEHAVIOR Sex hormones are able to influence adiposity in both men and women not only through peripheral mechanisms but also through a direct action on the brain ( 326 , 327 ) where they may modulate both energy balance and feeding behavior ( 328 , 329 ). Several data suggest that estrogens modulate energy balance at the hypothalamic level where they exert an anorexigenic action ( 326 ). In addition to the energy expenditure, increasing evidence suggests that estrogens modulate appetitive behavior and food intake through their action on hedonic pathways operating at central level. Estrogens seem to lessen appetite and to reduce food intake. Recent studies have focused on the role of locally produced estrogens within the amygdala where its amount seems to be crucial for the regulation of feeding behavior. The amygdala is involved in the control of food intake both in humans and animals. In particular, functional imaging studies have demonstrated the activation of amygdala when images/videos of food or eating behavior are administered to volunteers and that functional dysregulation of this kind of activation is present in obese men and women, especially in hunger conditions ( 330 ). By measuring aromatase availability in the amygdala using positron emission tomography (PET) with the aromatase inhibitor [11 C ]vorozole in normal- weight, overweight, or obese men, Biegon et al. demonstrated that aromatase availability in the amygdala, but not circulating sex steroids, was inversely correlated to BMI ( 331 ). In particular, the aromatase inhibitor [11 C ]vorozole (a surrogate marker of aromatase expression/activity in vivo and of locally produced estrogens) was less available within the amygdala of obese men compared to healthy and normal-weight men ( 331 ). This suggests that locally produced estrogens within the amygdala can suppress eating behavior thus contributing to
