Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


the amygdala of obese men compared to healthy and normal-weight men ( 331 ). This suggests that locally produced estrogens within the amygdala can suppress eating behavior thus contributing to the modulation of weight gain since they facilitate the individual control of impulsive eating through cognitive/hedonic central effects within the brain ( 331 ). Several actions of estrogens on food intake, energy homeostasis and body fat mass have been well characterized mainly in women ( 326 ) and till now the current knowledge was that estrogens are less important in men than in women in the control of these physiological functions, but recent evidence is changing this paradigm. In fact, all of the above findings point to an important role of estrogens on body composition, energy expenditure and control of feeding behavior in men and suggest that estrogen may represent a possible target to prevent and/or reverse weight gain in men ( 332 ) Other Non-Reproductive Estrogen Functions in Men During the last five years an increasing body of evidence suggest that estrogen may play a role on several other non-reproductive function in men. Among them the most investigated are cognitive function ( 333 ) and aging ( 334 , 335 ). However, at present more evidence is needed to confirm the putative role of estrogens on these functions in men. EFFECTS OF ESTROGEN EXCESS Effects of Exposure to Excess Estrogens in Animals In order to evaluate the effect of estrogen excess on the reproductive tract, several studies have been performed in various animal species treated with diethylstilbestrol (DES), a synthetic, potent estrogenic compound ( 336 ). The period between 13 to 24 weeks of human fetal life corresponds with the highest susceptibility of male reproductive organs to endocrine disruptors ( 4 , 53 , 55 , 336 ). Many studies in rodents suggest that the inappropriate exposure to estrogen in utero and/or during the neonatal period impairs the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, testicular descent, efferent ductule function and testicular function ( 26 , 31 , 176 , 178 ). The latter effect is a direct consequence of the exposure to estrogen excess, of the indirect effect of perturbations in circulating hormones, and of the ability of the efferent ductules to reabsorb fluid. It seems that ERβ may mediate the process through which excess estrogens produce negative effects on male reproduction ( 26 , 31 , 57 ). The effects of estrogen
