Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


fluid. It seems that ERβ may mediate the process through which excess estrogens produce negative effects on male reproduction ( 26 , 31 , 57 ). The effects of estrogen excess during the neonatal period can induce irreversible alterations of the testis that become manifest in adulthood, consisting of permanent changes in both testis function and spermatogenesis ( 26 , 31 ). AROMATASE OVER EXPRESSION IN RODENTS The transgenic model of mice overexpressing the aromatase enzyme (AROM+) exhibits highly elevated serum estradiol concentrations together with a decrease of serum testosterone levels due to gonadotropin suppression ( 211 , 337 ). The phenotypic abnormalities of AROM+ males are like those developed by mice that are perinatally exposed to estrogens. The most frequent abnormalities include: undescended testes, testicular interstitial cell hyperplasia, hypoandrogenism, and growth inhibition of accessory sex glands ( 211 ). The impairment of spermatogenesis observed in AROM+ may be due to multiple factors, including cryptorchidism, abnormal Leydig cell function, testosterone deficiency or hyperestrogenemia ( 211 ). Thus, estrogens are thought to inhibit Leydig cell development, growth and function, resulting in the final suppression of androgen production ( 26 ). Furthermore, the observation of numerous degenerating germ cells and the absence of spermatids within the seminiferous tubules of AROM+ mice suggest that germ cell development arrests at the pachytene spermatocyte stage ( 26 ). However, a possible role of cryptorchidism per se on germ cell arrest cannot be excluded since cryptorchidism is known to induce germ cell arrest in rodents ( 338 ). Interestingly, the spermatogenic arrest occurred at a stage where P450arom expression is generally high. The spermatogenic arrest found in the AROM+ mice could be explained, at least in part, by the suppression of FSH action ( 211 , 337 ). In fact, the reduced serum FSH levels associated with normal LH levels provide further evidence of the inhibiting actions of estrogens on FSH secretion in in AROM+ males ( 211 , 337 ). Effects of Exposure to Excess Estrogens in Men The observation that the clinical use of DES by pregnant women to prevent miscarriage is associated with a dramatic increase in the incidence of genital malformations in their sons represents the first evidence in humans on the potential for estrogen excess to provoke urogenital malformations ( 339 ). The most frequent structural and functional abnormalities include epididymal cysts, meatal stenosis, hypospadias, cryptorchidism and microphallus ( 339-341 ).
