Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


potential for estrogen excess to provoke urogenital malformations ( 339 ). The most frequent structural and functional abnormalities include epididymal cysts, meatal stenosis, hypospadias, cryptorchidism and microphallus ( 339-341 ). The frequency of abnormalities is dependent on the timing of estrogen exposure; in fact, men who were exposed to DES before the 11th week of gestation (i.e. the time of Műllerian ducts formation) had a two-fold higher rate of abnormalities than those who were exposed later ( 339 , 341 ). These data support the hypothesis that the asynchrony between formation and regression of embryonic reproductive structures is probably strongly influenced by estrogen exposure. Various reports demonstrated that semen quality of men exposed to DES in utero is significantly worse than in unexposed controls ( 342 ), even though sperm concentrations of most of these patients was average, with normal fertility ( 14 ). The implications for human spermatogenesis in terms of exposure to environmental estrogens remain less clear. The risk of testicular cancer among men exposed to DES in utero has been a controversial issue and several meta-analyses showed a doubling of testicular cancer risk, together with increased incidences of cryptorchidism, hypospadias, and impaired spermatogenesis ( 343 ). However, more direct evidence will be necessary in order to fully understand this issue and particularly to identify the exact estrogenic mechanism of action ( 343 ). It is clear that exogenous estrogens could interfere with the development of genital structures if administered during early organogenesis ( 341 ). The main effect is an impairment of gonadotropin secretion and the imbalance of estrogen to androgen ratio, which may account for impaired androgen receptor stimulation or inhibition according to the dose, the cell type and the timing of exposure ( 339 , 341 ). Furthermore, it seems that an excess of environmental estrogens could be a possible cause of impaired fertility in humans ( 176 , 177 , 341 ) since environmental estrogens are associated with an increased risk of subfertility in several studies ( 344 ). Although controversial, a proposed progressive decline in sperm count has been reported in some Western countries during the past 50 years, and has been suggested to involve negative effects of environmental contaminants, especially xenoestrogens, on male reproductive function ( 13 , 176 , 339 , 344 ). In adult men the effects of estrogen excess are limited to rare causes of congenital aromatase overexpression and
