Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


male reproductive function ( 13 , 176 , 339 , 344 ). In adult men the effects of estrogen excess are limited to rare causes of congenital aromatase overexpression and other rare conditions such as male to female transexuals taking exogenous estrogens. AROMATASE OVER EXPRESSION IN HUMANS Aromatase over-expression causes an increased conversion of androgens to estrogens with a consequent excess of estrogen. Excess estrogen in boys causes gynecomastia, a premature growth spurt, early fusion of epiphyses, and decreased adult height ( 162 , 345 ). Increased extraglandular aromatization was firstly reported in an adopted boy with prepubertal gynecomastia in 1977 ( 346 ). Four families were then described, in which several members had estrogen excess (manifested as gynecomastia in boys and men and premature thelarche in girls) due to increased extraglandular aromatization ( 347-349 ), and one case with a gain-of-function mutation of the aromatase gene ( 345 ). The latter seemed to be an autosomal dominant inherited disease ( 345 , 348 ). In adult men, elevated serum estradiol levels induce mild hypogonadotropic hypogonadism due to enhanced negative feedback on pituitary gonadotropins exerted by estrogens ( 162 , 345 , 348 ). This inhibitory effect of estrogen on reproductive function appears to be milder in males with aromatase excess syndrome than in patients receiving exogenous estrogens or having estrogen-secreting tumors, probably because serum estradiol and/or estrone levels are lower in the former ( 348 ). External genitalia in adult men with aromatase excess syndrome are characterized by normal penile and testicular size ( 162 , 345 , 348 ). This clinical reproductive phenotype has been observed also in other patients with aromatase excess syndrome due to gain-of-function mutations of the aromatase enzyme ( 162 , 350-352 ). Even though spermatogenesis and sexual behavior were not specifically studied, the adult men described were fertile and reported normal libido ( 345 , 348 ) and sperm count was normal in other studies ( 350 ). In these patients, treatment with an aromatase inhibitor reduces estrogen levels and normalized testosterone, LH and FSH serum levels ( 345 , 353 ), confirming a crucial role of estrogen in the suppression of both gonadotropins in men. ESTROGEN EXCESS IN ADULT MEN Klinefelter’s Syndrome has been classically considered a feminizing syndrome on the basis of signs (gynecomastia) and the observation of circulating estradiol higher than normal ( 354 , 355 ). In the literature,
