Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


has been classically considered a feminizing syndrome on the basis of signs (gynecomastia) and the observation of circulating estradiol higher than normal ( 354 , 355 ). In the literature, however, the data concerning hyperestrogenism in Klinefelter patients are not solid since they come from single case reports or studies using old assays for the measurement of serum estradiol. Data from mouse models of Klinefelter’s are not conclusive about the real increase of circulating estrogens and aromatase expression and activity ( 356 ). Infertility in these patients is mainly due to the genetic abnormalities rather than to the hormonal status ( 357 ). However, preliminary results from a recent meta-analysis does not confirm that is higher serum estradiol in Klinefelter’s patients compared with non-Klinefelter’s men, but show a condition of relative hyperestrogenism consisting with a slightly elevated estradiol to testosterone ratio in Klinefelter’s ( 358 ). Most male to female transexuals who undergo exogenous estrogen therapy continue to have sperm production and spermatogenesis progresses even after a long period of therapy with estrogens. Histological analysis of the testes removed as part of gender affirmation procedures in 72 male to female transexuals on long -term estrogen therapy (>1 year) shows the presence of germ cells and spermatids in about 80% and 40% of cases, respectively; these percentages being inversely related to testes volume ( 359 ). In particular, a reduced diameter of seminiferous tubules, Sertoli and Leydig cells abnormalities consisting with glycoproteins accumulation, germ cells and Leydig cells hypoplasia, and down regulation of Era expression in the seminiferous tubules have all been found in testes of male to female transexuals under long-term estrogen therapy ( 360 , 361 ). All these changes may be associated to impaired spermatogenesis ranging from the absence of spermatozoa production ( 362 ) to various degrees of reduction in number of spermatozoa and spermatozoa precursors (spermatids) in the seminiferous tubules ( 360 , 361 , 363 ). Serum T suppression below 50 ng/dL results almost constantly in a complete suppression of spermatogenesis ( 362 ), thus incomplete suppression of spermatogenesis may be considered a marker of inadequate hormonal treatment due to underdosage or lack of patients’ adherence to therapy ( 360 , 363 ). CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS OF ESTROGENS IN MALES Diagnostic Aspects: Significance of Serum Estradiol in Men Approximately 50 μg of estradiol are produced daily: about 5-10μg in the testis (10 to 20%) and the
