Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


testosterone, enclomiphene (the transisomer of clomiphene) was able to prevent gonadotropin suppression and the related oligospermia compared to placebo ( 395 ) and these preliminary data have been confirmed by other studies ( 396 )(Table 8). Clomiphene may be used off-label , but enclomiphene has not been approved by regulatory agencies and its use is limited to experimental trials ( 396 ). Tamoxifen (20 mg/day) has been also used in combination with oral testosterone undecanoate (120 mg/day) in men affected by idiopathic oligozoospermia. This combined treatment was effective in improving not only the sperm parameters (total sperm number, sperm morphology and motility), but also the pregnancy rate ( 397 ). In 2012, Moein et al. studied thirty-two azoospermic infertile men with proven non-obstructive azoospermia, administrating Tamoxifen for 3 months ( 398 ). Tamoxifen treatment led to the recovery of spermatozoa in the ejaculates of six patients ( 398 ). These studies showed that treatment of patients with non-obstructive azoospermia with anti-estrogenic drugs like tamoxifen can improve the results of sperm recovery in testis samples and also increase the chance of pregnancy by microinjection. Also other non-controlled trials suggest improvements in sperm quality or sperm concentration ( 399 , 400 ), however, no well-performed clinical trial has confirmed these results ( 376 ), except for one RCT comparing tamoxifen alone and tamoxifen plus folate with placebo confirming that tamoxifen increased sperm concentration in men with sperm abnormalities ( 399 ) (Table 8). A recent meta-analysis including a very small number of studies supports the empirical use of the estrogen antagonists clomiphene and tamoxifen at the dose of 50 mg and 20 to 30 mg daily based on the finding of the detection of a doubling rate of pregnancy outcome among men with idiopathic infertility ( 401 ). The uncertain role of these therapies on male fertility may be related to the fact that idiopathic oligozoospermia constitutes a group of heterogeneous disorders of which only a subgroup might respond to anti-estrogen therapy. However, studies have failed to identify the characteristics of this subgroup and thus physicians cannot distinguish potential responders and non-responders ( 376 ). Few data are available on the effect of aromatase inhibitors in male infertility (Table 8). An old study failed to demonstrate the efficacy of testolactone in the treatment of idiopathic oligozoospermic infertility ( 384 ). However, when aromatase inhibitors (testolactone or anastrozole) were administered in a selected
