Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


aromatase inhibitors ( 195 , 196 , 377 ). Six months of therapy with letrozole seems to not affect psychometric tests, glucose tolerance, serum circulating lipids, markers of bone turnover, and body composition, including BMD, in obese, hypogonadal men( 413 ). In this study, however, moderate aromatase inhibition resulted in serum estradiol still within the normal male range and all the outcomes were obtained after a short period of treatment ( 413 ). In the literature, opposite results are available and suggest possible undesired effects of aromatase inhibitors, especially on metabolism and bone. Evidence exists that high-dose aromatase inhibition might lead to several side effects, especially when patients are treated for more than 12 months with an aromatase inhibitor ( 195 , 196 ). Both very short-term and short-term treatment with aromatase inhibitors had deleterious metabolic effects: one study demonstrated a prompt worsening of both insulin sensitivity and lipid profile in young and older men after 28 days of treatment with letrozole ( 414 ), while anastrozole reduced insulin sensitivity in healthy men after 6 weeks of treatment ( 338 ). In the case of longer treatments (with outcomes obtained after 1 year) vertebral deformities ( 415 ) and decreased BMD ( 173 , 197 , 416 ) were found in young and older men, respectively. In addition, treatment with aromatase inhibitors lowered HDL-cholesterol in peripubertal boys ( 417 ) and in both adult and older men ( 195 , 414 ) while data on total and LDL-cholesterol are conflicting ( 277 , 338 , 414 ). Data available from a very small subset of male patients operated on for male breast cancer and treated with anti-estrogens (most of them with tamoxifen) provides data on long-term effects and major adverse events ( 412 ). The authors concluded that side effects and major adverse events did not differ between men and women taking anti-estrogens and that cerebrovascular or coronary events, thromboembolic events (deep venous thrombosis)( 418 , 419 ), depression, muscle cramps, and hot flashes might occur also in men during anti-estrogens treatment, hot flashes being the most frequent ( 411 , 412 ). These data, however, should be regarded with caution due to the small sample size, the lack of a control group, and the difficulties in proving a cause-effect relationship between major adverse events and the use of anti-estrogens in men. Besides, most of the studies on antiestrogens in
