Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


a control group, and the difficulties in proving a cause-effect relationship between major adverse events and the use of anti-estrogens in men. Besides, most of the studies on antiestrogens in men are based on short-term therapy, thus safety data for long-term therapy are not available. As a result, it should be remarked that none of the drugs belonging to the category of anti-estrogens (i.e. clomiphene, tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors) is approved for the indication of the treatment of male infertility by regulatory drug agencies (e.g. FDA, EMEA, TPD and TGA Regulations) nor is recommended by guidelines provided by Scientific Societies (e.g. NICE, ASA, EAA, SIAMS etc.) for use in idiopathic infertility ( 420 , 421 ). At present, all the data available on anti-estrogens in male infertility comes from the use of these drugs for research purposes outside the context of clinical practice. In addition, none of the studies are of adequate design, strength, and power. For all these reasons, their clinical use remains anecdotal and is off label ( 195 , 196 , 200 , 201 ). In conclusion anti-estrogens, alone or in combination with testosterone, may represent a potential therapy for idiopathic oligozoospermia, however this remains an empirical off-label treatment ( 376 , 401 ). The data set does not yet provide sufficient evidence for these applications, but there is suggestive evidence that encourages further study ( 401 ). Further well-designed studies on adequate sample size (and homogeneous groups of men with infertility) are needed to detect their true efficacy in improving the pregnancy rate, or to identify the features of the responders. FUTURE DIRECTIONS Notwithstanding consistent advancements in the comprehension of estrogen role in men the pathophysiology of estrogens in males remains not fully explored and further studies are advocated. Preliminary data suggest that the decline in serum estradiol is associated with all-cause mortality in community-dwelling older men, but further investigations are needed to prove this relationship ( 422 ). In addition, the knowledge of the role of estrogen-related genetic determinants in male pathophysiology is still in its infancy. In recent years some research based on genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have provided new insights to this field ( 76 , 306-308 , 423 ). GWAS are useful in examining unexplored areas concerning physiological and pathological actions and related genetic determinants ( Figure 6). Concerning estrogens in men a recent GWAS allowed disclosing more details on the association between
