Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


examining unexplored areas concerning physiological and pathological actions and related genetic determinants ( Figure 6). Concerning estrogens in men a recent GWAS allowed disclosing more details on the association between low serum estradiol and increased adiposity and showed that higher estradiol levels were associated with lower adiposity ( 423 ). Thus, GWAS are promising for disclosing new important aspects related to estrogen pathophysiology in men and for improving the knowledge of genetic determinants of estrogens in health and disease. Advancement in the comprehension of individual genetically determined estrogen actions ( Figure 6) together with the diffusion of LC-MS/MS in clinical laboratories allowing precise measurement of estrogens in men will pave the way to better tailor the management and therapy of both estrogen deficiency and excess in the human male. CONCLUSIONS Sex steroids account for sexual dimorphism because they are responsible for the establishment of primary and secondary sexual characteristics, which are under the control of androgens and estrogens in male and female, respectively. Advances in the understanding of the role of estrogens in animal and human models suggest a role for this sex steroid in the reproductive function of both sexes. The fact that both estrogen excess and estrogen deficiency influence male sexual development, testis function, the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis axis, spermatogenesis and ultimately male fertility, highlight the biological importance of estrogen action in males. Thus, estrogens, not only androgens, are responsible for some crucial physiological functions in men like fertility, reproduction, and bone health. In particular, the balance of serum estradiol to testosterone ratio is likely crucial for maintaining all these functions, thus suggesting that the homeostatic equilibrium between estrogens and androgens is important for the correct functioning of several physiological systems in men ( 11 , 22 , 34 , 121 , 158 , 172 , 381 ). From an evolutionary perspective, this relevance of estrogen actions in males provides an example of the parsimony operating in biological events that are crucial for the evolution of the human species such as growth and reproduction (Figure 7). This chapter has addressed the reproductive effects of estrogens in males but there are emerging roles for estrogens in non-reproductive tissues. In particular, even though testosterone has traditionally been considered the sex hormone involved in bone maturation and growth arrest in men the key role of estrogens on growth has recently been revealed. Figure 7. Direct and indirect (estrogen mediated) testosterone actions. [DHT: dihydrotestosterone,
