Estrogens, Male Reproduction and Beyond
KEYWORDS: estrogen, men, male, aromatase, estrogens, estradiol, pubmed, testosterone, deficiency, serum, normal, role, mice, human, cells


in bone maturation and growth arrest in men the key role of estrogens on growth has recently been revealed. Figure 7. Direct and indirect (estrogen mediated) testosterone actions. [DHT: dihydrotestosterone, AR: androgen receptor; ERs: estrogen receptors]. A major area of uncertainty is the possible role of estrogen in boys before puberty. It is known that low levels of circulating estradiol are detected in infancy when using ultrasensitive assays, but their significance is not known ( 130 ). Several lines of evidence support the view that estrogens are required for, and in part mediate, androgen actions on several tissues and organs in men (Figure 7). The progress made in the last thirty years in this field have clarified the importance of estrogen in men but leaves some issues still unsolved. In particular, estrogen actions on bone and on gonadotropin secretion are now well characterized and part of the estrogen action on spermatogenesis is known, but further evidence is needed to clarify several aspects still under debate. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We are indebted to Kenneth Korach S. (National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, NC, United States), Evan Simpson (Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Clayton, Australia), Laura Maffei (Buenos Aires, Argentina) for their collaboration with our group in this research field. A special thanks to Marco Faustini-Fustini (Ospedale Bellaria, Bologna, Italy), Antonio Balestrieri (Ospedale Bufalini, Cesena, Italy), Antonio R.M. Granata (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia), Elisa Pignatti (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia), Fabio Lanfranco (University of Turin, Italy), and Paolo Beck-Peccoz (Univesity of Milan, Italy) for fruitful discussion and collaboration in the research area of estrogen role in the human male. We are grateful to Bruno Madeo, MD, PhD, Chiara Diazzi, MD, PhD Lucia Zirilli, MD, PhD Daniele Santi MD, PhD (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia) for their contribution in revising some parts of the previous version of this chapter (November 24, 2016). REFERENCES 1. Simpson E, Santen RJ. Celebrating 75 years of oestradiol. Journal of molecular endocrinology. 2015; 55 (3):T1–20. [ PubMed : 26438567 ] 2. Hess RA, Cooke PS. Estrogen in the male: a historical perspective. Biology of reproduction. 2018; 99 (1):27–44. [ PMC free article : PMC6044326 ] [ PubMed : 29438493 ] 3. Zondek B. Mass excretion of oestrogenic hormone in the urine of the stallion. Nature. 1934; 133 (3354):209–210. 4. Rochira V, Granata AR, Madeo B, Zirilli L, Rossi G, Carani C. Estrogens in males: what
