Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


ABSTRACT Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) are rare tumors that display marked heterogeneity with varying natural history, biological behavior, response to therapy and prognosis. Their management is complex, particularly as some may be associated with a secretory syndrome, and is undertaken in the context of a multidisciplinary team including a variety of surgical and medical options. The term paraneoplastic syndrome (PNS) is used to define a spectrum of symptoms attributed to the production of biologically active substances secreted from tumors not related to their specific organ or tissue of origin and/or production of autoantibodies against tumor cells. The majority of these syndromes is associated with hormonal and neurological symptoms. Currently, no specific underlying pathogenic mechanism has been identified although a number of plausible hypotheses have been put forward. PNSs can precede, occur concomitantly or present at a later stage of tumor development and may complicate the patient’s clinical course, response to treatment, and impact overall prognosis. Their detection can facilitate the diagnosis of the underlying neoplasia, monitor response to treatment, detect early recurrences, and correlate with prognosis. Clinical awareness and the incorporation into clinical practice of 68 Ga-labelled somatostatin analogue positron emission tomography, and other evolving biomarkers have substantially contributed to the identification of patients harboring such syndromes. When associated with tumors of low malignant potential PNSs usually do not affect long-term outcome. Conversely, in cases of highly malignant tumors, endocrine PNSs are usually associated with poorer survival outcomes. The development of well-designed prospective multicenter trials remains a priority in the field in order to fully characterize these syndromes and provide evidence-based diagnostic and therapeutic protocols. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) are rare tumors with an estimated annual incidence of approximately 3-5 cases /100,000 inhabitants. Due to increased utilization of modern more sensitive diagnostic tools their incidence has risen over time ( 1 , 2 ). NENs are predominately located in the gastrointestinal and bronchopulmonary systems but may rarely arise in other organs such as the ovaries or the urinary bladder ( 3 ). They display marked heterogeneity with varying natural history, biological behavior, response to treatment and prognosis. In general, NENs exhibit a relatively indolent course but can develop metastases and a subset can display an aggressive behavior. They are derived from cells that have the ability to synthesize and secrete a variety of metabolically
