Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


course but can develop metastases and a subset can display an aggressive behavior. They are derived from cells that have the ability to synthesize and secrete a variety of metabolically active substances that are related to distinct clinical syndromes. These secretory products are characteristic of the tissue of origin and secretory tumors are denoted “functioning”. This distinguishes them from tumors originating from cells which do not produce any substances associated with recognized clinical syndromes or produce biologically inactive substances that do not have any clinical consequences. The latter tumors are called “non-functioning” and can cause symptoms, along with functioning tumors, due to mass effects and compression of surrounding vital structures ( 4 ). The non-specific immunohistochemical markers chromogranin A (CgA) and synaptophysin have been used to establish the neuroendocrine nature of these tumors and in this context tumors expressing these markers are classified as NENs ( Table 1 ) ( 1 , 5 , 6 ). According to the proliferative index (PI) Ki-67, defined by immunohistochemical staining for nuclear Ki-67 protein expression, gastro-entero-pancreatic NENs (GEP-NENs) are classified into grade 1 (G1) or 2 (G2) if Ki-67 PI is ≤2 or between 3 and 20% respectively and grade 3 (G3) if Ki-67 PI is > 20% ( 7 , 8 ). Recently, the degree of tumor differentiation has been taken into consideration, and the proposed World Health Organization (WHO) classification of 2019 divided all the GEP-NENs into well-differentiated G3 neuroendocrine tumors (G3 NETs) and poorly-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas (G3 NECs). This distinction is of clinical significance as it correlates with the clinical behavior, the response to treatment and the overall prognosis ( 9 , 10 ) ( Table 1 ). Lung NENs classification by the WHO on the contrary, is not based on Ki-67 but on mitotic counts and assessment of necrosis ( 11 ). Thus, they are classified into four histological variants, namely typical carcinoid (TC), atypical carcinoid (AC), large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) and small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC). Table 1. Classification of Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (WHO 2019) View in own window Ki67 index (%) Mitotic Index Well Differentiated NENs Neuroendocrine Tumor (NET) G1 < 3 < 2/10 HPF Neuroendocrine Tumor (NET) G2 3-20 2-20/10 HPF Neuroendocrine Tumor (NET) G3 > 20 > 20/10 HPF Poorly Differentiated NENs Neuroendocrine Carcinoma (NEC) G3 > 20 > 20/10 HPF HPF= high-power field More than 100 years ago, it was recognized that patients
