Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


> 20 > 20/10 HPF Poorly Differentiated NENs Neuroendocrine Carcinoma (NEC) G3 > 20 > 20/10 HPF HPF= high-power field More than 100 years ago, it was recognized that patients with malignant tumors may develop symptoms that cannot be attributed to direct tumor invasion/compression or to a clinical syndrome associated with a secretory product derived from the specific cell of origin ( 12 ). The term paraneoplastic syndrome (PNS) was first described in 1940s and is used to define a spectrum of symptoms attributed to the production of hormones, growth factors, cytokines and/or other substances by the tumor cells not designated to release these specific compounds or as of consequence of immune cross-reactivity between tumor and normal host tissues ( 13 ). In some instances, these syndromes are caused by the secretory products, mainly peptide hormones, of neuroendocrine cells that are widely dispersed throughout the lung, gastrointestinal (GI) tract, pancreas, thyroid gland, adrenal medulla, skin, prostate and breast ( 1 , 14 ). The clinical manifestations of these ectopic hormonal secretion syndromes may be clinically indistinguishable to those encountered when the neoplastic lesion is found in the expected site of origin (eutopic hormonal secretion), thus causing diagnostic dilemmas ( 12 ). It has been estimated that PNSs affect approximately 8-15% of patients suffering from malignant neoplasms, mostly involving the lung, breast, and gastrointestinal system ( 13-17 ). NENs are the type of tumors that are expected to exhibit the highest prevalence of PNSs due to their inherent synthetic and secretory capacity. However, to date the prevalence of NEN-related PNSs is still obscure due the limited availability of data ( 16 , 18 - 21 ). Following the continuing rise in the prevalence of NENs and the significant application of the available diagnostic modalities, it is expected that the prevalence of PNSs related to NENs will also rise ( 1 , 22 ). A PNS can develop during different phases of the evolution of the neoplastic process. It can present before the diagnosis of the underlying malignancy and help making the diagnosis of a previously unsuspected neoplasm at an early disease stage ( 5 , 23 ). Furthermore, the presence of a PNS and the related etiological factor may be useful in following the clinical course of the disease, in monitoring the response to treatment, and/or detecting early recurrence of the neoplasm ( 16 , 17 ). Effective and prompt diagnosis
