Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


in following the clinical course of the disease, in monitoring the response to treatment, and/or detecting early recurrence of the neoplasm ( 16 , 17 ). Effective and prompt diagnosis and treatment of the PNS may substantially improve overall clinical outcomes. However, the development of a PNS does not always correlate with the stage of the disease, the malignant potential of the tumor and the overall prognosis. Furthermore, in the presence of highly aggressive tumors or extensive disease burden, management of these syndromes may be difficult ( 5 , 24 ). It is therefore critical to recognize the presence of a PNS and to record common and uncommon cases related to NENs in order to provide further information regarding the clinical manifestations, the natural history and the overall prognosis and improve the clinical outcome of the patients. CLASSIFICATION According to the clinical manifestations, the NENs-related PNSs may be classified as ( 5 ): Humoral PNSs Neurological PNSs Other less common manifestations PATHOGENESIS Although several hypotheses have been proposed regarding the pathogenesis of PNSs, the precise mechanism that leads to the development of PNS remains largely unknown. All human cells carry the same genetic information of which only part is expressed through their life span. Neoplastic transformation is linked to alterations of oncogenes, tumor suppressor genes, and apoptotic mechanisms that control cell growth ( 17 , 25 ). In addition, under certain conditions specific alterations of gene functions may activate genes that regulate hormonal synthesis, particularly in the context of an underlying neoplastic process, leading to the development of a PNS. Inappropriate gene expression heralds the unscheduled appearance of a gene product in a non-designated tissue or organ leading to a PNS, as encountered in many different animal species ( 23 ). Similar underlying mechanisms may operate to initiate a PNS, i.e. by activating hormone production, changing the activity of genes that regulate the expression of genes involved in hormonal synthesis, or by antibody formation ( 16 , 17 ). However, the exact mechanism that initiates ectopic hormonal synthesis and release at a specific time point during the neoplastic transformation still remains to be elucidated. Ectopically produced substances are mostly peptides or glycoproteins while rarely biogenic amines, steroids and thyroid hormones are associated with the development of a PNS ( 5 , 24 ). The clinical manifestations are produced as a result of the direct secretion of these substances from the
