Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


are associated with the development of a PNS ( 5 , 24 ). The clinical manifestations are produced as a result of the direct secretion of these substances from the tumor, arising from tissue other than the endocrine gland or tissue that normally produces them, to the circulation. On top of this, the secreted products may also exert paracrine and autocrine effects. The term ‘ectopic hormonal production’ leading to a PNS is used whenever these compounds are secreted in such proportion that may be related to clinical manifestations and are found in large quantities in the serum ( 14 , 26 ). In some instances, the synthesis and/or processing of these substances in malignant tissues may be different from that of the eutopically-secreted hormone ( 27 ). In addition, it has recently been observed that a minority of patients with pancreatic NENs multiple hormone secretion was detected at diagnosis and alteration of the hormonal secretion may be observed during the disease course ( 28 ). PNSs may also develop secondary to antibody formation induced by the expression of antigens, usually expressed in neuronal tissue, by some neoplasms. The recognition of antigens in neuronal tissues by these antibodies leads to the development of neurological symptoms ( 5 ). DIAGNOSIS The wide application of modern diagnostic modalities has contributed immensely to the identification and characterization of PNSs derived from NENs. It is important for physicians to be familiar with the clinical presentation of a PNS as well as with the imaging modalities and the laboratory tests that would allow the prompt and effective diagnosis and treatment. In order to qualify a spectrum of symptoms as a PNS several clinical, biochemical and histopathological criteria have to be fulfilled ( Table 2 ). In the context of a specific clinical syndrome, the demonstration of increased levels of a humoral compound in the circulation along with in situ hybridization to detect the specific substance’s mRNA and immunohistochemistry to demonstrate its protein presence in the tumor tissue, provide the evidence for diagnosing a PNS ( 12 , 17 ). It has to be noted that in some cases, molecular forms different form a eutopically produced compound may be secreted in the circulation while endocrine dynamic function tests may also be required to prove the ectopic secretion of a substance ( 12 , 17 ). Furthermore, a number of autoantibodies have been shown to be of diagnostic
