Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


is associated with a poor prognosis as the 30-day mortality can be up to 50% ( 33 , 34 ). In the absence of osseous metastases and parathyroid gland disease, hypercalcemia in cancer patients may be caused from ectopic secretion of parathyroid hormone (PTH), 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D3, or PTH-related protein (PTHrP) ( 5 , 24 ). The vast majority (>80%) of NEN-related hypercalcemia is secondary to the ectopic secretion of PTHrP ( 24 , 35 ). PTHrP was first isolated in 1987 from cancer cell lines and a tumor associated with hypercalcemia. It is considered to be the most common cause of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 36 , 37 ). It binds to PTH receptor as well as to other receptors and exerts effects other that PTH on tissues such as the skin, the breast, and the anterior pituitary ( 34 , 35 ). Hypomethylation of the PTHrP promoter has been implicated as a mechanism of its aberrant gene expression ( 37 ). The first case of a PTHrP-producing malignant NEN was observed in a patient presenting with a pancreatic NEN (pNEN) and severe hypercalcemia during pregnancy ( 38 ). Since then, several reports have been published that describe patients with metastatic NENs presenting with biochemical and/or immunohistochemical PTHrP-related hypercalcemia ( 21 , 39 ). A recent retrospective case series reported that hypersecretion of PTHrP by metastatic GEP-NENs is a rare event that seems to be exclusively associated with metastatic pNENs ( 20 ). Interestingly, a case of a brown tumor in a patient with long-standing PTHrP related hypercalcemia has been described confirming the relevant biological homology of this peptide to the native hormone ( 40 ). Despite the fact other PTHrP-secreting neoplasms display a poor prognosis, patients with NEN-related PTHrP production have a much better outcome ( 39 ). In addition, there are cases of benign pheochromocytoma that have been associated with PTHrP-related hypercalcemia ( 41 ). Very few cases of ectopic PTH secretion from NENs have been documented mainly from SCLCs, pheochromocytoma, and MTC ( 42-44 ) . A case of PTH-related hypercalcemia in a patient with metastatic poorly differentiated small-cell pNEC has also been described ( 45 ). There is a recent report of hypercalcemia observed in a patient with glucagon cell hyperplasia and neoplasia (Mahvash Syndrome) but the exact pathophysiology of hypercalcemia in this case remains unclear since PTH, PTHrP, and 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D3 were
