Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


in a patient with glucagon cell hyperplasia and neoplasia (Mahvash Syndrome) but the exact pathophysiology of hypercalcemia in this case remains unclear since PTH, PTHrP, and 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D3 were low. Activation of the calcium sensing receptor by the hyperaminoacidemia or the concurrently found increased levels of glucagon-like 1 peptide (GLP-1) could contribute to the hypercalcemia through an undefined mechanism ( 46 ). Clinical manifestations of hypercalcemia include nausea, vomiting, polyuria, constipation cognitive dysfunction and coma ( 47 ). Symptom severity depends not only on the degree of hypercalcemia but also on the rapidity of onset and the patient’s baseline renal function. In patients with PTHrP-related hypercalcemia, typical laboratory findings include increased calcium levels, low phosphate levels, low or inappropriately normal PTH, and increased PTHrP and nephrogenous cAMP levels ( 5 , 24 ). The optimal management of paraneoplastic hypercalcemia is treatment of the underlying tumor. It has been observed that the most successful treatment options for PTHrP-producing GEP-NENs are long acting somatostatin analogues (SSAs) and peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) using radiolabeled SSAs whereas multiple anti-tumors modalities may be required to control cases of refractory hypercalcemia in inoperable patients ( 20 ). However, in severe cases, medical treatment of hypercalcemia according to recent guidelines may also be required ( 47 , 48 ). Intravenous administration of zoledronic acid is superior to pamidronate for patients with malignancy associated hypercalcemia, including humoral causes( 49 ). Denosumab can be considered in bisphosphonate-refractory disease( 50 ). On top of this, the calcimimetic cinacalcet and the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sunitinib that has been observed to cause hypocalcemia may be effective in treating NEN-related hypercalcemia ( 51 ) ( 52 ). Ectopic Vasopressin & Atrial Natriuretic Peptide Secretion Vasopressin (ADH) is produced within the hypothalamus and stored in nerve terminals of the posterior pituitary as well as in a subset of neuroendocrine cells in the lung ( 53 ). Additional processing can also occur in SCLC cells and other neoplasms that can also synthesize and secrete oxytocin ( 5 ). The syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) was first described in the early 1950s. It is characterized by hypo-osmotic, euvolemic hyponatremia in the absence of plasma hypotonicity and occurs in 1-2% of all patients with malignant tumors ( 54 , 55 ). Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is synthesized from the cardiac atria and can initiate natriuresis and hypotension when ectopically produced by NENs
