Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


patients with malignant tumors ( 54 , 55 ). Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is synthesized from the cardiac atria and can initiate natriuresis and hypotension when ectopically produced by NENs ( 56 , 57 ). However, severe cases of hyponatremia are mostly associated with SIADH ( 5 ). SIADH is most commonly found in SCLCs, while cases of large cell lung carcinomas (LCLCs) have also been reported ( 54 , 58 , 59 ). Although vasopressin levels are increased in up to 50% of patients with SCLCs, only 15% of patients develop the syndrome ( 60 ). In addition, SIADH has been observed in rare cases of sinonasal NEC, pNEC, small cell rectum NEC and NEC of the uterine cervix ( 61-64 ). Recently, a patient with a grade 1 insulinoma has been reported that developed SIADH during the disease course and after disease progression ( 65 ). Immunohistochemical examination of the tumor tissue at autopsy was diffusely positive for vasopressin while the initial tissue biopsy was negative for vasopressin. In addition, there are some rare reports of patients with SCLC secreting both ACTH and ADH. They tend to have more extensive disease and are more likely to have a poor prognosis, with a survival time of 2-4 months after the diagnosis, because the disease is refractory to treatment. Interestingly, ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion may mask SIADH due to the antagonistic action of cortisol and ADH on renal sodium excretion ( 66 , 67 ). In contrast to the majority of chronic causes of hyponatremia that may develop gradually and be relatively asymptomatic, hyponatremia secondary to ectopic hormonal production can develop abruptly and be associated with severe symptoms ( 68 ). The diagnosis of SIADH secretion is made by demonstrating a urinary osmolality that exceeds 100mOsm/kg of water in the presence of low effective plasma osmolality in a euvolemic individual ( 68 ). In SCLC, SIADH has been associated with a higher propensity for central nervous system metastases, poor response to chemotherapy and advanced stage of cancer ( 59 ). The grade of hyponatremia at short-term follow-up was also predictive for long-term survival ( 69 ). There appears to be no clinical and/or biochemical features distinguishing the origin of the tumor although most severe symptoms are encountered in patients with highly aggressive tumors ( 70 ). Treating the underlying neoplasm is the best means of correcting the hyponatremia (
