Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


the tumor although most severe symptoms are encountered in patients with highly aggressive tumors ( 70 ). Treating the underlying neoplasm is the best means of correcting the hyponatremia ( 71 ). In the absence of symptoms, gradual correction of the hyponatremia is appropriate and involves adequate solute intake and fluid restriction ( 71 , 72 ). In the presence of symptoms increasing serum sodium by 0.5-1 mmol/L/hour for a total of 8 mmol/L during the first day is required to render the patient asymptomatic; this can be enhanced by promoting free-water excretion with furosemide ( 71 ). Alternatively, the management of SIADH may be enhanced by the recent introduction of the vasopressin antagonists “vaptans”, that can raise Na+ levels up to 5 mEq/L/day ( 72 , 73 ). Tolvaptan is hepatotoxic and should not be used in patients with liver disease. Intravenous conivaptan is very effective in correcting hyponatremia and baseline mental status in hospitalized patients ( 74 , 75 ). It has recently been shown that prompt endocrine input improved time for correction of hyponatremia and shortened length of hospitalization, and the widespread provision of endocrine input should be considered ( 75-77 ). Cushing's Syndrome (CS) The ectopic Cushing’s syndrome (ECS) that develops secondary to the secretion of ACTH and less often of corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) by non-pituitary tumors comprises 10%-20% of ACTH-dependent CS and 5-10 of all types of CS( 78-81 ). In a recent study looking at a large cohort of patients with NENs, the reported prevalence of ECS was 1,9% ( 21 ). NENs associated with ectopic ACTH secretion are mainly derived from the lung (bronchial carcinoids, SCLC and rarely LCLC), thymus, pancreas, thyroid (MTC), chromaffin cell tumors (pheochromocytomas, paragangliomas, neuroblastomas), and rarely from the ovary or prostate( 79 , 82-86 ). Bronchial carcinoids (3–55%), are the most frequent causes of ectopic ACTH secretion in more recent series, whereas SCLC represented the most common tumor associated with ECS in early series (3–50%)( 18 , 25 , 79 , 87 ). Ferreira et al, have recently reported a case of an aggressive MTC that produced both ACTH and serotonin ( 88 ). Unknown primary tumors account for 12–37% of all causes of ectopic ACTH production ( 89 ). In the majority of cases, these occult tumors are located in the lung and ACTH-secreting lung carcinoids or carcinoid tumourlets as small as 2-3 mm have been documented
