Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


89 ). In the majority of cases, these occult tumors are located in the lung and ACTH-secreting lung carcinoids or carcinoid tumourlets as small as 2-3 mm have been documented ( 79 , 90 ). However, other rare sites such as the appendix have also been described ( 91 , 92 ). Rarely ECS may result from CRH production from SCLCs, MTCs, carcinoids, pNENs, and pheochromocytomas accounting for approximately 5% of all cases of ECS ( 81 , 84 , 93 , 94 ). Such patients have high CRH levels in plasma and tumor tissue whereas plasma ACTH levels are also increased. CS due to CRH production does not have a distinctive presentation and endocrine testing may resemble an interplay between ectopic and eutopic production. In addition, there are some rare reports of ECS associated with NENs secreting both CRH and ACTH( 95 , 96 ). The ectopic ACTH syndrome is caused by abnormal expression of the POMC gene product in response to ectopic activation of the pituitary-specific promoter of this gene ( 97 ). Large amounts of biologically active ACTH are found in tumor tissue, although immunoreactive ACTH may also be found at high concentrations in tumor extracts from patients without clinical manifestations of CS ( 5 ). In addition, up to 30% of SCLCs hypersecrete ACTH that may be bio-inactive following incomplete processing and thus not capable of inducing a clinical syndrome ( 89 , 98 ). Using bisulphite sequencing and hypomethylation in five thymic carcinoid tumors resected from patients with ectopic ACTH syndrome, its presence correlated with POMC over-expression and the ectopic ACTH syndrome ( 97 ). Methylation near the response element for the tissue-specific POMC activator PTX1 diminishes POMC expression, implying that the methylation and expression patterns are likely to be set early or prior to neoplastic transformation and that targeted de novo methylation might be a potential therapeutic strategy ( 27 ). The clinical manifestations of ECS display significant heterogeneity according to the severity of hypercortisolism and the malignant potential of the underlying tumor. Lung carcinoids, thymic carcinoids and pheochromocytomas cause the ‘indolent’ type of ECS exhibiting gradual onset of typical symptoms and signs of CS resembling Cushing’s disease ( 99 ). SCLC, pNENs, malignant pheochromocytomas, thymic carcinomas, and MTCs are associated with an ‘aggressive’ type of ECS caused by very high ACTH and cortisol levels and present with rapid onset of clinical signs and
