Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


pheochromocytomas, thymic carcinomas, and MTCs are associated with an ‘aggressive’ type of ECS caused by very high ACTH and cortisol levels and present with rapid onset of clinical signs and symptoms including weight loss, hyperpigmentation, hypertension, hypokalemia, diabetes mellitus, and psychiatric alterations ( 99 ). The time interval between the appearance of the first symptoms of ECS and the diagnosis of the tumor is approximately 3–4 months for SCLCs, 6–8 months for pNENs and 6-24 months for lung carcinoids ( 99 ). However, there is a considerable overlap between these two types of ECS and could be viewed as a continuum rather than two different types. In rare instances, cyclic ACTH secretion may render the diagnosis extremely difficult. Cyclic ECS characterized by episodes of hypercortisolism interspersed with phases of normal cortisol production or adrenal insufficiency, is usually associated with indolent tumors and its long-term course may be variable ( 100-103 ). There are some reports of spontaneous remission of ECS after treatment with steroidogenesis inhibitors but it is unknown whether medical treatment played any role in the resolution of hypercortisolism ( 100 , 101 ). The discrimination between ECS and Cushing’s disease may be quite challenging as both pituitary tumors and lung carcinoids are often small in size and difficult to detect. It has been suggested that no single endocrine test and/or imaging procedure are accurate enough to diagnose and localize ectopic ACTH/CRH-producing tumors, particularly as false positive inferior petrosal sinus sampling (IPSS) results may occasionally be obtained, albeit very rarely ( 5 , 104 , 105 ). Frete et al, have recently proposed a non-invasive diagnostic strategy in ACTH-dependent CS in order to decrease the requirement of IPSS using the combination of CRH and desmopressin tests along with pituitary MRI and thin-slice whole-body CT scan, a protocol that was associated with 100% positive predictive value for Cushing’s disease ( 106 ). However, small ectopic sources may still contain many of the intrinsic regulatory mechanisms of corticotroph tumors and respond to endocrine testing making the differential diagnosis really challenging. Hence, the IPSS remains the gold standard test to identify a pituitary versus ectopic source of ACTH as it is associated with sensitivity and specificity > 95% ( 78 , 107 ). In case of confounding results, 68 Ga-labelled somatostatin analogue PET/CT has been proved to be a sensitive functional imaging study that identifies occult tumors after conventional imaging and impacts
