Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


). In case of confounding results, 68 Ga-labelled somatostatin analogue PET/CT has been proved to be a sensitive functional imaging study that identifies occult tumors after conventional imaging and impacts clinical care in the majority of patients ( 108 ). The management of ECS relies on successful control of the underlying malignancy and treatment of comorbidities. The ideal treatment is complete excision of the ACTH-secreting tumor that can be performed rapidly or after preoperative preparation using cortisol-lowering drugs ( 109 ). Ketoconazole and metyrapone are used as first line treatment due to their efficacy and safety, while the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone, dopamine agonists, and SSAs have also been shown to be effective in small series ( 78 , 110-112 ). When rapid correction of the hypercortisolism is required intravenous etomidate can be used ( 113 ). Occasionally hypercortisolism may be extremely severe and difficult to control with adrenolytic medication, necessitating bilateral adrenalectomy ( 109 ). In a study of 29 patients with ECS related to thoracic or GEP-NENs the median overall survival (OS) was 41 months. However, only the first 5-year survival of patients with ECS was shorter compared to patients with no ECS ( 18 ). Daskalakis et al, showed that patients with ECS of extra-thoracic origin demonstrated shorter OS compared to patients with ECS of lung or thymic origin while patients with lung carcinoids displayed comparable 5-year and 10-year OS rates irrespectively of the presence of ECS ( 21 ). Multiple factors affect the prognosis of patients with ECS. A recent retrospective analysis of 110 patients suffering from NENs and ECS found that OS was significantly higher in lung carcinoids compared with pNENs and occult tumors and in G1 NENs compared with G2 and G3 ( 90 ). Negative predictive factors for survival were the severity of hypercortisolism and the presence of hypokalemia, diabetes mellitus, and distant metastases. Improved survival was observed in patients who underwent surgical removal of the NEN, while adrenalectomy improved short-term survival. Furthermore, a retrospective study of 886 patients with NENs found that in patients with ECS multiple hormone secretion was associated with shorter OS ( 114 ). Acromegaly Acromegaly secondary to non-pituitary tumors is rare and accounts for less than 1% of cases of acromegaly. Ectopic acromegaly is mostly related to growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)-hypersecretion and rarely to growth hormone (GH) itself ( 63 , 115 , 116 ). NENs most commonly
