Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


cases of acromegaly. Ectopic acromegaly is mostly related to growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)-hypersecretion and rarely to growth hormone (GH) itself ( 63 , 115 , 116 ). NENs most commonly associated with GHRH hypersecretion are bronchial and thymic carcinoids, pNENs, SCLCs, and pheochromocytomas. A few patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) syndrome and GHRH-producing pNENs have also been described ( 116-122 ). Ectopic GH secretion from NENs has been rarely reported, whereas. a case of acromegaly and CS caused by a NEN arising within a sacrococcygeal teratoma has recently been described ( 123 , 124 ). Clinical presentation is not different to that of pituitary origin while biochemical findings are also similar in both pituitary-related and ectopic acromegaly, characterized by elevated insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) and GH levels, with the latter failing to suppress following an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Serum GHRH has been proposed as a useful diagnostic tool which could be used as a marker for disease activity or tumor recurrence ( 125 ). Pituitary imaging is not always helpful in differentiation between pituitary-related and ectopic acromegaly. Normal pituitary or uniform pituitary enlargement are the expected findings in cases of ectopic acromegaly. However, in a recent review of 63 pituitary MRIs in patients suffering from ectopic acromegaly, 13 cases were reported as pituitary adenoma, highlighting the importance of MRI evaluation by an experienced radiologist ( 125 ). Treatment of ectopic acromegaly is mainly surgical and involves resection of the responsible tumor either with a curative intent or as debulking surgery. When surgical treatment is not feasible or in case of metastatic disease, SSAs can also be useful for the treatment of the tumor and the biochemical control of acromegaly ( 4 , 126 ). Hypoglycemia Tumor-associated or paraneoplastic hypoglycemia occurs rarely and is caused by insulin-producing non islet-cell tumors and tumors secreting substances that can induce hypoglycemia by non-insulin mediated mechanism, a condition called non-islet cell tumor hypoglycemia (NICTH) ( 127 , 128 ). This condition is mainly secondary to the hypersecretion of insulin growth factor 2 (IGF2) precursor that is not cleaved producing increased amounts of “big-IGF2″ ( 127 , 129 ). This molecule has a molecular mass of 10-17 kDa, that is substantially bigger than the 7.5 kDa mature IGF2. This structure has substantially reduced affinity to its cognate binding protein, leading to increased free levels that exerts its effect to insulin
