Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


substantially bigger than the 7.5 kDa mature IGF2. This structure has substantially reduced affinity to its cognate binding protein, leading to increased free levels that exerts its effect to insulin and IGF receptors. As a result, serum insulin is low and serum GH levels are suppressed contributing further to hypoglycemia; IGF1 levels are usually also low ( 130 , 131 ). The confirmation of the diagnosis is not often given by a high level of IGF-2 but by a high IGF-2: IGF-1 ratio. A ratio greater than 10:1 is highly suggestive of IGF-2 precursor secretion ( 131 ). Although “big-IGF2” is mostly secreted by tumors of mesenchymal and epithelial origin, rare cases of NENs and pheochromocytomas have also been described ( 5 , 131 , 132 ). The diagnosis should always be suspected in patients presenting with hypoglycemic symptoms, particularly in the presence of a malignant tumor. Acromegalic skin changes have also been described in patients with NICTH( 133 ). The possibility of hypoglycemia due to insulin secretion from non-islet-cell tumors is controversial and a few cases have been described. Furrer et al, have described a primary NEN of the liver that manifested initially as extrapituitary acromegaly and a typical carcinoid syndrome, and later on as a hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic syndrome ( 134 ). Li et al, reported a case of ectopic insulinoma in the pelvis secondary to rectum neuroendocrine tumor ( 135 ). In addition, a few cases of insulin-secreting NENs of the cervix, ovaries and kidney and paragangliomas have also been described ( 136-139 ). A rare case of a LCLC with recurrent hypoglycemia, low insulin and big IGF2 levels and increased IGF1 levels has also been described, while there are reports of somatostatinomas or GLP-1 secreting tumors that caused hypoglycemia ( 140-142 ). Treatment relates to that of the underlying neoplasm, stage and grade of the disease. Patients with NICTH may undergo complete remission following surgical removal of the tumor; even partial removal often may reduce or abolish the hypoglycemia ( 143 ). Both human GH and glucocorticoids can induce a substantial effect while SSAs can also be used with caution as they can inhibit the secretion of counter-regulatory to hypoglycemia hormones ( 4 , 144 , 145 ). Although mTOR pathway blockade may represent a possible target regarding the management of malignant insulinoma-induced NICTH, an interesting case of an adrenocortical carcinoma secreting IGF-2 not responding to everolimus
