Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


). Although mTOR pathway blockade may represent a possible target regarding the management of malignant insulinoma-induced NICTH, an interesting case of an adrenocortical carcinoma secreting IGF-2 not responding to everolimus was recently reported ( 146 ) . It appears that either IGF-2 does not cause hypoglycemia by activation of the insulin receptor, which is improbable, or that the mode of action of everolimus in this situation was not downstream of the insulin receptor. It is possible that the IGF1-R and insulin receptor A or B may form receptor hybrids when co-expressed on the same cell ( 146 ). Ectopic Secretion of Other Peptidic (Including Pituitary) Hormones Although extremely rare, a few cases of ectopic luteinizing hormone (LH) production from pNENs have been described ( 147 , 148 ). No definite case of ectopic TSH has clearly been described, whereas ectopic prolactin production has been reported in association with SCLCs ( 4 , 16 , 94 , 149 ). Tumor-associated β-human chorionic gonadotrophin (β-hCG) production has been demonstrated in SCLCs and pNENs clinically associated with gynecomastia in men, menstrual irregularity and virilization in women and precocious puberty in children ( 94 ). A case report of a boy with severe arterial hypertension and hyperandrogenism due to ectopic secretion of β-hCG by a pheochromocytoma has been recently published ( 150 ). Human Placental lactogen (hPL) is normally produced in the latter part of gestation and stimulates the mammary gland, but has been shown to be secreted by SCLCs and pheochromocytomas; its secretion may be associated with gynecomastia ( 151 ). Ectopic renin secretion is extremely rare and has been described in a SCLC, paraganglioma, and a carcinoid tumor accompanied by hypertension and hypokalemia. An increased ratio of pro-renin to renin is found due to inefficient processing of renin by the tumors ( 152 , 153 ). A few cases of ectopic production of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) causing watery diarrhea arising from a SCLC, MTC, and a pheochromocytoma have been described ( 154 , 155 ). Several cases of pheochromocytomas presenting with flushing, hypotension or normal blood pressure in the context of excessive catecholamine secretion and elevated calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and/or VIP levels have been documented ( 156-158 ). CGRP-producing NENs secrete larger forms of calcitonin than MTC. A few patients with documented ghrelin overproduction from a pNEN and a carcinoid of the stomach but without any obvious clinical symptoms and/or
