Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


secrete larger forms of calcitonin than MTC. A few patients with documented ghrelin overproduction from a pNEN and a carcinoid of the stomach but without any obvious clinical symptoms and/or acromegalic features have also been described ( 159 , 160 ). PNSs secondary to the ectopic production of other gut peptides, although relatively rare, are increasingly being described. Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is present in highest concentration in SCLCs and, besides gastrin hypersecretion, may act as an autocrine growth factor ( 161 ). A case of a GLP-1 and somatostatin secreting NEN presenting with reactive hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia has been reported ( 142 ). Several cases of pNENs and carcinoid tumors with elevated calcitonin levels associated with no clinical symptoms but causing diagnostic confusion with MTC have been described; such cases usually do not exhibit a calcitonin rise in response to pentagastrin or calcium stimulation ( 162 , 163 ). In addition, increased secretion of calcitonin has been detected in a case with a metastatic esophageal NEN ( 164 ). Tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO) is a rare PNS manifesting with bone and muscular pains, bone fractures, and sometimes loss of height and weight( 165 ). The first evidence of a circulating factor that could cause phosphate wasting in humans was described when a tumor transplanted into nude mice caused hypophosphatemia ( 166 ). Fibroblast growth factor FGF-23 is secreted by the bones and was first identified as the phosphaturic agent when mutations in FGF-23 gene were linked to autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR) ( 167 ). In cases of TIO, FGF-23 secretion is elevated leading to dysregulation of the FGF-23 degradation pathway ( 168 ). Tumors usually bearing the ability to over-secrete FGF-23 are generally of mesenchymal origin, but there are cases of an adenocarcinoma of the colon and prostate ( 169-171 ). Although to date there is no direct association of this PNS with NENs, its presence has for the most part not been actively sought. Cytokines There is increasing evidence indicating that several cytokines, particularly interleukin-6 (IL-6), can be secreted directly by NENs ( 172 ). IL-6 plays an important role in the development of inflammatory reactions by stimulating the production of acute phase proteins while inhibiting albumin synthesis. A PNS presenting with fever and increased acute phase proteins has been shown to be associated with elevated IL-6 levels ( 172-174 ). In this context, several patients with pheochromocytoma, pyrexia,
