Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


PNS presenting with fever and increased acute phase proteins has been shown to be associated with elevated IL-6 levels ( 172-174 ). In this context, several patients with pheochromocytoma, pyrexia, marked inflammatory signs and elevated IL-6 levels have been described. In all of these patients symptoms subsided by removal of the tumor while immunohistochemical IL-6 expression was demonstrated in the tumors ( 175 , 176 ). NEUROLOGICAL PARANEOPLASTICSYNDROMES RELATED TO NENS ( TABLE 3 ) Immune-mediated PNS may develop in less than 1 in 10.000 patients with cancer ( 177 ). The frequency of neurological PNSs in patients with NENs is unclear but may range from 0.01% to 8% of patients ( 178 ). Table 3: Neurological and Dermatological Paraneoplastic Syndromes and Responsible Autoantibodies Related to NENs View in own window Neurological PNSs Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) Cerebellar degeneration Limbic encephalitis Visceral plexopathy Cancer-associated retinopathy Autonomic dysfunction Responsible Auto-Ab Anti-voltage-gated calcium channels (P/Q type) - Anti-Hu, anti-Ma2 Type 1 antineuronal nuclear antibodies Anti-23 kd CAR antigen - NEN SCLC, carcinoid SCLC SCLC, carcinoid SCLC SCLC SCLC, carcinoid Dermatologic PNSs Scleroderma-like Palmar fasciitis Flushing-Rosacea Dermatomyositis TEN-like syndrome Pellagra NEN SCLC, carcinoid SCLC SCLC, carcinoid SCLC SCLC SCLC, carcinoid PNSs: Paraneoplastic Syndromes, NEN: Neuroendocrine Neoplasms, SCLC: Small cell lung carcinoma, TEN-like: Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis-like syndrome A number of patients have been described presenting with subacute or chronic proximal muscle weakness, mainly of the pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles, and more rarely involvement of the cranial nerves, that may improve with movement. These patients have been shown to suffer from the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), an uncommon presynaptic neuromuscular junction disorder. In this disease, antibodies produced by the tumor cells target voltage-gated calcium channels, which function in the release of acetylcholine from presynaptic sites, particularly the P/Q-type ( 57 ). More than 50% of well-documented cases of Eaton-Lambert syndrome have been reported in association with SCLC ( 57 ). A few cases of LEMS have been described in association with atypical carcinoid tumors and these remitted following successful treatment ( 179 ). Patients may also present with an ataxic gate, loss of coordination, dysarthria, and nystagmus, all symptoms suggestive that are suffering from the paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD) syndrome. This PNS has mainly been linked to SCLCs and its pathogenesis relates to autoantibody-induced destruction of Purkinje cells ( 180 , 181 ). A few cases of other non-SCLC NEN related paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration
