Paraneoplastic Syndromes Related to Neuroendocrine Tumors
KEYWORDS: pubmed, clinical, journal, ectopic, endocrinology, patients, syndrome, tumors, neuroendocrine, tumor, secretion, case, free, pmc free, article pubmed


been linked to SCLCs and its pathogenesis relates to autoantibody-induced destruction of Purkinje cells ( 180 , 181 ). A few cases of other non-SCLC NEN related paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration cases have been published ( 182 ). Limbic encephalitis is a multifocal inflammatory disorder characterized by personality changes, irritability, memory loss, seizures and, in some cases, dementia ( 183 ). Recently, two cases of limbic encephalitis associated with a thymic carcinoid and an anorectal small cell NEC have been reported ( 183 , 184 ). Tannoury et al, published a case series of 15 patients with gastrointestinal NENs who presented with neurological symptoms and displayed no evidence of a direct link between the tumors and their symptoms ( 177 ). Most of them (85%) presented with well recognized syndromes including encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy. Of the 6 patients whose serum antineuronal antibodies were assayed, five had high titers while the clinical syndrome improved after debulking surgery and treatment with corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressive drugs. These findings suggest that the neurological symptoms may have been related, in part at least, to immune-mediated PNS. Other Less Common Manifestations The association of photoreceptor degeneration and SCLC, termed cancer-associated retinopathy (CAR), has been attributed to autoantibodies produced by malignant cells that react with a 23-kDa retinal antigen termed 23-kDa CAR antigen and manifests clinically as ring scotomatous visual field loss, and attenuated arteriole caliber ( 185 ). Cases of orthostatic hypotension secondary to autonomic dysfunction and nephrotic syndrome have also been reported in patients with SCLCs and carcinoid tumors ( 57 , 186 ). In addition, a recently published case report described a patient with a well-differentiated duodenal NEN and nephrotic syndrome due to minimal change glomerulonephritis ( 187 ). SUMMARY PNSs are commonly encountered in patients with NENs reflecting their multipotent potential and ability to synthesize and secrete biologically active substances and/or autoantibodies that can cause distinct clinical syndromes. These syndromes may precede the diagnosis of the tumor and their presence along with measurement of the responsible compound can be used as means to monitor response to treatment and disease recurrence. The majority of these syndromes are related to the production of peptidic hormones that cause symptoms mimicking the clinical syndromes produced by the eutopic secretion of these substances. Since it is expected that the incidence of NENs will increase as a result of a real increase in cases or as more cases being
