Magnetic Resonance Imaging
KEYWORDS: mri, magnetic, used, patients, contrast, images, field, imaging, weighted, brain, magnetic field, agents, abnormalities, tumors, tissues


good diagnostic accuracy and is less invasive than conventional angiography. A gadolinium contrast agent is sometimes used. MRA can be used to image the thoracic and abdominal aorta and arteries of the brain, neck, abdominal organs, kidneys, and lower extremities. Venous imaging (magnetic resonance venography, or MRV) provides the best images of venous abnormalities, including thrombosis and anomalies. Hepatic and biliary tract abnormalities: Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is a noninvasive, highly accurate method of imaging the biliary and pancreatic duct systems. Masses in the female reproductive organs: MRI supplements ultrasound to further characterize adnexal masses and to stage uterine tumors. Certain fractures: As one example, MRI can provide accurate images of hip fractures in patients with osteopenia. Bone marrow infiltration and bone metastases: MRI is particularly useful for evaluating patients with positive bone scintigraphy and normal radiographs as well as for characterizing bone marrow abnormalities as metastases versus nonmalignant lesions. MRI can be substituted for CT with contrast in patients with a high risk of reactions to iodinated contrast agents. Contrast agents Contrast agents are often used with MRI to highlight vascular structures and to help characterize inflammation and tumors. The most commonly used agents are gadolinium derivatives, which have magnetic properties that affect proton relaxation times. MRI of intra-articular structures may include injection of a diluted gadolinium derivative into a joint. Variations of MRI Diffusion (diffusion-weighted) MRI Signal intensities are related to diffusion of water molecules in tissue. This type of MRI can be used: To detect early cerebral ischemia and infarction To detect white matter disease of the brain To differentiate abscess from a cystic tumor To stage various tumors such as non–small cell lung cancer Echo planar imaging This ultrafast technique (images obtained in < 1 second) is used for diffusion, perfusion, and functional imaging of the brain and heart. Its potential advantages include showing brain and heart activity and reducing motion artifacts. However, its use is limited because it requires special technical hardware and is more sensitive to various artifacts than conventional MRI. Functional MRI Functional MRI is used to assess brain activity by location. Most commonly, the brain is scanned at low resolution very frequently (eg, every 2 to 3 seconds). The change in oxygenated hemoglobin can be discerned and used to estimate metabolic activity of different parts of the brain. In clinical settings, functional MRI is especially helpful clinically in the mapping of motor
