Magnetic Resonance Imaging
KEYWORDS: mri, magnetic, used, patients, contrast, images, field, imaging, weighted, brain, magnetic field, agents, abnormalities, tumors, tissues


hemoglobin can be discerned and used to estimate metabolic activity of different parts of the brain. In clinical settings, functional MRI is especially helpful clinically in the mapping of motor or language cortices (ie, cortical areas that, when removed, result in deficits in sensory processing, motor function, or language processing) in patients with intracranial abnormalities such as tumors and arteriovenous malformations for whom surgery is being planned. It is also used to plan epilepsy surgery. Researchers may use functional MRI to correlate brain function and anatomy (called brain mapping). MRI is performed while subjects do different cognitive tasks (eg, solve a math equation); the metabolically active parts of the brain are presumed to be the structures most involved in that particular task. Gradient echo imaging Gradient echo is a pulse sequence that can be used for fast imaging of moving blood and cerebrospinal fluid (eg, in MRA). Because this technique is fast, it can reduce motion artifacts (eg, blurring) during imaging that requires patients to hold their breath (eg, during imaging of cardiac, pulmonary, and abdominal structures). Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) MRS combines the information obtained by MRI (mainly based on water and fat content of tissues) with that of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). NMR provides information about tissue metabolites and biochemical abnormalities; this information can help differentiate certain types of tumors and other abnormalities. Magnetic resonance enterography Magnetic resonance enterography is often used for follow-up imaging of children with known inflammatory conditions of the small bowel. Because magnetic resonance enterography does not require ionizing radiation, it has an advantage over CT enterography. Perfusion MRI Perfusion MRI is a method of assessing relative cerebral blood flow. It can be used to detect: Areas of ischemia during imaging for stroke Areas of increased vascularity that can indicate tumors This information can help direct biopsy. Positron emission tomography (PET)–MRI PET-MRI combines functional PET with whole-body MRI. T1-weighted and short T1 inversion recovery (STIR) sequences are frequently used. This modality (available since 2010) is generally available only in major academic medical centers. Disadvantages of MRI MRI is relatively expensive, requires longer imaging times than CT, and may not be immediately available in all areas. Other disadvantages include problems related to: The magnetic field Patient claustrophobia Contrast reactions Magnetic field MRI is relatively contraindicated in patients with implanted materials that can be affected by powerful magnetic fields. These materials include: Ferromagnetic metal (ie, containing
