Magnetic Resonance Imaging
KEYWORDS: mri, magnetic, used, patients, contrast, images, field, imaging, weighted, brain, magnetic field, agents, abnormalities, tumors, tissues


Patient claustrophobia Contrast reactions Magnetic field MRI is relatively contraindicated in patients with implanted materials that can be affected by powerful magnetic fields. These materials include: Ferromagnetic metal (ie, containing iron) Magnetically activated or electronically controlled medical devices (eg, pacemakers, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, cochlear implants) Nonferromagnetic electrical wires or materials (eg, some pacemaker wires, certain pulmonary artery catheters) Ferromagnetic material may be displaced by the strong magnetic field, injuring a nearby organ; for example, displacement of vascular clips can result in hemorrhage. Displacement is more likely if the material has been in place < 6 weeks (before scar tissue forms). Ferromagnetic material can also cause imaging artifacts. Magnetically activated medical devices may malfunction when exposed to magnetic fields. Magnetic fields may induce current in any conductive materials strong enough to produce enough heat to burn tissues. Whether a specific device is compatible with MRI depends on the type of device, its components, and its manufacturer (see MRIsafety.com). Patients with an implantable device should not be placed in the MRI magnetic field until examiners are sure that MRI is safe with such a device in place. Also, MRI machines with different magnetic field strengths have different effects on materials, so safety in one machine does not ensure safety in another. The MRI magnetic field is very strong and may always be on. Thus, a ferromagnetic object (eg, an oxygen tank, a metal pole) at the entrance of the scanning room may be pulled into the magnet bore at high velocity and injure anyone in its path. The only way to separate the object from the magnet may be to turn off (quench) the magnetic field. Claustrophobia The imaging tube of an MRI machine is a tight, enclosed space that can trigger claustrophobia even in patients without preexisting phobias or anxiety. Also, some patients with obesity do not fit on the table or within the machine. Premedication with an antianxiety medication (eg, alprazolam or lorazepam) 15 to 30 minutes before scanning is effective for most anxious patients. 6/7 MRI scanners with an open side can be used for patients with claustrophobia (or those with severe obesity). Images obtained during open MRI may be inferior to those of enclosed scanners depending on the field strength of the magnet, but they are usually sufficient for making a diagnosis. Patients should be warned that the MRI machine makes loud, banging noises during scanning. Contrast reactions
