Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


ABSTRACT Wider application and technical improvement of abdominal imaging procedures in recent years, has led to the discovery of unsuspected adrenal tumors in an increasing frequency. These incidentally detected lesions, also called adrenal incidentalomas, have become a common clinical problem and need to be investigated for evidence of hormonal hypersecretion and/or malignancy. In this chapter, current information on the prevalence, etiology, radiological features, and appropriate biochemical evaluation are presented as a narrative review of the available literature. Despite the flurry of data accumulated, controversies are still present regarding the accuracy of diagnostic tests and cut-offs utilized to establish hormonal hypersecretion, potential long-term sequelae, indications for surgical treatment as well as duration and intensity of conservative management and follow-up. Recently, clinical guidelines proposing diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms have been published to aid in clinical practice, however an individualized approach through a multidisciplinary team of experts is recommended. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Abdominal computed tomography (CT), since its introduction in the late 1970’s, has proven to be an excellent tool for identifying pathology in patients with suspected adrenal disease. It was also predicted that the ability of CT to image both adrenal glands could lead to the occasional discovery of asymptomatic adrenal disease ( 1 ). Nowadays, further technological advances and broader availability of CT and other imaging modalities such as Ultrasonography (US), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) have made the detection of unexpected lesions in adrenal and other endocrine glands a common finding ( 2 ). Although incidental detection of adrenal disease may lead to earlier diagnosis and possibly improved outcome in certain cases, it is now recognized that diagnostic evaluation and follow-up of all incidentally discovered adrenal masses, or so-called “adrenal incidentalomas”, may put a significant burden on patient’s anxiety and health and produce increasing financial consequences for the health system ( 3 ). It is therefore important to develop cost-effective strategies to diagnose and manage patients with adrenal incidentalomas. DEFINITION According to the NIH State-of-the-Science Statement ( 4 ), adrenal incidentalomas (AIs) are defined as clinically inapparent adrenal masses discovered serendipitously during diagnostic testing or treatment for conditions not related to the adrenals, such as abdominal or back pain or for exclusion of pulmonary embolism or other lung disease. Although an arbitrary cut-off of 1 cm or more has been employed
