Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


the adrenals, such as abdominal or back pain or for exclusion of pulmonary embolism or other lung disease. Although an arbitrary cut-off of 1 cm or more has been employed to define an adrenal lesion as AI ( 5 , 6 ), this cut-off might be challenged following the higher resolution that modern imaging modalities offer, mainly MRI and CT. Nonetheless, in all published guidelines this cut-off is accepted as the minimum size above which additional diagnostic work-up should be performed, unless clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of adrenal hormone excess are present. Patients harboring an AI, by definition, should not have any history, signs, or symptoms of adrenal disease prior to the imaging procedure that led to its discovery. This strict definition excludes cases in which adrenal-specific signs and symptoms are “missed” during history taking or physical examination, or in which a hereditary syndrome associated with an increased likelihood to develop adrenal tumors is suspected ( 6 ). Similarly, adrenal masses discovered on imaging for tumor staging or follow-up in extra-adrenal malignancies fall outside the definition of an AI ( 7 ). This is because adrenal metastases are a common finding in this setting, with a prevalence ranging from 3 to 40% in autopsy and from 6 to 20% in radiological series ( 8 ). A recent population-based cohort study reported a 22-fold higher likelihood of an AI being a metastatic lesion when discovered during cancer staging, reaching a prevalence of 7.5% ( 9 ). In another single-center cohort study including 475 patients with colorectal cancer, the incidence of AIs was 10.5% ( 10 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY The precise prevalence and incidence of AIs cannot be easily defined since data from population-based studies are scarce. Most previous data were extrapolated from autopsy or radiological studies that are inherently biased due to their retrospective nature, insufficient clinical information, different referral patterns and patient selection criteria. In autopsy studies, the reported prevalence of AIs was found to be around 2.3%, ranging from 1 to 8.7% ( 11 – 23 ), without any significant gender difference. The prevalence of AIs increases with age, being 0.2% in young subjects compared to 6.9% in subjects older than 70 years of age ( 24 ), and is higher in white, obese, diabetic, and hypertensive patients ( 8 ). The variability of the reported prevalence in different series could also be attributed to the size cut-off used
