Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


both post-mortem and CT studies ( 8 , 33 ). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Adrenal Incidentalomas are not a single pathological entity, but rather comprise a spectrum of different pathologies that share the same path of discovery and include both benign and malignant lesions arising from the adrenal cortex, the medulla, or being of extra-adrenal origin ( Table 1 ). Table 1. The Spectrum of Lesions Presenting as AIs, Modified from ( 37 ) View in own window Adrenal Cortex lesions Adenoma (non-functioning) Adenoma (functioning) Cortisol-secreting (MACS) Aldosterone-secreting Nodular hyperplasia (primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia)* Adrenocortical Carcinoma (secreting or non-secreting) Adrenal Medulla lesions Pheochromocytoma (benign or malignant)* Ganglioneuroma Neuroblastoma, ganglioneuroblastoma Other adrenal lesions Myelolipoma, lipoma Hemangioma, angiosarcoma Cyst Hamartoma, teratoma Metastases* (lung, breast, kidney, melanoma, lymphoma) Infiltration* Amyloidosis Sarcoidosis Lymphoma Infections* Abscess Fungal/parasitic (histoplasmosis, coccidiomycosis, tuberculosis) Cytomegalovirus Adrenal hemorrhage or hematomas* Adrenal pseudotumors Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH)* * Should be considered when bilateral adrenal lesions are detected. In general, the vast majority (80-90%) of AIs are benign adrenal adenomas, as shown by accumulated follow-up data from their natural history, even in the absence of pathological confirmation, since adrenal adenomas are rarely excised ( 5 ). However, a number of these lesions may be malignant and/or exhibit autonomous hormonal secretion that is not clinically detected due to subtle secretory pattern or periodical secretion. Therefore, the task a physician faces when dealing with an AI is mainly to exclude malignant and functioning tumors. Mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) is the most frequent endocrine dysfunction detected in patients with AIs, with a prevalence ranging from 5 to 30%, depending on the study design, work-up protocols, and mainly diagnostic criteria used ( 5 ). This condition exclusively identified in the setting of AIs, also termed subclinical Cushing’s syndrome or subclinical hypercortisolism, is characterized by the absence of the typical clinical phenotype of hypercortisolism and by the presence of subtle alterations of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. These tumors do not secrete cortisol under the physiological control of corticotropin (ACTH), but rather autonomously and in some cases under the control of one or more aberrant hormone receptors ( 38 , 39 ). Pheochromocytomas (PCCs), albeit rare in the general population, are discovered in approximately 5% of patients with AIs ( 40 ), while more than 30% of PCCs are diagnosed as AIs ( 41 ). Clinical manifestations are highly variable, and the classic clinical triad (headache, palpitations and
