Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


AIs ( 40 ), while more than 30% of PCCs are diagnosed as AIs ( 41 ). Clinical manifestations are highly variable, and the classic clinical triad (headache, palpitations and diaphoresis) is not present in most patients. In addition, several patients harbor ‘‘silent pheochromocytomas’’, being totally asymptomatic or having intermittent and subtle symptoms. In a large multicentric study, approximately half of the patients with PCCs presenting as AIs were normotensive, whereas the remaining had mild to moderate hypertension ( 33 ). Primary aldosteronism (PA) has a median prevalence of 2% (range 1.1-10%) among patients with AIs ( 42 ). After excluding cases with severe hypertension and hypokalemia a retrospective study found that 16 out of 1004 subjects with AIs (1.5%) had PA ( 33 ). This figure is relatively low when compared to the prevalence of PA in unselected hypertensive populations which ranges from 4.6 to 16.6% ( 43 ) and may be related to the different investigational protocols and cut-offs indicative of autonomous aldosterone secretion used. The absence of hypokalemia does not exclude this condition, but absence of hypertension makes PA unlikely, although normotensive patients with PA have occasionally been reported ( 44 ). A recent study using a new diagnostic approach, considering the stimulatory effect that adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) could exert on aldosterone secretion, revealed a 12% prevalence of PA in normotensive and normokalemic patients with AIs ( 45 ). Over secretion of adrenal androgens is usually accompanied with clinical signs or symptoms of virilization in women and feminization in men ( 46 ), thus falling out of the strict definition of AI’s requiring absence of adrenal-related manifestations. Presence of elevated adrenal androgens should alert the physicians for the possibility of an adrenocortical carcinoma, although benign androgen-secreting tumors have rarely been reported ( 47 ). Combining studies that used a broad definition of incidentaloma without clearly stated inclusion criteria and those that reported descriptions of individual cases, Mansmann et al found 41% of AIs to be adenomas, 19% metastases, 10% ACCs, 9% myelolipomas, and 8% PCCs, with other benign lesions, such as adrenal cysts, ganglioneuromas, hematomas, and infectious or infiltrative lesions representing rare pathologies ( 48 ). However, the relative prevalence of any pathology depends on the inclusion criteria used and is highly influenced by referral bias. Surgical series and data from referral centers tend to overestimate the prevalence of large, malignant and functioning tumors, because such cases are
