Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


used and is highly influenced by referral bias. Surgical series and data from referral centers tend to overestimate the prevalence of large, malignant and functioning tumors, because such cases are mainly referred for surgery or expert evaluation. Similarly, metastatic lesions are much more common when patients with known extra-adrenal cancer are included in the study population. The probability of an incidentally discovered adrenal lesion in a patient without a history of cancer to be metastatic is as low as 0.4% ( 29 ). Studies applying more strict inclusion criteria may identify a greater number of small and biochemically silent tumors. In a comprehensive review, Cawood et al. ( 3 ) concluded that the prevalence of malignant and functioning lesions among AIs is likely lower when strict inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study populations are used. By analyzing 9 studies that more accurately simulated the clinical scenario of a patient referred for assessment of an AI, they reported a mean prevalence of 88.1% (range 86.4-93%) for non-functioning benign adrenal adenomas (NFAIs), 6% (range 4-8.3%) for MACS, 1.2% for aldosterinomas, 1.4% (range 0.8-3%) for ACCs, 0.2% (range 0-1.4%) for metastases and 3% (range 1.8-4.3%) for PCCs. These low rates for clinically significant tumors compared to those reported by previous studies ( 6 , 8 , 48 ), highlight the limitations of epidemiological data and raise significant questions concerning the appropriate diagnostic and follow-up protocols. Notably, it has recently been suggested that a significant number of patients with small AIs do not undergo the recommended evaluation ( 9 ), adding further confusion in defining the relative prevalence of each pathology, through under-reporting bias. In the case of bilateral AIs, a broader spectrum of diagnoses needs to be considered ( Table 1 ), particularly in a relevant clinical setting, including metastatic or infiltrative diseases of the adrenals, hemorrhage, congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), bilateral cortical adenomas or PCCs, and primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (PBMAH) ( 49 ). Occasionally, adrenal tumors of different nature may simultaneously be present in the same patient or in the same adrenal gland ( 50 – 53 ). Adrenal pseudotumor is a term used to describe radiological images of masses that seem to be of adrenal origin, but arise from adjacent structures, such as the kidney, spleen, pancreas, vessels and lymph nodes or are results of technical artifacts. PATHOGENESIS The pathogenesis of AIs is largely unknown. Early observations in
