Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


from adjacent structures, such as the kidney, spleen, pancreas, vessels and lymph nodes or are results of technical artifacts. PATHOGENESIS The pathogenesis of AIs is largely unknown. Early observations in autopsy studies which revealed that AIs are more frequent in older patients, led to the notion that these tumors are a manifestation of the ageing adrenal and could represent focal hyperplasia in response to ischemic injury, a concept that was supported by histopathological findings of capsular arteriopathy ( 54 ). Clonal analysis of adrenal tumors later revealed that the vast majority are of monoclonal origin and only a few arise from polyclonal focal nodular hyperplasia under the putative effect of local or extra-adrenal growth factors ( 55 , 56 ). In this sense, it has been postulated that hyperinsulinemia associated with the insulin resistance in individuals with the metabolic syndrome, which frequently coexists in patients harboring AIs, could contribute to the development of these tumors, through the mitogenic action of insulin on the adrenal cortex ( 57 , 58 ). However, the opposite causal relationship, that subtle autonomous cortisol production from AIs results in insulin resistance, has also been proposed ( 59 ). It is plausible that both pathways can be true in a reciprocal triad. Another interesting hypothesis involves alterations in the glucocorticoid feedback sensitivity of the HPA axis acting as a drive for adrenal cell proliferation especially in cases with bilateral involvement. In a recent study, unexpected ACTH and cortisol responses to the combined dexamethasone-CRH (corticotropin-releasing hormone) test were found, in about half of the patients with bilateral AIs, when compared to control and unilateral adenoma cases ( 60 ). Such a dysregulated ACTH secretion during lifetime may lead to subtle but chronic trophic stimulation of the adrenals by repeatedly inappropriately higher ACTH levels, particularly in response to stress, favoring nodular adrenal hyperplasia. Although several genetic syndromes are known to be associated with adrenal tumors, germline or somatic genetic alterations are identified only in subgroups of sporadic tumors that are mainly functioning ( 61 – 63 ). Elucidation of specific signaling pathways involved in these familial syndromes has led to the identification of several mutations in genes not previously described in ACCs, cortisol- and aldosterone-secreting adenomas as well as PCCs, creating new insights in adrenal tumorigenesis ( Figure 1 ). However, the genetics of benign NFAIs that account for the majority of AIs are poorly understood. Figure 1.
