Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


as PCCs, creating new insights in adrenal tumorigenesis ( Figure 1 ). However, the genetics of benign NFAIs that account for the majority of AIs are poorly understood. Figure 1. Genes Involved in the Development of Adrenocortical Tumors IN Sporadic or Familial Cases. MEN: Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia; CTNNB1: Catenin Beta-1 gene; CYP21A2: 21-Hydroxylase gene; CAH: Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia; APC: Adenomatous polyposis coli; FAP: Familial adenomatous polyposis; KCNJ5: gene encoding potassium channel, inwardly rectifying subfamily J, member 5; ATP1A1: gene encoding sodium/potassium-transporting ATPase subunit alpha 1; ATP2B3: plasma membrane calcium-transporting ATPase 3; CACNA1D: gene encoding calcium channel, voltage-dependent, L type, alpha 1D subunit; ARMCS: Armadillo repeat containing 5; ZNRF3: gene encoding Zinc and Ring Finger3; IGF-2: Insulin-like growth factor 2; TP53: tumor protein p53; CDKN2A: cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; RB1: retinoblastoma protein; DAXX: death-associated protein 6; GNAS: gene encoding G-protein alpha subunit: PDE11A: phosphodiesterase 11A; PDE8B: phosphodiesterase 8B; PRKACA: gene encoding catalytic subunit alpha of protein kinase A; SDH-A-B-C-D: gene encoding succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit A, B, C, and D; SDHAF2: succinate dehydrogenase complex assembly factor 2; VHL: von-Hippel-Landau; RET: rearranged during transfection proto-oncogene; MAX: myc-associated factor X; TMEM127: gene encoding transmembrane protein 127. DIAGNOSTIC APPROACH Although the prevalence of potentially life-threatening disorders associated with AIs is relatively low, the question of whether a lesion is malignant (mainly an ACC) or functioning needs to be addressed in patients with an incidentally discovered adrenal mass. A careful clinical examination and a detailed medical history, evaluation of the imaging characteristics of the adrenal tumor(s), and biochemical evaluation to exclude hormonal excess can help clinicians identify the few cases that pose a significant risk and intervene accordingly. CLINICAL EVALUATION Per definition, patients with AIs should have no signs or symptoms implying adrenal dysfunction before the radiological detection of the adrenal tumor(s). In everyday clinical practice though, physicians who are not familiar with endocrine diseases may overlook mild signs of hormone excess and pursue evaluation of adrenal function following the incidental discovery of an adrenal mass. In this setting, such cases should not be designated as AIs and highlight the need for detailed and careful clinical history and examination ( 64 ). IMAGING EVALUATION Distinguishing malignant from benign AI lesions should be the priority at the time of their initial detection, and determination of their imaging phenotype is currently considered the most reliable and non-invasive approach to aid in this distinction. Traditionally the size of
