Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


the time of their initial detection, and determination of their imaging phenotype is currently considered the most reliable and non-invasive approach to aid in this distinction. Traditionally the size of the lesion reported by CT or MRI has been considered as indicative of malignancy as most ACCs are large or significantly larger than adenomas at the time of diagnosis ( 33 ). In a meta-analysis, ACCs represented 2% of all tumors ≤4 cm in diameter, but the risk of malignancy increased significantly with tumor size greater than 4 cm, being 6% in tumors with size 4.1-6 cm and 25% in tumors >6 cm ( 65 ). However, size alone has low specificity in distinguishing benign from malignant lesions, since ACCs can also be relatively small during early stages of development and exhibit subsequent progressive growth ( 5 ). An analysis of 4 recent studies investigating the 4cm size cut-off to distinguish benign from malignant lesions reported sensitivities ranging from 23% to 90% while the pooled sensitivity was 77% (95% CI 45%-93%) and the pooled specificity was 90% (95% CI 78%-96%) ( 66 ). Other than size, findings suggestive of malignancy include irregular shape and borders, tumor heterogeneity with central necrosis or hemorrhage, and invasion into surrounding structures. Benign adenomas are usually small (<4 cm), homogenous, with well-defined margins. Slow growth rate or stable size of an adrenal mass have also been proposed as indicators of benign nature ( 4 ). However, studies on the natural history of AIs suggest that up to 25% of benign adenomas can display increase in size by almost 1 cm, while adrenal metastases with no change in CT appearance over a period of 36 months have been described, not allowing for the introduction of a safe cut-off of absolute growth or growth rate to distinguish benign from malignant lesions ( 67 ). Computed Tomography (CT) CT has a high spatial and contrast resolution, which allows assessment of tissue density by measuring X-ray absorption compared to water (attenuation, expressed in Hounsfield Units - HU). Water and air are conventionally allocated an attenuation value of 0 HU and -1000 HU respectively, while fat is usually characterized by a HU value between -40 and -100. Because there is an inverse linear relation between the fat content of a lesion and attenuation, lipid-rich adenomas express lower HU in unenhanced (without contrast medium) CT images compared to malignant lesions, which
