Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


an inverse linear relation between the fat content of a lesion and attenuation, lipid-rich adenomas express lower HU in unenhanced (without contrast medium) CT images compared to malignant lesions, which are usually lipid-poor ( 68 ). A value of ≤10 HU in unenhanced CT images is the most widely used and accepted attenuation threshold for the diagnosis of a lipid-rich, benign adrenal adenoma ( 69 , 70 ). In several studies a density of ≤10 HU was found to be superior to size in differentiating benign from malignant masses, displaying a sensitivity of 96-100% and a specificity of 50-100% ( 71 ). Data from 6 studies ( 9 , 72 – 76 ) on the diagnostic accuracy of unenhanced attenuation values, reported that a CT density >10 HU has a very high sensitivity for detection of adrenal malignancy (100% in all 6 studies), while the pooled specificity was clearly lower (56%-59%). This means that adrenal masses with a density of ≤10 HU are virtually never malignant, however a large number of benign lesions had HU > 10. Increasing the cutoff to HU > 20, provided a pooled sensitivity of 94%-98% and a higher specificity (75%-78%), leaving a fairly significant number of malignant tumors lying between 10 and 20 HU. In this context, the risk of malignancy in a homogeneous 5 cm adrenal mass with a CT attenuation value of 10 HU is close to 0% ( 49 ). On the other hand, up to 30-40% of benign adenomas are considered lipid-poor and have an attenuation value of >10 HU on non-contrast CT, which is considered indeterminate since it overlaps with those found in malignant lesions and PCCs. Hence, unenhanced CT attenuation is a useful screening tool to identify a lesion as benign and exclude malignancy but is less reliable in diagnosing a malignant mass with certainty. When considering patients with a history of extra-adrenal malignancy though, several studies evaluating the >10 HU cut-off as indicative of malignancy showed high sensitivity (93%) for the detection of malignancy but variable specificity, meaning that 7% of adrenal metastases were found to have a tumor density of ≤10 HU ( 70 ). Attenuation values in non-contrast CT can also reliably identify typical myelolipomas that have a density lower than -40 HU ( 49 ). For those indeterminate adrenal lesions (>10HU) intravenous contrast administration reveals their hemodynamic and perfusion properties that can be utilized to
