Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


have a density lower than -40 HU ( 49 ). For those indeterminate adrenal lesions (>10HU) intravenous contrast administration reveals their hemodynamic and perfusion properties that can be utilized to distinguish benign from malignant lesions. The attenuation on delayed images (10-15 min post contrast administration) decreases more quickly in adenomas because they exhibit rapid uptake and clearance compared to malignant lesions that usually enhance rapidly but demonstrate a slower washout of contrast medium ( 77 ). There are two methods of estimating contrast medium washout: absolute percentage washout (APW) and relative percentage washout (RPW) and can be calculated from values of pre-contrast (PA), enhanced (EA, 60-70 seconds after contrast medium administration) and delayed (DA, 10-15 mins after contrast medium administration) attenuation values according to the formulas below: APW=100 x (EA-DA) / (EA-PA) RPW=100 x (EA-DA) / EA Initial studies suggested that lipid-poor adenomas demonstrate rapid washout with APW >60% (sensitivity of 86-100%, specificity 83-92%) and a RPW >40% (sensitivity of 82-97%, specificity 92-100%) ( 78 ). Metastases usually demonstrate slower washout on delayed images (APW<60%, RPW<40%) than adenomas and ACCs typically have a RPW of <40% ( 79 ). It is important to note that the above values of sensitivity and specificity were produced in studies with limitations and high risk of bias due to the lack of definitive pathological diagnosis, different timing in acquiring post-contrast images, and the use of broad inclusion criteria, including not only AIs but also clinically overt adrenal masses. Recent data have suggested that these percentage washout cutoffs have suboptimal performance for characterizing benign lesions, since 22% (using APW) and 8% (using RPW) of malignant tumors are not correctly identified ( 70 , 75 , 80 ). To detect all malignant tumors, the RPW cutoff should be increased to 58%, leading to a specificity of only 15% ( 75 ). Furthermore, contrast-enhanced washout CT studies may not suffice for characterization of lesions such as PCCs, cysts, and myelolipomas; in these cases, further biochemical, anatomical and/or functional imaging may be required. Findings consistent, but not diagnostic, of PCC on CT include high attenuation values, prominent vascularity, and delayed washout of contrast medium ( 79 ). Another recent study ( 81 ), showed that only a minority (21%) of cortisol-secreting adenomas has the typical unenhanced attenuation value of <10 HU, because cortisol secretion is associated with decreased intra-cytoplasmic lipid droplets containing cholesterol esters which are necessary for
