Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


(21%) of cortisol-secreting adenomas has the typical unenhanced attenuation value of <10 HU, because cortisol secretion is associated with decreased intra-cytoplasmic lipid droplets containing cholesterol esters which are necessary for cortisol synthesis. Nevertheless, among the adenomas with high pre-contrast density (>10 HU), washout analysis after contrast administration was consistent with the benign nature of the tumor in 60% of the cases. Another crucial key point in clinical practice is that most abdominal and chest CT scans leading to the unexpected discovery of an adrenal mass are obtained with the use of intravenous contrast that may not fulfill current technical recommendations for an optimal CT study of the adrenal glands, such as analysis on contiguous 3-5 mm-thick CT slices, preferentially on multiple sections using multidetector (MDCT) row protocols ( 82 ). In such cases, it may be worthwhile to obtain a new CT scan, specifically aimed for the study of the adrenal glands, including washout protocols in order to avoid the radiation exposure of a subsequent third CT scan in case of indeterminate unenhanced attenuation values. Finally, the importance of thorough and standardized reporting by radiologists (including common terminology, nodule size, and HU) needs to be highlighted, in order to improve the percentage of patients with AIs that receive appropriate diagnostic testing and follow-up. This is a recently raised issue based on evidence that suggests that most of AIs are not adequately investigated according to international guidelines due to inconsistent use of terms and lack of specific details and recommendations in radiology reports ( 83 – 85 ). Typical CT images of adrenal pathologies is shown in Figure 2 . Figure 2. CT images of adrenal pathologies presenting as adrenal incidentalomas. a,b,c: A patient with a benign (lipid-rich) adrenal adenoma with unenhanced attenuation value - 3 HU (a), early attenuation (60 seconds after i.v. contrast medium administration) 35 HU (b) and delayed attenuation (10 min post-contrast administration) 18 HU. ARW = 45% and RPW=49%. Absolute washout (APW) less than 60% is indeterminate. However, the low pre-contrast attenuation is suggestive of an adenoma. Relative washout (RPW) of 40% or higher is consistent with an adenoma; d,e,f: Biochemically and histologically proven pheochromocytoma with unenhanced attenuation of 49 HU (d), early attenuation 90 HU (e) and delayed attenuation 64 HU. ARW = 63% and RPW=29%. Absolute washout >60% is suggestive of an adenoma, however relative washout less than 40% and unenhanced attenuation >10 HU
