Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


(e) and delayed attenuation 64 HU. ARW = 63% and RPW=29%. Absolute washout >60% is suggestive of an adenoma, however relative washout less than 40% and unenhanced attenuation >10 HU are indeterminate; g,h: A patient with a primary adrenocortical carcinoma characterized by heterogeneity an unenhanced attenuation value >10 HU (g) and inhomogeneous contrast medium uptake due to central areas of necrosis; i: Typical myelolipoma. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Adrenal imaging with MRI can also aid in the differential diagnosis between benign and malignant adrenal pathology. Benign adrenal adenomas appear hypotense or isotense compared to the liver on T1-weighted images and have low signal intensity on T2-weighted images. The majority of PCCs show high signal intensity on T2-weighted imaging (“light bulb sign”) which is a non-specific finding; however, a wide range of imaging features of PCCs mimicking both benign and malignant adrenal lesions have also been described ( 79 ). Primary ACCs are characterized by intermediate to high signal intensity on T1- and T2-weighted images and heterogeneity (mainly on T2- sequence due to hemorrhage and/or necrosis) as well as avid enhancement with delayed washout. However, these features are not specific and display significant overlap between benign and malignant lesions. The MRI technique of chemical-shift imaging (CSI) exploits the different resonance frequencies of protons of water and triglyceride molecules oscillating in- or out-of-phase to each other under the effect of specific magnetic field sequences, to identify high lipid content in adrenal lesions ( 86 ). Adrenal adenomas with a high content of intracellular lipids usually lose signal intensity in out-of-phase images compared to in-phase images, whereas lipid-poor adrenal adenomas, malignant lesions, and PCCs remain unchanged. Signal intensity loss can be assessed qualitatively by simple visual comparison or by quantitative analysis using the adrenal-to-spleen signal ratio and can identify adenomas with a sensitivity of 84-100% and a specificity of 92-100% ( 87 ). It must be noted however, that ACC and clear renal cell cancer metastases may sometimes also show signal loss ( 88 ). The evidence regarding the diagnostic accuracy of MRI is generally considered poor for several reasons, such as: low number and quality of studies, lack of standardized quantitative assessment, subjective interpretation of qualitative loss in signal intensity, and paucity of recent high-quality research. Additionally, there are no good quality studies comparing the diagnostic performance of MRI and CT in AIs. Hence, based on the higher strength of evidence, CT
