Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


of recent high-quality research. Additionally, there are no good quality studies comparing the diagnostic performance of MRI and CT in AIs. Hence, based on the higher strength of evidence, CT is considered the primary radiological procedure for evaluating AIs, being also more easily available and cost-effective. MRI should be reserved for cases in which CT is less desirable (as in pregnant women and in children) ( 66 , 89 ). Figure 3. MRI images of different adrenal lesions presenting as incidentalomas, using the chemical shift imaging (CSI) technique. The loss of signal in out of phase images is typical in benign lipid-rich adenomas (a, b) in contrast with pheochromocytomas (c, d) and adrenocortical carcinomas (e, f) which do not display any signal loss. Scintigraphy In recent years, positron emission tomography (PET) using 18-fluoro-deoxyglucose ( 18 F-FDG) has emerged as an effective tool in identifying malignant adrenal lesions. By utilizing the increased glucose uptake properties of cancer cells, 18 F-FDG-PET combined with a CT scan ( 18 F-FDG-PET/CT) achieves a sensitivity and specificity in identifying malignancy of 93-100% and 80-100% respectively ( 90 , 91 ). Both quantitative analysis of FDG uptake using maximum standardized uptake values (SUVmax) and qualitative assessment using a mass/liver SUV ratio have been used as a criterion, with the latter displaying better performance ( 92 ). A SUV ratio <1.45–1.6 between the adrenal and the liver is highly predictive of a benign lesion ( 93 ). Caveats in utilizing 18 F-FDG-PET/CT include cost and availability, risk of false negative results in the case of necrotic or hemorrhagic malignant lesions, size <1cm, extra-adrenal malignancies with low uptake (such as metastases from renal cell cancer or low-grade lymphoma), and false positive results in cases of sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, and other inflammatory or infiltrative lesions and some adrenal adenomas and PCCs that show moderate FDG uptake ( 94 ). Because of its excellent negative predictive value, 18 F-FDG-PET may help in avoiding unnecessary surgery in patients with non-secreting tumors with equivocal features in CT demonstrating low FDG uptake. Moreover, 18 F-FDG-PET/CT may favor surgical removal of tumors with elevated uptake and no biochemical evidence of a PCC ( 90 ). Newer PET tracers such as 18 F-fluorodihydroxyphenylalanine (F-DOPA) and 18 F-fluorodopamine (FDA) for detection of PCC have also been developed but their availability is limited ( 95 ). Conventional adrenal scintigraphy using radiolabeled cholesterol molecules such as 131 I-6-b-iodomethyl-norcholesterol (NP-59)
