Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


subtle changes encountered in MACS, and since a definitive clinical phenotype to ascertain the presence of this condition is missing, a combination of various parameters used to assess the integrity of the HPA axis have been employed. Alterations of the HPA axis suggestive of MACS in AIs include altered dexamethasone suppression (DST) and response to CRH, increased mean serum cortisol and urinary free cortisol (UFC) levels, reduced dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S) and reduced ACTH levels ( 33 ), although the latter has recently been questioned since most ACTH assays lack sensitivity at the lower part of the reference range ( 100 ). Incorporation of midnight salivary cortisol as a means to diagnose MACS has produced inconsistent results ( 101 ). Currently, the 1 mg overnight DST, remains the most reliable and easily reproducible method and is the recommended test to detect cortisol secretion abnormalities based on pathophysiological reasoning, simplicity, and incorporation in the diagnostic algorithms of most studies. ( 5 , 101 ). Cortisol autonomy in AIs reflects a biological continuum without a clear separation between functioning and non-functioning tumors. Different cortisol cut-off values following the 1 mg DST have been advocated from different authors and were adopted by several authorities, ranging from 50 to 138 nmol/l (1.8 to 5 μg/dl) ( 64 , 102 ). Higher thresholds increase the specificity of the test but lower its sensitivity ( 103 ). The post 1 mg DST cortisol cutoff of >5 μg/dl (138 nmol/l) approach was substantiated by studies showing that all patients with such a cortisol value had uptake only on the side of the adenoma on adrenal scintigraphy ( 104 ). On the other hand, studies that used post-surgical hypoadrenalism as indicative of autonomous cortisol secretion suggested that lower cortisol cut-offs may be needed to identify these cases ( 105 – 107 ). Furthermore, older stratification of autonomy based on different post-1mg ODST cortisol levels has been abandoned by recent guidelines ( 66 ). A negative DST using a cortisol cut-off value of 1.8 μg/dl (50 nmol/l) virtually excludes MACS. Furthermore, several studies have found that patients with post DST cortisol values >1.8 μg/dl (50 nmol/l) have increased morbidity or mortality ( 108 , 109 ) .The formal low dose dexamethasone suppression test (LDDST) can be used to confirm and quantify the degree of autonomous cortisol secretion or to exclude a false positive test ( 110 , 111 ). Based
