Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


dexamethasone suppression test (LDDST) can be used to confirm and quantify the degree of autonomous cortisol secretion or to exclude a false positive test ( 110 , 111 ). Based on our experience, the post-LDDST cortisol value should be considered in patients with such intermediate cortisol values following the 1 mg DST because, in addition to its high specificity, it correlates well with other indices of cortisol excess and the size of the adenoma, thus providing a quantitative measure of the degree of cortisol production from the adenoma and a more robust means for further follow-up ( 110 , 112 ). Although confirmation of ACTH independency (through suppressed ACTH levels) is also required to establish the diagnosis of MACS ( 64 ), the 1 mg DST should be the initial screening test based on pathophysiology and the fact that it represents the most common HPA axis abnormality reported by most studies ( 49 ). It should also be noted that cortisol levels after 1mg DST are increasing with age, making the diagnosis of MACS in frail elderly patients difficult. Especially for this subgroup of patients in which comorbidities are already frequently present, MACS diagnosis is not considered clinically relevant, and could be omitted. Finally, it is important to consider drugs or conditions that interfere with this test by altering dexamethasone absorption, metabolism by CYP3A4, or falsely elevate cortisol levels through increased cortisol-binding globulin (CBG) levels ( 113 ). Consequently, repeating the 1mg overnight DST in patients who were previously tested positive, and especially those who are candidates for surgery, is advisable. Reduced levels of DHEA-S also reflect chronic suppression of ACTH secretion and have been found to offer comparable sensitivity and greater specificity to the existing gold-standard 1 mg DST for the diagnosis of MACS ( 114 ). In a study of 185 patients with AIs of which 29 patients (16%) were diagnosed with autonomous cortisol secretion, an age- and sex-specific DHEA-S ratio (derived by dividing the DHEA-S by the lower limit of the respective reference range for age and sex) of <1.12 was >99% sensitive and 92% specific for the diagnosis of MACS ( 115 ). In a retrospective study of 256 patients with AIs and MACS, a serum DHEA-S concentration <40 μg/dL was 84% specific for MACS, whereas an ACTH concentration <10 pg/mL was only 75% specific for MACS. In addition, a serum concentration of DHEAS >100 μg/dL
