Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


DHEA-S concentration <40 μg/dL was 84% specific for MACS, whereas an ACTH concentration <10 pg/mL was only 75% specific for MACS. In addition, a serum concentration of DHEAS >100 μg/dL combined with an ACTH >15 pg/mL was 96% percent specific for excluding MACS ( 116 ). The only caveat is that age- and sex- adjusted DHEA-S reference values are not well established. Recently, studies utilizing gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS) to measure serum and 24-hour urine levels of several steroids in patients with AIs have emerged, showing promising potential. Patients with MACS have been found to have decreased levels of adrenal androgens and their metabolites and increased levels of glucocorticoid metabolites compared to healthy individuals, with sensitivity and specificity rates comparable to routine methods ( 117 – 119 ). Since cortisol-related comorbidities play such an important role in planning patient management, it is crucial to gather medical information and laboratory data about glucose and lipid metabolism, hypertension, bone density and fractures. Screening for Pheochromocytoma Although arterial hypertension and other signs of catecholamine excess are considered classical clinical manifestations of PCCs, screening should be performed even in normotensive patients with AIs since catecholamine secretion can be intermittent, and cases of “silent” PCCs are increasingly being recognized ( 120 ). The initial recommended biochemical screening test is measurement of plasma free (from blood drawn in the supine position) or urinary fractionated metanephrines using liquid chromatography with mass spectrometric or electrochemical detection methods ( 40 ). This approach has a sensitivity and specificity of 99% and 97% respectively and has proven to be superior to measurement of plasma or urine catecholamines and vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) ( 121 ). The issue concerning the diagnostic performance of plasma free versus urinary fractionated metanephrines has been recently settled in a multicenter prospective study involving over 2,000 patients, with follow-up to exclude patients without PPGL and with LC-MS/MS measurements of plasma and urinary free metanephrines compared to urinary deconjugated metanephrines ( 122 ). In this study, diagnosis of PPGLs using plasma or urinary free metabolites provided advantages of fewer false-positive results compared with commonly measured de-conjugated metabolites. The plasma panel offered better diagnostic performance than either urinary panel for high-risk patients but was comparable for patients at low risk of disease. Sane et al suggested that routine biochemical screening for PCC in small (<2cm) homogenous AIs characterized by attenuation values <10 HU may not be necessary, since
