Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


low risk of disease. Sane et al suggested that routine biochemical screening for PCC in small (<2cm) homogenous AIs characterized by attenuation values <10 HU may not be necessary, since none of the 115 patients in his cohort with lipid-rich tumors (<10 HU) had constantly elevated 24-hour urinary metanephrines or normetanephrines, whereas all 10 histologically proven PCCs were larger than 2cm and were characterized by >10 HU in unenhanced CT scans ( 123 ). This was also confirmed from a recent multicenter retrospective study including 376 PCCs with sufficient data from CT imaging. Based on the lack of PCCs with an unenhanced attenuation of <10 HU and the low proportion (0.5%, 2/376) of PCCs with an attenuation of 10 HU, it was suggested that abstaining from biochemical testing for PCC in AIs with an unenhanced attenuation of ≤10 HU is reasonable, whereas contrast washout measurements were unreliable for ruling out PCC ( 124 ). A recent study ( 125 ) comparing the clinical, hormonal, histological, and molecular features of normotensive incidentally discovered PCCs (previously referred as “silent”) with tumors causing overt symptoms, revealed lower diagnostic sensitivity (75%) for plasma and urinary metanephrines irrespective of tumor size, while genetic and histological studies showed decreased expression of genes and proteins associated with catecholamine production and increased cellularity and mitotic activity in “silent” tumors. It was implied that asymptomatic incidentally discovered PCCs do not represent an early stage of development of PCCs but rather correspond to a distinct entity characterized by cellular defects in chromaffin machinery resulting in lower efficiency to produce or release catecholamines. It is, therefore, crucial to consider that normotensive patients with an AI and normal values of metanephrines, may indeed harbor a PCC. In such instance, the CT and MRI scan features of the tumor if suspicious for PCC, should alert the clinician to perform complementary investigations, such as plasma chromogranin A measurement, MIBG scintigraphy, 18 F-FDG-PET/CT, or other alternative functional imaging (F-DOPA/PET or FDA/PET) to rule out this possibility. Screening for Aldosterone Excess According to published guidelines from the Endocrine Society, all patients with an AI and hypertension, irrespective of serum potassium levels, should be tested for PA using the plasma aldosterone/renin ratio (ARR) as a screening test ( 42 ). However, the knowledge that PA can be diagnosed in normotensive patients with hypokalemia necessitates testing of all patients with hypertension or hypokalemia ( 44 ). Although there
