Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


( 42 ). However, the knowledge that PA can be diagnosed in normotensive patients with hypokalemia necessitates testing of all patients with hypertension or hypokalemia ( 44 ). Although there is no current consensus regarding the most diagnostic ARR cut-off, values >20-40 (plasma aldosterone expressed as ng/dl and plasma renin activity [PRA] as ng/ml/h) obtained in the morning from a seated patient are highly suggestive. However, the plasma aldosterone level also needs to be considered because extremely low PRA, even in the presence of normal aldosterone levels, will result in a high ARR; an aldosterone level less than 9 ng/dl makes the diagnosis of PA unlikely, whereas a level in excess of 15 ng/dl is suggestive ( 49 ). Attention should also be given in certain technical aspects required for the prompt interpretation of the ARR such as unrestricted dietary salt intake, corrected potassium levels, and washout of interfering antihypertensive medication. Patients may be treated with a non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (verapamil slow release) as a single agent or in combination with α-adrenergic blockers (such as doxazosin) and hydralazine for blood pressure control during the washout period, if needed. When suspected based on the ARR, PA should be verified with one of the commonly used confirmatory tests (oral sodium loading, saline infusion, fludrocortisone suppression, and captopril challenge). Admittedly, the extent that patients with AI should be investigated to exclude PA is still not known. Although PA has been reported with a low prevalence between patients with AIs (1-10%), substantially higher rates (24%) have recently been described using a recumbent post-low dose dexamethasone suppression (LDDST)-saline infusion test (PD-SIT) ( 45 ). Further studies evaluating the optimal biochemical diagnostic approach of PA in patients with AIs are required by comparing established versus evolving investigational protocols. Screening for Androgen/Estrogen Excess Measurement of sex hormones is not recommended in patients with an AI on a routine basis ( 64 ). Elevated levels of serum DHEA-S, androstenedione, 17-OH progesterone as well as testosterone in women and estradiol in men and postmenopausal women can be found in more than half of patients with ACCs ( 126 ). Although cases of androgen or estrogen excess have been rarely described in patients with benign adrenocortical adenomas ( 127 – 130 ), they are usually accompanied by symptoms or signs of virilization in women (acne, hirsutism) or feminization in men (gynecomastia), and therefore such lesions cannot be considered as
