Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


– 130 ), they are usually accompanied by symptoms or signs of virilization in women (acne, hirsutism) or feminization in men (gynecomastia), and therefore such lesions cannot be considered as true AIs. Thus, the usefulness of measuring sex hormones and steroid precursors is limited to cases of adrenal lesions with indeterminate or suspicious for malignancy imaging characteristics, where elevated levels can point towards the adrenocortical origin of the tumor and suggest the presence of an ACC rather than a metastatic lesion. Additionally, increased basal or after cosyntropin stimulation levels of 17-OH progesterone can also indicate CAH in patients with bilateral AIs ( 6 ). Screening for Hypoadrenalism Bilateral AIs caused by metastases of extra-adrenal malignancies or infiltrative diseases can rarely cause adrenal insufficiency ( 131 ). Therefore, in all patients with bilateral adrenal masses, adrenal insufficiency should be considered and evaluated clinically and if likely, diagnosis should be established using the standard 250μg cosyntropin stimulation test according to the Endocrine Society’s recently published clinical guidelines ( 132 ). FINE NEEDLE ASPIRATION BIOPSY (FNAB) Percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) as means to clarify the nature of an AI has now been surpassed by the non-invasive radiological methods because they have better diagnostic accuracy and are devoid of potential side effects ( 133 , 134 ). It should be noted that FNAB is not considered an accurate method in differentiating benign from malignant primary adrenal tumors ( 135 ) but can be helpful in the diagnosis of metastases from extra-adrenal malignancies, lymphoma, sarcoma, infiltrative or infectious process with a sensitivity of 73-100% and a specificity of 86-100% using variable population inclusion criteria, reference standards, and biopsy techniques ( 136 – 138 ). Adrenal biopsy is not needed if the patient is already known to have widespread metastatic disease. Biopsy is only recommended for hormonally inactive masses not characterized as benign on imaging and where a biopsy result would affect treatment decisions. FNAB has significant procedural risk with complications such as pneumothorax, bleeding, infection, pancreatitis, and dissemination of tumor cells along the needle track reported at a rate up to 14% by some, but not all available studies ( 133 ). To avoid the risk of a potentially lethal hypertensive crisis, PCC should always be excluded biochemically before FNA of an adrenal mass is attempted ( 139 ). NATURAL HISTORY OF AIs Since AIs do not represent a single clinical entity, their natural
