Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


always be excluded biochemically before FNA of an adrenal mass is attempted ( 139 ). NATURAL HISTORY OF AIs Since AIs do not represent a single clinical entity, their natural history varies depending on the underlying etiology. Primary malignant adrenal tumors typically display rapid growth (>2 cm/year) and a poor outcome with an overall 5-year survival of 47%. It is not known whether prognosis of patients with incidentally discovered ACC is different from symptomatic cases, however detection of the tumor at an early stage provides the possibility of definitive surgical cure ( 140 ). Patients bearing adrenal metastases have a clinical course depending on stage, grade, and site of the primary tumor ( 4 ). PCCs grow slowly and are mostly benign, but if untreated are potentially lethal displaying high cardiovascular mortality and morbidity, whereas 10-17% of the cases can be malignant ( 40 ). This is further emphasized by the fact that PCCs detected in autopsy series had not been suspected in 75% of the patients while they were alive, although they contributed to their death in approximately 55% of cases ( 141 ). In benign adrenal tumors, which constitute the majority of AIs, the main concerns about their natural history revolve around their progressive growth, the possibility of malignant transformation, and the risk of evolution towards overt hypersecretion. Several cohort studies, despite their limitations, have shown that the majority of benign tumors remain stable in size; only 5-20% show a >1 cm increase in size, mostly within the first three years after prolonged follow-up ( 142 , 143 ), whereas occasional shrinkage, or even complete disappearance, of an adrenal mass have also been reported in about 4% of cases ( 8 , 144 ). Although there is not a specific growth rate cut-off indicative of a benign nature, ACCs initially presenting as AIs, are invariably characterized by a rapid growth within months (at least > 0.8cm/year). The risk of an AI initially considered to be benign to become malignant has been estimated at <1/1000 ( 3 , 8 ) by Cawood et al, who found only two reports of a malignancy detected during the follow-up of AIs presenting as benign at diagnosis; the first was a renal carcinoma metastasis in a patient with a known history of renal carcinoma and the other was a non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma that showed a mass enlargement after 6 months ( 3 ). Two
