Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


metastasis in a patient with a known history of renal carcinoma and the other was a non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma that showed a mass enlargement after 6 months ( 3 ). Two case reports of patients with a well-documented history of adrenal incidentalomas with totally benign imaging features on CT, who were diagnosed on follow-up (8 and 14 years later) with a malignant tumor in the same adrenal gland have recently been described ( 145 , 146 ). It is not known whether these cases can be explained by the independent occurrence of two events in a single adrenal (initially a typical benign adenoma and consequently the occurrence of an ACC) or whether a malignant transformation of a benign adenoma to carcinoma was the underlying course of events. Although there is evidence to suggest the adenoma-carcinoma sequence is possible in the adrenal cortex ( 147 , 148 ), the high prevalence of adenomas contrasting with the extremely low prevalence of ACCs suggest that this process is probably exceptionally rare. These findings highlight the low risk of malignant transformation of AIs and the adequacy of current imaging to ascertain the diagnosis at presentation deterring the need for long-term imaging follow-up. The appearance of hormonal hypersecretion over time in initially NFAIs varies in different series. New-onset catecholamine or aldosterone overproduction is extremely rare (<0.3%), whereas development of overt hypercortisolism during follow-up is found in <1% ( 8 ). The most common disorder observed during follow-up is the occurrence of autonomous cortisol secretion eventually leading to MACS, reported with a frequency of 5.4% (CI 3,1-8,1%) ( 66 , 144 ). This risk is higher for lesions >3 cm in size and during the first 2 years of follow-up but seems to plateau after 3-4 years, even if it does not subside completely ( 149 ). On the other hand, subtle hormonal alterations discovered at initial screening may also improve over time, indicating possible cyclical cortisol secretion from AIs and/or highlighting the inherent difficulty in biochemical confirmation of this condition ( 143 ). Another issue of debate regarding the natural history of AIs that has attracted research, producing frequently conflicting data, is the sequelae of MACS on cardiovascular risk and subsequent mortality and morbidity. Several cross-sectional and cohort studies have reported a clustering of unfavorable cardiovascular risk factors in patients with AIs similar to those found in patients with overt Cushing’s syndrome ( 150 , 151
