Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


and cohort studies have reported a clustering of unfavorable cardiovascular risk factors in patients with AIs similar to those found in patients with overt Cushing’s syndrome ( 150 , 151 ). It is biologically plausible to anticipate that the presence of even mild to minimal cortisol excess may lead to some extent to the classic long-term consequences of overt hypercortisolism, such as hypertension, obesity, impaired glucose tolerance or frank diabetes, dyslipidemia, and osteoporosis ( figure 4 ). Because these metabolic derangements are common in the general and particularly the elderly population, in whom AIs are more frequently found, it is difficult to extrapolate whether there is a causal relationship between them. Whether these metabolic abnormalities in patients with AIs result in increased cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not as yet been fully clarified. Although, some recent retrospective studies ( 108 , 109 , 152 , 153 ) have shown higher rates of cardiovascular events and mortality in patients with higher cortisol levels after the 1 mg DST, data from patients who underwent adrenalectomy are contradictory, regarding the outcome on metabolic and cardiovascular profile, whereas there are relatively few data on the risk of major cardiovascular events or mortality ( 107 , 154 – 156 ). Similarly, evidence on the detrimental effects of MACS on bone metabolism, such as lower bone density and high prevalence of vertebral fractures (43-72%) in postmenopausal women and eugonadal male patients with AIs ( 99 , 157 – 160 ) are conflicting with studies not showing reversal of these effects following surgical treatment ( 154 , 161 ). Additionally, most of the detected vertebral fractures were minor and of uncertain clinical impact ( 99 ). Moreover, there is growing evidence that even non-functioning Ais (NFAIs) may be associated with similar metabolic disturbances and manifestations of the metabolic syndrome that are considered cardiovascular risk factors ( 162 – 164 ). Compared with controls, patients with NFAIs exhibit subtle indices of atherosclerosis such as increased carotid intima-media thickness (IMT)( 165 ), impaired flow-mediated vasodilatation (FMD) ( 166 ), and left ventricular hypertrophy ( 167 ). A recent study excluding patients with traditional risk factors (diabetes, hypertension or dyslipidemia) reported similar findings in patients harboring NFAIs, with increased insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction that correlated with subtle but not autonomous cortisol excess ( 168 ). Furthermore, an observational study suggested that patients with NFAIs had a significantly higher risk
