Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


resistance and endothelial dysfunction that correlated with subtle but not autonomous cortisol excess ( 168 ). Furthermore, an observational study suggested that patients with NFAIs had a significantly higher risk of developing diabetes compared with control subjects without adrenal tumors prompting a re-assessment of whether the classification of benign adrenal tumors as “non-functional” adequately reflects the continuum of hormone secretion and metabolic risk they may harbor ( 169 ). A recent meta-analysis ( 170 ) of 32 studies including patients with NFAIs and adrenal tumors associated with MACS provided important insights on the natural history of such tumors that help in solving controversy and informing practice. First and foremost, it was observed that only a small proportion of patients with NFAI or MACS had tumor growth or changes in hormone production during follow-up. Only 2.5% of adrenal incidentalomas grew by 10 mm or more over a mean follow-up of 41.5 months, whereas the mean difference in adenoma size between follow-up and baseline in all patients was negligible at 2.0 mm. Larger adenomas at diagnosis (≥25 mm) were even less likely than smaller tumors to grow during follow-up, which, according to the authors, suggests attainment of maximum growth potential. More importantly malignant transformation was never observed at the end of follow-up. Similarly, in patients with NFAIs or MACS at diagnosis, the risk of developing clinically overt hormonal hypersecretion syndromes (Cushing’s, PA, or catecholamine excess) was negligible (<0,1%), suggesting that these rare cases are probably attributed to the development of subsequent adrenal tumors and that MACS does not represent a preliminary stage of overt Cushing’s. Inapparent cortisol autonomy ensued only in 4.3% of patients with initially nonfunctioning tumors. The third and most novel finding of this thorough meta-analysis pertained to comorbidities, cardiovascular risk, and mortality. It was confirmed, like in other similar studies, that patients with MACS had a high prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors (such as hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia, and type 2 diabetes) and were more likely than those with NFAIs to develop or show worsening of these factors during follow-up. However, the prevalence of such factors in patients with NFAIs was also significant and higher than expected for Western populations. This finding could be explained by a subtle degree of glucocorticoid excess not detected by current diagnostic criteria or perhaps by cyclical cortisol secretion or even by excess cortisol secretion in response to stress situations. It could also represent ascertainment
