Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


glucocorticoid excess not detected by current diagnostic criteria or perhaps by cyclical cortisol secretion or even by excess cortisol secretion in response to stress situations. It could also represent ascertainment bias since patients with diseases are more likely to have imaging tests that may detect an AI or could be a result of the previously theorized reverse causality concept that diabetes or the metabolic syndrome promote adrenal tumor development ( 171 ). Interestingly, reported all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in patients with NFAI during follow-up were similar to those in patients with MACS, warranting close clinical follow-up and treatment for both groups of patients. MANAGEMENT A proposed algorithm for diagnostic approach and management of AIs based on the more recently published and widely accepted guidelines ( 66 ) is presented in Figures 4 and 5 . A patient presenting with a newly discovered AI should be initially assessed in parallel for its malignancy potential and functional status. Exclusion of malignancy is critical and imaging review by an experienced radiologist is of crucial importance. Since evidence for the accuracy of MRI-CSI is not as strong, non-contrast CT is the first modality that should be used if not already performed. An unenhanced attenuation value of ≤ 10 HU combined with homogeneity can safely, based on available data, confirm the diagnosis of benign adenoma and exclude malignancy, requiring no further imaging investigation or follow-up. The same can be applied for larger AIs (>4cm) with unequivocal benign phenotype (≤ 10 HU, homogeneous), since recent observational data have provided better quality evidence for their benign natural course ( 72 , 172 ). For tumors with >10 HU, management is dependent on the risk of malignancy based on a combination of imaging properties such as attenuation (11-20 HU or >20 HU), size (< or > 4cm) and homogeneity (homogeneous or heterogeneous). In a homogeneous, < 4 cm adrenal mass with unenhanced HU between 11 and 20, the likelihood of malignancy is <10%. Thus, the proposed approach is to immediately acquire an additional imaging study, depending on the local experience and preference (FDG-PET/CT, MRI with CSI or CT with washout protocol). If the findings from the additional imaging are suggestive of a benign lesion, no further imaging follow-up is required. Alternatively, interval imaging (with non-contrast CT or MRI) after 12 months could be performed, to ensure that no significant change in size has occurred. On the opposite side,
