Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


is required. Alternatively, interval imaging (with non-contrast CT or MRI) after 12 months could be performed, to ensure that no significant change in size has occurred. On the opposite side, AIs that have relatively high risk of malignancy should be discussed in a multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting. Those include AIs ≥4 cm with density > 20 HU or a heterogeneous appearance and are most likely candidates for immediate surgical removal. Prior to surgery staging with chest CT and/or FDG/PET-CT is recommended to detect metastatic disease if present. In case the MDT recommendation is not surgery, interval imaging (with non-contrast CT or MRI) in 6-12 months is advised. All other AIs with intermediate tumor characteristics (tumor size ≥ 4 cm with unenhanced HU 11-20, or tumor size < 4 cm with unenhanced HU > 20, or tumor size < 4 cm with heterogeneous appearance), have a smaller but considerable relative risk for malignancy and should be examined in detail in an MDT meeting. Ordering additional imaging (FDG-PET/CT, MRI with CSI or CT with washout protocol, depending on local availability and expertise) seems to be the appropriate strategy. In these cases, additional imaging with FDG/PET-CT might have an advantage over the other modalities due to the low risk of false negative results. If the tumor remains indeterminate after the additional imaging workup, surgery or interval imaging (with non-contrast CT or MRI) after 6-12 months could be offered. A promising alternative to additional imaging, that has appeared in recent years, is urine or plasma steroid metabolomics (profiling) by tandem mass spectrometry. In two published retrospective studies ( 72 , 119 ), one using urine and the other plasma samples, sensitivity for excluding adrenocortical cancer, as stand-alone tests, was approximately 80%. However, when combined with imaging properties (namely attenuation >20 HU and size >4cm) urine steroid metabolomics showed a negative predictive value of 99.7%. Interval imaging at 6 and/or 12 months in case no surgery is performed (MDT decision or for any other reason) is done to monitor possible progressive growth. An increase of >20% of the largest tumor diameter together with an at least 5 mm increase in this diameter ( 101 ), as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria, or an absolute increase by >8 mm over 12 months, as suggested by some studies ( 67 ), probably warrant re-evaluation by the MDT. Further imaging follow-up may not be needed if no change
