Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


by >8 mm over 12 months, as suggested by some studies ( 67 ), probably warrant re-evaluation by the MDT. Further imaging follow-up may not be needed if no change is size is seen at the first interval imaging. In indeterminate cases, age is a parameter that needs to be considered by the MDT when deciding which patients to refer for adrenalectomy. For example, most clinicians would tend to advise in favor of removing a lipid-poor (19 HU) 3.2 cm AI in a 23-year-old woman, whereas serial imaging follow-up would be favorably recommended in an 83-year-old woman with a lipid-poor (15 HU) 4.7 cm adrenal tumor. All published guidelines and expert reviews agree that patients with unilateral adrenal masses causing unambiguous hormonal overactivity, and those with suspected malignancy (mainly ACC), are candidates for surgical interventions ( 5 , 6 , 40 , 42 , 64 , 66 , 101 , 102 , 173 , 174 ). There is also broad consensus that the majority of AIs with clearly benign imaging phenotype in unenhanced CT and no evidence of functionality do not require surgery. The management of patients harboring AIs who have MACS is debatable and the beneficial effect of adrenalectomy has not been proven adequately in the literature. Some, but not all, predominantly retrospective studies have shown a beneficial effect in hypertension and diabetes mellitus in patients with AIs who underwent an adrenalectomy, compared to those who did not undergo such a procedure ( 107 , 154 , 156 ). In one prospective study with an 8-year follow-up, operated patients with MACS had an improvement in features of the metabolic syndrome, but not of osteoporosis, compared to those who were conservatively managed; however, no control group was included in the study ( 154 ). An improvement of blood pressure and blood glucose was noted in a retrospective study of adrenalectomized patients with MACS, whereas these indices worsened in non-operated patients; even so, some patients apparently with NFAI also showed an improvement in some of these parameters ( 107 ). In a recent prospective multicenter randomized study including 62 patients aged 40-75, Morelli et al showed that adrenalectomy more frequently ameliorated hypertension (68% versus 13%) and glycometabolic control (28% versus 3,3%) than the conservative approach, while the latter was associated with a more frequent worsening of blood pressure and insulin resistance (12% versus 40%). Since available data from the aforementioned retrospective
