Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


than the conservative approach, while the latter was associated with a more frequent worsening of blood pressure and insulin resistance (12% versus 40%). Since available data from the aforementioned retrospective and the two recent small prospective studies are not considered high-quality, the decision to recommend surgery should be taken in a multidisciplinary setting while taking several other factors into consideration, such as: duration and evolution of comorbidities and their degree of control, presence and extent of end organ damage inappropriate for age, discrepant family history, presence of multiple comorbidities, age, sex, general health, degree and persistence of nonsuppressible cortisol after dexamethasone, and patient’s preference. Young patients with MACS and those with new onset and/or rapidly worsening comorbidities resistant to medical treatment ( 6 , 175 ) could thus be candidates for surgical intervention. Myelolipomas are considered benign tumors, their diagnosis is mostly based on imaging characteristics and biochemical evaluation is not usually needed unless informed by clinical presentation. Measurement of 17(OH) progesterone is advised in large and/or bilateral myelolipomas for the possibility of CAH. Their management is mostly conservative with yearly imaging follow-up, since in up to 16% of the cases a median tumor growth of at least 1cm per year was demonstrated. Surgery is usually reserved for large tumors, those with tumor growth, acute hemorrhage, symptoms of abdominal mass effect, or uncontrolled CAH ( 176 ). Before proceeding to surgical therapy, appropriate medical therapy must be given to all functioning lesions, aiming at symptom control. Apart from patients with Cushing’s syndrome, post-surgical adrenal insufficiency may ensue in MACS patients ( 177 , 178 ). Because the need for glucocorticoid coverage cannot be predicted before surgery, patients should be covered by steroids post-operatively until the HPA-axis can be formally assessed ( 105 ). Low morning cortisol levels the day after surgery, and before glucocorticoid replacement, provide evidence for post-surgical hypoadrenalism ( 107 ). All patients diagnosed with PCC, including normotensive patients with “silent” tumors should receive preoperative α-adrenergic blockade for 7 to 14 days to prevent perioperative cardiovascular complications. Treatment should also include a high-sodium diet and fluid intake to reverse catecholamine-induced blood volume contraction preoperatively and prevent severe hypotension after tumor removal ( 40 ). Finally, patients diagnosed with PA and bilateral tumors or a unilateral AI (if older than 40 years of age) who seek a potential surgical cure, should be considered for adrenal venous sampling (AVS) before
