Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


PA and bilateral tumors or a unilateral AI (if older than 40 years of age) who seek a potential surgical cure, should be considered for adrenal venous sampling (AVS) before proceeding to surgery, to confirm lateralization of the source of the excessive aldosterone secretion. In cases where decision for adrenalectomy is based on imaging phenotype it would also be prudent to exclude the possibility of a “silent” PCC before proceeding to surgery, because hemodynamic instability during surgical excision may ensue. According to earlier published AACE/AAES Medical Guidelines for the management of adrenal incidentalomas, patients with AIs not elected for surgery after the initial diagnostic work-up, should undergo re-imaging 3-6 months after the initial diagnosis and then annually for the next 1-2 years, while annual biochemical testing is advised for up to 4-5 years following the diagnosis ( 64 ). However, it has recently been suggested by some authors that given the low probability of the transformation of a benign and non-functioning adrenal mass to a malignant or functioning one, the routine application of the current strategies in all patients with AIs is likely to result in a number of unnecessary biochemical and radiological investigations ( 3 , 179 , 180 ). Such an approach is costly, and it does not take into account harmful consequences of diagnostic evaluation such as patients’ anxiety associated with repeated clinical visits and a high rate of false positive results leading to further testing or unnecessary adrenalectomy. Moreover, exposure to ionizing radiation from repeated CT scans increases the future cancer risk to the level that is similar to the risk of the adrenal lesion becoming malignant ( 3 , 181 ). Patients without any biochemical abnormalities at presentation could be spared the burden of repeated testing, since the risk of developing clinically overt hormonal excess is extremely low. Clinical follow-up with assessment of cardiovascular risk factors that have been associated with the presence of AIs may be adequate to detect the reported ~10% of the cases of new onset MACS ( 5 ). Patients with worsening of their metabolic parameters should be retested with the 1mg DST and be advised to apply lifestyle changes and effective medical treatment to reduce cardiovascular risk. If biochemical abnormalities suggesting MACS are present during the initial screening, annual clinical follow-up including evaluation of potentially cortisol excess-related comorbidities, as well as periodic testing of the HPA axis, is advisable. Patients
