Adrenal Incidentaloma
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, patients, ais, clinical, endocrinol, tumors, imaging, cortisol, benign, study, incidentalomas, adrenal incidentalomas, malignant, studies


suggesting MACS are present during the initial screening, annual clinical follow-up including evaluation of potentially cortisol excess-related comorbidities, as well as periodic testing of the HPA axis, is advisable. Patients with MACS who do not reach the treatment goals despite an adequate medical therapy could be offered surgery. Duration of follow-up is also under debate, however based on available data, annual hormonal evaluation may be suggested for up to five years, and especially for lesions >3 cm ( 64 ). CONCLUSION AIs are increasingly being recognized, particularly in the aging population. Adrenal CT and MRI can reliably distinguish benign lesions, while 18 F-FDG-PET/CT scan can be helpful in identifying tumors with malignant potential. MACS is the most common hyperfunctional state that is best substantiated using the 1 mg DST; urinary/plasma metanephrines and ARR are used to screen for PCCs and hyperaldosteronism. Adrenal lesions with suspicious radiological findings, PCCs and tumors causing overt clinical syndromes, as well as those with considerable growth during follow-up, should be treated with surgical resection. Although there is no consensus, the interval for diagnostic follow-up testing relies on the radiological and hormonal features of the tumors at presentation. The benefit of surgical resection in patients with substantial comorbidities and associated subclinical adrenal hyperfunction, mainly in the form of MACS, is still under investigation. Figure 4. Proposed algorithm for diagnosis and management of AIs (imaging evaluation). Figure 5. Proposed algorithm for diagnosis and management of AIs (biochemical evaluation). REFERENCES 1. Korobkin M, White E, Kressel H, Moss A, Montagne J. Computed tomography in the diagnosis of adrenal disease. American Journal of Roentgenology 1979;132(2):231–238. [ PubMed : 105590 ] 2. Vassiliadi D a, Tsagarakis S. Endocrine incidentalomas--challenges imposed by incidentally discovered lesions. Nat Rev Endocrinol 2011;7(11):668–80. [ PubMed : 21709710 ] 3. Cawood TJ, Hunt PJ, O&apos;Shea D, Cole D, Soule S. Recommended evaluation of adrenal incidentalomas is costly, has high false-positive rates and confers a risk of fatal cancer that is similar to the risk of the adrenal lesion becoming malignant; time for a rethink? Eur J Endocrinol 2009;161(4):513–527. [ PubMed : 19439510 ] 4. Grumbach MM, Biller BMK, Braunstein GD, Campbell KK, Aidan Carney J, Godley PA, Harris EL, Lee JKT, Oertel YC, Posner MC, Schlechte JA, Wieand S, Marciel K, Carney JA, Godley PA, Harris EL, Lee JKT, Oertel YC, Posner MC, Schlechte JA, Wieand HS. Management of the clinically inapparent adrenal mass (“incidentaloma”). In:
