Pituitary Diseases in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hypopituitarism, patients, pubmed, syndrome, hormone, snake, sheehan, traumatic, sheehan syndrome, countries, tropical, various, dysfunction, common


ABSTRACT The pituitary gland is the master controller of the hormonal axes in the body and modulates its hormonal output based on the information received from the hypothalamus and the peripheral target organs. The traditional feedback hormonal loop involving the central and peripheral organs is termed the hypothalamo-pituitary-target organ axis. Pituitary disorders may present either due to the structural or hormonal manifestations. Pituitary disorders often have a long gestation period before their clinical identification. The commonest pituitary disorders include functional and non-functional adenomas and hypopituitarism. In this chapter, we shall discuss the pituitary disorders encountered in the tropical countries along with their unique features and management. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The pituitary gland is the fulcrum of the entire hormonal axes in the human body and is located in the sella turcica of the temporal bone. The pituitary gland is divided into anterior and posterior portions connected by an intermediary lobe. The anterior pituitary secretes growth hormone (GH), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and prolactin. Vasopressin and oxytocin are the two hormones released from the posterior pituitary. The common pituitary disorders in endocrine practice include prolactinoma, acromegaly, Cushing’s disease, non-functional pituitary adenoma (NFPA), and hypopituitarism. Hypopituitarism denotes either complete or partial deficiency of pituitary hormones. The etiologies that lead to hypopituitarism are classified as congenital, neoplastic, and inflammatory diseases ( 1 ). Pituitary dysfunction in tropical countries is observed due to specific etiologies as shown in table 1 . In the subsequent sections, we shall discuss the individual disorders. Table 1. Pituitary Diseases of the Tropics View in own window Gynecological - Sheehan’s syndrome, Pseudocyesis Environmental - Snake envenomation, Heat stroke, Traumatic brain injury Infections - Tuberculosis, Toxoplasmosis, Pneumocystis, Cytomegalovirus, Aspergillosis, Candida Miscellaneous - Hemochromatosis, Steroid abuse SHEEHAN’S SYNDROME Harold Sheehan described this syndrome in 1937 as post-partum pituitary necrosis ( 2 ). It is a common cause of pituitary insufficiency in tropical countries where obstetric care is not well advanced. In a study from India, the prevalence of Sheehan’s syndrome (SS) is reported to be 3% in women above 20 years of age and according to this study two third of SS patients had undergone home delivery ( 3 ). This might be a tip of the iceberg as the majority of cases go unrecognized because
