Pituitary Diseases in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hypopituitarism, patients, pubmed, syndrome, hormone, snake, sheehan, traumatic, sheehan syndrome, countries, tropical, various, dysfunction, common


this study two third of SS patients had undergone home delivery ( 3 ). This might be a tip of the iceberg as the majority of cases go unrecognized because of the long lag period between the primary insult and clinical presentation and the significant number of unreported home deliveries ( 4 ). Post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) is the initiating event which triggers the cascade of pituitary necrosis as shown in the figure 1 . Figure 1. Etiopathogenesis of Sheehan’s Syndrome Pathogenesis The pituitary is a highly vascularized organ and is very vulnerable to ischemic insults secondary to a fall in mean arterial pressure. PPH is the primary insult which leads to hypotension and compromised blood flow to pituitary, leading to irreversible necrosis and deficiencies of various pituitary hormones. The pituitary gland increases in size during pregnancy and its location inside the sellar compartment makes it susceptible to ischemic insults. Other factors which aid in the progression of SS are disseminated intravascular coagulation, mutation in various coagulant factors like factor II and V, vasospasm, multiparity, advanced maternal age, and autoimmunity. Lactotrophs and somatotrophs are located laterally and are commonly affected in comparison to medially located corticotrophs and thyrotrophs ( 4 ). Anti-pituitary (APA) and anti-hypothalamus antibodies (AHA) are seen in patients with SS even many years after the primary insult. It is postulated that necrosed pituitary cells exposes various antigens to which these antibodies develop and subsequently leads to autoimmune damage ( 5 ). The various risk factors for the development of SS are summarized in the table 2 . Table 2. Predisposing Factors for Sheehan’s Syndrome View in own window Anatomical Physiological Obstetrical Miscellaneous Small sella turcica Pituitary enlargement Coagulation disorders Prothrombotic states Vasospasm Postpartum bleed Home deliveries Advanced age Multiparity Autoimmunity Clinical Presentation Patients with SS can have an acute, subacute, or chronic presentation and symptoms in SS are related to the underlying pituitary hormone deficiencies. Usually a lag period between the primary insult to first presentation is in the range of 7-19 years. However, SS may present as an acute catastrophic event immediately after delivery which can be associated with a high mortality. Acute SS may present as emergency in the form of myxedema coma, severe hyponatremia, adrenal crisis, and hypoglycemia coma. Failure of lactation, inability to resume menstrual cycles, and loss of secondary sexual characteristics in the background of PPH should raise suspicion of SS. Figure 2
