Pituitary Diseases in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hypopituitarism, patients, pubmed, syndrome, hormone, snake, sheehan, traumatic, sheehan syndrome, countries, tropical, various, dysfunction, common


crisis, and hypoglycemia coma. Failure of lactation, inability to resume menstrual cycles, and loss of secondary sexual characteristics in the background of PPH should raise suspicion of SS. Figure 2 summarizes various clinical features of SS. It is also important to understand that about 10% of patients with SS may remain asymptomatic and about 50% of patients may have nonspecific signs and symptoms eluding clinical diagnosis. Diabetes Insipidus is a rare phenomenon in SS. In chronic SS, clinical examination reveals the loss of axillary and pubic hair, breast atrophy, wrinkling around the eyes and mouth, and features of hypothyroidism ( 4 ). Figure 2. Clinical Features of Sheehan’s Syndrome (SS) In appropriate clinical settings, SS syndrome is diagnosed by detecting variable degrees of pituitary hormone deficiencies. Dynamic stimulation testing might be required for diagnosing SS. Hyponatremia is commonly seen in SS and its occurrence is explained by multiple factors like hypothyroidism, hypocortisolemia, and increased anti-diuretic hormone secretion as a result of decreased mean arterial pressure. On sellar imaging an empty sella is a hallmark finding in SS. Complete and partial empty sellars is seen in about 70-75% and 20 – 25% of patients with SS respectively. In acute SS, pituitary might be enlarged with features suggestive of necrosis on neuroimaging. Rarely, patients with SS can have a normal pituitary on imaging ( 6 ). Lymphocytic hypophysitis may present similarly and the differentiating features between the two conditions are summarized in table 3 . Table 3. Differences Between Sheehan’s Syndrome and Lymphocytic Hypophysitis View in own window Sheehan’s syndrome Lymphocytic hypophysitis Women in postpartum period affected Women, men, & children can be affected Post-partum hemorrhage common hence seen in developing countries Common in affluent nations Lactation failure present No lactation failure Other autoimmune disorders not common Can be associated with other autoimmune disorders PRL, TSH, GH ACTH, FSH, LH are affected late ACTH, TSH, PRL Normal GH, FSH, LH DI rare DI common Empty sella on imaging Enhancing pituitary mass may progress to empty sella, thick stalk PRL, prolactin; TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone; GH, growth hormone; ACTH, adrenocorticotrophic hormone; FSH, follicular stimulating hormone; LH, luteinizing hormone; DI, diabetes insipidus Management In acute SS syndrome, intravenous glucocorticoids, thyroid hormone replacement, and fluid resuscitation constitutes the main treatment. It is important to keep in mind that thyroid hormone replacement should not be done without testing for the adequacy of the pituitary adrenal axis.
