Pituitary Diseases in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hypopituitarism, patients, pubmed, syndrome, hormone, snake, sheehan, traumatic, sheehan syndrome, countries, tropical, various, dysfunction, common


resuscitation constitutes the main treatment. It is important to keep in mind that thyroid hormone replacement should not be done without testing for the adequacy of the pituitary adrenal axis. Long term management is guided by diagnosing the specific endocrine deficits and replacement for these abnormalities. Besides glucocorticoid and thyroxine, the patient may require sex steroids, growth hormone, and desmopressin therapy. At appropriate intervals, patients should be screened for malignancies and bone health ( 7 ). SNAKE ENVENOMATION AND PITUITARY DYSFUNCTION The World Health Organization (WHO) has included snake bite in the priority list of neglected tropical diseases. About 85,000–138,000 deaths occur per year all over the world as a result of snake envenomation and more than 75 percent of these deaths happen in tropical countries. About 10 percent of people who survive snake envenomation develop pituitary dysfunction. Pituitary dysfunction is more common with vasculotoxic snakes like Russel’s viper ( 8 ). The exact prevalence of hypopituitarism following snake bite is not known because the majority of these bites occur in countries where the reporting system of snake bite is not robust. Somatotrophs and corticotrophs are frequently affected and patients may present in an acute or chronic stage with various signs and symptoms of hypopituitarism. Kidney injury and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) are postulated to be predictors of hypopituitarism following snake bite. Pituitary imaging may show a spectrum of findings ranging between a completely normal pituitary to an empty sella ( 9 ). Figure 3 illustrates the pathophysiology of hypopituitarism in snake bites. Vasculotoxic snake bites lead to a capillary leak syndrome which causes pituitary swelling and initiation of DIC. Increased capillary permeability also exposes various pituitary antigens and leads to the development of various antibodies which further damages pituitary cells. Vasculotoxic snake venom also has a direct stimulatory effect on pituitary cells and can result in damage. Circulatory collapse further leads to pituitary ischemia and finally hypopituitarism ( 10 ). Figure 3. Pathogenesis of Hypopituitarism in Snake Bites Hypopituitarism following snake bites can present as early as 24 hrs to as late as 24 years. Patients may present acutely with adrenal crisis or chronically with non-specific signs and symptoms. Deficiency of growth hormone and cortisol are common and central diabetes insipidus is rare after snake bite induced hypopituitarism ( 11 ). Appropriate hormonal replacement remains the mainstay of treatment. POST TRAUMATIC PITUTARY DYSFUNCTION In India it is reported that
