Pituitary Diseases in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hypopituitarism, patients, pubmed, syndrome, hormone, snake, sheehan, traumatic, sheehan syndrome, countries, tropical, various, dysfunction, common


diabetes insipidus is rare after snake bite induced hypopituitarism ( 11 ). Appropriate hormonal replacement remains the mainstay of treatment. POST TRAUMATIC PITUTARY DYSFUNCTION In India it is reported that about 405 deaths and 1290 injuries happen as a result of road traffic accidents every day. Out of these accidents, two thirds occur in individuals between 15-44 years of age and a significant number of these patients are left with various disabilities ( 12 ). Post traumatic hypopituitarism is described after various injuries ranging from mild to severe or even with repeated injuries. Post traumatic hypopituitarism is believed to be responsible for about 7.2% of all causes of hypopituitarism and can develop after road traffic accidents, sports injuries, blast injuries, and other trauma. In the acute phase of post traumatic brain injury, pituitary dysfunction is seen in as high as two thirds of patients ( 13 ). Events and pathogenesis of post traumatic hypopituitarism is described in figure 4 . As described in the pathogenesis of SS, pituitary vasculature has a unique propensity for ischemic insult. Autoimmunity is also postulated to play a part in the pathogenesis of post traumatic hypopituitarism. It is believed that as a result of trauma there is disruptions of the blood brain barrier and there is exposure to various hypothalamic and pituitary antigens. Anti-pituitary antibodies and anti-hypothalamic antibodies have been demonstrated by various authors many years after the primary injury. It has also been reported that patients who does not have anti-pituitary antibodies have a higher chance of recovery of pituitary functions within 5 years ( 14 ). The role of varied expression of miRNA and the protective role of apolipoprotein E3 have also been described. Somatotrophs and gonadotrophs are first affected by ischemic damage and centrally located corticotrophs and thyrotropes are preserved ( 13 ). Figure 4. Pathogenesis of Post Traumatic Hypopituitarism The diagnosis of post traumatic hypopituitarism can be difficult because of the non-specific signs and symptoms, impaired cognition, and difficulty to carry out dynamic tests. Patients may have varied presentations like neuropsychiatric manifestations, dementia, altered body fat distribution, and altered metabolic profile. Neuroimaging may show brain contusions, skull fractures, diffuse axonal injuries, diffuse brain swelling, decreased pituitary volume, and even empty sella. Various authors have reported that diffuse brain swelling, skull fractures, axonal injury are predictors of post traumatic hypopituitarism ( 13 ). Appropriate hormonal replacement is the mainstay of treatment and
