Pituitary Diseases in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pituitary, hypopituitarism, patients, pubmed, syndrome, hormone, snake, sheehan, traumatic, sheehan syndrome, countries, tropical, various, dysfunction, common


Various authors have reported that diffuse brain swelling, skull fractures, axonal injury are predictors of post traumatic hypopituitarism ( 13 ). Appropriate hormonal replacement is the mainstay of treatment and pituitary functions revert back to normal within 5 years in a significant number of patients ( 15 ). PITUITARY INFECTIONS Pituitary infections are considered to be a rare in usual practice. However, in tropical countries it can pose a great challenge especially when there is no clinical suspicion. Of all the infections, mycobacterium tuberculosis is a frontrunner in causing pituitary dysfunction. Pituitary insufficiency is reported in children with tubercular meningitis and hyperprolactinemia and adrenal insufficiency was common abnormalities ( 16 ). There are a large number of people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and pituitary infections with cytomegalovirus and toxoplasma gondii can be seen in some of these patients. Immunocompromised patients can also develop pituitary abscesses and the posterior pituitary is commonly affected as it receives its blood supply directly from the systemic circulation. Aspergillus, candida albicans, and pneumocystis jiroveci are common organisms incriminated in pituitary abscesses. The endocrine abnormalities seen most often are DI, hyperprolactinemia, and hypogonadism. On neuroimaging a pituitary abscess may present as parasellar mass ( 17 ). Tertiary syphilis can rarely infect the pituitary. The infected pituitary can develop pituitary dysfunction as result of chronic ischemia which leads to necrosis ( 1 ). MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS Pseudocyesis describes a clinical condition in which a woman who is not pregnant, presents with a strong conviction of being pregnant along with the associated signs and symptoms mimicking a true pregnancy state. Though pseudocyesis has been recognized since antiquity, the hormonal changes have been studied in the recent decades. The disease is rarely reported in developed countries but is fairly common in tropical countries, especially Africa, where childbearing is considered as essential for women to live with respect. A notable example of this condition was Mary Tudor, the first queen of England, who believed that God did not bless her with a child because of the harsh punishments given by her to the protestants. In this disorder women of child bearing age develops raised prolactin and LH levels ( 16 ). Quack therapies are commonly practiced in tropical countries and steroids are the main constituents of such forms of therapies which leads to suppression of the hypothalamic pituitary axis ( 18 ). Heat injuries are common in tropical countries
