Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310 GUIDELINE Diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in critically ill intensive care patients: executive summary of the German national guideline (AWMF 113-005) Dominic Wichmann1 · Martin Hoenigl2,3 · Philipp Koehler4,5 · Christina Koenig1 · Frederike Lund6 · Sebastian Mang1 · Richard Strauß7 · Markus A. Weigand6 · Christian Hohmann8,9 · Oliver Kurzai10,11 · Claus Heußel12,13,14 · Matthias Kochanek4 Received: 9 April 2025 / Accepted: 22 May 2025 / Published online: 4 June 2025 © The Author(s) 2025 Abstract Purpose The executive summary of the guideline aims to provide the most relevant recommendations on the diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in critically ill patients in the intensive care unit. Methods The guideline’s work included a systematic literature search, selection and assessment of the data relevant to the issues identified. Key questions included the areas of epidemiology, risk factors, diagnostics, and therapy. They were discussed analogous to a PICO scheme within the guideline committee, with subsequent working groups proposing recom- mendations for specific key questions, which were then again discussed and finalized by the entire guideline committee. Results In addition to the classic risk factors (persistent neutropenia, allogeneic stem cell transplantation, congenital or acquired immunodeficiency, etc.), decompensated liver cirrhosis, COPD, solid tumours and viral pneumonia (influenza, COVID-19) have been established as risk factors for critically ill patients in need of intensive care. If there is no adequate be considered and appropriate diagnostic tests should be initiated. Diagnostics should include a CT scan of the chest and a broncho-alveolar lavage with culture for moulds, testing for galactomannan and PCR. Isavuconazole and voriconazole are recommended as first-line treatment, liposomal amphotericin B as an alternative, with posaconazole (PCZ) or the echinocan- dins (as an add-on to azole or polyene treatment) being additional options for salvage treatment. Conclusion Invasive aspergillosis in critically ill patients represents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. If indicated, invasive aspergillosis should be considered and appropriate diagnostic tests initiated. Isavuconazole and voriconazole are recommended as first-line treatment, liposomal amphotericin B as an alternative. Keyword Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis · Intensive care medicine · Critically ill patients · Guideline · Azoles · Drug interactions these recommendations may be warranted and should be With the criteria for invasive fungal infections in intensive made in exceptional cases, when justified. care patients published recently, a broad consensus on the (research) definition of invasive aspergillosis in critically Methods ill patients in the intensive
