Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


in intensive made in exceptional cases, when justified. care patients published recently, a broad consensus on the (research) definition of invasive aspergillosis in critically Methods ill patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) was established . In order to create robust evidence, the guideline, which The S1 guideline aimed to provide a comprehensive over- is primarily intended to harmonise research questions fol- view of evidence-based recommendations on the diagnosis lowed a conservative approach and recommendations are and treatment of invasive (pulmonary) aspergillosis and Extended author information available on the last page of the article 1 3 1300 D. Wichmann et al. addresses physicians involved in the care of critically ill Key recommendations adult patients treated in the ICU. This compendium high- lights the key diagnostic and treatment recommendations from the guideline that are most important for clinical Epidemiology practice. Invasive mould infections are predominantly caused by Critical evaluation of evidence and Preparation of Aspergillus spp. The majority of infections (90%) are due recommendations to species from the A. fumigatus species complex, followed by species from the complexes A. flavus, A. niger, A. terreus The guideline presented is based on a systematic search, [2–4]. The incidence of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis selection, and assessment of the data relevant to the identi- (IPA) varies depending on the patient group, geographical fied issues. Due to the significant lack of randomised con- location, and also because, until recently , there was no trolled trials (RCT) or comparable studies, it was generally consensus on the underlying diagnostic criteria. In addition not possible to assign recommendation grades or determine to differentiate between colonisation and infection might be the quality of evidence. Therefore, as defined by the Arbe- difficult when indirect methods such as antigen- or nucleic itsgemeinschaft wissenschaftlicher Fachgesellschaften acid amplification tests are used and histology is not avail- (AWMF), the recommendations presented here are classi- able . The incidence of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis fied as expert opinions (S1 level). in critically ill patients in intensive care units is very likely underestimated, as suggested by results from retrospective autopsy studies, in which 2.8% had invasive aspergillo- Determination of guideline questions and sis, but only 40% of those cases had been identified ante Preparation of the recommendations mortem . Significant differences also exist in the data on patient mortality, as IPA usually occurs in patients with pro- Key questions were formulated for the areas of epidemiol- nounced disease
