Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


. Significant differences also exist in the data on patient mortality, as IPA usually occurs in patients with pro- Key questions were formulated for the areas of epidemiol- nounced disease severity and already significantly increased ogy and risk factors as well as diagnostics and therapy. Rele- mortality risk . In a retrospective cohort study with 1850 vant core questions were identified and discussed within the included patients in a medical intensive care unit in Leu- guideline committee analogous to a PICO-based scheme. ven, Belgium, 6.9% of patients had microbiological or his- Subsequently, working groups for identified key questions topathological evidence of infection with Aspergillus spp. were set up, who performed a literature search and formu- In this study the proportion of confirmed or probable IPA in lated specific recommendations, which then underwent a patients without haematological cancer was 3.7%, in these review process within the entire guideline group. The final the mortality rate was 90% . manuscript was submitted to the boards of the scientific societies and approved for publication. Risk factors for invasive aspergillosis Systematic literature research In recent years, additional risk factors for IPA in critically ill patients have been identified. In addition to the clas- We used MEDLINE, Livivo and ScienceDirect for the lit- sic risk factors , like (prolonged) neutropenia (< 500/ erature search. Articles published before August 31st 2024 mm³), post allogeneic stem cell transplantation or presence were taken into account. Search strings included: (“ICU of haematological or solid cancer, post organ transplanta- OR intensive care OR critical care”) AND “aspergill* AND tion and patients with congenital or acquired immunodefi- (“galactomannan OR aspergillus antigen OR LFA OR lat- ciency (CGD, AIDS, HIV infection with neutropenia) [6, eral flow OR glucan OR BDG”), (“Aspergill*) AND (inva- 7], these include, COPD , ARDS , mechanical ven- sive OR infection OR case OR patient OR report) AND tilation, viral infections from influenza and SARS-CoV-2 (guideline OR treatment OR therapy OR diagnosis OR ther- , liver cirrhosis , prolonged steroid therapy. apeutic drug monitoring”), (Aspergill*) AND (invasive OR Table 1 provides an overview of the risk factors for invasive infection) AND (ICU OR critical care OR critical illness OR aspergillosis described in the literature. In the past, a num- intensive care) AND (risk OR factor OR epidemiology OR ber of algorithms and diagnostic criteria for IPA have been incidence OR mortality). proposed. To harmonise further studies, recently an interna-
