Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


intensive care) AND (risk OR factor OR epidemiology OR ber of algorithms and diagnostic criteria for IPA have been incidence OR mortality). proposed. To harmonise further studies, recently an interna- tional consensus definition for IPA has been published . 1 3 Diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in critically ill intensive care patients: executive… 1301 Table 1 Risk factors for invasive (pulmonary) aspergillosis Risk factors for IPA Literature ICU specific criteria* Respiratory viral infection [1, 11, 70, - Influenza 71] - COVID-19 AIDS, HIV infection with [1, 9, neutropenia 71–73] Liver disease, especially advanced liver cirrhosis, acute on chronic liver failure Solid tumour COPD (Prolonged) neutropenia (< 500/mm³) Haematological malignancy Allogeneic stem cell transplantation Prolonged treatment with corticosteroids ** Other immunosuppressive drugs - T-cell immunosuppressants, e.g. calcineurin inhibitors, TNF-alpha inhibitors, lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibodies: Cal- cineurin inhibitors, TNF-alpha inhibitors, lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibodies, immunosuppressive nucleoside analogues - B-cell immunosuppressants, e.g. ibrutinib Acute and chronic graft-versus-host reaction after allogeneic stem cell transplantation Solid organ transplantation, especially lung transplantation [7, 75–74] Congenital immunodeficiency ARDS Smoking Alcohol abuse Colonisation with Aspergillus spp. Environmental exposure to moulds (construction activity, plant soil, food) * Established for research harmonisation ** With steroids, recent data suggest that, in addition to the dose and duration of treatment, there are also differences between individual ste- roids in terms of the risk of invasive aspergillosis Diagnostics diagnosis of the causes of respiratory deterioration in inten- sive care patients. Bedside techniques like ultrasound or supine chest radiography do not provide sufficient infor- Indication mation on early detection, characterisation, or monitoring of fungal infections. The following techniques are recom- With the publication of the criteria for invasive fungal infec- mended for suspected IPA with or without extrapulmonary tions in ICU patients at the end of March 2024, a broad manifestations. If haematogenous spread is suspected, fur- consensus on the (research) definition of IPA in critically ther imaging of the extra-thoracic regions may be necessary, ill patients in the ICU has been established . In order to for which recommendations are given below. create robust evidence, the guideline, which is primarily Lungs: intended to harmonise research questions, is very conser- Native thin-slice CT, if possible, using low-dose technol- vative and the recommendations are therefore very strict. ogy. An angio-CT to investigate possible vascular invasion tions may be appropriate and should be made in exceptional tion of the infiltrates allows for a certain classification of
