Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


very strict. ogy. An angio-CT to investigate possible vascular invasion tions may be appropriate and should be made in exceptional tion of the infiltrates allows for a certain classification of cases, when justified. Taking these aspects into account, our the underlying causes, yet cannot replace microbiological proposed diagnostic (and therapeutic) algorithm is shown diagnostics. Monitoring with low-dose CT is recommended in Fig. 1. if new symptoms develop, a failure to achieve the expected improvement or a deterioration of the clinical status is Radiological imaging observed. Brain: Recommendations for the radiological diagnosis of fungal The recommended examination modality is MRI with diseases were recently published . Radiological contrast medium. CT should only be performed in an acute imaging provides a major contribution to the differential situation, in particular to search for haemorrhage. If the CT 1 3 1302 D. Wichmann et al. Fig. 1 Diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm for invasive (pulmonary) disease, COVID-19 coronavirus disease 2019, CT computed tomog- aspergillosis. 1 Classic risk factors (e.g. allogeneic stem cell trans- raphy, HIV human immunodeficiency virus, ICU intensive care unit, plantation) are covered by the established EORTC/MSG definition IPA invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, ODI optical density index, TBA . 2 oligosymptomatic course possible, especially in isolated TBA. tracheobronchial aspergillosis, ISA isavuconazole, VCZ voriconazole, 3 not in isolated TBA. 4 in isolated TBA, galactomannan and culture LAmB liposomal amphotericin B. Due to the lack of standardization, from bronchoalveolar lavage may be negative, in which case diag- the consensus recommendation does not yet generally favor NAT nosis from tracheal aspiration/bronchial lavage is recommended. 5 for diagnostics. However, in experienced centers, it can be helpful in BALF highly preferred over serum. IPA invasive aspergillosis, BALF identifying species and resistance markers. bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary situation allows it and no contraindications exist. from MRI of the abdomen is limited by the impaired adher- Paranasal sinuses: ence to repeated breath-holding. Therefore, multiphasic Invasive aspergillosis of the paranasal sinuses may be contrast-enhanced CT is recommended for ICU patients. care patients is difficult. Therefore, either CT or MRI should In view of the critical condition of ICU patients, a biopsy be performed when in doubt. The MRI however, is more should be performed after careful risk-benefit assessment. sensitive for visualisation of invasion of fungal mass into Nonetheless, transcutaneous CT-guided biopsy is a reliable the orbits or brain. Furthermore, repeated CT scans of the method for confirming the diagnosis,
