Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


for visualisation of invasion of fungal mass into Nonetheless, transcutaneous CT-guided biopsy is a reliable the orbits or brain. Furthermore, repeated CT scans of the method for confirming the diagnosis, which might be pref- eye can trigger cataract particularly in young people [16, erable to empirical therapy if long-term therapy and pos- 17]. sible secondary prophylaxis are required. Abdomen: Follow-up. 1 3 Diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in critically ill intensive care patients: executive… 1303 It is recommended to repeat the imaging to monitor the Nucleic acid amplification technique (NAT) response to therapy in the further course on an individual basis of the clinical development [16–19]. Especially before Molecular detection methods for the detection of Asper- stopping therapy, a follow-up imaging is recommended. gillus spp. have been described from blood (also plasma, serum) and from deep airway materials, but the evidence Bronchoscopy for the benefit in critically ill patients in intensive care units is currently insufficient . In addition, NAT does not dif- The list of differential diagnosis to pathogen-induced ferentiate between colonisation and infection. However, in deterioration of lung function in ICU patients is extensive combination with sequencing, it can be used for the targeted (secretions, pulmonary oedema, bleeding, etc.). In addition detection of azole resistance-associated mutations (RAMs) to its diagnostic role, bronchoscopy is often also of thera- in the cyp51A gene. Studies on NAT from BALF have peutic importance in the ICU setting. The risk of respiratory shown limited sensitivity and specificity, even in high-risk deterioration during a bronchoscopy is generally low , populations. However, this increased significantly when which is why invasive diagnostics should be performed the PCR was combined with detection of the vitality of the at a low threshold, especially in intubated patients. In the fungal spores (galactomannan test) . In a systematic case of tracheobronchial aspergillosis, bronchoscopy offers review regarding immunocompromised patients, molecu- the advantage of direct visualisation and the possibility of lar detection methods from blood showed a sensitivity and targeted biopsies. Microbiological cultures, PCR and sero- specificity of 79.2% and of 79.6%, respectively, for a single logical tests should be carried out on the broncho-alveolar positive test result and 59.6% and 95.1% for two consecu- lavage fluid (BALF) obtained in regions suspected of being tive positive test results . IPA in CT. The Supplement Table 1 provides an overview of the var- ious microbiological tests, their strengths and weaknesses. Culture
