Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


regions suspected of being tive positive test results . IPA in CT. The Supplement Table 1 provides an overview of the var- ious microbiological tests, their strengths and weaknesses. Culture Treatment A positive BALF culture for Aspergillus spp. is associated with IPA in up to 50% of patients in the ICU , in addi- tion to this, culture allows for species identification and phe- Systemic therapy notypic resistance testing to identify azole resistant isolates. However, culture alone has a low sensitivity of 20–50% The recommended first-line treatment for possible, prob- and can not differentiate between colonisation and infection. able and proven invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is either voriconazole (VCZ) or isavuconazole (ISA) intravenously Serology . The reason for this is the landmark study for VCZ from 2002, which established VCZ as the standard medica- ELISA based testing for galactomannan from serum dem- tion . However, VCZ can have disadvantages in patients onstrated a reasonable test performance in neutropenic treated in ICU, so that the use of ISA, as the alternative patients . In contrast to this in non-neutropenic patients first-line treatment option, may be justified. With inhibi- the infection is usually not angio-invasive, and the test has tion of various cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, such as a much lower sensitivity . This explains why galac- CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, VCZ is a drug most tomannan testing in non-neutropenic ICU patients should frequently associated with major drug-drug interactions only be performed from respiratory materials . Using (DDI) in the ICU . The main side effect of both, VCZ a 1.0 ODI cut-off a multicentre study in ICU patients could and ISA, is an increase in transaminases. Phototoxicity demonstrate a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 97% and neurological side effects as well as QTc prolongation . Lateral flow assays for bedside testing have also been have also been described with VCZ, whereas QTc shorten- evaluated in ICU with similar performance measures . ing is reported for ISA. Limited data are available for ISA The testing of beta-D-glucan (BDG) in the BALF as a for intensive care use outside the treatment of haematology panfungal biomarker for the diagnosis of IPA in the inten- patients, however ISA has a more favourable pharmacoki- sive care unit is not recommended, due to low specificity netic profile compared to VCZ and is associated with fewer and false positive test results . toxicities . Therefore, ISA can
