Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


care unit is not recommended, due to low specificity netic profile compared to VCZ and is associated with fewer and false positive test results . toxicities . Therefore, ISA can be considered an attrac- tive alternative first-line treatment; however, it is important to remember that ISA itself is metabolised via CYP3A4 and is therefore not entirely free from DDIs, although those are generally less pronounced compared to VCZ. 1 3 1304 D. Wichmann et al. Table 2 Extract of important drug-drug interactions for mould-active azoles are expected . Possible alternative second-line Azole agents options could be posaconazole (PCZ) or the echinocandins. Drug substance Class Drug substance Interaction Echinocandins should not be used as first-line monotherapy. examples However, if no other options are available, they can also be Anti-infectives Clarithromycin ↓ Metabolism, ↑ Exposure and used as add-on salvage therapy in combination with azole ↑ Effect of the antifungals . Our proposed diagnostic (and therapeutic) macrolide (e.g. QTc algorithm is shown in Fig. 1. prolongation) Rifampicin, ↑ Azole metabo- Inhalation therapy rifabutin lism, ↓ Azole expo- sure and ↓ Efficacy of azole Inhalation of antifungal drugs is generally not recom- Chemotherapeutics Cyclophospha- ↓ Metabolism/ mended. It may be used off-label in individual cases but is mide, ifosfamide, efflux, ↑ Effects of technically very complex, especially in intubated patients. protein kinase chemotherapeutic inhibitors agent (e.g. toxicity) Best evidence exists for lung transplant patients with infec- Immunosuppressants Calcineurin/mTOR ↓ Metabolism/ tion of the anastomosis . For details, we refer to the inhibitors efflux, ↑ Exposure information on antimicrobial inhalation therapy from the and ↑ Effects of German Respiratory Society . immunosuppressants Sedatives Benzodiazepines ↓ Metabolism, Surgical therapy ↑ Exposure and ↑ Effects of benzodiazepine With the exception of rare individual cases, the use of surgi- Analgesics Opioids ↓ Metabolism, ↑ cal therapy is limited in the intensive care setting. Exposure and ↑ Effects of opioid Drug-Drug interactions Anticonvulsants Phenytoin, ↑ Azole metabo- carbamazepine lism, ↓ Azole expo- sure and ↓ Efficacy Due to the inevitable polypharmacy in the intensive care of azole setting, DDIs are frequent and affect approximately 30% of Neuroleptics Quetiapine, ↓ Metabolism, ↑ patients treated with mould-active antifungals . haloperidol Exposure and ↑ Effects of neuro- These interactions involve alterations in metabolism leptics (e.g. QTc and clearance, most frequently due to CYP-inhibition by prolongation) azoles; resulting in risks for undesirable side effects, miti- Cardiac Amiodarone, Ca2+ ↓ Metabolism, ↑ gation
