Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


in metabolism leptics (e.g. QTc and clearance, most frequently due to CYP-inhibition by prolongation) azoles; resulting in risks for undesirable side effects, miti- Cardiac Amiodarone, Ca2+ ↓ Metabolism, ↑ gation and amplification of other co-prescribed agents. channel blockers, Exposure and ↑ However, in intensive care medicine, an individualised and digoxin, ivabradine Effects of cardiac drugs (e.g. QTc interdisciplinary assessment of DDI is essential. This evalu- HIV therapeutics Ritonavir, Complex interac- ing options, potential risks and the efficacy of alternative efavirenz tion (inhibitor/ therapies . The use of DDI databases as screening substrate), possibly ↓ Efficacy of the tools, in particular for azole therapies, is beneficial as they azole offer general recommendations on dosage adjustments and Oral anticoagulants Oral anti-Xa ↓ Metabolism, DDI management . Potential DDI and their effects on inhibitors, ↑ Exposure and the metabolism of agents commonly prescribed in the ICU phenprocoumon ↑ Effects of setting are summarized in Table 2. However, these should anticoagulants not be regarded as comprehensive and can only serve as a guiding reference. Liposomal amphotericin B (LAmB) is an alternative option for the treatment of IPA in the intensive care unit [17, Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) 19]. However, LAmB is nephrotoxic and can therefore lead to a deterioration in renal function (which is usually revers- ible), particularly in patients who already have acute kid- Voriconazole ney injury. LAmB should also be used empirically as initial therapy in cases of suspected azole resistance due to local VCZ shows pronounced intra- and inter-individual phar- epidemiology and considered when relevant DDIs with macokinetic variability due to its non-linear elimination. In 1 3 Diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in critically ill intensive care patients: executive… 1305 addition to DDI, polymorphisms of the CYP2C19 enzyme were below the targeted range for IPA therapy . Of note, can also contribute to fluctuations in VCZ concentra- PCZ concentrations in bronchoalveolar fluid can reach lev- tions . Several studies have demonstrated a correla- els up to 40 times higher than in plasma . This observa- tion between VCZ serum concentration and efficacy. Thus, tion might explain why some studies failed to demonstrate based on systematic reviews and a recent meta-analysis, a correlation between low PCZ plasma concentrations and a therapeutic target range of 1-5.5 mg/l is currently being treatment failure, as pulmonary drug penetration may still recommended . For patients with severe infections (e.g. be sufficient despite low systemic
