Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


therapeutic target range of 1-5.5 mg/l is currently being treatment failure, as pulmonary drug penetration may still recommended . For patients with severe infections (e.g. be sufficient despite low systemic levels. Yet, available multifocal or disseminated), central nervous system (CNS) guidelines currently recommend maintaining trough lev- involvement, and infections with pathogens with an ele- els > 1 mg/l for the treatment of IPA . To avoid toxic- vated MIC, an increased target range of 2–6 mg/l is recom- ity, including hepatotoxicity and development of pseudo mended [34, 46–48]. Supra-therapeutic VCZ concentrations hypoaldosteronism, an upper limit of 2 or 4 mg/l is being have been associated with neuro- and hepatotoxicity , discussed . If TDM is performed, it is recom- and a meta-analysis identified VCZ levels > 6 mg/l as strong mended on days 5–7 of therapy, although further monitor- predictors for toxicity . VCZ concentrations should ide- ing may be required depending on the results and clinical ally be monitored within the first 5 days of therapy, with context . repeats four days after dose adjustments. Liposomal amphotericin B Isavuconazole Besides preclinical PK/PD-studies [65–67], clear data on ISA TDM is currently not recommended in routine prac- target levels for LAmB in ICU patients with IPA do not exist tice due to its dose-proportional pharmacokinetics, moder- and are further complicated by different LAmB kinetics in ate inter-patient variability, and lack of defined efficacy or tissue und serum as well as accumulation in lung tissue [68, toxicity thresholds . In the SECURE trial, fewer than 69]. Therefore, TDM is currently not recommended. 3% of patients had ISA levels outside the 1–7 mg/L range and Desai et al. found no significant link between ISA Echinocandins levels and mortality or treatment response. However, TDM may be useful in specific ICU populations at risk for altered Since most of the available data is based on animal models potentially sub-therapeutic drug exposure, such as those on of candidiasis rather than IPA, TDM for echinocandins is renal replacement therapy, extracorporeal membrane oxy- not currently recommended. genation, or with high BMI . Due to its long half-life, TDM should be performed after 5–7 days. While > 1 mg/L is generally recommended (as > 90% of patients in SECURE Conclusion achieved this), some experts suggest aiming for > 2 mg/L based on pharmacokinetic/dynamic models . Toxic- Invasive (pulmonary) aspergillosis in critically ill ICU ity has been shown to occur
