Infection (2025) 53:1299–1310
KEYWORDS: patients, care, invasive, aspergillosis, ipa, treatment, icu, intensive, therapy, intensive care, pulmonary, guideline, recommended, vcz, ill


Conclusion achieved this), some experts suggest aiming for > 2 mg/L based on pharmacokinetic/dynamic models . Toxic- Invasive (pulmonary) aspergillosis in critically ill ICU ity has been shown to occur at levels > 4.8 mg/L . patients presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. If However, data from the SECURE trial and a study including there is no improvement or if the respiratory status dete- intensive care patients, did not establish a clear correlation riorates further, the presence of IPA should be considered between ISA exposure and adverse reaction rates, highlight- and appropriate diagnostic tests should be initiated. This ing the conflicting evidence . should include a chest CT scan and a bronchoscopy with subsequent galactomannan testing and culture for moulds. Posaconazole In addition, TDM should be performed when appropriate for dose optimization. In retrospective analyses of patients who received PCZ for prophylaxis or IPA therapy, breakthrough infections and a Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at h t t p s : / / d oi . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 0 7 / s 1 5 0 1 0 - 0 reduced response to therapy occurred more frequently in 2 5 - 0 2 5 7 2 - 2. patients with low PCZ concentrations . Furthermore, in a prospective study, PCZ TDM had a positive effect on the Author contributions D.W. wrote the main manuscript text, all authors reduction of breakthrough infections . reviewed the manuscript and were involved in the preparation of the For the treatment of IPA, achieving a mean PCZ concen- guideline whose summary is given here. tration of 1.25 mg/l resulted in an improved response rate Funding Open Access funding enabled and organized by Projekt in patients receiving PCZ for salvage therapy . In ICU DEAL. patients, up to 35% of the measured PCZ concentrations The preparation of the guideline was financed exclusively with direct 1 3 1306 D. Wichmann et al. funds from the responsible professional association DGIIN and was source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate limited to the costs of software for preparing the guideline and for the if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this video conferences. article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not Data availability No datasets
