Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


tions,and that they provide dignity and privacy.Moreover, tively only if policies are in place at the community level to services should be physically accessible,both in terms ofdis- ensure that those in need have access to services, and only if tance from population settlements and in terms of their policies are in place at higher levels to ensure that the resources construction—that is, facilities must be responsive to the are available to provide those services. needs ofpersons with disabilities. This analysis of different levels demonstrates the impor- • At the second level,the delivery ofhealth care,there may be tance of taking a systemwide approach to the management of equipment. However, to bring these resources together focuses primarily on the third level,that of strategic manage- would require actions at the third level that anticipate future ment. It first examines the nature of management in general subject to appropriate quality controls,and are distributed services in different settings.It concludes with an exploration where needed. of some of the strategies used in low- and middle-income management.Effective action may be constrained by weak developed by Oliveira-Cruz,Hanson,and Mills (2003). systems ofmanagement that are unable to take into account the changing health needs ofthe population and the chang- ing demands on health care providers.Management weak- WHAT IS MANAGEMENT? nesses include inadequate pharmaceutical regulation and to engage with civil society, and a failure to put in place French mining engineer Henri Fayol.Writing at the beginning Constraints at this level may originate outside the country, plan,to organise,to command,to coordinate,and to control” as governments are faced with demands by donors to follow .Put simply,managing is about assessing probable paths that either undermine their policy goals or remove the future scenarios,deciding how best to respond to them,bring- flexibility needed to achieve them.Constraints acting at this ingtogethertheresourcesneededforthatresponse,anddeploy- sector, such as when a weak, overly bureaucratic, and most management research was concerned with industrial unreformed civil service system implements obsolete regu- production, for which outputs could be measured relatively lations;when there are inadequacies in infrastructure,such easily. Relatively less attention was given to management of 1340 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Alexander S. Preker, Martin McKee, Andrew Mitchell, and others Box 73.1 Specificities of Health Care Organizations Health care services differ from many other organizations • The work involves a high degree ofspecialization. in many ways: • Workers are highly professional,with a primary loyalty to the profession rather than to the organization. •
