Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


other organizations • The work involves a high degree ofspecialization. in many ways: • Workers are highly professional,with a primary loyalty to the profession rather than to the organization. • Defining and measuring outputs is difficult. • There is limited scope for effective organizational or • The work involved is more variable and more complex managerial control over clinicians, the group most than in many other organizations. responsible for generating work and expenditure. • Much ofthe work is ofan emergency nature and cannot • Dual lines of responsibility often create problems of easily be deferred. coordination,accountability,and confusion ofroles. • The consequences oferror can be severe. • Activitiesbydifferentgroupsofstaffmembersarehighly interdependent,requiringahighlevelofcoordination. Source:Shortell and Kaluzny 1983. service industries in general and health care services in partic- concepts that arise from new institutional economics.Included ular.AsShortellandKaluzny(1983)noted,healthcareservices in these is contestability (Baumol,Panzar,and Willig 1982),in are different from many other organizations.Of course,many which the benefits that competition is thought to bring can ofthe specificities shown in box 73.1 are differences ofdegree, arise even when competition is absent,thus ensuring that the with health services sharing many features with other service barriers to market entry are sufficiently low to allow other organizations.Yet important differences exist. providers to emerge. User choice is given priority over most other goals,including equity. The enthusiasm for new public management was largely Managing Health Care Services ideological, reflecting the contemporary rejection of an growing criticism for their perceived failure to articulate ex- actually able to achieve what was claimed for it remains highly plicit goals or to develop the means to achieve them (Enthoven contested (Le Grand and Bartlett 1993;Stewart 1998).In par- 1985;Griffiths 1984).This failure was contrasted with the per- ticular, critics drew attention to the high transaction costs ceived success of the private sector, which was seen as more involved and the lack of evidence that competi- capable ofinnovation and more responsive to demand. tion can actually bring about the intended improvements in These developments gave rise to what has been termed new quality ofcare . public management,which is characterized by the One feature of the new public management is its emphasis following: on general management, with managers possessing skills and expertise that can be applied to any sector. These managerial • greater role for professional management in the public attributes are considered to be ofgreater importance than tech- sector nical or professional knowledge. As a consequence, in some • closer scrutiny of the work
