Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


hospitals are rarely the first places ofcontact between focusedspecificallyonmanagerialandorganizationalresponses to evidence that health systems often deliver suboptimal care vide the greatest share ofhealth care,it is appropriate to begin (Institute of Medicine 2001). Quality of care is addressed in with them because they often account for the largest share of more detail in chapter 70.However,some of the key messages public health sector expenditure .They are also from this research are relevant here. particularly difficult to manage for several reasons: One message is that change must take place at all levels of the system.In this context,Ferlie and Shortell (2001) identify • One reason is the diversity of tasks that a hospital must four such levels:the individual,the group or team,the organi- undertake (Healy and McKee 2002b). Many hospitals ful- zation, and the larger system or environment. They note the fillrolesthatgobeyondthedeliveryof patientcaretopro- growing evidence that strategies that focus on individuals alone vide training and research, support to community-based are unlikely to be successful,whereas those that are embedded facilities, and even local employment or civic identity within broader organizational change are more likely to be symbols. effective (Davis and others 1995).A second key message is the • A second reason is the blurring of boundaries between importance ofteamwork,with evidence that well-functioning, multiprofessional teams provide better quality care (Aiken, occurred as a result of the emergence of many innovative Sochalski,and Lake 1997).However,change may be inhibited modelsof carethatcrosstheboundarybetweensecondary by barriers at the level of the organization,including lack of a andeitherprimaryorsocialcare.Arelatedissueistheshift consistent focus on quality, inadequate information, lack of taking place in many countries to managing patients through a complex combination of short inpatient stays (Shortell,Bennett,and Byck 1998). andvisitsasanoutpatienttospecialistclinicsanddiagnos- tic facilities (McKee and Healy 2001). This approach is MANAGING CLINICAL SERVICES vastly more complicated to manage than the traditional IN DIFFERENT SETTINGS model in which patients were admitted to wards from whichtheyweretakentoundergoinvestigationsandtreat- patient’s home to ambulatory care facilities and hospitals processmanagedbyseniornurses.Thenewmodelrequires 1342 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Alexander S. Preker, Martin McKee, Andrew Mitchell, and others managers. These case managers help patients to navigate with the local staff,leading to more efficient use of resources thesystem. (Levy-Bruhl and others 1997). In Zambia and Tanzania, • A third reason is the contrast between the rapidly changing strengthening ofmanagement capacities in primary care facil- demands on hospitals and the structural rigidities ofhospi- ities through a team-based approach to decision making that tals themselves (McKee and Healy 2000).The original
