Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


the civil service,yet the process has been derailed on a wider scale expansion of those programs considered to be successful because oftrade unions’resistance to the changes (Hanson and (Johri,Beland,and Bergman 2003). others 2002). Low-income countries face particular obstacles because patients are frequently cared for by their families but with little Ambulatory Care support,or they are consigned to large,poorly equipped,and Ambulatory care,delivered on an outpatient basis,is the com- poorly staffed institutions. This situation has stimulated the providers. Although it often receives relatively little attention care providers work with communities to deliver services. In 2000). Good management of ambulatory services is essential reach services and residential homes, backed up by access because these services are often the entry and exit points for to hospital outpatient and emergency care . consumers;however,these services can be difficult to manage Similarly,the complexities ofcaring for people with disabilities effectively (Waghorn and McKee 2000). in low-income countries have led to internationally developed Effective coordination ofambulatory and inpatient services guidelines that advocate a shared role for heath care providers is needed to ensure that patients are cared for in the most and local communities .Accordingly,effective appropriate settings,thereby reducing inefficiencies such as the coordination ofthose services clearly depends in large part on overuse ofhospitals for nonemergency care.Such coordination effective management. Shifting from hospital-focused care to often involves developing shared protocols for referral and community care introduces many managerial challenges.One management. In Benin and Guinea, for example, diagnostic element of an effective response should be to heighten the and treatment decision trees were developed collaboratively autonomy of patients in managing their diseases, but this Strategic Management of Clinical Services | 1343 response requires attitudinal changes among providers, who mixed,training programs were overall more likely to have pos- must commit to a real shift ofpower to patients,supported by itive rather than negative effects. Several studies focused on effective information systems and safeguards for vulnerable communication and counseling skills, which often lead to patients (Litwin and Lightman 1996). improved client satisfaction.A study from Zambia showed that Health care systems are generally poor at addressing long- training must be linked to other resources; although training term illnesses,especially when those illnesses require integrated was associated with improved transmission of information, care spanning primary, secondary, and community providers there was no decline in the number ofcomplaints from clients (McKee and Nolte 2004; WHO 2001). The often low status who remained unhappy about long waits and short
