Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


community providers there was no decline in the number ofcomplaints from clients (McKee and Nolte 2004; WHO 2001). The often low status who remained unhappy about long waits and short contact accorded to these conditions in the hierarchy ofpriorities,cou- time (Faxelid and others 1997). pled with fragmentation between health and social sectors ,will require greater commitment to managerial Changing Skill Mix. The division of tasks among different about who would be best at doing these tasks is rarely considered. There may be regulations restricting tasks to one THE SPECIFICS: WHAT WORKS? professional group,such as the right to prescribe,or there may be cultural norms,which while unwritten have just as great an This section turns to those policies that are designed to effect.Underlying these factors is a set ofissues that includes a combine them in ways that optimize the potential benefits.It reflection of gender relationships in society, with a predomi- looks, in turn, at the different elements required to deliver nantly male medical profession controlling a predominantly effective care:human resources,physical resources,intellectual female nursing profession.However,increasing evidence sug- them together. The section begins with the most important ways to provide care,and there is considerable scope for chang- resources for health care systems:the people who provide care. ing the mix of skills involved in delivering many aspects of health care. This topic has recently been reviewed systematically by Developing Human Resources Sibbald,Shen,and McBride (2004),who have developed a tax- A key element in the delivery ofeffective health care is how to onomy of the types of change in skill mixes that are possible provide staff members with the appropriate combination of (table 73.1).Their review shows that many tasks undertaken by skills to do their jobs effectively. one professional group can yield comparable and often better results when performed by another group.In particular,they Increasing Skills. In their review undertaken to inform the show how nurse-led clinics often achieve better outcomes than Hanson,and Mills (2003) identified 13 studies that assessed the 2002; Stromberg and others 2003; Vrijhoef, Diederiks, and effects of training to enhance skills. Though the results were Spreeuwenberg 2000; Vrijhoef and others 2001, 2003). Table 73.1 A Taxonomy of Changes in Skill Mix in Health Care Changing roles Enhancement Increasing the depth of a job by extending the role or skills of a particular group of workers Substitution Expanding the breadth of a job, in particular by working across professional divides or exchanging one type of
