Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


extending the role or skills of a particular group of workers Substitution Expanding the breadth of a job, in particular by working across professional divides or exchanging one type of worker for another Delegation Moving a task down a traditional unidisciplinary ladder Innovation Creating new jobs by introducing a new type of worker Changing the interface between services Relocation Shifting the venue from which a service is provided from one health care sector to another without changing the people who provide facilitators in primary care) Source: Sibbald, Shen, and McBride 2004. 1344 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Alexander S. Preker, Martin McKee, Andrew Mitchell, and others Although Sibbald, Shen, and McBride focus their review on needs (England 2000; Preker, Harding, and Travis 2000). experience in industrial countries,by challenging many deeply Capital charging—requiring managers to explicitly account for held beliefs they indicate what could be done in other settings the value of physical assets out of funding allocation or con- around the world,after taking into account local circumstances tract revenues—has been developed as a response,successfully such as the skills and expertise ofthose involved,as well as any heightening public sector management of capital investments salient regulatory or training issues. in the United Kingdom and New Zealand (Heald and Scott 1996). Capital charging has been proposed as a strategy to Strengthening Management stimulate better capital management in developing countries as required to reimburse invested capital through dividends,with Oliveira-Cruz,Hanson,and Mills (2003) identified 10 studies the Malaysian government recouping one-third of its original that evaluated the effect of management strengthening. The investment within five years (Hussein and Al-Junid 2003). activities in those studies included the following: obliged to account for all accruals (for example,property and • workshops for identifying and prioritizing managerial depreciation) when it was given greater autonomy. Though programs changes in accounting management have experienced some • introduction ofregular planning and evaluation cycles shortcomings,improvements have been seen in financial trans- • quality assurance methods parency, timeliness of reporting, donor satisfaction, and rev- • establishment ofroutine communication systems enue collection (Collins and others 1999). • training activities. Within the public sector,changes in line management have facilitated the incorporation of more explicit infrastructure They concluded that the results were generally positive,with concerns into the planning process. The central authority in more rational use of funds; greater availability of funds as a Hong Kong (China) has made capital acquisition decisions consequence of better
