Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


into the planning process. The central authority in more rational use of funds; greater availability of funds as a Hong Kong (China) has made capital acquisition decisions consequence of better planning; improved coordination and jointly with hospitals during annual planning processes (Yip integration ofprograms;improved methods ofworking;better and Hsiao 2003).The introduction ofbusiness planning to dis- staffmorale;enhanced data collection,reporting,and use;and trict-level planning in Turkmenistan heightened accountability increased community participation. WHO has developed an for maintaining physical infrastructure:use ofa global budget- approach to strengthening management that has been success- ing model (that is,increased autonomy in line management as ful in a variety ofsettings (Cassels and Janovsky 1995). well as performance monitoring) led to reduced resource allo- It is important to identify where specific managerial skills cation to personnel and a greater than fivefold increase in are lacking and to explore different ways of obtaining them, maintenance expenditures (Ensor and Amannyazova 2000). whether through training, recruitment, or links with related Explicitly managing capital investments in both the short and organizations. For example, improved financial management the long term may facilitate efficient resource allocation. in district health teams in Ghana was made possible by inte- Although capital charging is a relatively straightforward grating staff members from local government accounts offices technical solution,capital investment can be particularly sus- ; a similar initiative was successful in The ceptible to political derailment (Anell and Barnum 1998). In Gambia (Conn,Jenkins,and Touray 1996).However,a word of caution is required. Although a management strengthening countries have had difficulty downsizing infrastructure exercise undertaken in Tanzania was successful when imple- because those with decision rights to manage capital (that is, mented at the local level,it failed when scaled up because the local governments) are different from those who have incen- same degree of involvement by the originating team was no longer possible (Barnett and Ndeki 1992). 2003). Managing Physical Resources Strengthening Drug Procurement, Regulation, Managing infrastructure and other capital assets such as hospi- and Distribution tals and health centers requires investment planning in both the short term (for example,maintenance) and the long term Managing pharmaceutical resources is crucial for ensuring (for example, new acquisitions). Historically, however, costs access to essential drugs and promoting their rational use associated with capital consumption and maintenance have not (Mossialos,Mrazek,and Walley 2004).WHO defines the goals been met through operating budgets, resulting in few incen- ofrational use ofdrugs as delivering medications effectively— tives for public sector health planners to efficiently
