Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, health, management, services, countries, public, resources, hospitals, sector, health care, quality, systems, effective, mckee, programs


the need remains (Figure strategies involving training,career progression,and retention, 73.1).All ofthese activities should take place within an overall there seems to be scope for rapid gains from some shorter system, such as those defined by WHO (2000), of increasing Although the evidence for the effectiveness of current models tion’s needs and expectations, and financing those services be realized by identifying and filling key gaps,such as those in equitably. financial expertise. Changing the skill mix can do much to The development ofa strategic purchasing function is com- match available skills to tasks. plicated, requiring high levels of information resources, both Much also can be done to manage the capital stock better or, involves using technical and political skills, determining the such as capital charging can focus greater management atten- needs of the population,identifying evidence of the effective- tion on this issue, although this will work only if sufficient ness of different care packages, and setting priorities within capacity can be focused. Important gains can be made from limited resources.The last ofthese components is arguably the better management of pharmaceuticals,an issue of increasing most difficult,given the high level of need and the scarcity of importance because of the new funds made available for their resources in many places. This list of components highlights purchase. a working knowledge of clinical epidemiology and economic manage people and equipment.Doing so means investing in a Even in industrial countries,the strategic purchasing func- and adoption ofknowledge. tion is often poorly developed.Given its many interlinked com- Finally,it is necessary to bring these resources together opti- ponents and the problem of isolating any benefits from wider mally, which raises issues of relationships between different evaluate. Nonetheless, it is included here as a model from between vertical and horizontal programs. Unfortunately, which concepts may be adopted in low- and middle-income despite the large amount ofrhetoric on these often highly ide- settings. ological issues, there is surprisingly little research to inform Strategic Management of Clinical Services | 1349 reemerges,leading once more to the answer “it depends.” Tropical de São Paulo34:543–48. Physician Performance. A Systematic Review of the Effect of managerial skills to apply methods that are appropriate for Continuing Medical Education Strategies.” Journal of the American the setting in which they are being applied. However, it also Medical Association274:700–05. tems and to anticipate changes and give managers the tools West and Fails Everywhere Else.Boulder CO:Basic Books. Sector: A Guide for Low
