Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


of the Liver guidelines panel for management of gallstones. are recommended to undergo biliary sphincterotomyand endo- Co-author of sections on development process for guideline; scopic stone extraction within 72hours of presentation. identifying individuals with CBDS and surgical management (High-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) ofCBDS. New2016 Liverpool, representing BSG. Lead for sections on manage- It is recommended that following gallstone pancreatitis early mentof“difficult”ductalstonesandmanagementofCBDSin laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be offered to all patients specificclinicalsettings. on whom it is safe to operate as the most effective means to prevent recurrent episodes. (Moderate-quality evidence, strong recommendation) endoscopicmanagementofCBDS. Tudor Young, Consultant GI Radiologist, The Princess of In cases of mild acute gallstone pancreatitis, it is advised that Radiologists and British Society of Gastrointestinal and cholecystectomyshouldbeperformedwithin2weeksofpresen- Abdominal Radiology. Co-author of section on identifying tation and preferably during the same admission. individualswithCBDS. (Moderate-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) The GDG would like to acknowledge the following indivi- dualsandorganisations: New2016 Jonathon Green, Rowan Parks, Derrick Martin and Martin It is recommended that patients with gallstone pancreatitis who Lombard;co-authorsofthe2008BSGguidelinesonmanage- donotrequireERCPwithin72hoursofpresentationshouldbe mentofCBDS. considered forelective ERCPand endoscopic sphincterotomy if AndrewLangford,ChiefExecutive,BritishLiverTrust. there is evidence of retained CBDS on imaging or the patient is Ashley Guthrie, President of the British Society of unsuitable for definitive treatment in the form of cholecystec- GastrointestinalandAbdominalRadiology. tomy.(Moderate-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) DEVELOPMENT PROCESS FOR CURRENT GUIDELINE The updated guideline was commissioned by the BSG in 2014. New2016 The purpose of the updated guideline was to provide guidance ERCP for CBDS extraction can be successfully performed in tohealthcareprofessionalswhoareinvolvedinthecareofadult patientswithBillrothIIanatomy.WhereERCPwithaduodeno- scope is difficult, use of aforward viewing endoscope is recom- patients with suspected or proven CBDS. The chair convened a GDG, consisting of clinicians and patients with experience in mended.(Moderate-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) thisarea.MembersoftheGDGwereselectedtoensurerelevant In cases where biliary sphincterotomy cannot be safely com- professional bodies and specialities were represented. Authors pleted, a limited sphincterotomysupplemented by EPBD is sug- were required to declare any interests. The AGREE II instru- gested as an alternative. (Low-quality evidence; weak ment2 was used as a framework to assist in guideline develop- recommendation) ment. Key questions were derived from the content of the previousguidelineandcanbesummarisedas New2016 1. When should investigation and treatment for CBDS be con- Patients with Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) and CBDS sidered?(GeneralprinciplesinthemanagementofCBDS) shouldbereferredtocentresthatareabletooffertheadvanced 2. What is the best way of identifying patients with CBDS? endoscopicandsurgicaltreatmentoptionsthatarenecessaryfor (IdentifyingindividualswithCBDS) stoneextraction.(Low-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) 3. When undertaking ERCP for CBDS, what can be done to improve success rates and minimise risk? (Endoscopic man- MEMBERS OFGUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT GROUPAND agementofCBDS) ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 4. What is the role of surgery in
