Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


ERCP for CBDS, what can be done to improve success rates and minimise risk? (Endoscopic man- MEMBERS OFGUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT GROUPAND agementofCBDS) ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 4. What is the role of surgery in managing CBDS? (Surgical The guideline development group (GDG) comprised of the fol- managementofCBDS) lowingmembers: 5. InpatientswithCBDSthataredifficulttotreat,whatarethe Earl Williams. Consultant hepatologist, Royal Bournemouth management options? (Management of “difficult” ductal for introductory and concluding sections; section on general 6. How should CBDS be managed in the most commonly principlesinthemanagementofCBDSandsectiononidenti- encounteredclinicalsettings?(ManagementofCBDSinspe- ficationofindividualswithCBDS. cificclinicalsettings) Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: 767 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines A literature search was performed using PubMed and Table2 Gradingofrecommendations5 Medline. The search terms employed were common bile duct stones, gallstones, choledocholithiasis, laparoscopic cholecystec- Guidelines tomy, ERCP, sphincteroplasty and cholangioscopy. The search Strongrecommendation Weakrecommendation was restricted to English-language articles published 6months beforethelastBSGguidelineorlater(ie,June2007onwards). Patients Mostpeopleinyoursituation Themajorityofpeopleinyour Articles were selected by title and their relevance confirmed wouldwanttherecommended situationwouldwantthe courseofactionandonlya recommendedcourseofaction, by review of the corresponding abstract. Systematic reviews and smallproportionwouldnot butmanywouldnot full-length reports of prospective design were sought. Clinicians Mostpatientsshouldreceive Recognisethatdifferentchoices Retrospectiveanalysesandcasereportswerealsoretrievedifthe therecommendedcourseof willbeappropriatefordifferent topic had not been addressed by prospective study. Guidelines action patientsandthatyoumust published by national and international bodies were automatic- makegreaterefforttohelp ally included for review. Data published in abstract form only eachpatienttoarriveata managementdecision were considered if full-length papers addressing the same issue consistentwithhisorher werelacking. valuesandpreferences; The GDG corresponded with one another to identify the decisionaidsandshared principal clinical developments since publication of the 2008 decisionmakingareparticularly useful guideline. The topics that would need to be addressed in order Policymakers Therecommendationcanbe Policymakingwillrequire to answer the key questions were agreed at this point and each adoptedasapolicyinmost substantialdebateand section of the guideline was assigned a lead author. Upon com- situations involvementofmany pletionoftheliteraturesearch,sectionleadsdraftedpreliminary stakeholders recommendations linked to a referenced narrative. As part of this, they were asked to search the reference lists of retrieved papers for missing articles and were also free to suggest add- itionalreferencesforconsideration.TheGDG metatUniversity tables with pooled estimates of effect. Recommendations were College Hospital London on 13 December 2014. The output gradedaseitherstrongorweak(table2). from each section lead was reviewed and each recommendation The revised output from the group was reviewed by the BSG contained within the 2008 guidelines was considered and EndoscopyCommitteeon13May 2015.Adraftdocumentand this meeting. Evidencewas graded foreach recommendation by Comments from the professional
