Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


output from the group was reviewed by the BSG contained within the 2008 guidelines was considered and EndoscopyCommitteeon13May 2015.Adraftdocumentand this meeting. Evidencewas graded foreach recommendation by Comments from the professional and patient groups were discussion and consensus among the GDG members, based on received and considered by the GDG at a meeting held on the the group’s confidence in the effect of an intervention and 27 September 2015. In a number of areas, it was recognised whether further research was likely to alter confidence in the that while evidence was weak there was clear consensus among the GRADE working group3 and considered risk of bias in the andinthissituationitwasagreedbythecontributorstomakea included studies, inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision and strong recommendation. In keeping with BSG policy, the guide- publication bias. However, given the large number of interven- linewasthenreviewedbytheSociety’sclinicalservicesandstan- tions examined the group did not attempt to produce outcome dardscommittee,priortosubmissionforpublication. Additional references were incorporated into the guideline following anonymised international peer review and the fina- lisedrecommendationswereratifiedbytheGDG. Table1 Gradingofevidence4 GENERAL PRINCIPLES IN THE MANAGEMENTOF CBDS Rank Explanation Examples New2016 It is recommended that patients diagnosed with CBDS are High Furtherresearchisveryunlikely Randomisedtrialswithoutserious offered stone extraction if possible. Evidence of benefit is great- tochangeourconfidencein limitations theestimateofeffect Well-performedobservational est for symptomatic patients. (Low-quality evidence; strong studieswithverylargeeffects(or recommendation) otherqualifyingfactors) Primary ductal stones form de novo within the intrahepatic Moderate Furtherresearchislikelyto Randomisedtrialswithserious haveanimportantimpacton limitations and extrahepatic ducts. Theyare most prevalent in Asian popu- ourconfidenceintheestimate Well-performedobservational lations and give rise to the distinct clinical entity of recurrent ofeffectandmaychangethe studiesyieldinglargeeffects pyogenic cholangitis.1 6 7 Secondary CBDS originate in the gall estimate bladder and migrate into the bile duct via the cystic duct. They Low Furtherresearchisverylikelyto Randomisedtrialswithvery account for the majority of CBDS that occur in European haveanimportantimpacton seriouslimitations patients. The following guideline focuses on the diagnosis and ourconfidenceintheestimate Observationalstudieswithout ofeffectandislikelytochange specialstrengthsorimportant managementofsecondaryCBDS. theestimate limitations Data suggest the prevalence of CBDS in patients with symp- Verylow Anyestimateofeffectisvery Randomisedtrialswithvery tomatic gallstones lies between 10% and 20%,8–13 although it uncertain seriouslimitationsand should be noted that among patients where there is no clinical inconsistentresultsObservational suspicion of ductal stones prior to surgery the incidence is sig- studieswithseriouslimitations Unsystematicclinicalobservations nificantlylowerandistypicallyreportedtobe<5%.14–20 (eg,caseseriesorcasereports) Twotofourpercentofindividualswithstoneswithinthegall bladderwilldevelopsymptomsoverthecourseofayear.2122In 768 Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines comparison to gall bladder stones, the natural history
