Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines comparison to gall bladder stones, the natural history of CBDS USS and LFTs are cheap, widely available and safe. They are is less well understood. Complications of CBDS are potentially therefore potentially useful tests for patients who have not life threatening and include pain, partial or complete biliary undergone previous assessment for possible CBDS. In recent obstruction leading to obstructive jaundice, cholangitis, hepatic years, a number of studies have examined the performance of abscesses, pancreatitis and secondary biliary cirrhosis. Such pro- oneorotherinvestigation.Measuring diagnostic accuracy isdif- blems can occur without warning,23 but not all patients will ficultas manysuch studies are subjecttobias.34 Inaddition, the experience difficulties secondary to CBDS. Studies confirm that reference standards for patients identified as being at high risk a number of patients will spontaneously pass ductal stones into of having ductal stones (ie, endoscopic or surgical exploration) their duodenum before or after laparoscopic cholecystec- are rarely employed in patients thought to be at low risk of the tomy.14 24 25 That small unsuspected stones can have a benign condition.Thismakesitdifficulttoaccuratelyestablishtheinci- naturalhistoryisalsosupportedbytrialsofselectiveIOC,where denceoffalsenegativeresults.Thisisimportantifanormaltest theincidenceofCBDS-relatedcomplicationsinpatientswhodo means the diagnosis of CBDS is discounted. However, a recent notundergocholangiographyisreportedtobelow.17–2026This Cochrane analysis34 has been performed based on studies that contrasts with a recent national cohort study that examined the incorporated at least sixmonths of clinical follow-up for outcomesofpatientswithprovenCBDSatthetimeofcholecyst- patients who did not undergo endoscopic or surgical explor- ectomy. In the GallRiks study,27 34200 patients underwent an ation.35–39 Assuminga pre-testprobabilityof 0.095(9.5%),this IOCand3969(11.6%)werefoundtohaveoneormoreCBDS. analysis reported that 45 out of 100 patients with a positive Of the 3828 patients for whom there were adequate follow-up USS, variously defined in studies as the presence of echogenic data, 594 (15.5%) received conservative treatment of their material in the CBD or CBD dilatation, will have CBDS, rising CBDS, while those remaining were recommended a treatment to 85 out of 100 if pre-test probability is 0.408 (40.8%). strategy that involved CBDS removal. Over a follow-up period Conversely in patients with a negative USS, 3 out of 100 thatvariedfrom0to 4years25.3% ofpatientsinwhom CBDS patients with a pre-test probability of 0.095 (9.5%) will have were left in situ experienced an unfavourable outcome (which CBDS versus 17 out of 100 patients with a pre-test probability was defined as pancreatitis, cholangitis, obstruction of the bile of 0.408 (40.8%). Analogous results for LFTs were dependent ductwithin30daysofsurgeryorsubsequentsymptomsinasso-
