Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


CBDS versus 17 out of 100 patients with a pre-test probability was defined as pancreatitis, cholangitis, obstruction of the bile of 0.408 (40.8%). Analogous results for LFTs were dependent ductwithin30daysofsurgeryorsubsequentsymptomsinasso- on the parameter and cut-off points used, but, if pre-test prob- ciation with proven CBDS on investigation with ERCP). Only ability was 0.095 (9.5%), 32 out of 100 patients with an alka- 12.7%ofpatientsforwhomsomeformofstoneextractionwas line phosphatase of >125IU/L would have CBDS versus 2 out scheduled experienced an unfavourable outcome (OR 0.44, of100patientswithanalkalinephosphatasethatwas<125IU/L 95%CI0.35to0.55).Thebenefitsofactivetreatmentpersisted (noting the average alkaline phosphatase level in an adult popu- for patients with CBDS <4mm in diameter, where risk of lation is between 50 and 170IU/L). The performance of both unfavourable outcome with planned stone extraction was 8.9% USS and LFTs according to the pre-test probability of CBDS is versus15.9%forpatientstreatedconservatively(OR0.52,95% summarisedintable3. CI0.34to0.79). These results are helpful in formulating guidance, although it Therefore,inkeepingwithrecentNationalInstituteforHealth is important to note that clinicians routinely use both LFTs and and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines,28 patients with CBDS USS together having first taken into account the pre-test prob- enough to undergo treatment. It should be noted that there are to be more effective than the isolated use of any one param- nocontrolledstudiesexaminingthenaturalhistoryofCBDSthat eter.40–44 are found incidentally in asymptomatic patients being investi- When there is a persistent suspicion of CBDS and results of gatedforothermedicalproblems.Patientsshouldbemadeaware LFTs and USS are non-diagnostic, further investigation may be thatadvicetoundergostoneextractioninthissettingisbasedon necessary as both USS and LFTs can be normal in people with evidencefromsymptomaticpatientsandexpertopinion. CBDS. Magneticresonancecholangiopancreatographyand IDENTIFYING INDIVIDUALS WITH CBDS endoscopicultrasound Introduction New2016 Clinical presentations that warrant investigation for CBDS include epigastric or right upper quadrant pain,29 especially if MRCPand EUS are both recommended as highly accurate tests associated with jaundice30 and/or fever.31 CBDS should also be foridentifyingCBDSamongpatientswithanintermediateprob- ability of disease. MRCP predominates in this role, with choice considered in patient with acute pancreatitis, where gallstones betweenthetwomodalities determinedbyindividual suitability, migrating to the CBD are estimated to be a causal factor in up to50%ofcases.3233Aminorityofpatientsdonotpresentwith availabilityoftherelevanttest,localexpertiseandpatientaccept- ability.(Moderate-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) classical symptoms. As a consequence, further tests are some- timesneededinpatientswithatypicalabdominalsymptomsthat MRCP is produced by a heavily T2-weighted scan sequence persistdespitealternativeformsofmanagement.28 that displays fluid, such as bile, as a high-intensity bright signal The following section examines the performance of the on the resulting images. Solid material such as CBDS will varioustests available to the clinician and suggests an algorithm appear as well-defined, dark-filling defects within the CBD. An forinvestigationofpatientswithsuspectedCBDS. echo-endoscope when positioned in the duodenal bulb uses high-frequencysoundwavestoimagethebile duct.Whenusing
