Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


endoscopic therapy. the same group of patients to both EUS and MRCP51 53 66 do (Low-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) not demonstrate clear superiority of one test over the other in The probabilityof CBDS may be established on history, LFTs relationtodiagnosisofCBDS. and USS. Forexample, the American Societyof Gastrointestinal Factors that favour EUS over MRCP are that it can be per- Endoscopy (ASGE) indicates that in patients with symptomatic formed in the presence of intracranial metallic clips, cardiac gallbladderstonesthereisahighlikelihoodofCBDSifacalcu- pace makers, mechanical heart valves, claustrophobia and lusisvisibleintheCBDonUSS,therearefeaturesofcholangitis morbid obesity. Factors that favour MRCPover EUS include its orthepatientpresentswithacombinationofCBDdilatationon wide availability, minimally invasive nature, ability to image the intrahepatic ducts, cost effectiveness67 and suitability for USS and jaundice.76 Further investigation prior to scheduling endoscopic or surgical duct clearance is not mandated in this patients with altered gastric or duodenal anatomy. In addition, setting, although the need for CT to exclude pancreatobiliary all images can be captured allowing for review by other clini- malignancy should always be considered according to the clin- cians at a later date. For these reasons, current NICE guide- lines28 suggest that in most cases MRCP represents the safest ical scenario. For other patients, the likelihood will either be considered low (on the basis of normal LFTs and USS in the and most acceptable test for patients, while acknowledging that absence of a preceding clinical predictor such as cholangitis or appropriately skilled clinicians may choose to use EUS instead gallstone pancreatitis) or intermediate. Among the latter group, and a minority of patients may need both investigations to a common scenario is pain with abnormal LFTs in the absence ensureanaccuratediagnosis. of duct dilatation on USS or vice versa. Further investigation of patients with a low or intermediate likelihood of CBDS is CT recommended prior to undertaking endoscopic or surgical bile CT plays an important role in the identification and staging of duct clearance. A suggested pathway for investigation of sus- malignant biliary obstruction but is not routinely used for the pectedCBDSisdescribedinfigure1. express purpose of detecting CBDS. Formal CT cholangiog- raphy, using excreted biliary contrast, is a useful and accurate diagnostic tool68–71 for ductal stones but the required contrast ENDOSCOPIC MANAGEMENTOF CBDS Introduction agent has not been available in the UK since 2009. Recent New2016 studies using data from modern multislice scanners suggest that It is suggested that the BSG national standards framework for standard contrasted CT scanning can also achieve reasonable sensitivity (69–87%) and specificity
