Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


using data from modern multislice scanners suggest that It is suggested that the BSG national standards framework for standard contrasted CT scanning can also achieve reasonable sensitivity (69–87%) and specificity (68–96%) for detecting ERCP is implemented by service providers. (Very low-quality CBDS,72–75 although diagnostic accuracy decreases considerably evidence;weakrecommendation) when calculi are small or of similar density to bile. In addition, ERCP is a minimally invasive technique that is an effective CTexposes patients to the potential harm of ionising radiation treatmentforCBDS.77Highratesofductclearancearepossible, andcontrastinjection. although the potential for serious adverse events is also recog- nised.77–79 In a large observational study conducted in England patients who present with pain or other abdominal symptoms in 2004, >5% of patients undergoing ERCPexperienced some 770 Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines Figure1 Investigationofsuspectedcommonbileductstone(CBDS).ERCP,endoscopicretrogradecholangiopancreatography;EUS,endoscopic ultrasound;IOC,intraoperativecholangiography;LFT,liverfunctiontest;LUS,laparoscopicultrasound;MRCP,magneticresonance cholangiopancreatography;USS,ultrasoundscanning. form of complication, including acute pancreatitis, bleeding, Anaesthesia-supportedERCP perforation and biliary sepsis.80 As such, it is essential that the New2016 UK offers high-quality training and that clinicians are able to For selected patients, tolerability and likelihood of therapeutic maintain their skills in appropriately resourced facilities. success is higher if ERCP is performed with propofol sedation PreviousBSGguidelinesmadeanumberofrecommendationsin orgeneralanaesthesia.Itisrecommendedthathospitalslooking relation to this. These have recently been updated in the form after patients with CBDS should have ready and prompt access of a national standards framework for ERCP,81 published in toanaesthesiasupportedERCP.Thiscanbeanon-siteserviceor 2014. This describes the minimum standardsthat service provi- provided by another ERCP unit as part of a clinical network. ders should adhere to and also recommends a set of achievable (Low-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) standards that service providers should work towards The great majorityof ERCPs in the UK are performed under implementing. conscious sedation (ie, intravenous benzodiazepine and opiate) In addition, several important developments in ERCP practice and are generally well tolerated. However 14% of ERCPs per- have occurred in the last 10years, which have the potential to formed under conscious sedation are reported to be poorly tol- improvesuccessratesandminimiserisk.Thesearedescribedbelow. erated,82 and this is an important cause of unsuccessful Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: 771 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines therapeuticERCP.83InthesettingofCBDS,thisoutcomealmost in addition to administration of rectal NSAID.
