Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines therapeuticERCP.83InthesettingofCBDS,thisoutcomealmost in addition to administration of rectal NSAID. (Moderate- alwaysnecessitatesfurtherproceduresanddelaysinachievingclin- qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) ical resolution. Anecdotally it may be an important cause of dis- Acute pancreatitis is a well-recognised complication of ERCP. tressforindividualsundergoingtheprocedureaswashighlighted ThefrequencyofPEPvariesconsiderablyintheliterature(from bytheGDG’spatientrepresentatives.Failuretocompletethepro- <1% to >20%), with 2–5% commonly reported. ERCP for ceduremayalsopresentaclinicalrisk.Thedurationandcomplex- bile duct stones does not confer an inherent increased risk of ity of ERCP often necessitates doses of benzodiazepine that are PEP above the baseline rate described for all forms of thera- higherthanroutinediagnosticendoscopy.ThenationalBSGaudit peutic ERCP. However, the only way of definitively avoiding ofERCPin2004showedthat33%ofpatientsreceived>5.5mg riskofPEPisbyavoidingERCP.Thisfactemphasisestheneces- of midazolam and approximately 8% of patients required the sity of reserving ERCP as a therapeutic procedure for patients administration of reversal agents (flumazenil or naloxone).80 with proven bile duct stones, with the diagnosis made through Although high-quality evidence on the optimal form of sedation modalities carrying little or no risk of PEP (eg, USS, EUS or forERCPislacking,84mostERCPservicesinWesternEuropeand MRCPasdescribedabove). NorthAmericanowuseenhancedsedation(eg,withpropofol)or In people who require ERCP, a number of prophylactic generalanaesthesiaasstandard.In2011,theBSGissuedguidance approaches may reduce the risks of PEP. The most important in conjunction with the Royal College of Anaesthetists regarding recent advance is in the use of prophylactic NSAIDs. theuseofpropofolsedationwithouttheneedfortrachealintub- High-quality randomised control trials (RCTs) have unequivo- ationinpatientsundergoingERCPandothercomplexendoscopic cally demonstrated the benefit of rectal NSAIDs (100mg indo- procedures.85Theseguidelineshighlightedtheminimumrequire- methacin or diclofenac),88 89 and a recent ESGE practice ments for all endoscopic units wanting to deliver this service. In guideline has recommended this in all patients undergoing contrast to otherhealthcare systems, there isa lackof support in ERCP,unlessthereisacontraindication.90Short-termpancreatic theUKforpropofol-anaesthesiaatendoscopytobeadministered duct stenting at ERCP reduces the risk of PEP in patients at bynon-anaesthetists.InpatientswithCBDSwhorequirelongand increased risk of this complication by virtue of patient-specific complex endoscopic procedures (eg, cholangioscopy-assisted factors(youngage,femalesex,suspectedSphincterofOddidys- EHL), a lack of enhanced sedation/general anaesthesia has been function)or procedure-specific factors (repeated pancreatic duct correlated with lack of therapeutic success.86 Propofol-assisted cannulation),91 but also in mixed-risk populations that include ERCPinUKpracticehasrecentlybeenshowntobesafeandtobe those undergoing ERCP for CBDS.92 Pancreatic duct cannula- associated with high rates of ERCP success and patient tion or contrast-filling should be avoided at ERCP for CBDS satisfaction.87 wherever possible. If pancreatic duct cannulation repeatedly In summary, clinician and patient opinion is in favour of occurs (eg, > 1 pancreatic wire passage) while attempting to wider availability of anaesthetist-assisted ERCP in the UK. The gainbiliaryaccess,insertionofa5Fpancreaticstentcanbecon- demand for propofol-assisted ERCP is likely to increase and sidered.90 93
