Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


(eg, > 1 pancreatic wire passage) while attempting to wider availability of anaesthetist-assisted ERCP in the UK. The gainbiliaryaccess,insertionofa5Fpancreaticstentcanbecon- demand for propofol-assisted ERCP is likely to increase and sidered.90 93 This may both facilitate biliary access and reduce should be specifically considered for complex cases of CBDS the risk of PEP. Importantly, failed attempts at stent placement (eg,intrahepaticductalstonesandcholangioscopy-assistedlitho- may dramatically increase the risk of PEP, and so endoscopists tripsy). General anaesthesia with endotracheal intubation is an who perform ERCP require appropriate training in this tech- alternativebutisgenerallyreservedforpatientswithanaesthetic nique. The optimum duration of placement is unknown but issues independent of those related to ERCP per se (eg, morbid likely to be hours to days. As such, ERCP units should reassess obesity,airway/ventilationproblems). patients after pancreatic stent insertion to confirm spontaneous migration. A plain abdominal X-ray is the simplest method for Antibioticuseduringendoscopicstoneextraction demonstrating this. Where spontaneous migration does not 2008 occur, endoscopic removal is recommended.90 With the univer- It is suggested that patients should be managed in accordance sal use of rectal NSAIDs, the additive benefit of pancreatic withtheBSGguidelinesonantibioticprophylaxisduringendos- stentsinthepreventionofPEPisuncertain.94 copy.(Verylow-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) No changes have been made to the recommendation on anti- Coagulopathypriortosphincterotomy biotic use published as part of the 2008 guidelines on CBDS.1 2008,amended2016 In the absence of specific risk factors for sepsis such as scleros- It is recommended that patients undergoing biliary sphincterot- ing cholangitis, communicating pancreatic cysts, hilar strictures, omyforductalstoneshaveanFBCandINR/PTperformedprior livertransplantation,cholangioscopyorafailedattempttodrain totheirERCP.Ifderangedclottingorthrombocytopeniaisiden- an opacified bile duct, it is suggested that prophylactic antibio- tified,subsequentmanagementshouldconformtolocallyagreed ticscanbesafelyavoided. guidelines.(Low-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) ProphylaxisofPEP New2016 New2016 It is recommended that ERCP patients taking warfarin, antipla- To reduce the risk of PEP, it is recommended that diclofenac or telet treatment or a DOAC should be managed in accordance indomethacin(atadoseof100mg)shouldbeadministeredrec- with the combined BSG and ESGE guidelines for patients tally at the time of ERCP to all patients who do not have a undergoing endoscopy. (Low-quality evidence; strong contraindicationtoNSAIDs. (Moderate-qualityevidence;strong recommendation) recommendation) Abnormal clotting is a feature of biliary obstruction and par- enchymal liver disease. Portal hypertension and severe sepsis New2016 can also result in thrombocytopenia. A recognised complication InpatientswithahighriskofPEParisingfromrepeatedpancre- of biliary sphincterotomy is GI haemorrhage but the point at aticductcannulation,insertionofapancreaticstentissuggested which clotting abnormalities become an absolute 772 Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines contraindication to sphincterotomy cannot be asserted
