Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines contraindication to sphincterotomy cannot be asserted from the biliary sphincterotomy in selected patients, such as those with available evidence. Nonetheless, attempts should be made to an uncorrected coagulopathy or difficult biliary access due to correct coagulopathy (including severe thrombocytopenia) altered anatomy. If EPBD is performed without prior biliary before performing sphincterotomy, and if this is not possible sphincterotomy, use of an 8mm diameter balloon is recom- initial therapy should involve a procedure with an inherently mended.(Moderate-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) lowerriskofbleedingsuchasendoscopicstenting.Itistherefore Studies over the last decade confirm EPBD for larger stones recommended that patients undergoing biliary sphincterotomy may be a safe and effective technique provided that dilation is for ductal stones should have an FBC and INR/PT performed performed following prior sphincterotomy.100 101 Systematic prior to their ERCP. If deranged clotting is identified, subse- review of meta-analyses suggests that, in patients with large quentmanagementshouldconformtolocallyagreedguidelines. stones, EPBD with sphincterotomy can reduce the need for Forpatientstakingwarfarinorantiplatelettreatment,thepre- mechanical lithotripsy and may be associated with a lower rate vious BSG guideline95 has been incorporated into a new BSG of overall complications compared with sphincterotomy and ESGE guideline,96 which includes advice on patients pre- alone.102 Technical aspects of its use are important. Balloons scribedDOACs.Thisclassofdrugsincludefactor10ainhibitors >10mm in diameter are usually used, though it is generally (rivaroxaban, apixiban) and the thrombin inhibitor dabigatran. accepted that endoscopists should avoid dilating the sphincter They benefit from fewer drug interactions than warfarin and beyond the diameter of the bile duct above. Most practitioners haveshorterhalf-lives.However,theycannotbereadilyreversed also advise caution in dilating to >18mm. In conjunction with and INR cannot be used to assess bleeding risk.97–99 In the balloon stone extraction and mechanical lithotripsy, EPBD with context of ERCP, management of antiplatelet and oral anti- prior sphincterotomy has an important role to play in the man- coagulant therapy will vary depending on the medication pre- agementoflargeCBDS.76 scribed, the reason for its use and on whether a high-risk EPBD without prior sphincterotomy has also been described procedure (sphincterotomy) or low-risk procedure (stenting) is in the management of CBDS. It fell out of general favour in beingconsidered.Forpatientstakingwarfarin,antiplatelettreat- view of an increased risk of pancreatitis and poorer rates of ment or DOAC, it is recommended that clinicians follow the stone clearance (with higher requirements for mechanical litho- management algorithms presented in the combined BSG and tripsy)
