Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


New2016 of training and mentorship to be able to identify when access It is recommended that cholangioscopy-guided EHL or LL be papillotomyisindicatedandsafelyperformtheprocedure. considered when other endoscopic treatment options fail to achieve duct clearance. (Low-quality evidence; strong Endoscopicpapillaryballoondilation recommendation) New2016 Per oral cholangioscopy allows endoscopic visualisation as a technique to facilitate removal of large CBDS. (High- tripsy under direct vision using electrohydraulic or laserenergy. qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) Early studies used a ‘mother and baby’ system, which required two operators, was technically challenging and the cholangio- New2016 scope broke easily. While it was clear that stones could be EPBDwithoutpriorbiliarysphincterotomyisassociatedwithan treated effectively,109 the above limitations restricted its wide- increasedriskofPEPbutmaybeconsideredasanalternativeto spreaduseandinterestinthetechniquewaslimited. Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: 773 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines The introduction of new technologies has rekindled interest Thereisasignificantlearningcurveforlaparoscopicbileduct in cholangioscopy. The SpyGlass Legacy (Boston Scientific, surgery, both among surgeons and nursing staff.116 In the UK, Natick, Massachusetts, USA) cholangioscope was introduced in centralisation of hepatopancreatobiliary resectional surgery into 2006 and allows a single-operator cholangioscopy (SOC) to be a defined number of units (currently 22) has allowed for the performed using a disposable cholangioscope, incorporating a development of LBDE not only within those specialised units fibre optic visualisation system, passed through the duodeno- but also among benign upper GI surgeons in non-resection scope. Insertionofaccessoriesthroughthescopemaybeachal- centres. lenge, and the fibre optic visualisation has also been criticised. These concerns may be addressed by a new Spyglass DS digital InvestigationoftheCBDpriortosurgicalexploration platform introduced in 2015. In direct per oral cholangioscopy, New2016 an ultra-slim video upper GI endoscope is steered through a IOC or LUS can be used to detect CBDS in patients who are biliary sphincterotomy and into the bile duct. While image suitable for surgical exploration or postoperative ERCP. quality is excellent, the major difficulty with this technique is Although not considered mandatory for all patients undergoing stability of the endoscope within the bile duct due to the duo- cholecystectomy, IOC or LUS is suggested for those patients denal loop. When using this method, the air or CO 2 supply is who have an intermediate to high pre-test probability of CBDS switchedoffwhilecholangioscopyisbeingperformedtoreduce and who have not had the diagnosis confirmed preoperatively theriskofgasembolism. by USS, MRCP or EUS. (Low-quality evidence; weak The principle of EHL is the generation of a
