Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


of CBDS switchedoffwhilecholangioscopyisbeingperformedtoreduce and who have not had the diagnosis confirmed preoperatively theriskofgasembolism. by USS, MRCP or EUS. (Low-quality evidence; weak The principle of EHL is the generation of a shock wave fol- recommendation) lowing the rapid thermal expansion of afluid caused bya high- The standard way of imaging the CBD intraoperatively is by voltage spark. A subsequent hydraulic pressure wave causes IOC, which involves transcystic cannulation of the CBD with a stone fragmentation. In LL, pulsed laser energy is focused on fine catheter and direct injection of non-ionic contrast into the the stone. The thermal effect that is absorbed by thewatercon- bile duct. LUS is an alternative modality but is not as widely tained in stones causes expansion and a shock wave that causes available. Both tests show high sensitivity. The IOC rate in the fragmentation. The delivery of such energy needs to be con- UK varies widely between surgeons but overall is around ductedunderdirectvisiontoensuresafetyandprecisetargeting 10%.115 The advantages of routine or selective IOC have been duringfragmentation. extensively debated in the literature, and the reader is directed InpatientsinwhomclearanceofCBDShasbeenunsuccessful to the 2008 guidance on management of CBDS1 for a full (despite the use of techniques including mechanical lithotripsy descriptionoftheroleofIOCatthetimeoflaparoscopicchole- and EPBD with prior sphincterotomy), SOC-guided intraductal cystectomy. RCTs of IOC versus no IOC in patients judged to l c i l t e h a o r t a r n ip ce sy ra u t s e i s ng (7 b 3 o – t 9 h 7% EH ).1 L 10 a – n 11 d 2 L S L im r i e la s r u l l y t , s h in igh ve r r a y te h s ig o h f s st t o o n n e e be at low risk of CBDS17–20 26 suggest the use of preoperative results to select patients for further imaging is an acceptable clearancehavebeenreportedfordirectcholangioscopy,albeitin strategy, although it is recognised that some clinicians may opt smaller studies.113 Cholangioscopy is safe but cholangitis has toperformanIOCinallpatientsundergoingcholecystectomy. beenreported tooccur inup to9% ofpatients,112necessitating the use of prophylactic antibiotics. Otherwise complications are Surgicalbileductexplorationversusendoscopicduct comparable to conventional ERCP.114 Cholangioscopy-guided clearance lithotripsyisanimportantadvanceinthemanagementofCBDS and is a useful strategy for patients in whom standard techni- It is recommended that, in patients undergoing laparoscopic quesfail. cholecystectomy,transcysticortransductalLBDEisanappropri- ate technique for CBDS removal. There is no evidence of a dif- SURGICAL MANAGEMENTOF CBDS
