Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


patients in whom standard techni- It is recommended that, in patients undergoing laparoscopic quesfail. cholecystectomy,transcysticortransductalLBDEisanappropri- ate technique for CBDS removal. There is no evidence of a dif- SURGICAL MANAGEMENTOF CBDS ference in efficacy, mortality or morbidity when LBDE is Introduction comparedwithperioperativeERCP,althoughLBDEisassociated Surgical extraction of CBDS at the same time as (laparoscopic) cholecystectomy offers the opportunity to definitively treat with a shorter hospital stay. It is recommended that the two approaches are considered equally valid treatment options. gallstone-related disease in a single-stage procedure. Operator, patientandprocedurerelatedfactorsallinfluenceoutcome. (High-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) New2016 Requiredfacilitiesandpersonnel ItissuggestedthattrainingofsurgeonsinLBDEistobeencour- Although in a minority of patients there remains an important aged in order to decrease the number of interventions requirementforopensurgicaltreatment,laparoscopiccholecyst- required to manage CBDS. (Low-quality evidence; weak ectomy has superseded open cholecystectomy as the operation recommendation) ofchoiceforsymptomaticgallstones. Over 95% of gall bladders are now removed laparoscopic- In patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy, LBDE ally,115 and more recently the technique of LBDE has become allows for single-stage treatment of CBDS with removal of the more widely available. LBDE requires (in most cases) a flexible gallbladderaspartofthesameprocedure.Therearenowasuf- choledochoscope together with light source and camera, and ficient number of studies to determine that there is no signifi- disposable instrumentation similar to that required for ERCP cant difference in clinical outcomes77 117 118 between LBDE (eg, baskets, balloons, stents). Although open bile duct explor- and laparoscopic cholecystectomy combined with preoperative ation can be carried out without acholedochoscope, because of or postoperative ERCP. Studies have shown that single-stage the risks involved with blind instrumentation of the bile duct LBDE is associated with a reduction in overall hospital stayand (ie, perforation and traumatisation with increased risk of later cost compared with the two-stage approach of ERCP and lap- stricture development), bile duct exploration should always be aroscopic cholecystectomy.119 120 It should be noted that there undertaken with a choledochoscope unless no alternative is issomeevidencetosuggestthatendoscopicsphincterotomyand available. stone clearance at the time of laparoscopic cholecystectomy is 774 Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines alsocostsavingandmaybeassociatedwithalowerincidenceof Extraction of ductal stones via an endoscopic biliary sphinc- complication compared with preoperative ERCP.28 121 The terotomyorlaparoscopicroute maybedifficultforavarietyof GDG recognised intraoperative ERCP as a valid treatment reasons. In most situations, size, shape and number of stones option for CBDS but acknowledged the logistic challenges of are
