Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


terotomyorlaparoscopicroute maybedifficultforavarietyof GDG recognised intraoperative ERCP as a valid treatment reasons. In most situations, size, shape and number of stones option for CBDS but acknowledged the logistic challenges of are the key determinants of whether extraction will be easy or providing this service on a routine basis. The complications of not. The likelihood of successful extraction can also be surgical duct exploration are predominantly related to choledo- reduced in patients who have altered anatomy as result of pre- chotomy (bile duct leakage) and T-tube use (bile leakage, tube vious surgery (see section on stone extraction in patients with displacement). Pancreatitis is rare unless there has been ante- altered anatomy). Where standard stone extraction techniques gradeinstrumentationofthepapilla.122 supplemented by mechanical lithotripsy, EPBD with prior T-tubes were traditionally inserted in open bile duct explor- sphincterotomyandcholangioscopy(or,whereavailable,extra- ation because of the risk of bile leakage from the choledochot- corporeal shock wave lithotripsy) fail to remove stones, the omy, which arose as a result of uncertainty regarding duct patient can be considered to have difficult stone disease. For clearance (in the absence of choledochoscopy), or because of the small number of individuals in whom problems persist the presence of oedema and inflammation as a result of blind despite deploying the above techniques, percutaneous stone instrumentation of the duct. LBDE with optical magnification, extraction and open duct exploration are sometimes necessary direct visualisation and more delicate instrumentation allows andshouldbeconsideredwhenlessinvasiveoptionsfailorare reducedtraumatothebileductandhasresultedinanincreasing notpossible. tendency to close the duct primarily. This avoids the morbidity In this context, percutaneous CBDS extraction is usually associated with T-tubes, which includes the discomfort of man- achievedbyestablishing eitheratranshepatic,orless commonly, aging10–14dayswithaT-tubethroughtheabdominalwall,the transcholecystic biliary fistula through which catheter and cho- risk of inadvertent early T-tube removal resulting in bile langioscopic interventions are performed. Exact methods vary, leakage, peritonitis and reoperation, and the need for post- but a typical procedure will involve balloon dilation of the operativeT-tubecholangiograms.Inaddition,asmallnumberof biliary sphincter, which allows stones to be pushed in an ante- bile ducts leaks occur following planned removal of the T-tube grade fashion into the duodenum, although larger calculi will and this can necessitate repeat laparotomy. Several studies have require lithotripsy (either mechanical, electrohydraulic or laser). shown that primary duct closure without T-tube insertion is Completion rates are high but adverse events can occur with superior to planned T-tube insertion with reductions in hospital two recently published large series reporting major complica- stay and a similar number of bile leaks and
