Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


events can occur with superior to planned T-tube insertion with reductions in hospital two recently published large series reporting major complica- stay and a similar number of bile leaks and recurrent stones.123 tionsin3.6–6.8%ofpatients.134135 In addition, primary duct closure is associated with a shorter operativetimeandfasterreturntoworkofaround8days.124 In terms of operative technique, LBDE can be performed under image intensifier control or with the use of an ultra-thin FailedendoscopiccannulationoftheCBD New2016 choledochoscope (3mm). It may involve a transcystic or trans- When endoscopic cannulation of the bile duct is not possible ductalapproach.Thetranscysticapproachismorelimitedallow- with standard techniques including access papillotomy, it is ing retrieval of only small stones and poor access to the recommended that percutaneous or EUS-guided procedures can common hepatic duct. Consequently, the majority of surgeons be considered as a means of facilitating subsequent ERCP. use the transductal approach directly through the CBD. (Low-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) Regardless of exact technique used, the high rates of duct clear- ance reported with LBDE119 120 125–129 can be increased to Even the most skilled endoscopist will fail to achieve deep near 100% with the availability of intraductal piezoelectric or biliary cannulation in a minority of cases. Clinicians should be LL.130 Long-term results also appear favourable.131 132 In aware of the role of combined procedures to achieve access to patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy, transcystic or biliary system. Typically these involve image-guided percutan- transductal exploration of the CBD is therefore considered an eous insertion of acatheter into the biliarysystem viathe intra- appropriate technique for CBDS removal. It is estimated that hepatic ducts or gall bladder, through which a guidewire is only 20% of bile duct explorations are performed laparoscopic- introduced into the duodenum. This can then be used by an allyat the present time,115 with findings from a 2005 survey of endoscopisttoachieveretrogradecannulation. English hospitals suggesting less than one in three units treat More recently, EUS-guided biliary drainage has been patients using this technique.133 Given that ERCP and laparo- described as an alternative to percutaneous intervention.136 scopic cholecystectomy involves two procedures (unless the Two main forms of EUS-guided drainage have been reported. former can be performed intraoperatively), it is suggested that The first involves accessing the extrahepatic ducts, which is surgeons are trained in LBDE in order to decrease the number usually performed via the duodenum. The second involves ofinterventionsrequiredtomanageCBDS. accessing the intrahepatic ducts, which usually involves punc- ture of the left lobe of the liver via the stomach. Once biliary access has been
