Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


the duodenum. The second involves ofinterventionsrequiredtomanageCBDS. accessing the intrahepatic ducts, which usually involves punc- ture of the left lobe of the liver via the stomach. Once biliary access has been achieved, the endoscopist can then pass awire MANAGEMENTOF ‘DIFFICULT’ DUCTAL STONES to facilitate treatment, which can be performed in an ante- Introduction grade fashionorcombined with ERCPandretrograde therapy. New2016 A recent meta-analysis of (predominantly) retrospective Laparoscopic duct exploration and ERCP (supplemented by cohort studies suggests this is a valid management option for EPBDwithpriorsphincterotomy,mechanicallithotripsyorcho- biliarystrictures.137Whileappropriatelytrainedcliniciansmay langioscopy where necessary) are highly successful in removing wish to consider EUS-guided access for selected cases of CBDS. It is recommended that percutaneous radiological stone CBDS, it should be noted that there are limited data on its extractionandopenductexplorationshouldbereservedforthe role in this setting and at present there are few centres that small number of patients in whom these techniques fail or are have the facilities and expertise to employ this approach notpossible.(Low-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) routinely. Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: 775 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines StentingastreatmentforCBDS Whereoperativeriskisdeemedprohibitive,biliarysphincterotomy 2016 andendoscopicductclearancealoneisrecommendedasanaccept- It is important that endoscopists ensure adequate biliary drain- ablealternative.(Low-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) age is achieved in patients with CBDS that have not been extracted. The short-term use of a biliary stent followed by further endoscopy or surgery is recommended. (Moderate- Biliary sphincterotomy and endoscopic stone extraction is qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) recommended as the primary form of treatment for patients with CBDS post cholecystectomy. (Low-qualityevidence; strong recommendation) The use of a biliarystent as sole treatment for CBDS should be restrictedtoaselectedgroupofpatientswithlimitedlifeexpect- For patients with gall bladder stones and stones in the CBD, ancy and/or prohibitive surgical risk. (Moderate-quality evi- there is a risk of cholecystitis and/or stone migration following dence;strongrecommendation) duct clearance. A Cochrane review published in 2007142 addressed the question as to whether prophylactic cholecystec- Bacterial contamination of bile is a common finding in tomy should be offered to patients whose gall bladder remains patients with CBDS and incomplete duct clearance may there- in situ after endoscopic sphincterotomy and CBD clearance. fore place patients at risk of cholangitis.138 It is therefore Systematicreviewidentifiedfiverandomisedtrialsinvolving662 important that endoscopists ensure adequate biliary drainage is participants. The studies included both open cholecystectomy achieved in patients with CBDS that cannot be retrieved. The andexploration,143–145andlaparoscopiccholecystectomy,146147 short-term use of an endoscopic biliary stent followed by
