Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


biliary drainage is participants. The studies included both open cholecystectomy achieved in patients with CBDS that cannot be retrieved. The andexploration,143–145andlaparoscopiccholecystectomy,146147 short-term use of an endoscopic biliary stent followed by as the surgical intervention of choice. Meta-analysis indicated further ERCPor surgery has been shown to be a safe manage- that over a follow-up period that varied between an average of mentoptioninthissetting.139 17months to over 5years mortality was higher in the wait and For patients >70years of age or with debilitating disease, see group than in the prophylactic cholecystectomy group biliary stenting has also been examined as an alternative to (14.1% vs 7.9%; relative risk 1.78, 95% CI 1.15 to 2.75) and endoscopic stone extraction.139 140 The technique compares that the benefit of surgery persisted when analysis was favourably with conventional stone extraction techniques in restricted to those studiesthat included patients at higher surgi- terms of immediate success and complication rate. However, at cal risk, as defined by an American Society of Anaesthesiology least a quarter of patients experience recurrent cholangitis score of 4 or 5.143–145 148 Secondary end points of recurrent during follow-up. Long-term results are probably more favour- pain, jaundice and cholangitis were also significantly more ableinthosepatientswithoutagallbladder.140Morerecently,a commoninthewaitandseegroup.Twomorerandomisedtrials study from Italy looked at the management of long-term stents have been published since this meta-analysis. In one, prophylac- in patients with CBDS that were difficult to remove by conven- ticcholecystectomyafterCBDSextractionwascomparedwitha tional means. Over a mean follow-up period of 14months, policy of leaving calculous gall bladders in situ. Prophylactic there was a 36% cholangitis rate in patients who had stents cholecystectomy reduced the incidence of subsequent cholecyst- changed on demand with an associated mortality of 8%. itis but not cholangitis.149 However, only 90 participants were Patients who had stents changed electively at three monthly included and the study was limited by significant crossover intervals had an 8% cholangitis rate and 2% mortality.141 As between the allocated treatment arms. In the second study,150 such, patients faced a high risk of complication or multiple 162participants,allofwhomwereovertheageof70yearsand interventions. hadcoexistinggallbladderstones,wererandomisedtowaitand Inlightoftheabovefindings,biliarystentingisrecommended see or cholecystectomy after successful endoscopic duct clear- as a means of ensuring adequate biliary drainage in patients for ance. A significant reduction in total biliary events (which whom further therapy is planned. However, stenting as defini- included cholangitis) was seen in the group undergoing elective tive treatment for CBDS should be restricted to a very few cholecystectomy. patients who have limited life expectancy or
