Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


as defini- included cholangitis) was seen in the group undergoing elective tive treatment for CBDS should be restricted to a very few cholecystectomy. patients who have limited life expectancy or are judged to be Uncertainty persists as to whether the recommendation to at prohibitive surgical risk. Clearance of bile duct stones should offer cholecystectomy to patients with gall bladder stones and be considered the standard of care,28 and patients should be CBDS should be extended to individuals with CBDS but an referred to specialist centres for consideration of surgery or empty gall bladder on imaging. Several large observational advancedendoscopictherapyifstonescannotberemovedusing studies have examined the importance of gall bladder status in standardstoneextractiontechniques. Asian patients who have undergone successful endoscopic duct clearance.151–153 Over a period of follow-up that varied from a Introduction recurrent CBDS in 15–23.7% of patients with residual gall Laparoscopic cholecystectomy and ERCPare now mature tech- bladderstones.Thiscontrastedwithpatientswhohadanempty nologies,andinsomeareasofpractice,therehasbeennomajor gall bladder in situ, where the reported incidence of recurrent change in recommendations in comparison to the 2008 guide- CBDS was significantly lower at 5.9%152 to 11.3%.153 In con- line.Areaswhereadvicehaschangedincludetreatmentofacute trast, smaller studies of both Asian154–157 and European gallstonepancreatitis. patients158–160 have not been able to clearly demonstrate a higherlikelihoodofrecurrentCBDSfollowingductclearancein Managementofpatientswithandwithoutagallbladder patients with gall bladder stones. However, several reports New2016 suggest that patients with an empty gall bladder have a lower Cholecystectomy is recommended for all patients with CBDS risk of cholecystitis and subsequent cholecystectomy.155 158 160 andgallbladderstones unlesstherearespecificreasonsforcon- Surgeonsmaythereforewishtodiscussawaitand seeapproach sidering surgery inappropriate. (High-quality evidence; strong with patients who have an empty gall bladder following duct recommendation) clearance. 776 Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines Despite the benefits of cholecystectomy, the operative riskfor considered forelective ERCPand endoscopic sphincterotomy if some patients will be judged prohibitive. Given that age and there is evidence of retained CBDS on imaging or the patient is comorbidity do not appear to have a significant impact on unsuitable for definitive treatment in the form of cholecystec- overall complication rates for ERCP,161–164 biliary sphincterot- tomy.(Moderate-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) omyand endoscopic duct clearance alone is an acceptable alter- CBDS are a common cause of acute pancreatitis. A biliary nativeforthisgroup. aetiology for pancreatitis may be suggested by LFTabnormal- While there is no formal comparison of endoscopic versus ities; the presence of gall bladder
