Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


cause of acute pancreatitis. A biliary nativeforthisgroup. aetiology for pancreatitis may be suggested by LFTabnormal- While there is no formal comparison of endoscopic versus ities; the presence of gall bladder stones, ductal stones or bile surgical extraction of CBDS in patients who have undergone duct dilatation on imaging; or coexistent cholangitis. In such previous cholecystectomy, the minimally invasive nature of cases, the timing and selection of patients for endoscopic stone ERCPmeansthatthisremainstheprimaryformoftreatmentin extraction is important. Studies to date have produced conflict- this setting and no change has been made to the recommenda- ing evidence and guidelines have also supported varied tionforthiscategoryofpatients. approaches. This isreflected inthe reported variationinclinical practicefromextantguidelines.171172 Managementofcholangitis A recent Cochrane review173 has found no evidence that New2016 early routine biliary sphincterotomy±endoscopic stone extrac- Patients with acute cholangitis who fail to respond to antibiotic tionsignificantlyaffects mortalityorcomplications regardless of therapy or who have signs of septic shock require urgent biliary the severityof the pancreatitis. The analysis did support a strat- decompression.EndoscopicCBDSextractionand/orbiliarystent- egyofearlybiliarysphincterotomy±endoscopicstoneextraction ingarerecommendedinthissetting.IfERCPisnotpossible,per- inpatientswithcholangitisorbiliaryobstruction. cutaneous radiological drainage can be considered as an There is heterogeneity in studies astowhat constitutes ‘early’ alternative.(Moderate-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) ERCP, with variation from <24 to <72hours following admis- Historic data suggest that the risks of emergency biliary sion. There is no evidence to support ERCP within 24hours surgery in older patients can be significant,165–168 and in the rather than ERCP within 72hours. However, no studies have contextofacutecholangitistheroleofERCPisnowwellestab- been designed to answer this question. It is therefore recom- lished.169 High-quality data on the optimal timing of ERCP in mended that patients with pancreatitis of suspected or proven thissettingarelackingbutearlyinterventionislikelytobebene- biliary origin with associated biliary obstruction or cholangitis ficial. A recent prospective study of 199 patients admitted to should undergo biliary sphincterotomy±endoscopic stone hospital with acute cholangitis found that for each day that extractionwithin72hoursofpresentation.Withinthisgroupof ERCP was delayed length of stay increased by 1.44days (95% patients, clinicians should be alert to individuals with severe CI1.01to1.92).Thestudyalsoidentifiedanincreasedrequire- sepsis in whom optimal management may involve urgent ERCP ment for vasopressors in patients who had ERCP performed within 24hours, as described in the preceding section. >72hours after presentation.170 For patients with signs of Conversely, it is recognised that a number of cases of jaundice septic shock or who are deteriorating despite appropriate anti- withoutsepsismayresolveorimprovesignificantlyoveraperiod biotic therapy, biliary decompression may need to be achieved of 24–72hours. In this situation, early ERCP can be avoided, urgently (ie, within 24hours of presentation). As described in although the clinician should consider
