Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


decompression may need to be achieved of 24–72hours. In this situation, early ERCP can be avoided, urgently (ie, within 24hours of presentation). As described in although the clinician should consider additional imaging previous guidance, in circumstances where ERCP fails or is (MRCP,EUS,IOCorLUS)toexcluderetainedductalstonesand unavailable percutaneous biliary drainage is an alternative form helpdecidewhetherbiliarysphincterotomyisrequiredtoreduce oftreatment. thelikelihoodoffutureproblemsasdescribedbelow. Inpatients with aninsitugallbladder, anepisode ofgallstone Acutegallstonepancreatitis pancreatitis is associated with a significant risk of recurrent New2016 attacks as well as a smaller risk of biliary colic and cholecyst- Patients with pancreatitis of suspected or proven biliary origin itis.174–176 These risks can be reduced by removal of the gall who have associated cholangitis or persistent biliaryobstruction bladder.Followingmildgallstonepancreatitis,laparoscopicchole- are recommended to undergo biliary sphincterotomyand endo- cystectomywithin2weeksofpresentationandideallyduringthe scopic stone extraction within 72hours of presentation. same admission should be considered the preferred option.177 (High-qualityevidence;strongrecommendation) This may not be possible for patients with significant comorbid- ities or acute severe pancreatitis, where removal of the gall New2016 bladder should be deferred until it is safe to operate. In patients It is recommended that following gallstone pancreatitis early who are unable to undergo cholecystectomy, consideration laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be offered to all patients should be given to elective biliary sphincterotomy. A recent sys- on whom it is safe to operate as the most effective means to tematic review of published studies and international guidelines prevent recurrent episodes. (Moderate-quality evidence, strong suggeststhissignificantlyreducestheriskofrecurrentpancreatitis recommendation) butisalesseffectivestrategythancholecystectomy,particularlyin relationtopreventingotherbiliarycomplications.178 New2016 Thegreatestreductioninriskofrecurrenteventsmaybeseen In cases of mild acute gallstone pancreatitis, it is advised that when patients undergo both sphincterotomy and cholecystec- cholecystectomyshouldbeperformedwithin2weeksofpresen- tomy.179Assuch,patientswhorequiresphincterotomyandduct tation and preferably during the same admission. (Moderate- clearance in the context of acute gallstone pancreatitis should qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) still be considered for subsequent laparoscopic cholecystec- tomy,142 although there is currently insufficient evidence to rec- New2016 ommend routine biliary sphincterotomy for all patients listed It is recommended that patients with gallstone pancreatitis who for laparoscopic cholecystectomy following mild acute gallstone donotrequireERCPwithin72hoursofpresentationshouldbe pancreatitis. Williams E, et al. Gut 2017;66:765–782. doi: 777 Protected by including for uses related to text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Gut: first published as on January 2017. Downloaded from on May 19, by guest. Guidelines Stoneextractioninpatientswithalteredanatomy the risk of pancreatitis in patients undergoing EPBD without New2016 priorsphincterotomy.Anapproachthatcombineslimitedbiliary ERCP for CBDS extraction can be successfully performed in sphincterotomywithaneedleknifeoverastraightplasticbiliary patientswithBillrothIIanatomy.WhereERCPwithaduodeno- stent or guidewire, followed by EPBD and conventional stone scope is difficult, use of aforward viewing endoscope is recom- extraction,hasbeenreported.186Itisbecomingthemethodpre- mended.(Moderate-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation). ferred by experts, and
