Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


successfully performed in sphincterotomywithaneedleknifeoverastraightplasticbiliary patientswithBillrothIIanatomy.WhereERCPwithaduodeno- stent or guidewire, followed by EPBD and conventional stone scope is difficult, use of aforward viewing endoscope is recom- extraction,hasbeenreported.186Itisbecomingthemethodpre- mended.(Moderate-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation). ferred by experts, and potentially combines ease of use, safety In cases where biliary sphincterotomy cannot be safely com- andefficacy. pleted, a limited sphincterotomysupplemented by EPBD is sug- gested as an alternative. (Low-quality evidence; weak Roux-en-Ygastricbypass recommendation) The rapidly increasing health burden of obesity is driving an increase in bariatric surgery. Gallstone disease is a significant problem in the obese population and also in patients who have New2016 undergone weight loss procedures, of which the most com- Patients with RYGB and CBDS should be referred to centres monlyperformedisalaparoscopicRYGB. that are able to offer the advanced endoscopic and surgical The long afferent limb of the RYGB that is deliberately fash- treatment options that are necessary for stone extraction. ionedatsurgeryeffectivelymeansthattheonlyendoscopesthat (Low-qualityevidence;weakrecommendation) can be used in a conventional per-oral retrograde approach are The endoscopic management of bile duct stones in patients enteroscopes with either a single or double balloon, or a spiral with altered upper GI anatomy presents a significant challenge. overtube. Selection and use of accessories is difficult, both The difficulties in reaching the papilla, accessing the bile duct because of the narrower working channels and length of the and delivering appropriate therapy are factors that may reduce enteroscope. A large retrospective series compared enteroscopic thelikelihoodofasuccessfulprocedure.Thetwocommonpost- techniques in 129 patients with Roux-en-Y reconstruction, of surgicalstatesencounteredarepatientswithBillrothIItypegas- which 63 had post- RYGB anatomy with an intact papilla. trectomies and patients whom have undergone a gastric bypass Successful ERCP was achieved in 63% of these patients with a with Roux-en-Y formation. The almost complete cessation of 12% complication rate.187 There was no significant difference surgery for chronic peptic ulceration has resulted in a marked inoutcomesaccordingtotheenteroscopictechniqueused. declineinnumberofpatientswithaBillrothIItypegastrectomy, Alternative techniques have been described that use the intact whereas the number of patients undergoing obesity surgery antroduodenal pathway from the excluded stomach to the (which includes RYGB) is rapidly increasing. This guideline will papilla.Theserequirealargegastrostomythroughwhichaduo- denoscope can be passed. The gastrostomy can be created by technological considerations, has recently been comprehensively performingalong-limbenteroscopytothestomachfollowedby reviewed.180181 aconventional percutaneous approach or by use of an interven- tional radiological technique with assistance from an BillrothIIgastrectomy EUS-guided puncture from the gastric remnant. More recently, Many experts believe that in the presence of an intact papilla thetechnique ofEUS-guidedpuncturefromthegastric remnant theuseofaside-viewingduodenoscopefacilitatesbothcannula- followed by placement of a self-expanding lumen-apposing tion and subsequent
