Guidelines
KEYWORDS: patients, etal, cbds, ercp, biliary, duct, recommended, stones, endoscopic, gut, evidence, guidelines, bile, sphincterotomy, cholecystectomy


the gastric remnant. More recently, Many experts believe that in the presence of an intact papilla thetechnique ofEUS-guidedpuncturefromthegastric remnant theuseofaside-viewingduodenoscopefacilitatesbothcannula- followed by placement of a self-expanding lumen-apposing tion and subsequent therapy because of the elevator and large metal stent has been described. This allows for immediate accessory channel. A forward-viewing endoscope however has per-oralaccessto thepapilla.Theseareallcomplexprocedures, advantages of flexibility and luminal visualisation that makes it reported in small series using endoscopic techniques that are possible to reach the papilla in Billroth II patients when an highlyspecialised.188–190 approachwithaduodenoscopehasfailed. Laparoscopically assisted ERCP in post-RYGB patients is a The single RCT that has compared forward-viewing endo- technique that has been reported in larger numbers and the scopeswithconventionalduodenoscopesdemonstratedahigher individual component techniques and skills are more readily success rate with forward-viewing endoscopes (87% vs 68%) available. A laparoscopic gastrostomy is created and at the same and a higher complication rate with duodenoscopes (namely an session ERCP is performed following which the gastrostomy is 18% visceral perforation rate).182 This has not been confirmed closed. A retrospective series from the USA compared thistech- by other reports that have described a perforation rate of 2.7– nique to long-limb enteroscopy in 56 patients.191 The thera- 10%.183 184 An approach of duodenoscope first followed by peutic success rate for laparoscopic-assisted ERCP was 100% forward-viewing endoscope if there is initial failure is a reason- versus 59% in the enteroscopy group. There was no difference ablestrategy. inhospitalstayorcomplicationsineithergroup.Althoughthere The‘upside-down’(5o’clock)orientationofthepapillawhen are organisational challenges with this technique, it is probably approached from the afferent limb after Billroth II gastrectomy thebestoptioncurrentlyandcouldbedeliveredbythemajority requires a significant alteration in sphincterotomy technique. oflargervolumesecondarycareunits. Successful outcomes can be achieved by using sphincterotomes that have been modified to alter the orientation of the cutting IMPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE ORGANISATION AND wire or by using conventional sphincterotomes that can be TRAINING rotated. However, in some cases safe, effective orientation of Delivery of the achievable aims for ERCP service provision and the cutting wire cannot be achieved. As aconsequence, it is not training will require organisations to review the way their ser- always possible to perform the full sphincterotomy that is vicesareprovided.KeyperformanceindicatorsintheBSGstan- required for successful removal of stones. Biliary sphincterot- dards framework75 include having sufficient capacity to deliver omyusinganeedleknife,withastraightplasticstentasaguide, ERCP 52weeks a year; adequate interventional radiology is analternative method thathasbeen described ina numberof support;accesstoanaesthesia-supportedERCPandregularmor- series. Compared with EPBD, it is reported to have equal effi- bidity and mortality meetings that are able to demonstrate out- cacy.185
