Overview of Aortic Aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aorta, aneurysms, arrow, artery, thoracic, left, abdominal, media, arterial, arteries, thoracic aorta, wall, aortic, common, shows


Aneurysms are abnormal dilations of arteries caused by weakening of the arterial wall. Common causes include hypertension, atherosclerosis, infection, trauma, systemic rheumatic diseases, and connective tissue disorders (eg, Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome). Aneurysms are usually asymptomatic but can cause pain and lead to ischemia, thromboembolism, spontaneous dissection, and rupture, which may be fatal. Diagnosis is by imaging tests (eg, ultrasound, CT angiography, magnetic resonance angiography, aortography). Unruptured aneurysms may be treated with medical management or repaired, depending on symptoms and the size and location of the aneurysm. Medical management includes risk factor modification (eg, strict blood pressure control) plus scheduled surveillance imaging. Repair can be done with either an open surgical or endovascular approach. Treatment of ruptured aneurysms is immediate repair. The aorta originates at the left ventricle above the aortic valve, travels upward (ascending thoracic aorta) to the first branch of the aorta (brachiocephalic or innominate artery), arches up and behind the heart (aortic arch), then turns downward distal to the left subclavian artery (descending aorta) through the thorax (thoracic aorta) and abdomen (abdominal aorta). The abdominal aorta ends by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. Radiographic Images of Aneurysms CTA (Coronal View) of Thorax Showing Ascending Thoracic Aorta This image shows the ascending thoracic aorta (red arrow) arising from the left ventricle (blue arrow). CTA (Coronal View) of Abdomen Showing Abdominal Aorta This image shows the abdominal aorta (red arrow) dividing into the right (blue arrow) and left (green arrow) common iliac arteries. CT of Thorax Showing Anatomy of Aorta and Pulmonary Artery This image shows the ascending thoracic aorta (red arrow) with descending thoracic aorta (blue arrow). The main pulmonary artery (green arrow) divides into the right (purple arrow) and left (yellow arrow) pulmonary artery. Endovascular Stent Graft The white arrow shows an endovascular stent graft within an abdominal aneurysm (red arrow). The wall of the aorta is composed of 3 layers: Intima: A thin layer lined with endothelium Media: A thick layer of elastic fibers arranged in spiral formation Adventitia: A thin fibrous layer containing the nutrients for the media Aneurysms are abnormal dilations of arteries defined as a ≥ 50% increase in arterial diameter compared with normal segments. They are caused by weakening of the arterial wall, specifically, the media. True aneurysms involve all 3 layers of the artery (intima, media, and adventitia). Aneurysmal disease can extend along the aorta with time.
