DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


through a valve called the tricuspid valve, and into the right ventricle. From there, the blood is pumped out through the pulmonary valve, into the pulmonary artery, and to the lungs. In the lungs, the blood moves into capillaries, which are tiny, thin-walled blood vessels that allow for the exchange of gases (like oxygen and carbon dioxide). The carbon dioxide in the oxygen-poor blood is exchanged for new oxygen from the air through the thin capillary walls. After this exchange, the blood contains high levels of oxygen and can be described as oxygen-rich. The oxygen-rich blood then returns to the heart through the pulmonary veins. From the pulmonary veins, the oxygen-rich blood enters the left atrium. The blood continues from the left atrium, passes through the mitral valve, and empties into the left ventricle. The left ventricle, which is the largest and strongest of the four chambers of the heart, pumps the oxygen-rich blood through the aortic valve and out into a very large vessel called the aorta. From the aorta, blood travels into smaller arteries, then into arterioles, and finally capillaries of the organs and tissues of the body. It is here that oxygen is removed from the blood and carbon dioxide, a waste product from cells, replaces it. Finally, the blood that is now oxygen poor moves from the capillaries into venules, then into veins, and back into the superior or inferior vena cava to repeat the process. THE CARDIAC TISSUE For the heart to maintain this continuous pumping process, it also requires a large amount of oxygen. The heart is made up of a unique type of muscle tissue that is not found anywhere else in the body. This specialized muscle tissue of the heart is referred to as the myocardium. The cells that make up the myocardium are called cardiac myocytes. These myocytes are almost entirely dependent on aerobic metabolism, meaning they require oxygen to function normally and depend upon an oxygen-binding protein known as myoglobin. Blood Flow to the Myocardium To continuously supply the heart muscle with oxygen, three major coronary arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the aorta to the myocardium (Figure 1-2). Different coronary arteries supply blood to various parts of the myocardium. For example, the right coronary artery supplies blood to the right atrium, sections of both ventricles, and portions of the heart’s electrical conduction system. Other major coronary arteries include the left
