DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


example, the right coronary artery supplies blood to the right atrium, sections of both ventricles, and portions of the heart’s electrical conduction system. Other major coronary arteries include the left main coronary artery, which divides into the left circumflex artery, and the left anterior descending artery, all of which are responsible for delivering blood to a particular part of the heart. In a similar network, several large cardiac veins, including the aptly named great cardiac vein, collect the oxygen-poor blood from the tissue and return it to the right atrium via the coronary sinus. Maintaining a healthy circulation of blood into the coronary arteries is necessary to assure optimal cardiac function. If an obstruction develops in any of the coronary arteries blocking the flow of blood, the myocytes that are supplied by the obstructed artery will experience distress, and there will be insufficient oxygen and nutrients flowing to that region of heart tissue. Electrical Activity in the Heart Cardiac muscle tissue has another distinctive quality. Unlike other types of muscle that require stimulation by a nerve or hormone to contract, the myocytes of the myocardium stimulate their own contraction. This self-stimulation is referred to as automaticity, and it means that the heart can stimulate its own muscle contraction without any input from the body. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 7 Figure 1-2. Major arteries that supply blood to the myocardium LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY The electrical impulses that cause the heart muscle to contract, or beat, in a regular fashion originate in the sinoatrial node (SA node) which is located in the wall of the right atrium. Once the electrical activity in the SA node has begun, it travels through both atria, stimulating the muscle to contract (or beat). After stimulating the atria, the electrical impulse then travels to the atrioventricular node (AV node), down along a band of fibers (called the bundle of His) to the right and left bundles in the right and left ventricles, respectively. The electrical impulse then spreads to the walls of both ventricles through pathways called Purkinje fibers and triggers the ventricles to contract (or beat). These electrical impulses that stimulate contraction of the atrium and ventricles are what produce the rhythmic, coordinated pumping action of the heart. In turn, this pumping action generates the stroke volume which is felt as the pulse—the regular beat that can
