DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


are what produce the rhythmic, coordinated pumping action of the heart. In turn, this pumping action generates the stroke volume which is felt as the pulse—the regular beat that can be monitored in the arteries throughout the body. Although the heart creates its own electrical impulses, outside activity from nerves and hormones can influence how often and strongly the heart muscle contracts. For example, when a person experiences a sudden fright, the heart may beat much faster and more powerfully than normal. In this situation, the sympathetic nervous system and the adrenal glands release a hormone called norepinephrine. Norepinephrine changes how the heart responds to electrical stimulation resulting in an increased heart rate and contractility of the pumping chambers. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 8 THE PUMPING ACTION OF THE HEART: SYSTOLE AND DIASTOLE Another concept that is important to understand about the heart is systole and diastole. In simple terms, systole means contraction of the myocardium and diastole means relaxation of the myocardium. However, the atria and ventricles do not contract or relax at the same time. For a brief period, both atria and both ventricles are in diastole allowing blood from the vena cava or pulmonary veins to flow in passively. Once the SA node begins spreading its electrical impulse, the muscles of atria begin contracting to create atrial systole. During atrial systole, the walls of the left and right atrium contract to push blood into the ventricles (which are still in diastole). The atria quickly return to diastole and begin refilling with more blood in preparation for the next contraction. At this time, systole of the ventricles occurs, and the walls of both ventricles contract to push blood into the aorta and pulmonary artery (the right ventricle pumps to the pulmonary artery, and the left ventricle pumps to the aorta). After systole is complete, the ventricles return to diastole and begin refilling with blood again. Both systole and diastole are energy-dependent phases of the cardiac cycle, meaning the cardiac cells require energy to perform these functions. Dysfunction of either one or both of these phases can lead to heart failure. In a healthy heart, the muscle tissue has an elastic quality, meaning it stretches easily but can quickly return to its original shape (similar to a rubber band). This quality is sometimes referred to as elasticity. During diastole, the muscle actively stretches as the heart fills with blood, and
