DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


to its original shape (similar to a rubber band). This quality is sometimes referred to as elasticity. During diastole, the muscle actively stretches as the heart fills with blood, and during systole, it springs back and contracts to smaller ventricular chamber sizes to pump the blood out. Systole of the ventricles is significantly more powerful than systole of the atria because the ventricles are thicker and force the blood to travel much further. The left ventricle, the largest and thickest of the four heart chambers, creates the most powerful contraction during systole because it must pump blood to the entire body. Efficient pumping of the left ventricle is essential because it pushes the oxygenated blood to the tissues and organs and helps maintain the pressure required for the oxygen and carbon dioxide to be exchanged in the capillaries. If the left ventricle does not pump well, the tissues and organs of the body may not receive an adequate supply of oxygen to function normally. Understanding the process of systole and diastole in the heart can also help explain a health parameter that is frequently measured in the clinical setting: blood pressure. More accurately termed arterial blood pressure, this is a measure of the pressure in the arteries during ventricular systole and the pressure at the end of ventricular diastole. For example, a blood pressure reading of 120/80 mmHg indicates that the blood vessels have a pressure of 120 mmHg during ventricular systole and 80 mmHg at the end of ventricular diastole. It is important that blood pressure not be too high or too low. Hypertension, the medical term for blood pressure that is too high, can damage organs and tissues of the body over time because of the high pressures. Correspondingly, hypotension, or blood pressure that is too low, will not create enough pressure to allow oxygen to be exchanged into organs and tissues. This can deprive the cells of oxygen needed for basic function and can lead to organ and tissue damage. UNDERSTANDING EJECTION FRACTION The last concept that is important to understand about the heart is ejection fraction. When a person is resting, only about 60 percent (normal range approximately 50-70 percent) of the blood that was in the ventricle at the end of diastole is pumped out (so the ventricle is never completely emptied). The percentage of blood pumped out during systole is called the ejection fraction.
