DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


This obstruction is usually caused by the rupture of plaque in the coronary artery. Plaque is a substance that can accumulate inside the coronary artery and is made up primarily of cholesterol, fat, and calcium. If plaque in a coronary artery ruptures, it triggers platelet activation and adhesion as well as the initiation of the clotting cascade that results in the production of fibrin. These events can lead to the formation of a clot or thrombus inside the coronary artery that completely blocks the flow of blood. As a result of this thrombus, the tissues and myocytes that the artery normally supplies blood to are deprived of oxygen. With time, the oxygen deprivation leads to the death of the myocytes and permanent damage to the myocardium resulting in a scar. When a STEMI is identified on an ECG, immediate intervention is required to reopen the blocked coronary artery (the term reperfusion is often used to describe reopening the artery). Reperfusion can be accomplished by administration of an intravenous medication called a thrombolytic or, more optimally, by an immediate procedure called a primary percutaneous coronary intervention (primary PCI) performed at a hospital with cardiac catheterization facilities. Both of these procedures will be discussed in more detail later in this section. Any delay in the time to reperfusion can increase the amount of damage that occurs to the myocardium. Because a STEMI leads to the death of the cardiac myocytes, cardiac biomarkers are always elevated, but biomarker information is not required before proceeding to a reperfusion intervention. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 12 A 12-lead ECG shows different views of the electrical activity in the heart from 12 distinct angles. During the test, a technician places a wire lead on 12 specific areas of the chest, arms, and legs. The ECG traces the view of the heart’s electrical activity from each of these 12 areas of the body because they each reflect a unique view of the heart. On the ECG report, each lead produces a tracing, and the tracings are labeled I, II, III, aVR, aVL, aVF, V1, V2, V3, V4, V5, and V6. An ECG is useful for diagnosing a range of cardiac problems, including arrhythmias. In ACS, paramedics, nurses, and physicians use the ECG to differentiate a STEMI from other causes of ACS symptoms. An ECG can even identify which coronary artery is likely obstructed by looking at which leads have
