DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


use the ECG to differentiate a STEMI from other causes of ACS symptoms. An ECG can even identify which coronary artery is likely obstructed by looking at which leads have ST elevation (Figure 2-1). ST Segment Normal ECG P T QRS STEMI ST Elevation ST Segment P T QRS NSTEMI ST Segment ST Depression P T QRS NSTEMI ST Segment T Inversion P T QRS Figure 2-1. The name ST-elevation MI is describing the changes that happen during a STEMI on an ECG: the ST segment in the ECG tracing is more elevated than normal. This test is useful for distinguishing a STEMI from other types of MI. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 13 Non-ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction The second type of ACS, non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction or NSTEMI, also has serious consequences for the heart. An NSTEMI is also a type of MI but is much more common than STEMI. Although estimates vary, approximately 75 percent of patients presenting with MI are diagnosed with NSTEMI, and this is associated with an 18 percent chance of death in the first 30 days after the event.3 As the name implies, in an NSTEMI, the ECG does not have the characteristic ST elevation seen with STEMI. However, an NSTEMI shares many other similarities with a STEMI. An NSTEMI occurs when an obstruction occurs in the coronary artery that prevents adequate amounts of blood and oxygen to flow to the tissues, and with time, this results in tissue necrosis (tissue death).6,7 Many things can cause this obstruction, but, similar to a STEMI, the most common cause is plaque rupture and subsequent thrombus formation in a coronary artery. Other less common causes include vasospasm of the coronary artery or an excessive accumulation of plaque inside the coronary artery that almost completely occludes blood flow. Regardless of the cause, an NSTEMI does cause ischemia in the cardiac myocytes because they are not receiving enough oxygen to function normally, and with time, this leads to the death of the myocytes and permanent damage to the myocardium. Elevated cardiac biomarkers are a confirmation of this damage and differentiate NSTEMI from unstable angina. Additionally, these elevated biomarkers, along with other clinical factors, help identify higher-risk patients with NSTEMI who require cardiac catheterization. Unstable Angina The third type of ACS is unstable angina (UA). Unlike STEMI and NSTEMI, traditional cardiac biomarkers are not elevated in UA, myocyte death does not appear to occur,
