DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


Unstable Angina The third type of ACS is unstable angina (UA). Unlike STEMI and NSTEMI, traditional cardiac biomarkers are not elevated in UA, myocyte death does not appear to occur, and it is not classified an MI.6,7 However, this understanding of UA is changing with the advent of more sensitive biomarker measurements, such as high- sensitivity troponin. Many experts now believe that most patients diagnosed with UA are likely experiencing an NSTEMI, but the conventional biomarker measurements are not sensitive enough to detect it.8 As a result, the use of the term UA will likely be phased out over time. As in NSTEMI, cardiac catheterization is commonly performed in patients with UA. Symptoms and Biomarkers in Diagnosing ACS Regardless of whether it is classified as a STEMI or NSTEMI, an MI is caused by an ischemic event that results in death of the myocytes and permanent damage to the myocardium. The term necrosis is often used to describe the death of the myocytes. It is important to understand the criteria for recognizing necrosis and, in turn, diagnosing an acute MI (Table 2-1). Although the assessment process for acute MI begins with an ECG, clinicians must also consider the symptoms the patient is experiencing and measure cardiac biomarkers. Cardiac troponins are the preferred biomarker in this clinical setting. The cells of the myocardium contain three types of troponin: troponin I, T, and C. Troponin C is also found in skeletal muscle, but troponins I and T are very specific to cardiac myocytes and are therefore clinically useful for measuring damage to the myocardium. When extended ischemia occurs, the cells die and begin to break apart releasing the troponin into the bloodstream.6 If high levels of troponin T or I are measured in the blood, in the correct clinical setting, it is confirmation that there is necrosis in the cardiac tissue (Table 2-1).6 To be diagnostic for MI, cardiac troponin must not only exceed the 99th percentile of the upper reference limit but also must be rising or falling in a characteristic pattern over time. Serial measurements of troponin can determine if concentrations are changing; when troponin concentrations remain constant over an extended duration, it suggests that an alternative diagnosis should be considered, such as renal failure, heart failure, or sepsis.9 LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 14 Table 2-1. FOURTH UNIVERSAL DEFINITION OF MI Criteria for ACUTE myocardial infarction (Types 1, 2 and 3
