DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


considered, such as renal failure, heart failure, or sepsis.9 LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 14 Table 2-1. FOURTH UNIVERSAL DEFINITION OF MI Criteria for ACUTE myocardial infarction (Types 1, 2 and 3 MI) The term acute myocardial infarction should be used when there is acute myocardial injury with clinical evidence of acute myocardial ischaemia and with detection of a rise and/or fall of cTn values with at least one value above the 99th percentile URL and at least one of the following: • Symptoms of myocardial ischaemia • New ischaemic ECG changes • Development of pathological Q waves • Imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium or new regional wall motion abnormality in a pattern consistent with an ischaemic aetiology • Identification of a coronary thrombus by angiography or autopsy (not for type 2 or 3 MIs) Post-mortem demonstration of acute athero-thrombosis in the artery supplying the infarcted myocardium meets criteria for type 1 MI . Evidence of an imbalance between myocardial oxygen supply and demand unrelated to acute athero-thrombosis meets criteria for type 2 MI . Cardiac death in patients with symptoms suggestive of myocardial ischaemia and presumed new ischaemic ECG changes before cTn values become available or abnormal meets criteria for type 3 MI . There are additional types of MI (Types 4 and 5) that are very uncommon and are not included in this table . Criteria for myocardial injury The term myocardial injury should be used when there is evidence of elevated cardiac troponin values (cTn) with at least one value above the 99th percentile upper reference limit URL) . The myocardial injury is considered acute if there is a rise and/or fall of cTn values . Cardiac troponin I (cTnI) and T (cTnT) are components of the contractile apparatus of myocardial cells and are expressed almost exclusively in the heart . Increases in cTnI values have not been reported to occur following injury to non-cardiac tissues . The situation is more complex for cTnT . Biochemical data indicate that injured skeletal muscle expresses proteins that are detected by the cTnT assay, leading to some situations where elevations of cTnT could emanate from skeletal muscle . cent data suggest that the frequency of such elevations in the absence of ischaemic heart disease may be higher than originally thought . cTnI and cTnT are the preferred biomarkers for the evaluation of myocardial injury, and high-sensitivity (hs)-cTn assays are
