DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


absence of ischaemic heart disease may be higher than originally thought . cTnI and cTnT are the preferred biomarkers for the evaluation of myocardial injury, and high-sensitivity (hs)-cTn assays are recommended for routine clinical use . Other biomarkers, e .g ., creatine kinase MB isoform (CKMB), are less sensitive and less specific . Myocardial injury is defined as being present when blood levels of cTn are increased above the 99th percentile upper reference limit (URL) . The injury my be acute, as evidenced by a newly detected dynamic rising and/or falling pattern of cTn values above the 99th percentile URL, or chronic, in the setting of persistently elevated cTn levels . Criteria for prior or silent/unrecognized myocardial infarction Any one of the following criteria meets the diagnosis for prior or silent/unrecognized MI: • Abnormal Q waves with or without symptoms in the absence of non-ischaemic causes • Imaging evidence of loss of viable myocardium in a pattern consistent with ischaemic aetiology • Patho-anatomical findings of a prior MI From: Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, Simoons ML, Chaitman BR, White HD, the Joint ESC/ACCF/AHA/WHF Task Force for the Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction . Third universal definition of myocardial infarction . Eur Heart J . 2012; 33:2551–2567 . Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, Chaitman BR, Bax JJ, Morrow DA, White HD, the Joint ESC/ACCF/AHA/WHF Task Force for the Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction . Fourth universal definition of myocardial infarction . JACC . 2018 .08 .1038 . LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 15 CLASSIFICATION OF MYOCARDIAL INFARCTIONS For initial treatment stratification by emergency medicine providers and cardiologists, an MI is classified as a STEMI or NSTEMI. However, there are additional classifications for MI that further explain the mechanism leading to the ischemia. It is essential for providers to understand the cause of an MI to treat it appropriately. Type 1: The Spontaneous MI The most common type of MI is a spontaneous, or type 1, MI (Figure 2-2).6 It is caused by rupture of plaque in a coronary artery. This rupture triggers the activation and aggregation of platelets, the initiation of the coagulation cascade to produce fibrin, and ultimately the formation of a thrombus which causes complete or partial occlusion of the artery. Plaque can accumulate inside any artery in the body, and the presence of plaque in the arteries is called atherosclerosis. The presence of plaque in the coronary arteries
