DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


the artery. Plaque can accumulate inside any artery in the body, and the presence of plaque in the arteries is called atherosclerosis. The presence of plaque in the coronary arteries is particularly problematic, and when this occurs, it is termed coronary artery disease. Plaque changes how blood moves through the arteries because it stiffens the walls of the artery and narrows the artery lumen. Plaque is also less stable than walls of the artery and more prone to breakage or rupture. As blood travels through the coronary arteries, occasionally the plaque will rupture. If the subsequent platelet aggregation and fibrin formation result in a significant obstruction in the artery, a type 1 MI occurs. Since a type 1 MI is caused by plaque (and coronary artery disease), much of the prevention and long-term treatments focus on stabilizing current plaque (reducing the risk of rupture) and decreasing further plaque buildup. MI TYPE 1 MI TYPE 2 Plaque rupture Vasospasm or endothelial Fixed atherosclerosis and Supply-demand with thrombus dysfunction supply-demand imbalance imbalance alone Figure 2-2. Differentiation between myocardial infarction (MI) types 1 and 2 according to the condition of the coronary arteries LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 16 Type 2: The Ischemic Imbalance MI Unlike a type 1 MI, a type 2 MI is not triggered by a thrombus forming in a coronary artery. Instead, a type 2 MI is the result of supply and demand imbalance in the heart where the coronary arteries are not supplying adequate oxygen for the myocytes to function normally—the supply does not meet the demand. There are many reasons that this can occur (Figure 2-2). Some type 2 MIs are caused by a vasospasm, or spasm of the blood vessel wall, which can prevent blood from flowing appropriately to the myocardium, leading to ischemic damage. Others can be caused by coronary artery disease where plaque accumulation can limit the blood flow through a coronary artery. If the heart needs more oxygen because it is beating more rapidly than normal, as often occurs in a severe infection, and more oxygen is unable to flow to the tissue because of the plaque accumulation, then a type 2 MI occurs. Moreover, in some cases, the coronary arteries may be completely normal and healthy, but something else has led to an imbalance in the supply and demand resulting in an MI. Examples of this would include very high myocyte oxygen demand from
