DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


and healthy, but something else has led to an imbalance in the supply and demand resulting in an MI. Examples of this would include very high myocyte oxygen demand from an ongoing high heart rate or severe anemia where there are too few red blood cells circulating to bring the myocytes adequate oxygen. Type 3: Cardiac Death MI Patients who suffer cardiac death, with symptoms suggestive of myocardial ischaemia accompanied by presumed new ischaemic ECG changes or ventricular fibrillation, but die before blood samples for biomarkers can be obtained, or before increases in cardiac biomarkers can be identified, or MI is detected by autopsy examination. Other Types of MI There are two other types of MI that should be mentioned for completeness. A type 4 MI is related to a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedure or a problem with a stent (a thin, mesh wire tube that props open a blood vessel) previously placed in a coronary artery.6 Lastly, a type 5 MI results from a coronary artery bypass graft surgery (a surgical procedure that will be discussed later in this section).6 Although all types of MI are clinically important, this guide will focus on type 1 and 2 as they are the most common in the clinical setting. The key concept to appreciate about MI is that anything that prevents the myocardium from receiving adequate supplies of oxygen will lead to ischemia. If this ischemia is prolonged, it will lead to myocyte death and tissue necrosis. Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, Chaitman BR, Bax JJ, Morrow DA, White HD, the Joint ESC/ACCF/AHA/WHF Task Force for the Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction . Fourth universal definition of myocardial infarction . JACC . 2018 .08 .1038 . LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 17 THE PROCESS OF CARE IN MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION Because damage to the cardiac tissue happens quickly once an obstruction occurs, it is essential that medical providers understand how to manage patients experiencing ACS efficiently. Figure 2-3 is a flowchart explaining the process of care for patients with ACS. Any patient with ACS symptoms is classified as very high acuity in the emergency department and requires rapid assessment and close monitoring. Nurses, physicians, and other support staff must work together to ensure that this occurs in a timely and efficient manner. SUSPECTED ACS 12-LEAD ECG† ST-ELEVATION NO ST-ELEVATION Immediate reperfusion Risk Stratification with primary PCI* Medical history, physical exam findings, (or
