DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


ensure that this occurs in a timely and efficient manner. SUSPECTED ACS 12-LEAD ECG† ST-ELEVATION NO ST-ELEVATION Immediate reperfusion Risk Stratification with primary PCI* Medical history, physical exam findings, (or fibrinolytic if PCI unavailable) repeat ECG†, and serial biomarkers Serial biomarkers Based on risk stratification (results not needed prior to reperfusion) 1. Initiate pharmacotherapy for NSTEMI‡ ECG† monitoring after reperfusion 2. Begin additional diagnostic testing Begin adjunctive Angiography pharmacotherapy Low risk Medium risk High risk with possible PCI* for STEMI** Non-invasive testing Positive test (e.g., stress testing) Negative test † ECG – electrocardiogram Non-cardiac chest pain, * PCI – percutaneous coronary intervention address any cardiac risk factors ‡ NSTEMI – non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction or alternative diagnoses; discharge may be considered if appropriate ** STEMI – ST-elevation myocardial infarction Figure 2-3. Process of care for patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome (ACS)7,11,23 LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 18 ACS Symptoms Any person experiencing symptoms of ACS should be evaluated immediately by a healthcare provider. Chest pain, sometimes radiating down the left arm, is probably the most widely recognized symptom. But many patients, especially women and the elderly, may experience other symptoms like chest pressure, nausea, sweating, jaw or back pain, shortness of breath, dizziness, or light-headedness.10 STEMI The first step in the assessment of a patient with ACS symptoms is to perform an ECG (Figure 2-4). An ECG will be used to determine if the patient is experiencing a STEMI. The characteristic ST elevation on ECG, in conjunction with ACS symptoms and elevated cardiac biomarkers, are diagnostic for STEMI, but treatment should never be delayed waiting for biomarker results once STEMI has been identified on ECG.6,11 A STEMI is most often a type 1 MI, and patients need immediate reperfusion therapy to open the occluded coronary artery and prevent further myocardial damage from occurring. The preferred treatment for a STEMI is a primary PCI performed as soon as possible after hospital arrival. For the PCI procedure, the patient is promptly transferred to the cardiac catheterization laboratory (or cath lab). First, a specialized catheter is threaded through a large artery (either the femoral artery in the groin or the radial artery in the wrist) up into the heart. Next, the physician will use a dye to evaluate the blood flow through the coronary arteries (this is called an angiogram) and identify the exact area of occlusion. Finally, the blocked coronary artery is opened by
