DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


and I are highly specific to cardiac muscle. Together, troponin T and I are considered the cardiac troponins. In the appropriate clinical setting, if significant elevations of these troponins are detected in the blood, and they are determined to be rising or falling, they are a useful tool for confirming cardiac necrosis.15 Notably, most healthy individuals have small but measurable concentrations of troponin in the bloodstream in a normal physiologic state possibly as a result of cell turnover (the normal life and death cycle of a cell).15 However, at these low concentrations, only high-sensitivity assays can detect it.15 TnI TnC TnT ACTIN TROPOMYOSIN Figure 3-1. The troponin complex Although the troponin protein was initially identified in 1965, the first assay for measuring troponin I in the serum was not developed until 1987.16 An assay for troponin T followed in 1989.16 Through the 1990s and 2000s, improvements in the immunoassays significantly increased the precision and sensitivity of these tests. The conventional troponin assays in current use are one hundred to one thousand times more sensitive than the original assays developed in the 1980s.17 Assays for troponins T and I are both used today in the care of patients with suspected ACS, which may exhibit one or more of the following biological variations: 1. D iurnal variation: The amount of circulating troponin may vary throughout the day in individuals not experiencing myocardial infarction (MI).18 2. K idney disease and diseases of the skeletal muscle: Some assays measuring troponin in these settings exhibits less variation than other assays, and some troponins can be chronically elevated in patients with End Stage Renal Disease.19,20,21,25 3. S T-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI): In this category of patients, the concentration of some subunits of troponin appear to follow a linear decline after the event, whereas some appear to decline and then peak again shortly after the MI.22 4. M acrotroponins: Consist of troponin bound to immunoglobulins (autoantibodies). Some assays may detect these autoantibodies.150 LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 24 5. B iotin interference: It was recently reported that some immunoassays, including troponin assays, are susceptible to interference from biotin (or vitamin B7) supplements.147 Laboratory personnel and clinicians should be mindful of this interaction when interpreting cardiac troponin results. 6. H emolysis: A hemolyzed blood specimen can also result in inaccurate measurements of troponin assays. Thus, hemolysis needs should be noted when troponin concentrations are reported, and attempts should be made
