DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


department (ED) with ACS symptoms will undergo a “rule-in” or “rule-out” protocol where serial cardiac markers are measured. Measuring the conventional troponin several times over a three- to six-hour period (or even longer period for higher risk patients) should yield a positive result if a patient is experiencing an NSTEMI. This process can result in prolonged ED admission times for patients who are ultimately “ruled out” (not experiencing an MI) and delays in initiation of treatments for patients who are eventually determined to be experiencing an NSTEMI. Another limitation of conventional troponin assays is that they may lack enough sensitivity to detect small elevations in troponin that can occur in a less extensive MI or in those with lower circulating levels of troponin, such as women or patients presenting early after the onset of symptoms.26,27 This scenario could cause an NSTEMI patient to be erroneously sent home, where they may go on to suffer cardiac complications or, in the worst case, may die. The potential to miss the diagnosis of MI completely (incorrect “rule-out”) and the extended time required to identify MI (delayed “rule-in”) are the primary limitations of conventional troponin tests in clinical practice. The need to overcome these limitations led to the development of more sensitive and precise troponin assays. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 26 HIGH-SENSITIVITY TROPONIN ASSAYS Due to the shortcomings of conventional troponin measurements, high-sensitivity troponin (hsTn) assays have been developed. The hsTn assays have been used for several years outside the US. These assays are 10 to 100-fold more sensitive than the conventional troponin assays and can detect the very low levels of troponin that circulate in healthy individuals (Figure 3-2).28 Though troponin was once thought only to enter the circulation when myocytes had been damaged, we now know that it can be found in normal individuals. The reasons for this have yet to be fully elucidated, but myocyte turnover and increased cell permeability have been suggested as mechanisms.29,30 99th Percentile PATIENTS WITH NORMAL LEVELS CARDIAC DAMAGE DUE TO NON-AMI CAUSES PATIENTS WITH MYOCARDIAL NECROSIS HIGH-SENSITIVITY TROPONIN ASSAY 4th gen troponin assay 1st-3rd gen troponin LEVEL OF CARDIAC TROPONIN Figure 3-2. The sensitivity of high-sensitivity troponin assays allows for measurement of troponin in normal healthy individuals, whereas earlier generation assays were only sensitive enough to detect troponin elevation resulting from significant necrosis in MI, or occasionally, severe damage from other causes Adapted from: Garg P, Morris
