DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


for diagnosis in many situations. And second, it reduces the risk of missing an MI completely and the associated risk of cardiac complications and death (Figure 3-3). LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 28 HsTn Assays: Things to Consider It is essential to emphasize that the high-sensitivity assays for troponin trade specificity for increased sensitivity. There may be more troponin elevations detected with hsTn assays that are not related to ACS. But it remains important for clinicians to be mindful that other conditions such as heart failure, sepsis, and kidney failure that can cause elevation of the conventional troponin assays also, to a greater degree, cause elevations of hsTn sensitivity troponin elevations are not MI. Thus, each patient with an elevated value needs careful consideration for both the MI and non-MI determinants. As such, it is even more imperative that physicians employ good clinical judgment when evaluating patients with suspected ACS. All aspects of the patient’s presentation should be assessed to appropriately stratify a patient’s risk for ACS, including symptoms, medical history, physical exam information, ECG, and troponin concentrations. It is also important to remember that to meet the biomarker criteria for an MI; troponin concentrations must be rising or falling over time. Given the increased sensitivity of these new assays, there has been renewed debate about how this rise or fall should be defined, and at the time of this publication, there is no formal consensus. Notably, none of the prior definitions of MI utilized high-sensitivity troponin values, and the AHA/ACC guideline recommendations on the percentage change in troponin concentrations required for MI are for conventional assays.6, 7 However, researchers have been exploring how these new high-sensitivity assays may modify the definition of change in troponin concentrations. A study by Keller et al. examining the use of high- sensitivity troponin assays for early rule-out of MI demonstrated the value of using a 50 percent change (or delta) between initial and three-hour troponin measurements, a strategy known as a scaled troponin approach.34 Other groups have advocated for the use of an absolute change, rather than a percent change, for meeting the criteria of rising or falling troponin with high-sensitivity assays.35 A position statement from the IFCC outlined the potential benefits of using this method although ultimately concluded that limitations exist for any method that defines troponin change in MI.36 Prior generation cardiac troponin assays >8-12 hours post event Current generation cardiac troponin assays
