DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


method although ultimately concluded that limitations exist for any method that defines troponin change in MI.36 Prior generation cardiac troponin assays >8-12 hours post event Current generation cardiac troponin assays Onset of myocardial infarction 2-6 hours High sensitivity cardiac post event troponin assays 99th Percentile Normal levels Ischemia or Necrosis Adapted from Hochholzer, Am Heart J, 2010 Micronecrosis F . Apple, AACC Webinar, Jan 2012 Figure 3-3. Troponin rise in the time after myocardial infarction. Older and current generation troponin assays cannot detect troponin increases as quickly as the high-sensitivity troponin assays LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 29 NINOPORT CAIDRAC FO LEVEL HnTn Assays: Effects on Patient Care The high-sensitivity tests overcome the problem of prolonged diagnostic time for MI that can delay treatment. They can also dramatically shorten patient evaluation time in the ED and have demonstrated that they can reduce overall healthcare costs.37 Furthermore, they avoid the predicament of potentially missing an MI with a lesser degree of troponin elevation. However, with this increase in sensitivity, there is a loss of specificity. Clinicians need to be aware that there may be more troponin elevations reported with the new assays that are not related to ACS, and as indicated above, these cases will be in the majority. More than ever, troponins are only one piece to consider in the comprehensive evaluation of the patient. Despite these concerns, when used appropriately, these high- sensitivity tests have the potential to dramatically change how patients with ACS symptoms are managed, saving lives and money. IMPLEMENTING HIGH-SENSITIVITY TROPONIN TESTING When introducing hsTn testing to an institution, a variety of factors need to be considered. A multidisciplinary approach is essential, and representatives from all key areas affected by the change need to be included in the implementation process. Education is of particular importance; physicians, mid-level providers, nurses, and other healthcare personnel must understand the differences in sensitivity and specificity of the high-sensitivity assay.38 Likewise, protocols and workflow, particularly in the ED, may need to be modified before implementing an assay with greater sensitivity.38 The hsTn assays are most useful when they are used as part of an ACS risk assessment algorithm.23 Importantly, it should be understood that simply replacing a conventional assay in an existing protocol with a hsTn assay does not allow the high-sensitivity assay to function to its full potential. Only when used in an algorithm that accounts for the increased sensitivity can it
