DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


the function of the left ventricle before and during the ischemic event.42 Perhaps more importantly, natriuretic peptides provide additional prognostic information for patients experiencing STEMI and NSTEMI and can predict mortality and heart failure after an ACS event.42 BNP has been approved by the FDA as a prognostic aid in acute coronary syndromes.43 There are many other biomarkers currently being investigated for both diagnostic and prognostic use in ACS, and their exact role in the management of patients has not yet been defined. Ischemia-modified albumin has been cleared by the FDA as a diagnostic test for ischemia in patients with suspected acute coronary syndromes.44 Cardiac myosin-binding protein C (or cMyC) recently demonstrated usefulness in early identification of acute MI, but researchers are still unsure if it offers any advantage over hsTn.45 Similarly, two other emerging biomarkers have shown some promise for improving prognostic information in patients with ACS: GDF15 and ST2. The GDF15 protein is one of the transforming growth factor-ß cytokines. In studies, it has shown some usefulness in predicting future cardiovascular disease events and mortality.42,46 Likewise, ST2, an FDA approved biomarker for ventricular strain in patients with heart failure, appears to provide additional prognostic information regarding mortality and complications after an ACS event.42,46 Whether either GDF15 or ST2 provide additional prognostic information over currently used biomarkers remains to be determined. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 31 SECTION 3: REVIEW QUESTIONS 1. C K-MB and troponin should always be used together to detect the presence of myocardial necrosis. n n True False 2. W hich of the following statements accurately reflects the definition for rising or falling troponin concentrations using hsTn assays in an MI? a. A rise or fall indicative of cardiac necrosis is a 25 percent or more change from the initial elevated value b. T here is no consensus on the exact amount or percentage of rise or fall required for troponin changes using hsTn assays to meet criteria for MI c. The IFCC states that a rise or fall in cardiac troponin over six hours of 50 percent of more is diagnostic for MI d. All of the above are correct 3. Which of the following statements about implementing hsTn is TRUE? a. T he transition from a conventional troponin assay to a high-sensitivity assay requires education for laboratory personnel only b. W hen transitioning from conventional to high-sensitivity troponin measurements, a multidisciplinary team is needed c.
