DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


range. Women, the obese, and elderly individuals are more likely to be diagnosed with HFpEF than men, individuals in a normal weight range, and younger people.51,53 Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction can be more difficult to diagnose and manage than HFrEF, but almost half of the patients with heart failure in the US have HFpEF.51,52,54 Unfortunately, at the time of this writing, there are no proven treatments for HFpEF that reduce the risk of heart failure hospitalization or cardiovascular death. Heart Failure with Reduced Ejection Fraction (HFrEF) In HFrEF, the ejection fraction of the left ventricle is reduced. This means that with each pumping contraction of the heart, a smaller percentage of blood, usually less than 45 percent, is forced out into the aorta. The interior cavity of the left ventricle is typically dilated in HFrEF, and the heart muscle is less effective when it contracts.51 Unlike HFpEF, HFrEF is the more common cause of heart failure in men and younger individuals.52 Approximately two-thirds of HFrEF is attributed to a prior myocardial infarction and damage to the heart resulting in scar formation.55 Diagnosis is more straightforward in HFrEF than in HFpEF: patients with HFrEF are more likely than those with HFpEF to have common symptoms of heart failure. Also, because they are younger, patients with HFrEF are less likely than those with HFpEF to have other diseases that the symptoms could be attributed to, like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.51,52,54 Patients with HFrEF also respond more favorably to treatment with medications than those with HFpEF.51,52 Indeed multiple classes of medications, as well as implantable devices, reduce the risk of heart failure hospitalization and cardiovascular death in HFrEF. These include medications such as ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, certain beta-blocking agents, valsartan/sacubitril, ivabradine, the combination of long-acting nitrates and hydralazine, and digoxin, as well as devices such as implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and cardiac resynchronization devices.52,56 What is a Normal Ejection Fraction? Heart failure is often defined in terms of the heart’s left ventricular ejection fraction (or EF), so what is a normal EF for the left ventricle? Although definitions vary, the normal range of EF (measured when a person is at rest) is generally described as approximately 50 to 70 percent. However, in 2015, the American Society of Echocardiography and the European Association of Cardiovascular Imaging released collaborative recommendations that offer a more precise definition. In this document, a
