DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


the patient is not experiencing signs or symptoms.58 In Stage C, patients have evidence of structural changes in the heart and also signs and symptoms of heart failure.58 Finally, stage D indicates that the patient is experiencing end-stage heart failure: symptoms at rest or with minimal exertion despite maximized medical therapy.58 Thus, the NYHA class is usually applied to patients with symptomatic Stage C and D heart failure. TIME A Risk factors for heart failure Structural changes to the heart B WITHOUT symptoms/signs Structural changes to the heart C PLUS symptoms ADVANCED HEART FAILURE D Patients may be: • Hospitalized frequently • Evaluated for/receive an LVAD* • Awaiting heart transplant * Left Ventricular Assist Device Figure 4-2. Stepwise progression of heart failure according to ACC/AHA stages LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 36 DEFINING HEART FAILURE BY PRESENTATION: ACUTE AND CHRONIC HEART FAILURE Acute heart failure (AHF) is a term often used in the emergency department (ED) and hospital setting. This term refers to an acute, rapid worsening of heart failure symptoms that can be life-threatening.52 Patients with AHF need prompt medical evaluation and treatment. In about two-thirds of cases, patients with AHF have already been diagnosed with heart failure, but in the other one-third, AHF is the first sign of a heart failure problem.52,59 Often, a patient with stable heart failure experiences an event that triggers the AHF episode. This event can be something straightforward like neglecting to take prescribed heart failure medications or something more complex, such as a new MI, a superimposed infection, development of abnormal heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation), or dietary changes with increased intake of salt.52 Chronic heart failure, in contrast to acute, is the more stable, chronic manifestation of inadequate cardiac function. Chronic heart failure is the term used to describe patients with heart failure who are not experiencing an acute worsening of symptoms from AHF. The majority of patients with heart failure are classified as having chronic heart failure. They are managed in the outpatient setting, and they only convert to a diagnosis of acute heart failure in the setting of acute symptom worsening. Once a patient is hospitalized for heart failure, there is a much higher risk of repeat hospitalization within the next several months, and this often becomes a progressive cycle. CAUSES OF HEART FAILURE Anything that causes damage to the myocardium can lead to heart failure. Coronary artery disease is the most important
