DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


may develop more diffusely over time as a result of the heart failure process itself.63 The changes that lead to fibrosis occur on the cellular level within the cardiac myocytes. In response to the original damage that led to heart failure, the myocytes become enlarged and don’t function as efficiently.63 Poor myocyte function eventually leads to an excessive accumulation of proteins between the myocyte cells that prevent normal movement of the cells and cause stiffening of the myocytes. This stiffness of the myocytes produces the cardiac fibrosis.63 LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 37 The consequences of these structural changes in the heart are profound for the rest of the body. Humans have a “closed circulatory system,” like a closed circuit; this means that blood can only go “back” when it cannot go “forward.” When the heart does not pump the blood forward effectively as a result of stiffness or pump failure, the blood begins to “back up” into the lungs. With blood moving more slowly through the pulmonary system, fluid leaks out into the lungs and begins to accumulate. When a patient with heart failure stands or sits upright, this fluid falls to the bottom of the lungs and may not interfere with breathing; however, when the patient lays down flat, the fluid pools throughout the lungs which may lead to difficulty breathing. Eventually, the increased pressure in the lungs may lead to congestion in the right ventricle. Because the right ventricle receives blood from the rest of the body, as the right ventricular performance is affected, a further “back up” of blood will occur into the peripheral tissues. This results in fluid accumulation in the peripheral tissues that manifests as swelling (or edema), first in the legs and feet (due to gravity), and then it may spread to the abdomen and even to organs such as the liver. This process whereby problems with the left ventricle lead to problems with the right ventricle, with congestion of the lungs as well as the peripheral tissues, underlies what most doctors regard as true “congestive heart failure.” SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS OF HEART FAILURE One of the most important characteristics to evaluate in patients with heart failure is symptoms. Notably, many of the symptoms of heart failure can be traced back to the changes in cardiac performance and can be collectively termed “effort intolerance.” Shortness of breath (sometimes called dyspnea) is the most common symptom
