DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


heart failure can be traced back to the changes in cardiac performance and can be collectively termed “effort intolerance.” Shortness of breath (sometimes called dyspnea) is the most common symptom of heart failure and is a sign that fluid is accumulating in the lungs as a result of poor left ventricular performance. Patients with heart failure often present with other symptoms as well, such as orthopnea (shortness of breath when lying down), paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (awakening from sleep with acute shortness of breath), exercise intolerance, weakness, fatigue, and swelling of the ankles and feet.51,52 Again, these symptoms correlate with fluid accumulation in the lungs and body as a result of the “back up” of blood in the heart. Heart failure most often limits a persons’ ability to perform strenuous or even low-intensity exercise. This can eventually progress to the point that symptoms interfere with very basic functions such as walking, showering, dressing, and eating food as described in NYHA class III and IV.64 On a physical exam, clinicians evaluate for signs of heart failure. In severe cases, the signs can be obvious; however, if the patient’s heart failure has developed over a long time, the signs may be subtle. A patient may appear very congested (often referred to as “wet”) or may not have obvious congestion at rest (referred to as “dry”). If “wet,” fluid in the lungs can be heard with a stethoscope as crackles (“rales” or “crepitations”), and the patient may be visibly short of breath with evidence of low oxygen levels, such as blue skin. Fluid in the peripheral tissues can be seen and felt as swelling or edema (as described above). Evaluation of the jugular vein in the neck can show distension. Changes in how the heart sounds through a stethoscope and differences in where the heartbeat can be felt in the chest can also be signs of heart failure; the heart rate may increase to the point where it seems to “gallop” as it attempts to compensate for poor output.50,52 LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 38 THE ROLE OF ECG AND IMAGING Electrocardiogram (ECG) Although the electrocardiogram or ECG (Figure 4-3) is essential in the assessment of patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) symptoms, it is a less specific tool in heart failure. Patients with heart failure can have mild or dramatic abnormalities on an ECG, but it can be a useful tool in several circumstances. First,
