DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


When you complete this section, you will be able to: 1. Describe cardiac biomarkers used in heart failure 2. Explain the role of cardiac biomarkers in various aspects of heart failure care 3. Understand the guideline recommendations from several international organizations for the use of cardiac biomarkers in heart failure LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 42 As discussed in Section 4, the changes in cardiac function that occur in heart failure affect the entire body, so it is essential that clinicians monitor the status of heart failure patients with diligence. Circulating biomarkers can be especially helpful tools for gauging the presence, severity, and progression of heart failure. This section will build on the previous discussions of biomarkers used in heart failure and also introduce several emerging biomarkers for this disease process. AS A GROUP, THE CARDIAC BIOMARKERS USED IN PATIENTS WITH HEART FAILURE CAN GENERALLY BE CLASSIFIED INTO THREE AREAS • M arkers of myocardial stretch/pressure and neurohormonal activation: These include natriuretic peptides and several emerging biomarkers (MR-proADM, copeptin). Rising concentrations of these biomarkers reflect increasing neurohormonal activation that can result from heart failure. • M arkers of cardiac remodeling: These include galectin-3 and several emerging biomarkers (ST2, GDF15). When markers in this group rise, they can indicate myocyte changes are occurring that lead to fibrosis in heart failure. • M arkers of myocardial injury/ischemia: These include cardiac troponins. Ischemia and injury may occur in heart failure, and biomarkers that reflect this process have demonstrated prognostic capability in heart failure patients. As discussed in Sections 2 and 3, the primary application of these markers is in patients with Evaluating each of these aspects of heart failure provides essential information on the status and prognosis of an individual patient. However, the usefulness of various biomarkers differs according to the clinical scenario. MARKERS OF MYOCARDIAL STRETCH/PRESSURE AND NEUROHORMONAL ACTIVATION Natriuretic Peptides As discussed in Section 4, the natriuretic peptides (NPs), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), play a central role in heart failure. BNP is a hormone released by the cardiac myocytes when they are under strain, and NT-proBNP is an inactive fragment cleaved from the BNP molecule.66 These NPs are released when the ventricles, particularly the left ventricle, experience volume and pressure overload and when neurohormonal activation occurs in response to heart failure.66 The NPs have shown benefit in almost every aspect of heart failure care. In the hospital
