DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


as a screening cutoff; patients with measurements above this received preventative interventions designed to reduce the risk for heart failure.81 The participants that received the preventative interventions had lower rates of heart failure than the patients in the control group (the group that received normal care) at the end of the trial.81 This trial highlights the real-world value of BNP as a biomarker for prevention. Patients were screened using BNP and received intervention if they were high-risk according to the biomarker; this intervention, in turn, resulted in improved patient outcomes (i.e., lower rates of heart failure).81 Other Biomarkers A variety of other biomarkers have been evaluated to assess CVD risk in the general population, but their exact role in CVD risk assessment remains unclear. Lipoprotein (a) is a circulating lipoprotein similar to LDL, and its concentration in plasma has been consistently associated with CVD events.143 Specific treatments to lower the production of Lp(a) are in development. Similarly, the total triglyceride concentration and the non-HDL fraction (total cholesterol minus HDL) of the lipid panel may reflect the “total atherogenicity” of the lipid profile and hence have been treatment targets in prior guidelines. Further study of these two lipid fractions is ongoing. Another biomarker, homocysteine, is an amino acid synthesized by the body. Elevated homocysteine concentrations are associated with inflammation and an increased risk of ischemic heart disease and stroke in a generally healthy population.144 However, clinical trials evaluating folic acid and B-vitamins for decreasing homocysteine concentrations did not demonstrate any decrease in CVD risk. Finally, lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) is an enzyme linked to inflammation and instability in atherosclerotic plaques. Multiple studies have found an association between increasing Lp-PLA2 concentrations and increased risk of cardiac events.145 But similar to homocysteine, clinical trials of specifics drugs for lowering Lp-PLA2 did not reduce the risk of CVD. Whether any of these markers provides an advantage over currently used prognostic tools has not been determined. Biomarkers in Clinical Practice Biomarkers for cardiovascular disease are continuously evolving, and although the roles for certain biomarkers, such as NPs and cardiac troponins, are well defined in specific aspects of cardiac care, the roles for many newer biomarkers are still being determined. One area that needs further clarification is how best to incorporate biomarker information into traditional risk stratification tools. Another area that requires more study is whether using a panel of biomarkers is better than measuring one
