DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


is how best to incorporate biomarker information into traditional risk stratification tools. Another area that requires more study is whether using a panel of biomarkers is better than measuring one or two individual markers. Theoretically, a panel may be a more useful approach because it includes markers for multiple pathways affected by CVD, but the value of this type of assessment is unclear in the clinical setting. Likewise, a third area that requires study is how incorporating biomarkers into risk assessment for CVD influences clinical outcomes in patients. Even with these unresolved questions, biomarker use in cardiovascular diseases will likely continue to evolve, ideally providing clinicians with better tools for caring for their patients. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 62 SECTION 6: REVIEW QUESTIONS 1. Which of the following may be useful for determining an asymptomatic patient’s risk for future CVD events? a. SCORE risk assessment tool b. A biomarker measurement, such as hsCRP or hsTnI c. Assessing other risk factors such as obesity, sedentary lifestyle, and family history of CVD events d. All of the above are useful considerations 2. T he ACC/AHA guidelines recommend against the use of biomarkers to assess an asymptomatic patient’s risk for future CVD events. n n True False 3. To demonstrate clinical usefulness, a biomarker needs to show all of the following EXCEPT... a. Net reclassification improvement b. Adherence to ACC/AHA guidelines c. Discrimination capability d. Calibration to what is measured 4. Which of the following statements is TRUE about normal values for biomarkers? a. A health questionnaire is preferred over surrogate biomarkers for determining normal values in a population b. A standardized, normal range must be established for every biomarker marketed in the US and Europe, and this standard must be adhered to by all manufacturers c. T here is no standard for defining a normal population in studies of biomarkers or how that normal population is selected d. All of the above statements are true LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 63 APPENDIX APPENDIX A: GLOSSARY OF TERMS APPENDIX B: CORRECT RESPONSES APPENDIX C: REFERENCES LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 64 APPENDIX A: GLOSSARY OF TERMS A ACE inhibitors: A class of medication used to treat heart failure and high blood pressure; in heart failure, these drugs block neurohormonal changes. Acute coronary syndrome: A spectrum of problems ranging from ST-elevation MI to unstable angina that indicates the heart tissue is not receiving adequate supplies of oxygen. Acute heart
