DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


neurohormonal changes. Acute coronary syndrome: A spectrum of problems ranging from ST-elevation MI to unstable angina that indicates the heart tissue is not receiving adequate supplies of oxygen. Acute heart failure: Acute, rapid worsening of heart failure symptoms that can be life-threatening. Adrenal glands: Glands that sit directly above the kidneys that produce a variety of hormones, including norepinephrine. Aerobic exercise: Exercise that stimulates the heart rate and breathing rate to increase. Aerobic respiration: The process used by the cells of the body to produce energy that relies on oxygen. Aggregation (of platelets): Platelets clumping together in the process of forming a plug to stop bleeding from a blood vessel. Aldosterone antagonists: Diuretic drugs used in heart failure that block the neurohormonal effects of heart failure. Anemia: A condition resulting from an insufficient amount of healthy red blood cells circulating in the bloodstream. Angina: The medical term for chest pain related to the heart. Antibodies: Proteins used by the immune system to neutralize foreign, potentially harmful substances found in the body. Anticoagulant: Medications that decrease the blood’s ability to clot (thin the blood) by interfering with the body’s normal clotting cascade. Antiplatelet: Medications that decrease the blood’s ability to clot (thin the blood) by interfering with the normal activity of platelets. Angiography: A procedure done to examine the blood flow in the coronary arteries; it involves inserting a catheter into a large artery (in the groin or wrist) and threading it up to the heart. In the heart, a dye is released that will flow into the coronary arteries, and an x-ray device is used to evaluate the flow of blood through the coronary arteries. Angiotensin receptor blocking agents (ARB): A class of medication used in patients with heart failure and high blood pressure; in heart failure, it can block some of the maladaptive neurohormonal activity. Angiotensin II receptor-neprilysin inhibitors (ARNI): A new class of medication for heart failure that blocks the maladaptive neurohormonal response. Aorta: The largest artery in the body; it receives blood pumped out of the left ventricle. Artery: Blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the organs and tissues. ASCVD scoring tool: A scoring tool used to assess risk for future atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events in the general population of individuals without known cardiovascular disease. Aspirin: An antiplatelet medication used to prevent blood from clotting; it is often used in the treatment and
