DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


disease events in the general population of individuals without known cardiovascular disease. Aspirin: An antiplatelet medication used to prevent blood from clotting; it is often used in the treatment and prevention of myocardial infarction. Atherosclerosis: The buildup of plaque inside the arteries. Atrial fibrillation: An abnormal heart rhythm where the atria beat inappropriately fast; this sometimes also results in the ventricles beating too fast. Atrioventricular node (AV node): Part of the cardiac electrical conduction system, it receives impulses from the sinoatrial (SA) node and transmits them to the ventricles, stimulating the ventricles to beat. Atrium (plural: Atria): The two upper chambers of the heart; they receive blood from the vena cava and the pulmonary vein and move it into the ventricles. Autoimmune disease: A disease characterized by the body’s immune system producing antibodies that attack its own tissue. Automaticity: The heart tissue’s ability to generate its own electrical impulses to stimulate contraction. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 65 B B-natriuretic peptide (BNP): A protein released by the ventricles of the heart when they are under strain or stress; most often used as a biomarker for diagnosing and monitoring heart failure. Beta blocker: A medication used to slow the heart rate and control blood pressure; beta blockers are often used in patients who have had a myocardial infarction; some beta blockers are useful for blocking the neurohormonal changes associated with heart failure. Biomarker: A measurable characteristic that can be used to evaluate normal body processes, disease, or response to treatment. This guide focuses on circulating biomarkers, which are markers that circulate in the bloodstream. Blood: The liquid that travels through the blood vessels of the body that is made up of specific types of cells (i.e., red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets). Blood carries oxygen and nutrients to body tissues and carries waste and carbon dioxide away from tissues. Blood pressure (or arterial blood pressure): The measure of pressure inside the arteries that is created by the force and rate of the heart beating and the elasticity of the arteries. Blood vessel: A general term used to describe the tubes that carry blood through the body: arteries, veins, and capillaries. Bundle of His: Part of the cardiac electrical conduction system, it transmits electrical signals from the atrioventricular (AV) node to the ventricles. C C-statistic test: A statistical test used to evaluate the discrimination capability of a particular test (e.g., the ability to
