DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


electrical signals from the atrioventricular (AV) node to the ventricles. C C-statistic test: A statistical test used to evaluate the discrimination capability of a particular test (e.g., the ability to differentiate between individuals who will and will not develop a disease). Calcium: A chemical element that is very abundant in the body. Calcium is used to build bones and contract skeletal and cardiac muscle; it is needed for blood to clot normally. Calibration (or calibrated): In statistics, how well a prediction aligns with the observed results. Capillaries: The smallest blood vessels; they allow nutrients, oxygen, and carbon dioxide to be exchanged between cells and the blood. Carbon dioxide: A gas which is a waste product of cell energy production. Cardiac catheterization: See “angiography.” Cardiac catheterization laboratory (cath lab): The department within a facility (often a hospital) where angiography procedures are performed. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR): A magnetic resonance imaging (or MRI) test that examines the structure of the heart. Cardiac myosin-binding protein C (cMyC): An emerging, circulating biomarker that may be useful in early identification of myocardial infarction. Cardiac resynchronization device/therapy: An implantable device that uses electrical impulses to aid both ventricles in contracting at the same time. It is used to treat certain electrical conduction abnormalities. Cardiomyopathy: Maladaptive changes in heart structure caused by myocardial infarction, neurohormonal activation, genetic, abnormal cell signaling, or unknown reasons. Cardioversion: A procedure used to treat an abnormal cardiac rhythm that involves either delivering a specific amount of electricity (a shock) to the heart or administering medication to promote return to a normal rhythm. Cell: The smallest unit (“building block”) within a living organism. Cerebrovascular event: A term used to describe a situation where the brain is not receiving enough oxygen to function normally. This can mean a stroke (which results in permanent damage to the brain) or a transient ischemic attack (where symptoms are only temporary, and permanent damage does not occur). Chemotherapy: A type of medication used to treat severe illnesses, such as cancer, that can be toxic to the cells of the body including cardiomyocytes. Cholesterol: A fat-like substance found in body tissues that is necessary to make hormones, vitamin D, and parts of cells. Too much of certain types of cholesterol can raise the risk of heart disease. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 66 Clot: A clump of blood composed of fibrin, platelets, and erythrocytes that are stuck together, usually to stop
