DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


cholesterol can raise the risk of heart disease. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 66 Clot: A clump of blood composed of fibrin, platelets, and erythrocytes that are stuck together, usually to stop bleeding from a damaged blood vessel. Clotting cascade (or Coagulation cascade): A complex series of reactions that occur within the body as a result of a blood vessel injury, ultimately resulting in the formation of a clot or thrombus. Coefficient of variation (CV): A statistical measurement used to describe variation within a data sample; coefficient of variation is calculated by dividing the standard deviation (a measure that describes the amount of variation in a group of numbers) by the mean (or average) of those numbers. It is usually expressed as a percentage. Congenital heart disease: A structural abnormality in the heart that is present at birth. Coning: A term used to describe selection of a population for a scientific measurement. Copeptin: An emerging, circulating biomarker that may be used for identifying myocardial infarction. Coronary artery: An artery that supplies blood to the heart muscle. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG): A type of surgery used to treat severe coronary heart disease. Surgeons use healthy blood vessels from another part of the body to create a new route for oxygen-rich blood to travel to the myocardium. Coronary CT angiography: A type of imaging test that allows clinicians to visualize the inside of the coronary arteries using a powerful, detailed X-ray. Coronary heart disease: A condition that results from atherosclerosis in the coronary arteries. Contraction: Tension that occurs in the muscle fibers in response to a stimulus. Creatinine kinase MB (CK-MB): An older circulating biomarker that was previously used to identify myocardial necrosis, related to myocardial infarction. D Degradation: Breaking down into parts. Delta: A change or difference between two numbers measuring the same thing. Diabetes: A disease characterized by either the inability to make insulin or resistance to insulin that results in elevated concentrations of glucose (a basic form of sugar) in the body. Diabetes significantly increases the risk of heart disease. Diastole: The relaxation phase of the heart pumping cycle that results in relaxation of the heart muscle, allowing the heart chambers to fill with blood. Digoxin: A medication used to treat symptoms of heart failure or control the heart rate in atrial fibrillation. Discrimination: In statistics, the ability to differentiate between individuals who will and will not develop a disease;
