DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


treat symptoms of heart failure or control the heart rate in atrial fibrillation. Discrimination: In statistics, the ability to differentiate between individuals who will and will not develop a disease; usually measured with the c-statistic test. Diurnal variation: A scenario where concentrations of substances in the body vary throughout different times of the day. Diuretic: A type of medication used in patients with heart failure that triggers the kidneys to remove more water from the body (in the urine). Dyspnea: Difficulty breathing. E Echocardiography: A test the uses ultrasound to visualize the heart and its function. Ejection fraction: The percentage of blood pumped out of the left ventricle with each contraction; normal range is approximately 55-75%. Elasticity: Stretchiness. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 67 Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG): A test that measures the electrical activity of the heart, visualizing the electrical activity of the heart from 12 different angles; used to evaluate for a type of myocardial infarction, cardiac arrhythmias, and other cardiac abnormalities. End-stage renal disease (ESRD): Chronic, irreversible failure of the kidneys; patients require either dialysis or a kidney transplant at this stage. Enoxaparin: A medication that interferes with the clotting cascade used to thin the blood; it is used in many clinical scenarios, including myocardial infarction. Enzyme: A protein produced by the body that encourages a chemical or biological reaction to occur more quickly. F Fat: An oily substance found in the body and also ingested in food; it is a building block for many substances in the body. Fibrin: A protein formed after activation of the clotting cascade that creates a clot or thrombus. Fibrinolytic: A medication that breaks down fibrin and a fibrin-based clot. Fibrosis: In the heart, scar formation in tissue in response to an injury. Framingham general CVD risk score: A scoring tool for predicting risk of a cardiovascular event in individuals without known cardiovascular disease. G Galectin-3: A protein that mediates inflammation and fibrosis throughout the body; as a circulating biomarker, it is useful for providing prognostic information in patients with heart failure. Growth-differentiation factor-15 (GDF15): A cytokine that is upregulated in the setting of inflammation; it may be useful as an emerging, circulating biomarker for cardiac remodeling and a prognostic indicator for individuals with heart failure. GRACE score: A scoring tool used to risk stratify a patient with suspected acute coronary syndrome. H Half-life: In the body, the time it takes for the
