DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


with heart failure. GRACE score: A scoring tool used to risk stratify a patient with suspected acute coronary syndrome. H Half-life: In the body, the time it takes for the concentration of a substance to decrease by half (e.g., a half-life of 20 hours would mean it takes 20 hours for a drug’s concentration in the body to drop from 10 ng/mL to 5 ng/mL). Heart: The organ in the body responsible for pumping blood to other body organs and tissues. Heart failure: A condition in which a problem with the ventricles is preventing the heart from pumping correctly; it is the result of a complex mechanical and neurohumoral syndrome resulting in stasis (or slow movement) of blood in the lungs and peripheral tissues. HEART score: A scoring tool used to risk stratify a patient with suspected acute coronary syndrome. Hemoglobin: The protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. Hemolysis: Rupture or breaking apart of red blood cells; this rupture of red blood cells can occur in a specimen collection tube (during or after removing the blood from the body) and can affect the accuracy of certain laboratory tests. Heparin: A medication that interferes with the clotting cascade used to thin the blood; it is used in many clinical scenarios, including myocardial infarction. HFmrEF (Heart failure with mid-range ejection fraction): A newer heart failure classification used to describe patients with heart failure symptoms and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40- 49 percent. HFpEF (Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction): A heart failure classification used to describe patients with heart failure symptoms and an ejection fraction in the normal range, usually over 45 percent. HFrEF (Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction): A heart failure classification used to describe patients with heart failure symptoms and a reduced ejection fraction, usually under 45 percent. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 68 High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP): A circulating biomarker for inflammation in the body; in cardiology practice, it can be used as a screening tool for identifying patients at risk for cardiac disease when other tools are not adequate. Homocysteine: An amino acid synthesized by the body; elevated concentrations are associated with inflammation and an increased risk of ischemic heart disease and stroke in a generally healthy population, but its usefulness as a screening tool is uncertain. Hormone: A “messenger” substance produced by the body that is released into body fluids to stimulate the activity
