DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


generally healthy population, but its usefulness as a screening tool is uncertain. Hormone: A “messenger” substance produced by the body that is released into body fluids to stimulate the activity of a different tissue or organ. Hydralazine: A medication used for blood pressure that has also shown benefit in certain heart failure patients, particularly those of African descent, when used in combination with another medication (a long-acting nitrate). Hyperlipidemia: The medical term for higher-than-normal cholesterol concentrations in the blood. Hypertension: The medical term for high blood pressure that indicates that the pressure inside the arteries is higher than normal. Hypotension: The medical term for low blood pressure that indicates that the pressure inside the arteries is too low and may not be adequate for perfusion of oxygen into the tissues. I Ischemia: A scenario where tissues are not receiving enough oxygen. Immunoassay: A test that measures the presence or concentrations of proteins (often antibodies) in a fluid (usually blood). Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: An implantable device that can detect abnormal, dangerous cardiac rhythms and can send a small, electrical shock to the heart to return it to a normal rhythm. Ischemia modified albumin: An FDA-approved, circulating biomarker for identifying myocardial infarction. J K Kidneys: The organs of the body that create urine, remove waste from the blood, and regulate fluid balance. Kidney failure (or renal failure): Impairment of normal kidney function; there is a spectrum of impairment that occurs, ranging from mild to chronic, irreversible impairment (known as end-stage renal disease). L Left-ventricular assist device (LVAD): An implantable device, using a pump implanted into the wall of the left ventricle, which is used in patients with end-stage heart failure to support cardiac function. The pump itself is implanted in the chest, but a wire runs out of the device and through the skin to connect the LVAD to the external batteries and control unit. Lesion: In the coronary arteries, another name for an area inside the artery with plaque buildup. Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2): An enzyme linked to inflammation and instability in atherosclerotic plaques; it has been studied as a possible biomarker for screening asymptomatic populations for cardiovascular disease. Low-sodium diet: A diet low in salt. Lumen: An opening; in the case of blood vessels, this term describes the opening inside the vessel. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 69 M Maladaptive: Counterproductive; inadequate adjustment to a change or environment. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist: See “Aldosterone
