DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


of blood vessels, this term describes the opening inside the vessel. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 69 M Maladaptive: Counterproductive; inadequate adjustment to a change or environment. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist: See “Aldosterone antagonist.” Mortality: Death or dying. MR-proADM: An emerging, circulating biomarker for neurohormonal activation in heart failure. MR-proANP: An emerging, circulating biomarker for neurohormonal activation in heart failure. Myocardial: Relating to the heart. Myocardial infarction: Permanent damage to the heart as a result of inadequate blood flow to the cardiac tissue. Myocarditis: Inflammation of the heart muscle, often as a result of a viral infection. Myocardium: The heart’s muscle tissue. Myocyte: A cell in the heart tissue. Myoglobin: An oxygen-binding protein similar to hemoglobin; it was one of the earliest circulating biomarkers for myocardial infarction, but it is no longer used for this purpose. N Natriuretic peptide: Hormones that influence fluid and sodium balance in the body. Although there are several other known natriuretic peptides, this term is often used to describe BNP and its inactive counterpart, NT-proBNP. Necrosis: Death of all or most of the cells in an area of the body. Negative predictive value (NPV): The probability that an individual with a negative result on a screening test does not have a disease or problem. Neprilysin: An enzyme involved in an array of biochemical processes in the body; neprilysin is involved in the breakdown of BNP. Net reclassification improvement: In statistics, the ability of a new test or marker to demonstrate that it improves predictive ability over previously used methods (e.g., more individuals were provided with accurate predictions with the new method than with previous methods). Neurohormonal activation: The release of hormones and neurotransmitters that increase the blood pressure and promote retention of water by the kidneys to increase blood volume. This occurs in response to a loss of perfusion and can be helpful for short-term problems, like acute blood loss, or harmful in the case of heart failure. Neurotransmitter: Chemical messengers in the body that stimulate a nerve. Nitrate (long-acting): A type of medication used for patients with certain cardiac problems; in heart failure, they can be beneficial when used in combination with hydralazine, especially in individuals of African descent. Norepinephrine (or Noradrenaline): A hormone released by the adrenal glands and certain nerves that promotes vasoconstriction (narrowing of the blood vessels) and increases in the blood pressure. NSTEMI (pronounced: en-stem-eee): A type of myocardial infarction that does not
