DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


adrenal glands and certain nerves that promotes vasoconstriction (narrowing of the blood vessels) and increases in the blood pressure. NSTEMI (pronounced: en-stem-eee): A type of myocardial infarction that does not result in characteristic ST-elevation on an electrocardiogram. NT-proBNP: An inactive fragment cleaved from BNP; used clinically as a circulating biomarker in patients with heart failure. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 70 O Obese: Significantly overweight. Obesity: The state of being significantly overweight. Obstructive sleep apnea: A sleep disorder in which patients stop and restart breathing many times through the night; it has a variety of negative health implications and is a risk factor for certain cardiac problems. Occlusion: Blockage. Organ: A self-contained part of the body that has a specific function. Oxygen: An element and a gas necessary for normal function of the body cells. P Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI): An angiography procedure done to treat a blockage in a coronary artery that involves threading a wire device into the coronary artery, opening the blocked artery with a tiny, balloon-like device, and then propping the artery open with a mesh wire tube called a stent. Perfusion: Passage of fluid (in this case, blood) into the capillaries of an organ or tissue. Pericarditis: Inflammation of the lining around the heart, often due to a viral infection. Peripheral/periphery: Situated away from the center; in the case of the body, this often refers to the arms, legs, hands, and feet. Permeability: How well liquids and other substances can pass through a structure. Plaque: A substance that can accumulate inside an artery; it is made up primarily of cholesterol, fat, and calcium. Pneumonia: An infection in the lungs, caused by either a bacterium or a virus. Prognostic: Predicting the likelihood of something. Pulmonary embolism: A potentially life-threatening event caused by a substance (usually a blood clot) that travels through the veins, then gets wedged into a branch of the pulmonary artery and creates a blockage. Pulmonary hypertension: A life-threatening disease that causes high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs and the right side of the heart. Pulmonary veins: The veins that bring oxygenated blood from the lungs back to the heart. Purkinje fibers: Fibers in the heart that conduct electrical impulses to the left and right ventricle, to stimulate the heart to beat. Q Quantitative: Measuring the quantity of something; in the laboratory setting, quantitative measures provide an exact number describing the concentration of
