DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


and right ventricle, to stimulate the heart to beat. Q Quantitative: Measuring the quantity of something; in the laboratory setting, quantitative measures provide an exact number describing the concentration of a substance (this is in contrast to a qualitative measure, which tells only if a substance is present or not). LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 71 R Remodeling: In the heart, the process of structural changes to the cardiac tissue as a result of heart failure, tissue injury, or other factors. Renal: See “kidney.” Renal Failure: See “kidney failure.” Reperfusion: Restoring blood flow to a tissue or organ. Retention: Holding on to a substance. Reynolds risk score: A scoring tool used to assess risk for future cardiovascular events in the general population of individuals without cardiovascular disease. Rheumatoid factor: An antibody directed against the body’s own tissue; elevated concentrations can be a sign of an autoimmune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis. S Sarcoidosis: A chronic inflammatory disease that causes abnormal tissue to form in different parts of the body, including the lungs, skin, and heart. Sepsis: The body’s response to a serious infection that can be life-threatening if not treated promptly. Sinoatrial node (SA node): The area of the right atrium where electrical impulses originate. Skeletal muscle: A muscle connected to the skeleton that participates in the mechanical, voluntary movement of the body. Smooth muscle: Muscles in the gut and other internal organs that move involuntarily (i.e., not conscientiously controlled). Standard deviation: In statistics, a number that specifies how much members of a group differ from the group average. Stasis: A slow down or complete stoppage of a normal flow. STEMI (pronounced: stem–eee): A type of myocardial infarction characterized by ST-elevation on an electrocardiogram test. ST2: An emerging circulating biomarker used in heart failure and acute coronary syndromes. Stent: Mesh wire tube placed inside a blood vessel to prop it open. Stress myocardial perfusion imaging: An imaging test that evaluates how well blood flows into the cardiac tissue. Stethoscope: A medical instrument most often used to externally evaluate the heart and lungs; one end of the device fits into the clinician’s ears and the other, round end is placed against the chest wall. Stroke: A potentially life-threatening event where adequate blood supply to a portion of the brain is cutoff, resulting in permanent damage. There are two primary mechanisms for this: 1) ischemic, which is usually caused by a blood clot and
