DIAGNOSTICS
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, risk, blood, patients, troponin, coronary, used, disease, biomarkers, assays, myocardial, cvd


to a portion of the brain is cutoff, resulting in permanent damage. There are two primary mechanisms for this: 1) ischemic, which is usually caused by a blood clot and 2) hemorrhagic, which is caused by a blood vessel in the brain bursting. Superimposed: Occurring in addition to or on top of something else. Systole: The phase of the cardiac pumping cycle that involves contraction of the heart muscle, pushing out blood. LEARNING GUIDE: CARDIAC 72 T Tachyarrhythmia: A general term describing an abnormal, fast, heart rhythm. Thrombin: An enzyme in the blood that works in the clotting cascade to create fibrin. Thrombolytic: A medication that breaks down or dissolves a blood clot. Thrombosis: The process of a blood clot forming inside a blood vessel. Thrombus: A blood clot. TIMI score: A scoring tool used to risk stratify patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome. Tissue: Material inside the body made up of specialized cells. Transient ischemic attack (TIA): A temporary period of abnormal brain functioning caused by temporary loss of blood flow to an area of the brain; sometimes called a “mini-stroke,” it is a risk factor for future strokes. Treadmill ECG: A test for coronary artery disease where a patient undergoes continuous ECG monitoring while doing exercise, such as running on a treadmill or riding a bicycle. Troponin: A protein that is abundant in the cardiac myocytes; it works inside the cell as part of the contractile mechanism to facilitate myocyte contraction; troponins T and I are both useful as biomarkers in the evaluation of individuals with possible myocardial infarction. U Unstable angina: A type of acute coronary syndrome where cardiac biomarkers are not elevated and myocyte death does not appear to occur; it is not classified a myocardial infarction. V Valsartan/sacubitril: A medication used for heart failure that blocks the body’s maladaptive neurohormonal response. Vascular disease: A type of disease characterized by blood vessel abnormalities; it is a general classification that encompasses an array of different conditions, including coronary heart disease. Vasospasm: Spasm of the blood vessel wall. Vein: Blood vessels that carry oxygen-poor blood from the capillaries back to the heart. Vena cava: The largest vein in the body which delivers blood into the right ventricle. Ventricles: The larger, lower two chambers of the heart. Venules: Smaller veins that deliver blood to the capillaries.
