HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


Author manuscript Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Published in final edited form as: Sci Transl Med. 2012 June 06; 4(137): 137rv5. doi:. Microbiota-Targeted Therapies: An Ecological Perspective Katherine P. Lemon1,2,*, Gary C. Armitage3, David A. Relman4,5,6, and Michael A. Fischbach7,8,* 02115, USA Francisco, CA 94143, USA CA 94305, USA San Francisco, CA 94158, USA Francisco, CA 94158, USA Abstract The connection between disease and the disruption of homeostatic interactions between the host and its microbiota is now well established. Drug developers and clinicians are starting to rely more heavily on therapies that directly target the microbiota and on the ecology of the microbiota to understand the outcomes of these treatments. The effects of those microbiota-targeted therapies that alter community composition range in scale from eliminating individual strains of a single species (for example, with antibacterial conjugate vaccines) to replacing the entire community with a new intact microbiota (for example, by fecal transplantation). Secondary infections linked to antibiotic use provide a cautionary tale of the unintended consequences of perturbing a microbial species network and highlight the need for new narrow-spectrum antibiotics with rapid companion diagnostics. Insights into microbial ecology will also benefit the development of may take the form of a consortium of long-term community residents: “a fecal transplant in a capsule.” The efficacy of microbiota-targeted therapies will need to be assessed using new diagnostic tools that measure community function rather than composition, including the temporal response of a microbial community to a defined perturbation such as an antibiotic or probiotic. *To whom correspondence should be addressed. (K.P.L.); (M.A.F.). Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The human microbiota consists of hundreds of microbial species that inhabit distinct body sites, which can be thought of as ecosystems [see review by Costello et al. (1)]. The healthy human state is a homeostasis between the microbiota and the host. Maladies such as Crohn’s disease, chronic periodontitis, and bacterial vaginosis are characterized by a disruption of this homeostasis, a state known as dysbiosis (2). We envision a future in which new therapeutics and diagnostics enable the management of our microbiota to treat and prevent disease (3). Two major challenges face the development of microbiota-targeted therapies. First, changes in the composition or function of the microbiota must be proven to cause a disease or contribute to its pathology. Correlative studies are a good start, but without a causative
