HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


in the composition or function of the microbiota must be proven to cause a disease or contribute to its pathology. Correlative studies are a good start, but without a causative link there is little reason to expect that a microbiota-targeted therapy will cure a disease or alleviate its symptoms. Second, we may need to be satisfied with a less detailed understanding of how microbiota-targeted therapies work than we currently expect for drug development. To date, a threshold requirement for developing a new drug is an understanding of its molecular mechanism at the level of a protein-ligand interaction. Should this requirement be applied to microbiota-targeted therapies? A central lesson of ecology is that perturbations often ripple through an ecosystem, leading to unexpected outcomes (1). Likewise, the desired effect might not occur at the level of inhibiting a specific enzyme but by restructuring a microbial community in a specific way. To advance microbiota-directed therapeutics, we will need to define new endpoints (for example, microbial community composition or function), develop therapies to achieve them, and design diagnostics to evaluate our efforts. WHAT IS THE GOAL OF THERAPEUTICALLY PERTURBING A MICROBIAL COMMUNITY? A clear therapeutic goal is a prerequisite for designing a drug; in a practical sense, the goal will determine the diagnostic used to judge the therapy’s success in preclinical studies and clinical trials. The goal of a therapy often takes the form of a clinical endpoint or a surrogate endpoint, and the distinction between them is especially important for microbiota-targeted from heart disease or eliminating the signs and symptoms of Crohn’s disease (4). If the goal heart disease). In these cases, a surrogate endpoint—a marker whose level predicts the cholesterol has been used as a surrogate endpoint for preventing death from heart disease. The goal of many microbiota-targeted therapies will be a surrogate endpoint, such as shifting the gut community from a Crohn’s disease–associated state to a “healthy” state. If these Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript endpoint; a correlation between the two is not enough. WHAT IS A HEALTHY MICROBIOME? The goal of many microbiota-targeted therapeutics will be to restore a healthy host- microbiota homeostasis. Metrics for assessing the state of the microbiota can be sorted into two categories: global measurements and specific markers. However, as discussed later, the health of a community may have more to do
