HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


the state of the microbiota can be sorted into two categories: global measurements and specific markers. However, as discussed later, the health of a community may have more to do with its ability to resist pathogen invasion (a functional property) than its static composition (a structural property). Two commonly used global metrics derive from ecology: alpha diversity (within-community diversity) and beta diversity (between-community diversity). The relationship between alpha gut is associated with a decreased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis in premature infants (5– 7), whereas decreased alpha diversity in the vaginal community is associated with a decreased risk of bacterial vaginosis (8). Although the relationship between beta diversity beta diversity is observed in later-stage disease after the oropharyngeal microbiota is invaded by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and subjected to increased antibiotic exposure (9). It is not yet known whether the increased beta diversity in cystic fibrosis is a cause or a consequence of antibiotic exposure and pathogen invasion. emerging as indicators of disease states. In many microbiota-related ailments, the disease state is marked by a change in the level of normal community members rather than the Faecalibacterium prausnitzii is associated with ileal Crohn’s disease (10, 11), and the suspected causative agents of gingivitis and periodontitis are normal members of healthy periodontal communities (12–15). Two key challenges for microbiota markers are to define the relationship between the marker species/genes and disease pathophysiology, especially if it is direct, and to determine how broadly these apply within the human population. WHAT SCALE OF PERTURBATION IS APPROPRIATE? Viewing a human-associated microbial community as a network of interacting species, the scale of perturbation could range from “surgically” excising a single node to eliminating the entire network and replacing it with a new one (Fig. 1A). There is precedent for interventions at both ends of this spectrum. Antibacterial conjugate vaccines represent the simplest perturbations; these agents stimulate the immune system to remove specific strains of a single species from the community. Fecal transplantation, which lies at the opposite end the infusion of a donor community (20 to 30 g of donor feces suspended in 100 ml of water) during endoscopy or colonoscopy. Fecal transplantation appears to be effective in clearing recurrent C. difficile infections that are refractory to antibiotic treatment (16), but it is not Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript yet clear whether a perturbation
