HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


treatment (16), but it is not Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript yet clear whether a perturbation this extreme is required to displace a tenacious strain of C. difficile from the gut community. As we highlight in the examples below, the tendency of ecological perturbations to ripple through a community can make the effects of even a simple perturbation difficult to predict. A major challenge for the future will be to create predictive models of microbial community ecology that can anticipate—and ultimately circumvent—these ripple effects (1, 17). TARGETED REMOVAL OF SPECIFIC STRAINS FROM THE UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT MICROBIOTA Several widely used vaccines target bacterial mutualists or commensals that are occasionally pathogenic (termed “pathobionts”). For pathobionts, colonization is the first step in infection; these strains colonize many people and cause deadly infections in a subset. Two examples of such vaccines are conjugate vaccines against Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) and Streptococcus pneumoniae that protect against infection and clear or prevent colonization (Fig. 1A). Once the leading cause of bacterial meningitis in children <5 years old, Hib infections have been nearly eliminated by the use of a conjugate vaccine (18, 19). Before the vaccine’s introduction in the early 1990s, Hib colonized 3 to 5% of healthy children; in immunized populations, the vaccine has virtually eradicated Hib from the pharyngeal microbiota. It has apparently been replaced by less virulent H. influenzae strains (20, 21). Similarly, the introduction in 2000 of the seven-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine against S. pneumoniae resulted in a 77% decline in severe invasive disease (22, 23). After vaccination, nonvaccine serotypes of S. pneumoniae (most of which were less virulent than the vaccine serotypes) became more prevalent in the pharyngeal community, and overall S. pneumoniae colonization rates did not decline significantly. Thus, immunizations against Hib and S. pneumoniae have led to their replacement by less virulent members of the same species and appear to have caused few other effects in the ecosystem. This phenomenon may prove to be a common outcome of the targeted removal of a pathobiont, because many pathobionts have closely related, nonpathogenic relatives that can occupy the same niche. (24). An important caveat is that initial concerns about a possible increase in Staphylococcus aureus carriage after the use of the S. pneumoniae vaccine may yet prove to be valid (25). The success of vaccines against
