HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


initial concerns about a possible increase in Staphylococcus aureus carriage after the use of the S. pneumoniae vaccine may yet prove to be valid (25). The success of vaccines against pathobionts underscores the need for a better understanding of the immunological aspects of host-microbiota interactions and the potential for success in developing new microbiota-targeted vaccines [see reviews by Blumberg and Powrie (26) and Hooper et al. (27)]. It also illustrates that strain-level changes in community composition can have a clinically important impact. Because these changes are not usually detectable by 16S rRNA (ribosomal RNA) sequence analysis, there is a growing need for culture-independent diagnostics that enable species- and strain-level identification of the microbiota. Finally, our ability to surgically remove a single taxon from a community has come far in advance of our ability to understand the ways in which communities respond to such perturbations, including the role of microbe-microbe interactions in determining which species fill a niche opened by a perturbation (Fig. 2A). Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript ANTIBIOTICS CAUSE COLLATERAL DAMAGE TO MICROBIOTA perturb human-associated microbial communities (1, 28, 29). Antibiotic treatment often achieves the goal of eradicating infection with help from the immune system. However, it can have the ecologically undesirable side effect of killing mutualistic (that is, helpful) bacterial symbionts, creating a rare opportunity for a hardy pathogen—whose growth usually is suppressed by these mutualists—to become a dominant species in the community (for example, alternative state 2 in Fig 3) (1). Two examples of such “secondary infections” are C. difficile–associated diarrhea and yeast infections (candidiasis), both of which are associated with antibiotic use (30, 31). In such situations, the goal of a microbiota-targeted therapy would be to perturb the new “unhealthy” alternative stable state of the community sufficiently to shift it to a “healthier” alternative stable state (Fig. 3). The clinicians who prescribe antibiotics and the researchers who develop them face four challenges, which we focus on here and in the following section: (i) Can clinically useful adjunctive therapies be developed to prevent secondary infections? (ii) Can physicians be encouraged to use antibiotics with narrower activity spectra to minimize the collateral damage to bacterial mutualists? (iii) Should diagnostics be designed to identify the etiologic agent of infection and then actively monitor the microbiota for signs of a secondary infection? Clinicians routinely monitor patients
