HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


bacterial mutualists? (iii) Should diagnostics be designed to identify the etiologic agent of infection and then actively monitor the microbiota for signs of a secondary infection? Clinicians routinely monitor patients for adverse effects of antibiotics on the kidneys and liver, but apart from counseling patients to be alert for symptoms of C. difficile– associated diarrhea and candidiasis, they have no good way to monitor the state of the microbiota. (iv) Can targeted antibiotics that cause minimal perturbation to the healthy microbiota be developed? PASSIVE RECOVERY VERSUS ACTIVE REPOPULATION In a real sense, the current approach to antibiotic treatment is the equivalent of treating a weed-infested garden with a herbicide, and then leaving it fallow in the hope that the desired crops take root. This is an example of the ecological phenomenon of secondary succession, which describes changes in a community’s species after a disturbance. One way to influence the course of secondary succession is to seed the newly cleared ecosystem with one or more pioneer species (Fig. 2A) (1). An intriguing example of success with ecosystem repopulation in the context of the microbiome is the use of fecal transplantation to treat refractory recurrent C. difficile– associated diarrhea. The incidence of C. difficile infections is rising rapidly; between 1996 and 2005, the number of annual reported cases in the United States tripled and the number of deaths in England rose nearly sevenfold to 3393 (31). Nearly all C. difficile infections are healthcare-associated, occurring in patients who are either hospitalized or were recently discharged (32). A recent study reported that, in patients with multiple recurrences, fecal transplantation resolved the symptoms of 34 of 34 patients who were infected with conventional strains of C. difficile and 32 of 36 patients who were infected with a C. difficile strain from a particularly virulent group known as ribotype 027 (33). At present, fecal transplantation is only used to treat patients for whom secondary antibiotic therapy has Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript repeatedly failed; however, its potential use as an adjunctive or follow-up therapy to the initial course of anti–C. difficile antibiotics could markedly reduce the rate of recurrence, which is currently 20 to 30%. Further in the future, one might imagine autologous fecal transplantation with the patient’s stored preantibiotic fecal microbiota as a way to prevent or treat C. difficile–associated diarrhea
