HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


20 to 30%. Further in the future, one might imagine autologous fecal transplantation with the patient’s stored preantibiotic fecal microbiota as a way to prevent or treat C. difficile–associated diarrhea (Fig. 2A). recovery to active repopulation of microbiota during and after antibiotic treatment will require proof of efficacy and pharmaceutical-grade products (34). A recent meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of adjunctive probiotic therapy for the prevention of antibiotic- associated diarrhea in children suggests a possible benefit of high-dose probiotics (35). In contrast, there are not yet sufficient data to support concurrent probiotic therapy during antibiotic treatment in adults to prevent C. difficile–associated diarrhea (36). In both cases, there is a strong need for large randomized controlled trials with a consensus definition of Similarly, will future antibiotic treatment of pathobiont infections be followed by therapeutic repopulation with a mutualistic microbiota? For example, after treatment of S. aureus infections, the microbiota recovers passively but S. aureus is not necessarily eradicated, potentially leaving the patient at higher risk for a new S. aureus infection than someone who is not colonized. In certain high-risk populations, efforts have been made to eradicate S. aureus carriage, especially for methicillin-resistant S. aureus, through the use of a topical antibiotic to the anterior nares (mupirocin) and chlorohexidine body washes (37, 38). However, the current approach to decolonization makes no attempt to influence secondary succession. A future challenge will be to determine what role pathobionts such as S. aureus play in a healthy microbiota and whether a pathobiont-free consortium can be used to replace the original community. NARROW-SPECTRUM ANTIBIOTICS: POLICY, DIAGNOSTICS, AND NEW AGENTS Numerous evidence-based clinical practice guidelines and antibiotic stewardship programs etiologic agent of infection is identified) of uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia that favored the use of ampicillin, a relatively narrow-spectrum antibiotic, over ceftriaxone, which has a much broader activity spectrum. The result was a shift from empiric use of ceftriaxone in 72% of cases to empiric use of ampicillin in 63% of patients, with no significant change in the failure rate of the initial antibiotic (39). Similarly, a 2011 national clinical practice guideline recommends ampicillin for hospitalized children with uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia (40). For patients with severe acute infections, the empiric use of broad-spectrum antibiotics remains a life-saving measure. In these situations, the switch to equally effective narrow- spectrum agents is limited by the fact that current diagnostics require 24 to 72 hours to cultivate, identify, and
