HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


life-saving measure. In these situations, the switch to equally effective narrow- spectrum agents is limited by the fact that current diagnostics require 24 to 72 hours to cultivate, identify, and determine the antibiotic susceptibilities of the bacterium causing the Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript infection. The increased use of narrow-spectrum antibiotics will require companion diagnostics that are not only more rapid and sensitive but also just as specific as current cultivation-based methods. Nucleic acid–based tests for pathogen-specific genes seem to meet these criteria, but their exquisite sensitivity raises a question that is both ecological and practical in nature: If such a test comes back positive, how can a clinician be certain that the pathogen is still alive, and if so, that it is the etiologic agent of infection and not a contaminant (for samples from sterile sites/compartments) or a bystander (for samples from nonsterile sites)? In addition to providing equally effective treatment of susceptible bacterial pathogens, narrow-spectrum antibiotics minimize the collateral damage to microbiota community structure, decrease the selective pressure for the spread of antibiotic resistance genes within the microbiota, and lower the probability of acquiring resistant strains. Much of this is predicted by ecological studies showing that perturbations render a community more susceptible to invasion (1). Further research on the impact of antibiotics on the microbiota is needed to determine how the loss of antibiotic-susceptible species leads to unintended changes in the species network (41); even a narrow-spectrum antibiotic may remove a well- connected node from a network, which could have an unexpectedly large impact on community structure. HOW SHOULD NEW ANTIBIOTICS BE DESIGNED? Two key insights from ecology are likely to change the way future antibiotics are designed and developed. First, a long-standing paradigm has been that for activity spectrum, “broader is better.” The unintended consequences of broad-spectrum antibiotics provide an impetus for supplementing their position in the physician’s toolbox with targeted agents. Two recent efforts have proven that antibiotics can be designed with the narrowest of spectra: Both inhibit S. aureus but not closely related bacteria. One molecule, a dehydrosqualene synthase inhibitor, blocks the production of the glycolipid virulence factor staphyloxanthin, the yellow pigment from which the species name of S. aureus is derived. This antibiotic—which was originally developed as a candidate cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitor for use in humans —does not kill S.
