HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


pigment from which the species name of S. aureus is derived. This antibiotic—which was originally developed as a candidate cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitor for use in humans —does not kill S. aureus but makes the bacterium more sensitive to innate immune clearance in an animal model of infection (42). The other molecule, an FtsZ inhibitor, has been proposed to bind FtsZ in a region that is polymorphic among Firmicutes; the result is an antibiotic with activity against various species of Staphylococcus and Bacillus subtilis, but not against S. pneumoniae and Enterococcus faecalis (43). To be used as single-agent therapies very early in the course of treating an infection, these drugs would require rapid companion diagnostics as described above. Second, although antibiotics are often designed and tested against bacteria in liquid culture, pathogens often live in structured, surface-associated communities known as biofilms (44). Numerous infections are caused by bacteria living in biofilms: These include dental caries, periodontal infections, otitis media, endocarditis, osteomyelitis, artificial joint infections, pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis, and device-associated infections (45, 46). Given that existing antibiotics are rarely able to clear the biofilm from the affected site, patients often require weeks to months of therapy and surgical/mechanical intervention. To more Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript effectively treat biofilm-associated infections, agents that promote the dispersion of biofilms or block their formation altogether are needed. A recent promising discovery comes from the observation that the commonly studied soil bacterium B. subtilis produces a diffusible factor that promotes the disassembly of its own biofilms, which is a mixture of D-amino acids (47). The generality of this result was demonstrated by showing that D-amino acids can prevent biofilm formation by the Gram-positive pathogen S. aureus and the Gram-negative pathogen P. aeruginosa. Studies into the mechanism by which D-amino acids act could open the door to a new class of agents that reverse or prevent biofilm formation. This would make their constituent pathogens easier to treat with conventional antibiotics, many of which are more active against free-living bacteria than bacteria in a biofilm (48). WHAT IS THE PATH FORWARD FOR PROBIOTIC THERAPIES? Probiotics are another class of microbiota-targeted therapies whose properties are intimately connected to ecological principles. One key question for the design of future probiotics is whether they should be short-term or long-term residents of a community. Most current
