HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


properties are intimately connected to ecological principles. One key question for the design of future probiotics is whether they should be short-term or long-term residents of a community. Most current probiotics (for example, species of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium) are transient members of the gut community, present for only a few days (49). Among the advantages of short-term colonization are a lower risk of unintended consequences and the ability to determine empirically which probiotic is most effective through rounds of trial and observation. However, long-term residents (for example, species of Bacteroides and Clostridium) would be capable of modulating community structure and function in ways that short-term residents could not, including signaling to the host via receptors expressed in gut epithelial cells that may have evolved to monitor chemical cues from common long-term residents [see review by Holmes et al. (50) and review by Nicholson et al. (51)]. If future probiotic therapies supplying long-term residents become widely used, an important challenge—made famous by ecological studies of agriculture—will be to ensure that no single strain is used in too broad a swath of the human population; a limited choice of probiotic strains could inadvertently create a population-level vulnerability to disease (52). In addition to residence time, another key property of a probiotic therapy is the number of bacterial species it comprises. Most existing probiotics consist of one or a few strains, and the constituents of those that are simple consortia appear to have been chosen on the basis of the dictum of “more is better” rather than for scientific reasons. At the other end of the complexity spectrum, fecal transplants consist of an intact, highly complex community of hundreds of species. Will new probiotics occupy the middle of this spectrum? Two possibilities are synthetic communities containing ~20 species, chosen to represent the major taxa of common gut bacteria (53), and, more ambitiously, a defined mixture of 50+ species chosen to mimic the healthy state of one of the common “enterotypes” (54)—a simplified fecal transplant in a capsule. Currently, most probiotics target the gut, but the principles of designing and testing gut probiotics may also apply to the skin, oral, vaginal, and upper respiratory tract communities. For example, for atopic dermatitis, a topical ointment with a probiotic Corynebacterium species that blocks colonization by S. aureus may be just as effective as an antibiotic or an Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017
