HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


with a probiotic Corynebacterium species that blocks colonization by S. aureus may be just as effective as an antibiotic or an Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript immunosuppressant (55). Likewise, probiotic toothpastes and mouthwashes could be highly effective in reversing or preventing caries and periodontal disease (56). The widespread clinical use of probiotics will require proof of efficacy and safety from large randomized controlled trials with a consensus definition of the disease state, pharmaceutical- grade products, and standardized dosing (34–36). A few notable studies have led the way in showing a positive effect of probiotics on disease outcome (57). Clear successes have been seen with the use of probiotics for preventing necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm neonates (58) and acute diarrhea in children (59), and promising data exist for preventing antibiotic- associated diarrhea and C. difficile–associated diarrhea in adults (60, 61). Probiotics are beneficial for ulcerative colitis and pouchitis, and although the data look less promising for Crohn’s disease, differences in study design (the use of different bacterial strains and underpowered studies) make the results difficult to interpret and compare (62). A hint of benefit has been seen for irritable bowel syndrome, but a recent meta-analysis highlighted that most studies to date have been poorly designed (63), emphasizing the need for better study design in the future. Notably, low success rates in individual trials need not be a reason to abandon the effort; as long as a subset of patients are clear responders, much could be learned from pursuing the biological basis of their response, just as a subset of responders have revealed the molecular basis for a response to targeted kinase inhibitors in oncology trials (64). For probiotics with proven safety and efficacy, elucidating the molecular mechanisms by which they exert their effects will also be important for convincing the academic and clinical communities of their importance. Notably, a probiotic does not need to cause a change in the composition of the community to exert an effect, because community function (or that of the host) may be altered without changing community membership. Indeed, a recent report shows that a mixture of probiotics does not alter the composition of the gut microbiota, but it changes their metabolic function (65). WILL MICROBIOTA DIAGNOSTICS LEAD OR FOLLOW THERAPEUTICS? The microbiota has two characteristics that make it an excellent source of
