HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


of the gut microbiota, but it changes their metabolic function (65). WILL MICROBIOTA DIAGNOSTICS LEAD OR FOLLOW THERAPEUTICS? The microbiota has two characteristics that make it an excellent source of diagnostics (Fig. 2B). First, information richness: Bacterial cells are exquisitely sensitive to their environment, often changing in number or activating transcriptional circuits in response to extracellular cues. The community roster (metagenome) and state (metatranscriptome, metaproteome, and metametabolome) will therefore be sensitive readouts of, inter alia, inflammation and metabolism (26, 27, 50, 51). Second, ease of collection and analysis: Fecal samples, saliva, and nasal swabs are easier to provide than blood. For a patient at risk for developing Crohn’s disease, mailing a monthly fecal sample from home would be simpler and more cost effective than an annual colonoscopy. Tools being developed for cancer genotyping could be adapted for microbiota analysis, so the big challenge will be less technical in nature and more scientific: What question should be asked of the sample? A simple combination of perturbation and measurement, such as used in the glucose tolerance test, should be the goal of some diagnostics for microbiota (Fig. 2B). For example, administering a probiotic or antibiotic and then measuring community composition at a few Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript longitudinal time points would determine the community’s resistance to perturbation and its resilience (ability to return to its original state). Although single time-point measurements of community composition are informative, perturbation-based diagnostics will be especially important for the microbiota, which has many “normal” taxonomic compositions. It might be easier to define normal or healthy in terms of functional attributes like resistance and resilience rather than by a single measurement of composition. An emerging theme that links ecology to the latest studies of the microbiota is the need to map a community’s composition to its function (Fig. 1B). The mapping is rarely obvious, because closely related taxa can have distinct functions and unrelated species can have surprisingly similar functions. Nevertheless, a mechanistic understanding of how composition determines function is critical to developing useful diagnostics and therapeutics. The host may be indifferent to which species are present, but the community’s ability to liberate nutrients from the diet and resist pathogen invasion are vital. Two questions thus arise: First, at what level of granularity should a function be interrogated? Is it enough to know
