HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


nutrients from the diet and resist pathogen invasion are vital. Two questions thus arise: First, at what level of granularity should a function be interrogated? Is it enough to know that a certain gut species produces short-chain fatty acids, or is the distinction between propionate and butyrate important? Second, what will function- based diagnostics look like? One possibility, which takes advantage of the wealth of expertise in analyzing metagenomic samples from the microbiome, would be to develop ways of predicting functions from the taxa and genes present in a community. An alternative would be to develop simple tests, akin to a serum creatinine test for renal function, which could quickly assess an important metabolic index of community function from an easily obtained sample (50, 51). Whether diagnostics lead or follow therapeutics, an emphasis on measuring functions rather than taxa will help build what is becoming an increasingly critical bridge between ecology and therapeutics. Efforts to make microbial ecology easier to model and more predictable will pay dividends, boosting our ability to understand and manipulate the human microbiota. Not surprisingly, industrial and academic drug discovery groups rarely have an ecologist on staff. That may need to change; rigorous ecological analysis will be an essential component of designing microbiota-targeted therapies, measuring their efficacy, and assessing their unintended effects on the community. Acknowledgments We thank L. Costello, B. Bohannon, J. Gordon, V. Klepac-Ceraj, the members of the Forsyth Host-Microbiota Focus Group, and the three reviewers for helpful comments. Funding: Research in the authors’ laboratories is supported by a Medical Research award from the W. M. Keck Foundation (M.A.F.), a Fellowship for Science and Engineering from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation Duke Charitable Trust (D.A.R.), an NIH Pioneer Award DP1OD000964 (D.A.R.), and the Thomas C. and Joan M. Merigan Endowment at Stanford University (D.A.R.). Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript REFERENCES AND NOTES 1. Costello E, Stagaman K, Dethlefsen L, Bohannon BJM, Relman DA. The application of ecological theory towards an understanding of the human microbiome. Science. 2012; 336:1255–1262. [PubMed: 22674335] 2. Tamboli CP, Neut C, Desreumaux P, Colombel JF. Dysbiosis in inflammatory bowel disease. Gut. 2004; 53:1–4. [PubMed: 14684564] 3. Kolter R. A visit to the paediatrician in the not-so-distant future. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2009; 1:12–16. 4. Lesko LJ, Atkinson AJ Jr. Use of biomarkers and surrogate endpoints in
