HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, pubmed, community, microbiota, manuscript author, disease, species, antibiotic, med, sci, transl med, transl, state


Lozupone CA, Knight R, Duncan AE, Bain JR, Muehlbauer MJ, Newgard CB, Heath AC, Gordon JI. The impact of a consortium of fermented milk strains on the gut microbiome of gnotobiotic mice and monozygotic twins. Sci Transl Med. 2011; 3:106ra106. Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Fig. 1. Microbial communities as networks. (A) Shown are three types of perturbation to a network of microbial species such as that found in the microbiota at various body sites. The microbiota can be perturbed by excision of a single species (node) by a vaccine or a species- specific antibiotic, by elimination of multiple nodes or a subnetwork by an antibiotic, or by replacement of a whole network using microbiota transplantation. (B) Two ways of modeling a microbial community as a network. (Left) Nodes as species, and edges as interactions among species. Species networks can be constructed directly from metagenomic sequence data, but they lack functional information. (Right) Nodes as functions, and edges as interactions among functions. Function networks can generate hypotheses about the mechanism of microbiota-host interactions, but they require mapping genes to functions or a panel of direct functional measurements. Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Fig. 2. New opportunities in treatment and diagnostics. (A) Antibiotics save countless lives, but when they kill mutualistic (that is, helpful) microbiota that normally check the growth of pathogens, a secondary infection can ensue. Repopulating antibiotic-treated patients with probiotics is a promising strategy to prevent secondary infections. (B) Given that the human microbiota has many normal taxonomic compositions, it might be easier to develop markers of a normal or healthy community in terms of functional attributes like resistance and resilience. A single time-point measurement of taxon and gene abundance (left) is limited in its ability to provide functional information. Diagnostics based on direct measurements of metabolites (right, top) and temporal measurements of robustness to antibiotic or probiotic challenge (right, bottom) would enable community function to be assessed directly. Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 December 11. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Fig. 3. Microbiota-targeted therapy can shift a community to a healthier stable state. A microbial community’s response to a microbiota-targeted therapy can be illustrated with a stability landscape diagram (1). The ball containing
