Effect of deoxynivalenol on inflammatory injury on the glandular stomach in
KEYWORDS: don, group, glandular, stomach, chicken, glandular stomach, embryos, il-, deoxynivalenol, chicken embryos, degs, toxicity, embryo, gastric, figure


166 downregulated genes (Figure2H). (Figure4B).AGeneOntology(GO) enrichment analy- sis of the DEGs showed that 39, 102, and 69 DEGs of these DEGs in the L, M, and H groups, respectively, EffectsofDONonPlasmaInflammatory were enriched in the immune system process (Figure 4C). A Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and CytokinesinChicks Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis of the DEGs The plasma inflammatory cytokine levels in the showed that the upregulated DEGs in group H were chicks are shown in Figure 3. Compared with the con- most abundant the osteoclast differentiation pathway, trol group, group L had a higher IL-6 content (P < actin cytoskeleton regulatory pathway, protein process- 0.05), group M had higher IL6 and NF-kB contents ing pathways in the endoplasmic reticulum, MAPK sig- and lower IL-2, IL-4, and TNF-a contents (P < 0.05), naling pathway, dopaminergic synaptic pathway, and group H had higher IL-1b and NF-kB contents apoptosis pathway, choline metabolic pathway in can- and lower IL-2 and IL-4 contents (P < 0.05). Com- cer, glucagon signaling pathway, glyceride metabolic pared with group L, group M had higher IL-6 and pathway, and parathyroid hormone synthetic secretion NF-kB contents and lower IL-2, IL-4, and TNF-a con- andactionpathway,comparedtogroupM(Figure4D). tents (P < 0.05), and group H had higher IL-1b and NF-kB contents and lower IL-2, IL-4, and IL-6 con- DISCUSSION tents (P < 0.05). Compared with group M, group H had higher IL-1b and NF-kB contents and a lower IL- Mycotoxin contamination is one of the main factors 6 content (P < 0.05). causing avian proventriculitis, but no adequate in vivo DEOXYNIVALENOLACTSONTHEGLANDULARSTOMACH 5 Figure2. EffectsofDONonthehistologicalchangesofglandularstomachtissues(H.E.,50£,H.E.,200£).GroupsC,L,M,andHwereinjected with0mg,1.0mg,4.5mg,and10.0mgDONintotheallantoiccavity,respectively,calculatedasper50gchickembryo. model of this infection has yet been established. The advantages over other experimental animals, and can chicken embryo is covered by the eggshell and shell more accurately reflect the damage caused by various membrane, and has a relatively stable internal environ- toxins to the body. It can also exclude interference by ment. Therefore, a chicken embryo model has most pathogenic microorganisms and environmental 6 HOUETAL. Figure3. EffectsofdifferentdosesofDONonplasmainflammatorycytokinesinchicks.GroupsC,L,M,andHwereinjectedwith0mg,1.0mg, 4.5mg,and10.0mgDONintotheallantoiccavity,respectively,calculatedasper50gchickembryo.(A)ThelevelofIL-1binchickenblood.(B) ThelevelofIL-2binchickenblood.(C)ThelevelofIL-6inchickenblood.(D)ThelevelofTNF-ainchickenblood.(E)ThelevelofIFN-ginchicken blood.(F)ThelevelofNF-kBinchickenblood.(G)ThelevelofIL-4inchickenblood.(H)ThelevelofIL-10inchickenblood.(I)ThelevelofTGF-b inchickenblood.Differentlowercaselettersindicateasignificantdifference(P<0.05),whilethesameornoletterindicatesnosignificantdifference (P>0.05). factors. Therefore, we first tested the acute toxicity of 1989) reported that DON-contaminated diets signifi- DON in chicken embryos injected via the allantoic cav- cantly reduced the weight gain of chicks on d 8 to 14, ity to confirm its LD . The LD of DON administered but did not affect the total weight gain and bodyweight 50 50 tochickenembryos byallantoic injectionwas 73.37mg/ after 3 wk. Huff et al.
