Effect of deoxynivalenol on inflammatory injury on the glandular stomach in
KEYWORDS: don, group, glandular, stomach, chicken, glandular stomach, embryos, il-, deoxynivalenol, chicken embryos, degs, toxicity, embryo, gastric, figure


its LD . The LD of DON administered but did not affect the total weight gain and bodyweight 50 50 tochickenembryos byallantoic injectionwas 73.37mg/ after 3 wk. Huff et al. (1986) and Kubena et al. (1988) kg,witha95%confidenceintervalof64.29to83.74mg/ demonstrated that DON-contaminated diets reduced kg. Therefore, according to the toxicological evaluation the growth performance of broilers, but did not affect criteriaforchemicalsubstances, DONwassupertoxicto their hemoglobin concentrations. These various results chickenembryos. may be explained by the fact thatthe animal diets were Growth, development, and hematological values are contaminated with multiple mycotoxins, whereas the essential visual indicators when evaluating the toxicity chicken embryos in the present study were treated with of mycotoxins, and have been widely used to evaluate asingletoxin,andtheinfluenceoffeedandexternalfac- the toxicity of both drugs and toxins. Previous studies torswas excluded, thus providing aclearer indicationof have confirmedthat DON-contaminated diets increased DONtoxicity. the incidence of chick developmental anomalies, leading Mycotoxinsaremainlyabsorbedviathegastrointesti- to cloacal atresia and fetal dysplasia (Bergsjo et al., nal tracts of animals and are some of the major factors 1993). Andretta et al. (2012) and Swamy et al. (2002) causingavianadenogastritis. Previousstudiesofgastro- reported that mycotoxin-contaminated diets cause intestinaltractinjuryinanimalscausedbyDONinfeed marked changes in hematological parameters, including have mainlyfocused ontheintestinal tract, whereas the reductionsinthehematocritandhemoglobinconcentra- toxic damage DON causes in the glandular stomach of tion. In the present study, DON exposure caused no chickens has rarely been investigated. The organ index changesinbodyweight,butreducedtheRBCcountand and histopathological changes are 2 commonly used hemoglobin concentration, indicating that exposure to visual indicators of the toxic injury caused by poisons. DON did not affect embryo development but caused DON-contaminated diets can damage intestinal epithe- anemia in newly hatched chicks. Kubena et al. (1987, lial cells, shorten the intestinal villi, and destroy the DEOXYNIVALENOLACTSONTHEGLANDULARSTOMACH 7 Figure4. EffectsofdifferentdosesofDONontheadenogastric transcriptomics inchicks.GroupsC,L,M,andHwereinjectedwith0mg, 1.0mg,4.5mg,and10.0mgDONintotheallantoiccavity,respectively,calculatedasper50gchickembryo.(A)Differentialgenessystematiccluster analysisinC,M,andHgroups(n=3).(B)Threegroups’differentialgenevolcanomaps.(C)DifferentialenrichmentGOanalysis.(D)Mvs.Hdif- ferentialKEGGenrichmentbarchart.ThejudgmentstandardswereFDR<0.05and|log2FC|>1. intestinal barrier (Pinton and Oswald, 2014; Lessard even disappearance of the glandular gastric papillae, et al., 2015; Yang et al., 2019). Mycotoxins in feed can bleeding, ulceration, and the shedding of the glandular cause adenomyogastritis in poultry, resulting in the gastric mucosa. Huff et al. (1986) and Kubena et al. enlargement of the glandular stomach, the flattening or (1988) showed that the combination of DON with 8 HOUETAL. aflatoxin or ochratoxin increased the relative weight of which inhibits the initiation of mRNA translation and the glandular stomach, but this phenomenon was not protein synthesis, leading to ribosomal stress and the caused by DON alone. In the present study, different activation of the intracellular mitogen-activated prote-
