Effect of deoxynivalenol on inflammatory injury on the glandular stomach in
KEYWORDS: don, group, glandular, stomach, chicken, glandular stomach, embryos, il-, deoxynivalenol, chicken embryos, degs, toxicity, embryo, gastric, figure


glandular stomach, but this phenomenon was not protein synthesis, leading to ribosomal stress and the caused by DON alone. In the present study, different activation of the intracellular mitogen-activated prote- doses of DON caused different degrees of pathological ase (MAPK) signaling pathway, thus affecting a series change in the glandular stomach, and the degree of of downstream cellular physiological activities (Pestka, change increased as the dose of DON administered to 2007). Wang et al. (2018) showed that DON was cyto- the chicken embryos increased. A high dose of DON toxic to and induced the apoptosis of the hippocampal exposure seriously damaged the glandular gastric tis- neurons of piglets through the MAPK signaling path- sues, destroyed the integrity of the gastric mucosa, way. Yu et al. (2021) reported that DON induced the caused submucosal hemorrhage, inhibited the develop- inflammatory response of IPEC-J2 cells via the phos- ment of the gastric glands, and reduced the weight and phorylationofcomponentsoftheMAPKsignalingpath- index of the glandular stomach. Lower doses of DON way. Similarly, the transcriptomic analysis in the only stimulated swelling of the glandular stomach and present study showed that DON caused significant increaseditsweightandorganindex.Therefore,wesug- changes in the genes expressed in groups M and H, and gest that low doses of DON exert a weaker toxin effect, DEGs upregulated and involved in the immune system leading to organ swelling, whereas high doses exert a increased significantly asthe increase of toxin dose. The strongtoxineffect,leadingtoorganatrophy. KEGG enrichment analysis showed that group H DON is not only an immunostimulant but also an enriched more DEGs in the MAPK signaling pathway immunosuppressant , depending on than group M. These results suggested that the toxicity multiple factors, including the toxin dose, exposure ofDONwasrelatedtotheMAPKsignalingpathway.In time, administration route, and other immunological this study, we also foundthat DON induced the expres- stimulants (Hooft and Bureau, 2021). Low-dose DON sion of TNF-a, IL-1b, NF-kB, and other inflammatory affects the immune function by rapidly or instan- factors in the plasma, indicating that the inflammatory taneously upregulating the expression of cytokines, che- responseinducedbyDONinchickenembryoswassignif- mokines, and other proinflammatory proteins, and icantly associated with the MAPK signaling pathway. inducing the expression of inflammation-related genes However, how DON induces chicken embryo glandular by stimulating mononuclear macrophages (Pestka, stomach inflammation through the MAPK signaling 2008). High-dose DON causes immunosuppression by pathwayisunclearandwarrantsfurtherstudy. promoting leukocyte apoptosis . Previous studies have shown that DON exposure ACKNOWLEDGMENTS increased the levels of IL1 and IL6 in the
