Effect of deoxynivalenol on inflammatory injury on the glandular stomach in
KEYWORDS: don, group, glandular, stomach, chicken, glandular stomach, embryos, il-, deoxynivalenol, chicken embryos, degs, toxicity, embryo, gastric, figure


MAPK signaling 2008). High-dose DON causes immunosuppression by pathwayisunclearandwarrantsfurtherstudy. promoting leukocyte apoptosis . Previous studies have shown that DON exposure ACKNOWLEDGMENTS increased the levels of IL1 and IL6 in the sera of young rabbits(Yangetal.,2019)andreducedtheTNF-alevels This work was funded by Shandong Natural Science in the plasma of broiler chickens . Foundation (ZR2021MC150), Shandong Provincial Similarly, DON injected into chicken embryos increased Poultry Industry and Technology System, China thelevelsofIL1b,IL6,andNF-kB,andreducedthelev- (SDAIT-11-07), Shandong Science and Technology els of IL2, IL4, and TNF-a in the plasma of newly Small and Medium Enterprises Innovation Ability hatched chicks. However, Zhou et al. (1997) demon- Improvement Project (2021tsgc1303), and Qingdao TNF-ɑdandIFN-g,butdidnotaffectthelevelsofIL1b, 1120017). We are grateful to our laboratory technicians IL2,orIL4inmouseserum.Mikamietal.(2011)showed for their assistance with the experimental animals. We that the levels of IL6, IL8, and TNF-a in pig serum thank International Science Editing ( increasedtransientlyat3hand6haftertheinjectionof nationalscienceediting.com)foreditingthismanuscript. DON. We attributed these discrepancies to the responsesofthedifferentbreedsofexperimentalanimals DISCLOSURES usedandthedifferentroutesanddosesofDONadminis- tered in various studies. In the present study, the new- The authors declare the following financial interests/ bornchickswereinthedetoxificationstageafter12dof personal relationships which may be considered as poten- DON exposure, and the toxic damage caused by DON tial competing interests: Lele Hou reports financial sup- was gradually being repaired, which may explain why port was provided by Qingdao Agricultural University. the cytokine changes differed from those in other ani- Otherauthorsdeclarenocompeting financialinterest. mals. Previous studies have shown that DON changed its molecular structure upon entering the cell and binds to REFERENCES the ribosome. It then destroyed the spatial structure of Andretta, I., M. Kipper, C. R. Lehnen, and P. A. Lovatto. 2012. the ribosome and inhibited the activity of peptidyl Meta-analysis of the relationship of mycotoxins with biochemical transferaseonthe60Ssubunit,thusalteringthephysio- andhematologicalparametersinbroilers.Poult.Sci.91:376–382. logical function of the ribosome and ultimately inhibit- Antonissen, G., F. Van Immerseel, F. Pasmans, R. Ducatelle, ing protein synthesis . DON also G. P. Janssens, S. De Baere, K. C. Mountzouris, S. Su, E. A. Wong, B. De Meulenaer, M. Verlinden, M. Devreese, inducesthephosphorylationofeukaryoticinitiationfac- F. Haesebrouck, B. Novak, I. Dohnal, A. Martel, and tor 2a by activating protein kinase R in the ribosome, S.Croubels.2015.Mycotoxinsdeoxynivalenolandfumonisinsalter DEOXYNIVALENOLACTSONTHEGLANDULARSTOMACH 9 theextrinsiccomponentofintestinalbarrierinbroilerchickens.J. Riahi, I., A. M. Perez-Vendrell, A. J. Ramos, J. Brufau, Agric.FoodChem.63:10846–10855. E.Esteve-Garcia,J.Schulthess,andV.Marquis.2021.Biomarkers Awad,W.,K.Ghareeb,J.Bohm,andJ.Zentek.2013.Thetoxicologi- of deoxynivalenol toxicity in chickens with special emphasis on calimpactsoftheFusariummycotoxin,deoxynivalenol,inpoultry metabolicandwelfareparameters.Toxins(Basel)13:217. flocks with special reference to immunotoxicity. Toxins (Basel) Rotter,B.A.,D.B.Prelusky,andJ.J.Pestka.1996.Toxicologyof 5:912–925. deoxynivalenol(vomitoxin).J.Toxicol.Environ.Health48:1–34. Becker, C., M. Reiter, M. W. Pfaffl, H. H. Meyer, J. Bauer, and Serviento, A. M., L. Brossard, and D. Renaudeau. 2018.
