Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


ABSTRACT The chapter summarizes the current information available from a variety of scientifically based guidelines and resources on dietary advice for those with diabetes. It is a practical overview for health care practitioners working in diabetes management. The chapter is divided into sections by content and includes sources for further reading. A primary message is that nutrition plans should meet the specific needs of the patient and take into consideration their ability to implement change. Often starting with small achievable changes is best, with larger changes discussed as rapport builds. Referral to medical nutrition therapy (MNT) provided by a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) and a diabetes self- management education and support (DSMES) program is highlighted. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION This chapter will summarize current information available from a variety of evidence-based guidelines and resources on dietary advice for those with diabetes. The modern diet for those with diabetes is based on concepts from clinical research, portion control, and individualized lifestyle change. It requires open and honest communication between health care practitioner and patient and cannot be delivered by giving a person a diet sheet in a one-size-fits- all approach. The lifestyle modification guidance and support needed most often requires a team effort, ideally including a registered dietitian (RD) or registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN), or a referral to a diabetes self- management education and support (DSMES) program that includes dietary advice. Current (2024) recommendations of the American Diabetes Association (ADA) promote all health care professionals to refer people with diabetes for individualized medical nutrition therapy (MNT) provided by an RDN at diagnosis and as needed throughout the life span, in addition to DSMES ( 1 ). It is very important to note that dietary recommendations for those with diabetes are virtually the same recommendations for diabetes prevention and the health of the general population; however, it cannot be excluded that people with diabetes will require additional support to meet the recommendations. Fang et al, reported that although there has been continued improvements in risk factor control and adherence to preventative practices over the past decades, half of U.S. adults with diabetes do not meet the recommended goals for diabetes care in 2015-2018 ( 2 ). This is a current and ongoing issue. Diet and lifestyle recommendations are cornerstones of advice to prevent and manage diabetes, however there
