Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


for diabetes care in 2015-2018 ( 2 ). This is a current and ongoing issue. Diet and lifestyle recommendations are cornerstones of advice to prevent and manage diabetes, however there are recognized barriers to heeding advice and implementing lifestyle change. First, there is a plethora of dietary information for diabetes management available from many sources, although not all is evidence-based or current. There are also social, cultural, and personal preferences unique to each individual that must be taken into consideration when making long-term dietary change. Many health care practitioners are not adequately trained to be confident in delivering dietary advice, and many food environments do not support healthy dietary intakes for all. There are also commercial determinants of health that influence dietary intakes, such as marketing advertising, and price discounting on certain foods. The following recommendations come from evidence-based guideline development processes and emphasize practical suggestions for implementing dietary advice for most individuals with diabetes. GENERAL GOALS Dietary advice for those with diabetes has evolved and have become more flexible and patient centered over time. Nutrition goals from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) 2024 include the following: ( 1 ) 1. To promote and support healthful eating patterns, emphasizing a variety of nutrient-dense foods in appropriate portion sizes, to improve overall health and: a. achieve and maintain body weight goals. b. attain individualized glycemic, blood pressure, and lipid goals. c. delay or prevent the complications of diabetes. 2. To address individual nutrition needs based on personal and cultural preferences, health literacy and numeracy, access to healthful foods, willingness and ability to make behavioral changes, and existing barriers to change. 3. To maintain the pleasure of eating by providing nonjudgmental messages about food choices while limiting food choices only when indicated by scientific evidence. 4. To provide an individual with diabetes the practical tools for developing healthy eating patterns rather than focusing on individual macronutrients, micronutrients, or single foods. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) guidelines have similar nutrition goals for people with type 2 diabetes ( 3 ). Putting Goals Into Practice How should these goals best be put into practice? The following guidelines summarized from the ADA Standards of Care will address the above goals and provide guidance on nutrition therapy based on numerous scientific resources. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and other studies demonstrated the added value individualized consultation with a registered dietitian familiar with
