Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


on nutrition therapy based on numerous scientific resources. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and other studies demonstrated the added value individualized consultation with a registered dietitian familiar with diabetes treatments, along with regular follow-up, has on long-term outcomes and is highly recommended to aid in lifestyle compliance ( 4 ). Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) implemented by a registered dietitian is associated with A1C reductions of 1.0–1.9% for people with type 1 diabetes and 0.3–2.0% for people with type 2 diabetes ( 1 ). Target Guidelines For Macronutrients: The 3 Major Components Of Diet Many studies have been completed to attempt to determine the optimal combination of macronutrients. Based on available data, the best mix of carbohydrate, protein, and fat depends on the individual metabolic goals and preferences of the person with diabetes. It’s most important to ensure that total energy intake is kept in mind for weight loss or maintenance ( 1 ). CARBOHYDRATES The primary goal in the management of diabetes is to achieve as near normal regulation of blood glucose as possible. Both the type and total amount of carbohydrate (CHO) consumed influences glycemia. Carbohydrate intake should emphasize nutrient-dense carbohydrate sources that are high in fiber (at least 14 g fiber per 1,000 kcal) and minimally processed ( 1 ). Dietary carbohydrate includes sugars, starch, and dietary fiber. Higher intakes of sugars are associated with weight gain and greater incidence of dental caries ( 5 ). Conversely, higher intakes of dietary fiber are associated with reduced non-communicable disease and premature mortality occurrence as well as improvements in body weight, cholesterol concentrations, and blood pressure ( 6 , 7 ). These benefits with higher fiber intakes have been observed in the general population, for those with type 1, type 2, and pre diabetes, ( 8 ) and those with hypertension or heart disease ( 9 ). With this guidance in mind, eating plans should emphasize non-starchy vegetables, fruits, legumes, and whole grains, as well as dairy products with minimal added sugars ( 1 , 10 ). There is less consistency of evidence for recommending an amount of overall CHO in the diet ( 1 ). This is in line with current World Health Organization for carbohydrate intakes for adults and children which stress the type of carbohydrate is important, with recommendations for fiber and vegetable and fruit intake, but no recommendations on CHO amount ( 7 ).
