Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


Dietary Fiber Current recommendations from the American Diabetes Association are that adults with diabetes should consume high fiber foods (at least 14g fiber per 1,000 kcal) ( 1 ). Current recommendations from the European Association for the Study of Diabetes are that adults with diabetes should consume at least 35g dietary fiber per day (or 16.7g per 1,000 kcal) ( 10 ). These two values are aligned, and higher than current World Health Organization recommendations for the general population of at least 25g dietary fiber per day, ( 7 ) although all three recommendations recognize a minimum intake level, with greater benefits observed with higher intakes. These values are appreciably higher than current dietary fiber intakes in the United States, which is approximately 16g per day. Our understanding of the importance of dietary fiber has changed in recent years. Dietary fiber is carbohydrate that is not digested by the stomach or absorbed in the GI tract. Instead, it is either degraded in the colon by the gut microbiota, or passes through the human body intact. Higher intakes of dietary fiber are associated with lower all-cause mortality, heart disease, T2 diabetes incidence, and certain cancers such colorectal cancer when compared with lower fiber intakes ( 6 ). The benefits for childhood intakes of dietary fiber and health outcomes later in life remain uncertain ( 12 ). There are several established physiological pathways that might explain these associations, such as reducing postprandial glycemia, competitive inhibition of saturated fat in the small intestine, and greater satiety leading to reduce subsequent intake. There are also more novel pathways proposed, such as modulation of the gut microbiota to increase branched and short chain fatty acids. Current recommendations by the World Health Organization are to obtain “naturally occurring dietary fiber as consumed in food” ( 7 ). Fiber supplements however are used frequently as additional dietary fiber sources, and may help individuals reach their fiber recommendations when sufficient amounts cannot be obtained from food alone. Fiber supplements can be extracted fiber (taken from a plant source) or synthetic. Few fiber supplements have been studied for physiological effectiveness to the same degree as inherent dietary fiber, so current best advice is to consume foods that are high in fiber ( 1 , 7 , 13 ). Recommended food sources of dietary fiber are minimally processed whole grains, vegetables, whole fruit and legumes ( 1 , 7 ).
