Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


in fiber ( 1 , 7 , 13 ). Recommended food sources of dietary fiber are minimally processed whole grains, vegetables, whole fruit and legumes ( 1 , 7 ). An emphasis on minimally processed is made, as processing may reduce the benefits associated with intakes of these foods, ( 14 - 16 ) as well as introduce added nutrients such as saturated fats, sodium, and added sugars. The website below contains links to a comprehensive table listing fiber content of foods, and a calculator to help select foods with higher fiber content to help reach daily fiber goals. http://www.webmd.com/diet/healthtool-fiber-meter . In the Endotext chapter entitled “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” in the Lipid and Lipoprotein section provides several tables providing information on the fiber content of various foods. Starch Starch comprises most of the carbohydrates consumed globally, and is the storage carbohydrate found in refined cereals, potatoes, legumes, and bananas ( 16 ). Starch comprises two polymers: amylose (DP ~ 10 3 ) and amylopectin (DP ~ 10 4 –10 5 ). Most cereal starches comprise 15–30% amylose and 70–85% amylopectin. In their raw form, most starches are resistant to digestion by pancreatic amylase, but gelatinize in heat and water, permitting rapid digestion ( 16 ). Dietary starch intake is rarely directly reported, so the health effects of dietary starch intake are often assessed through key sources, such as refined grains and potatoes. For potatoes, meta-analyses of prospective observational studies have identified the health effects are largely determined by the cooking method ( 17 ). Fried and salted potatoes were associated with higher incidence of type 2 diabetes and hypertension. Boiled and roasted potatoes were not associated with increased or decreased risk to health ( 17 ). Some starches escape digestion, either naturally or due to food processing; these starches are called resistant starches. Resistant Starches Resistant starches are starch enclosed within intact cell walls. These include some legumes, starch granules in raw potato, retrograde amylose from plants modified to increase amylose content, or high-amylose containing foods, such as specially formulated cornstarch, which are not digested and absorbed as glucose. Resistant starches avoid digestion in the small intestine so do not contribute to postprandial glycemia and diabetes risk, and are instead fermented in the colon by the microbiota. Sugars (Nutritive Sweeteners) Sucrose, also known as “table sugar,” is a disaccharide composed of
