Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


to postprandial glycemia and diabetes risk, and are instead fermented in the colon by the microbiota. Sugars (Nutritive Sweeteners) Sucrose, also known as “table sugar,” is a disaccharide composed of one glucose and one fructose molecule and provides 4 kcals per gram ( 16 ). Available evidence from clinical studies does not indicate that the overall amount of dietary sucrose is related to type 2 diabetes incidence, however it is related to body weight gain and increased dental caries ( 5 ). Given the association between excess body weight and type 2 diabetes occurrence, ( 18 ) there is rationale to promote a reduction of sugar intake related to diabetes occurrence, and replace sugar-sweetened beverages (including fruit juices) with water or no/low calorie beverages as much as possible ( 1 ). Fructose is a naturally occurring monosaccharide found in fruits, some vegetables, and honey. High fructose corn syrup is used abundantly within the United States in processed foods as a less expensive alternative to sucrose. Fructose consumed in naturally occurring in foods such as fruit, (that also contain fiber) may result in better glycemic control compared with isocaloric intake of sucrose or fructose added to food, and is not likely to have detrimental effects on triglycerides as long as intake is not excessive (<12% energy). A meta-analysis of 18 controlled feeding trials in people with diabetes compared the impact of fructose with other sources of carbohydrate on glycemic control. The analysis found that an isocaloric exchange of fructose for carbohydrates did not significantly affect fasting glucose or insulin and reduced glycated blood proteins in these trials of less than 12 weeks duration. The short duration is a potential limitation of the studies ( 19 ). Evidence exists that consuming high levels of fructose-containing beverages may have particularly adverse effects on selective deposition of ectopic and visceral fat, lipid metabolism, blood pressure, and insulin sensitivity compared with glucose-sweetened beverages ( 20 ). Thus, recommendations for dietary fructose tend to promote the reduction of fructose added to food, such as in fructose-containing beverages, while promoting whole fruit which can contain intrinsic fructose. Non-Nutritive Sweeteners Non-nutritive sweeteners provide insignificant amounts of energy and elicit a sweet sensation without increasing blood glucose or insulin concentrations. There are several FDA-approved sweeteners found to be safe when consumed within FDA acceptable daily intake amounts (ADI) ( Table 1 ) ( 21 ). Table 1. NON-NUTRITIVE SWEETENERS
