Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


concentrations. There are several FDA-approved sweeteners found to be safe when consumed within FDA acceptable daily intake amounts (ADI) ( Table 1 ) ( 21 ). Table 1. NON-NUTRITIVE SWEETENERS View in own window Name Main Source Sucralose (Splenda®) Sucralose is synthesized from regular sucrose, but altered such that it is not absorbed. Sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sucrose. It is heat stable and can be used in cooking. It was approved for use by the FDA in 1999. Saccharine (Sugar Twin®, Sweet ‘N Low®) Saccharine is 200 to 700 times sweeter than sugar. A cancer-related warning label was removed in 2000 after the FDA determined that it was generally safe. Acesulfame K (Ace K, Sunette) Acesulfame is 200 times sweeter than sucrose. It can be used in cooking. The bitter aftertaste of acesulfame can be greatly decreased or eliminated by combining acesulfame with another sweetener. Neotame Neotame is a derivative of the dipeptide phenylalanine and aspartic acid. It is 7,000-13,000 times sweeter than sucrose and does not have a significant effect on fasting glucose or insulin levels in persons with type 2 diabetes. Aspartame (Equal®, NutraSweet®) Aspartame is a methyl ester of aspartic acid and phenylalanine dipeptide. Although aspartame provides 4 kcal/g, the intensity of the sweet taste (200x sweeter than sucrose) means that very small amounts are required. The FDA requires any foods containing aspartame to have an informational label statement: “Phenylketonurics: contains phenylalanine.” Patients with phenylketonuria should avoid products containing Aspartame. Controversy has existed for many years around safety of this sweetener, but not from any major organizations. Stevia (Truvia®) Stevia derived from the plant stevia rebaudiana , is a non-caloric, natural sweetener. Stevia has been used as a sweetener and as a medicinal herb since ancient times and appears to be well-tolerated. It has an intensely sweet taste. Luo han guo Luo han guo is also known as monk fruit, or Swingle fruit extract. It is 150- 300 times sweeter than sucrose, and may have an aftertaste at high levels. A review of 29 RCTs which included 741 people, 69 of which have type 2 diabetes, indicated that artificial sweeteners on their own do not raise blood glucose levels, but the content of the food or drink containing the artificial sweetener must be considered, especially for those with diabetes ( 22 ). This sentiment was echoed in recent WHO guidance on non-nutritive sweeteners for the
