Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


or drink containing the artificial sweetener must be considered, especially for those with diabetes ( 22 ). This sentiment was echoed in recent WHO guidance on non-nutritive sweeteners for the general population ( 23 ) where their use was not recommended for weight loss, as the overall content of the processed food or drink was important. Practical Tips For Carbohydrate Intake Base meals and snacks around high fiber foods, such as whole grains, vegetables, whole fruit, and legumes. Common whole grains include whole wheat, whole oats, brown rice, barley, and quinoa. When purchasing wholegrain foods, check the label to make sure that the wholegrain is the first ingredient listed, and that energy from sugars is <10%. Consume fruit, but chose whole fruit over dried, juiced, or further processed fruit. Legumes are an excellent and cheap source of fiber and protein. Replace ground meat in meals such as casserole with lentils or legumes. Strive to include a variety of vegetables in your meals each day, avoiding deep fried and heavily salted options. FAT Evidence is inconclusive for an ideal amount of total fat intake for people with diabetes; therefore, goals should be individualized. In line with advice for the general public, people with diabetes should look to replace saturated and trans fats in the diet with mono and poly unsaturated fats ( 24 ). This is principally to lessen the increased risk of cardiovascular disease with high saturated and trans-fat intakes. Recent meta-analyses have found that decreasing the amount of saturated fatty acids and trans fatty acids, the principal dietary fatty acids linked to elevating LDL cholesterol, reduces the risk of CVD ( 25 ). The World Health Organization and American College of Cardiology currently recommend limiting the amount of dietary saturated and trans-fat intake ( 24 , 26 ). Recommendations from the Institute of Medicine and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics for healthy individuals are that 20% to 35% of total energy should come from fat ( 27 ). Recommendations to reduce total fat intake are largely due to the high energy content of dietary fats, more so than protein or carbohydrate, and the risks associated with higher saturated fat intakes. Current recommendations for fat intakes from the American Diabetes Association focus on fat quality and its sources rather than quantity ( 1 ). They recommend: Counsel people with diabetes to consider an eating plan emphasizing elements of a
