Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


Diabetes Association focus on fat quality and its sources rather than quantity ( 1 ). They recommend: Counsel people with diabetes to consider an eating plan emphasizing elements of a Mediterranean eating pattern, which is rich in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats and long-chain fatty acids such as fatty fish, nuts, and seeds, to reduce cardiovascular disease risk and improve glucose metabolism. The American Heart Association has developed the Fat Facts to help individuals learn more about healthy vs. unhealthy fats. Among the campaign's top priorities is to encourage replacing high trans-fat partially hydrogenated vegetable oils, animal fats, and tropical oils with healthier oils and foods higher in unsaturated fats — monounsaturated and polyunsaturated. See more at: https://www.heart.org/en/healthy-living/healthy-eating/eat-smart/fats/the-facts-on-fats . Monounsaturated Fatty Acids Monounsaturated fats (MUFA) are in foods such as avocado, some fish, nuts, and nut butters. MUFA are also found in vegetable oils such as olive, peanut, avocado, and canola oil. Several large prospective observational studies have documented that diets rich in MUFA or PUFA and lower in saturated fat are associated with a reduced risk of CVD ( 28 ). Meta-analysis of RCTs comparing diets higher in MUFA vs CHO or PUFA demonstrated that high MUFA containing diets can improve metabolic parameters and reduce cardiovascular disease risk in people with T2D ( 29 , 30 ). Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids Polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) are found in foods such as walnuts, sunflower seeds, and some fish such as salmon, mackerel, herring, and trout. PUFA are also found in vegetable oils such as corn oil, safflower oil, and soybean oil. Both PUFA and MUFA are usually liquid at room temperature. A meta-analysis of feeding trials has indicated consistent positive effects when other macronutrients, such as saturated fats, are replaced with PUFA on glycemia, insulin resistance, and insulin secretion capacity ( 31 ). Substitution data from prospective observational studies also indicates that replacing saturated and trans fats with PUFA reduces all-cause mortality and coronary heart disease, ( 25 ) with a smaller body of evidence in those with diabetes indicating similar improvements in cardiovascular disease risk ( 30 ). A few specific types of PUFA are referred to as Omega-3 fats. These are called eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA). These fats are particularly singled out and recommended to prevent or treat CVD; however, evidence does not support a beneficial role for the routine use of n-3 dietary supplements
