Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


(ALA). These fats are particularly singled out and recommended to prevent or treat CVD; however, evidence does not support a beneficial role for the routine use of n-3 dietary supplements in diabetes management ( 1 ) or for the general population. EPA and DHA are found in fatty fish. ALA is found in nuts and seeds. Studies on the effect of omega-3 fatty acids (both from food and supplements) in persons with diabetes are limited and have been inconclusive ( 20 ). In addition to providing EPA and DHA, regular fish consumption may help reduce triglycerides by replacing other foods higher in saturated and trans fats from the diet, such as fatty meats and full-fat dairy products. Preparing fish without frying or adding cream-based sauces is recommended. Fish with high amounts of EPA and DHA include salmon, albacore tuna, mackerel, sardines, herring, and lake trout. Nuts and seeds high in ALA include walnuts, flax seeds, chia seeds and soybeans ( 16 ). Saturated Fats Saturated fats are usually solid or almost solid at room temperature. All land animal fats, such as those in meat, poultry, and dairy products, are predominantly saturated. Processed and fast foods also contain high amounts of saturated fats. Some vegetable oils also can be saturated, including palm, palm kernel, and coconut oils ( 16 ). Oil such as coconut and palm (sometimes referred to as tropical oils) are touted as healthful saturated fats since they are derived from plants, however this is not accurate ( 25 ). Current ADA recommendations are to limit all sources of saturated fats ( 1 ). The World Health Organization recommends limited consumption of saturated fats to less than 10% of total energy intake, ( 24 ) which is far less than the current average intake. When cooking with oil, choose non-tropical vegetable oils such as canola, corn, olive, peanut, safflower, soybean, and sunflower oils ( 16 ). Few research studies have been undertaken to look at the difference between the amount of saturated fatty acids (SFA) in the diet and glycemic control and CVD risk in people with diabetes ( 30 ). The ADA recommends people with diabetes follow the guidelines for the general population ( 20 ). In general, saturated fats are discouraged because they increase LDL-cholesterol and total cholesterol concentrations ( 24 ). Diets high in saturated fats have been implicated in an increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
