Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


saturated fats are discouraged because they increase LDL-cholesterol and total cholesterol concentrations ( 24 ). Diets high in saturated fats have been implicated in an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Three RCTs found that diets containing ≤7% SFA and ≤200 mg/day cholesterol reduced LDL cholesterol level from 9% to 12% compared to baseline values or to a more standard Western-type diet ( 32 ). As saturated fats are progressively decreased in the diet, they should be replaced with unsaturated fats and high fiber carbohydrates, and not with trans fats or refined carbohydrates ( 25 ). Trans Fats Trans fatty acids (TFA) are also called hydrogenated fats, which are fats created when oils are "partially hydrogenated" ( 16 ). The process of hydrogenation changes the chemical structure of unsaturated fats by adding hydrogen atoms, or “saturating” the fat. Hydrogenation converts liquid oil into stick margarine or shortening. Manufacturers use hydrogenation to increase product stability and shelf-life. A large quantity of these fats can be produced at one time, saving manufacturing costs. Research trials indicate that TFA can increase LDL cholesterol and lower HDL cholesterol ( 33 ). Meta-analysis of prospective observational studies indicate higher intakes of trans fats are associated with higher cases of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease, and coronary heart disease ( 25 ). Although less prevalent by volume in the food supply, trans fats appear at least as harmful to health as saturated fats ( 25 ). Due to the observations from both RCTs and prospective observational studies, the World Health Organization currently recommends that the total intake of trans fats be less than 1% of total energy intake ( 24 ). With the mandatory TFA labeling in the United States in 2006, a big push has been made by food manufacturers to remove TFA from processed and baked goods. Although the TFA content in foods has decreased recently (through food reformulation), it is important to monitor the type of fat used to replace TFA, as it might be saturated fat. The FDA has determined that trans fats are no longer considered generally recognized as safe (GRAS). While manufacturers cannot add TFAs to foods anymore, they may still be produced during the food manufacturing, so consumers should still check the nutrition information panel on foods. The main sources of trans fats in the food supply today are highly processed foods such as cakes, cookies, potato chips, and animal products.
