Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


the nutrition information panel on foods. The main sources of trans fats in the food supply today are highly processed foods such as cakes, cookies, potato chips, and animal products. They can also be produced in the home when frying foods in fat at high temperatures. While most trans fats in the diet now are created during food manufacturing, smaller amounts of trans fats are also found in ruminant animals (cows and sheep). At present there is insufficient evidence to indicate that the health effects differ between trans fats that are created in food manufacturing or ruminant derived, ( 25 ) so advice to reduce trans-fat intakes relates to total trans-fat ( 24 ). Cholesterol The body makes enough cholesterol for physiological functions, so it is not needed through foods. Older dietary guidelines formerly recommended avoiding or limiting consumption of foods high in cholesterol, in the idea that their intake would raise our own circulating cholesterol levels. Now however, it is understood that saturated fat intake has a stronger influence on human cholesterol levels, so recommendations focus on reducing saturated fat as the priority ( 24 ). Table 2. DIETARY FATS View in own window Type of Fat Main Source Monounsaturated Canola, peanut, and olive oils; avocados; nuts such as almonds, hazelnuts, and pecans; and seeds such as pumpkin and sesame seeds. Polyunsaturated Sunflower, corn, soybean, and flaxseed oils, and also in foods such as walnuts, flax seeds, and fish. Saturated Whole milk, butter, cheese, and ice cream; red meat; chocolate; coconuts, coconut milk, coconut oil and palm oil. Trans Some margarines; vegetable shortening; partially hydrogenated vegetable oil; deep-fried foods; many fast foods; some commercial baked goods (check labels). Stanols And Sterols Plant sterols are naturally occurring cholesterol derivatives from vegetable oils, nuts, corn, woods, and beans. Hydrogenation of sterols produces stanols. The generic term to describe both sterols, stanols, and their esters is phytosterols. An important role of phytosterols is their ability to block absorption of dietary and biliary cholesterol from the gastrointestinal tract. The LDL lowering property of both sterols and stanols is considered equivalent in short term studies ( 34 ). The amounts of sterols and stanol esters found naturally in a normal diet are insufficient to have a therapeutic effect. Thus, many manufacturers add them to various foods for their LDL cholesterol lowering effects. You can find added phytosterols in margarine spreads, juices, yogurts, cereals, and
