Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


have a therapeutic effect. Thus, many manufacturers add them to various foods for their LDL cholesterol lowering effects. You can find added phytosterols in margarine spreads, juices, yogurts, cereals, and even granola bars. Individuals with diabetes and dyslipidemia may be able to reduce total and LDL cholesterol by consuming at least 2 grams per day of plant stanols or sterols found in enriched foods ( 20 ). The evidence on long term use and in people with diabetes is less substantiated, as not many studies have been completed ( 35 ). Practical Tips On Fat Intake Fat intake should come primarily from good sources of mono and polyunsaturated fats: nuts and seeds, avocados, fish, and oils such as olive, canola, soybean, sunflower, and corn. Limit intake of saturated fats by cutting back on processed and fast foods, red meat, and full-fat dairy foods. Try replacing red meat with beans, nuts, skinless poultry, and fish whenever possible, and switching from whole milk and other full-fat dairy foods to lower fat versions. In place of butter or margarine, use liquid vegetable oils rich in polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats in cooking and at the table. Keep trans-fat intakes as low as possible. Check food labels for trans fats, and limit fried foods. PROTEIN Protein intake goals should be individualized based on an individual’s current eating patterns. The ADA Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2024 state that there is no evidence that adjusting the daily level of protein intake (typically1–1.5 g/kg body weight/day or 10–20% total energy) will improve health in individuals without diabetic kidney disease, and research is inconclusive regarding the ideal amount of dietary protein to optimize either glycemic control or cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk ( 1 ). Some research has found successful management of weight and type 2 diabetes with meal plans including slightly higher levels of protein (23–32% total energy) for periods up to one year for those without kidney disease ( 10 ). Those with diabetic kidney disease (with albuminuria and/or reduced estimated glomerular filtration rate) should aim to maintain dietary protein at the recommended daily allowance of no more than 0.8g/kg desirable body weight/day (or 10-15% total energy) ( 10 ). The National Kidney Foundation recommends 0.8 g protein/kg desirable body weight for people with diabetes and stages 1–4 chronic kidney disease as a means of reducing albuminuria and stabilizing kidney function ( 36 ). Reducing the amount
