Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


protein/kg desirable body weight for people with diabetes and stages 1–4 chronic kidney disease as a means of reducing albuminuria and stabilizing kidney function ( 36 ). Reducing the amount of dietary protein below 10% total energy is not recommended as it places people at risk of protein inadequacy ( 10 ). The ADA recommends that in individuals with type 2 diabetes, ingested protein can increase insulin response without increasing plasma glucose concentrations. Therefore, carbohydrate sources high in protein should not be used to treat or prevent hypoglycemia ( 1 ). Further research is required to identify if the dietary source of protein (animal or plant) is important for health and diabetes. There is emerging evidence to suggest that plant sourced proteins may be superior for health, ( 1 ) however it is not yet known if this is due to the amino acid compositions of the proteins or unadjusted effects from the accompanying nutrients, such as saturated fats in meat sources and dietary fiber in plant sources of protein. Replacement of red meat in the diet with plant-based protein sources (such as beans and legumes) appears to produce both health and environmental co-benefits, as well as being cheaper ( 37 - 39 ). Practical Tips For Protein Intake Ideal plant protein sources include legumes, lentils, tofu, and tempeh (1/2c = 2 oz protein). Plant-based meat alternatives maybe also be used (i.e. Quorn), but be wary of meat alternatives that have high sodium and saturated fat content. Nuts or seeds are another plant-based protein source to be encouraged, such as almonds, cashews, hazelnuts, filberts, Brazil nuts, macadamias, peanuts, pecans, walnuts, or sunflower, pumpkin seed or linseed. Nut butters are also a plant-based protein source but be mindful of added sodium and sugars. Good sources of lean animal protein include: skinless poultry, lower fat cuts of beef or pork, fish or egg, and reduced fat dairy products (i.e. low fat or skim milk/yogurt, and cheese). Protein sources should be a supplement to vegetables, fruits and whole grains for most meals, and not the entire meal. TARGET GUIDELINES FOR MICRONUTRIENTS There is no clear evidence that dietary supplementation with vitamins (such as Vitamin D), minerals (such as chromium), herbs, or spices (such as cinnamon or aloe vera) can improve outcomes in diabetes management where there are no underlying deficiencies. There is insufficient evidence for dietary supplements to be recommended for the purposes
