Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


as cinnamon or aloe vera) can improve outcomes in diabetes management where there are no underlying deficiencies. There is insufficient evidence for dietary supplements to be recommended for the purposes of improving glycemic control ( 1 ). People with diabetes should be aware of the necessity for meeting vitamin and mineral needs from natural food sources through intake of a balanced diet. Specific populations, such as older adults, pregnant or lactating women, strict vegetarians or vegans, and individuals on very low energy diets may benefit from a multivitamin mineral supplement ( 1 ). Excessive doses of certain vitamin or mineral supplements when there is no deficiency has been shown to be of no benefit and may even be harmful. There is some evidence that those on metformin therapy are at higher risk of B12 deficiency and may need Vitamin B12 supplementation if tests indicate a deficiency ( 1 , 40 ). VITAMINS Since type 2 diabetes is a state of increased oxidative stress, interest in recommending large doses of antioxidant vitamins has been high. Current studies demonstrate no benefit of carotene and Vitamins E and C in respect to improved glycemic control or treatment of complications. Routinely supplementing the diet with antioxidant supplements is not recommended due to lack of evidence showing benefit in large, placebo-controlled clinical trials and concerns regarding potential long-term safety ( 1 , 40 ). There is also not adequate evidence to recommend routine Vitamin D supplementation without deficiency ( 1 , 41 ). MINERALS Sodium As for the general population, those with diabetes should limit sodium consumption to 2,300 mg/day ( 20 , 42 ). Active steps to reduce current sodium intakes is necessary, as current intakes in the United States are around 3,400 mg/day, nearly 50% more than the recommended limit. The majority of sodium consumed is from processed foods. Food manufacturers and restaurants will need to provide additional reduced sodium alternatives to help accomplish consumption targets. For those with diabetes and hypertension, additional lifestyle modification beyond reducing sodium intake can be helpful, including: loss of excess body weight; increasing consumption of vegetables and fruit (8 –10 servings/day), and low-fat dairy products (2–3 servings/day); avoiding excessive alcohol consumption (no more than 2 servings/day in men and no more than 1 serving/day in women); and increasing physical activity levels. These nonpharmacological strategies may also positively affect glycemia and lipid control ( 20 ). The DASH
