Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


men and no more than 1 serving/day in women); and increasing physical activity levels. These nonpharmacological strategies may also positively affect glycemia and lipid control ( 20 ). The DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet, which is high in vegetables and fruit, low-fat dairy products, and low in saturated and total fat; has been shown in large, randomized, controlled trials to significantly reduce blood pressure ( 43 ). Magnesium Studies in support of magnesium supplementation to improve glycemic control are unclear and complicated by differences in study designs as well as baseline characteristics. There is some evidence from observational data that higher dietary intake of magnesium may help prevent type 2 diabetes in both middle aged men and women at higher risk for developing the disease ( 44 ). Additional long-term studies are needed to determine the best way to assess magnesium status and how magnesium deficiency impacts diabetes management, however dietary sources of magnesium include nuts, whole grains, and green leafy vegetables can be encouraged as part of a healthy dietary pattern. Chromium Several studies have demonstrated a potential role for chromium supplementation in the management of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. According to the ADA position statement, the findings with more significant effects were mainly found in poorer quality studies, limiting transferability of the results. Routine supplementation of chromium is therefore not recommended for treating diabetes or obesity ( 45 ). HERBAL SUPPLEMENTS There has been interest in the past several years on the effect of cinnamon, curcumin, and other herbs and spices in individuals with diabetes. The most recent ADA Lifestyle Management recommendations conclude that after a review of the evidence, there is not enough clear data to substantiate recommending the use of herbs or spices as treatment for T2D ( 1 ). The ADA also states that the use of any herbal supplements, which are not regulated and vary in content, may provide more risk than benefit, in that herbs may interact with other medications that are taken to control diabetes ( 20 ). PROBIOTICS Probiotics (from pro and biota , meaning "for life"), are certain kinds of “good” bacteria found in fermented foods, such as yogurt, kefir, and kimchi and are available as supplements. They are naturally found in the gut and may be depleted due to poor diet, use of antibiotics, smoking, etc. Probiotics have been studied extensively to improve gut flora
