Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


content of the alcohol if drinking sweet wines, liqueurs, or drinks made with regular juice or soda. PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER- FOR TYPE 1 DIABETES AND THOSE ON INSULIN People taking insulin should be counseled on the importance of balancing food and beverage intake with timing and dosing of insulin. This is especially important for individuals with varied or hectic schedules such as shift workers, people that travel frequently, or anyone who has a schedule in which timing of meals and access to food is irregular ( 20 ). Numerous materials and resources are available that can be provided to people with diabetes to help them consider portion control, consistency in food intake and medication dosing, as well as planning to allow some flexibility in their daily self-care regimen ( 47 ). Ongoing support from a referral to medical nutrition therapy conducted by a registered dietitian (RD) or registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN), or a referral to a diabetes self- management education (DSMES) program that includes dietary advice is highly effective. The health care provider should provide individualized guidelines for a target blood glucose range, considering safety and health. For motivated people, teaching an insulin to CHO ratio, and blood glucose correction factor may assist them with achieving blood glucose targets and achieving better glycemic control ( 1 ). CARBOHYDRATE COUNTING Carbohydrate counting is a tool that can be taught to the motivated, so that they can more easily estimate the amount (grams) of CHO in a particular food and adapt their insulin therapy accordingly ( 48 ). Furthermore, setting a target CHO intake for each meal allows those with diabetes to better match their CHO intake to the appropriate mealtime insulin dose. Potential advantages of CHO counting include improved glucose control, flexibility in food choices, a better understanding of how much insulin to take, and simplification of meal planning ( 49 ). Carbohydrate (CHO) intake affects acute blood glucose levels. Monitoring carbohydrate, whether by carbohydrate counting, using the exchange method, or experienced- based estimation, remain an important strategy used in timing of medication administration and improving glycemic control ( 20 ). CHO counting methodology is based on the concept that each serving of CHO equals approximately 15 grams of CHO. Generally, blood glucose response to digestible carbohydrate is similar, however carbohydrate sources naturally high in fiber including whole grains, legumes, vegetables, and whole fruits should be encouraged over highly processed
