Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


Generally, blood glucose response to digestible carbohydrate is similar, however carbohydrate sources naturally high in fiber including whole grains, legumes, vegetables, and whole fruits should be encouraged over highly processed foods, fruit juices, and sweetened beverages. Insulin dosing also needs to be adjusted based on the protein and fat content of the mail as well, as high levels of either can slow down digestion and glucose uptake into circulation. On average woman require about 3-4 servings (45-60 grams), while men may need 4-5 servings (60-75 grams) of CHO at each meal ( 47 ). This number could vary depending on individual energy needs (i.e., pregnant/nursing, ill, etc.), medication, and level of physical activity. A good online resource for basic carbohydrate counting can be found on the UCSF website: https://dtc.ucsf.edu/living-with-diabetes/diet-and- nutrition/understanding-carbohydrates/counting- carbohydrates/ SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR THOSE WITH INTENSIVE INSULIN REGIMENS The following guidelines are the starting point for the nutritional component of intensified insulin management regimens for those not on closed loop systems: ( 1 , 50 ) The initial diabetes meal plan should be based on the individual’s normal intake with respect to calories, food choices, and times of meals eaten. Choose an insulin regimen that is compatible with their normal pattern of meals, sleep, and physical activity. Synchronize insulin with meal times based on the action time of the insulin(s) used. Assess blood glucose levels prior to meals and snacks and at bedtime and adjust the insulin doses as needed based on intake. Monitor A1C, weight, lipids, blood pressure, and other clinical parameters, modifying the initial meal plan as necessary to meet goals. It is also important to educate those with diabetes on adjustment of prandial insulin considering premeal glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and anticipated physical activity. For those with diabetes who are overweight and on insulin, counseling on nutrition, weight management, and monitoring blood glucose continues to be important components of treatment. Medical nutrition therapy is recommended with continued emphasis on making lifestyle changes to achieve a weight loss of 5% or more to reduce the risk of chronic complications associated with diabetes, CVD, and other risk factors that contribute to early mortality. CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS While medical nutrition therapy provided by registered dietitians resulted in better glycemic control in children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes, a survey of 45 pediatric clinics revealed that only 25 clinics had an experienced pediatric/adolescent dietitian available for children with diabetes
