Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


control in children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes, a survey of 45 pediatric clinics revealed that only 25 clinics had an experienced pediatric/adolescent dietitian available for children with diabetes ( 51 ). Registered Dietitian Nutritionists who are trained and experienced with children and adolescent diabetes management should be involved in the multidisciplinary care team ( 52 ). The goals of nutrition therapy for children and adolescents with diabetes include the following: ( 1 , 52 ) Provide individualized nutrition therapy with guidance on appropriate energy and nutrient intake to ensure optimal growth and development. Assess and consider changes in food preferences over time and incorporate changes into recommendations. Promote healthy lifestyle habits while considering and preserving social, cultural, and physiological well-being. Achieve and maintain the best possible glycemic control. Achieve and maintain appropriate body weight and promote regular physical activity. Dietary Advice Should Start Gradually Emphasis should initially be on establishing supportive rapport with the child and family with simple instructions. More detailed guidelines should be administered later by the entire team, with focus on consistency in message, and should include dietary guidelines to avoid hypoglycemia. Instruction on carbohydrate counting should be provided as soon as possible after diagnosis ( 52 ). Nutritional advice needs to be given to all caregivers; babysitters, and extended family who care for the child. Nutrition guidelines should be based on dietary history of the family and child’s meal pattern and habits prior to the diagnosis of diabetes and focus on nutritional recommendations for reducing risk of associated complications and cardiovascular risk that are applicable to the entire family. Physical activity schedules need to be assessed, along with 24-hour recall, and 3-day food diary to determine energy intake. Growth patterns and weight gain need to be assessed every 3-6 months and recommended dietary advice adjusted accordingly ( 51 ). Dietary recommendations can be illustrated by use of the Plate method. There are numerous resources for visuals and educational materials using the plate method and some are specific to diabetes. Half the plate should consist of vegetables and fruit, while the other half is divided between whole grains and lean sources of protein. The dairy is represented by a glass of nonfat or 1% milk or other nonfat or low-fat dairy source. The general guidelines for macronutrients are similar to that of the adult population with diabetes ( 1 , 10 ). Figure 1. Choosemyplate.gov.
