Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


or other nonfat or low-fat dairy source. The general guidelines for macronutrients are similar to that of the adult population with diabetes ( 1 , 10 ). Figure 1. Choosemyplate.gov. Video and print materials can be found on the website. PREVENTION OF HYPOGLYCEMIA Hypoglycemia usually occurs when taking insulin, or when taking a sulfonylurea. To help prevent hypoglycemia, the following guidelines should be discussed: Don't skip or delay meals or snacks. If taking insulin or sulfonylurea, be consistent about the amount eaten and the timing of meals and snacks. Monitor blood glucose closely. Measure medication carefully, and take it on time. Take medication as recommended by the physician coordinating diabetes care. Adjust medication or eat additional snacks if physical activity increases. The adjustment depends on the blood glucose test results and on the type and length of the activity. Eat a meal or snack if choosing a drink with alcohol. Drinking alcohol on an empty stomach can contribute to hypoglycemia. Record low glucose reactions. This can help the health care team identify patterns contributing to hypoglycemia and find ways to prevent them. Carry some form of diabetes identification so that in an emergency others will know you have diabetes. Use a medical identification necklace or bracelet and wallet card. SICK DAY MANAGEMENT Eating and drinking can be a challenge when sick. The main rules for sick day management are: Continue to take diabetes medication (insulin or oral agent). Self-monitor blood glucose. Test urine ketones. Eat the usual amount of carbohydrate, divided into smaller meals and snacks if necessary. Drink non-caloric, caffeine free fluids frequently. Call the diabetes care team. See more at: https://diabetes.org/getting-sick-with-diabetes/sick-days . PHYSICAL ACTIVITY Regular physical activity has many health benefits. For individuals with diabetes, these benefits outweigh potential risks. Physical activity can improve glycemic control ( 1 ). People with diabetes should be encouraged to undertake regular physical activity to improve cardiovascular and overall fitness, weight control, and for improved psychological well-being and quality of life ( 20 ). Physical activity can be considered in terms of duration, intensity, modality, and regularity. The largest potential risks due to physical activity for people with diabetes relates most to the intensity of activity. Low intensity physical activity is safer than high intensity physical activity, and highly beneficial for those with diabetes. People with diabetes are encouraged to undertake at least 30 minutes physical activity each day, with modalities such
