Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


than high intensity physical activity, and highly beneficial for those with diabetes. People with diabetes are encouraged to undertake at least 30 minutes physical activity each day, with modalities such as walking recommended. There is some evidence that walking is more beneficial to glycemia when undertaken within the two hours after meals, ( 53 ) as the skeletal muscles take glucose out of circulation to use as fuel. High intensity physical activity should be discussed first with the diabetes care team due to the potential risk of hypoglycemia and cardiovascular strain. To summarize, there are several factors that can affect the blood glucose response to physical activity: ( 54 ) Individual response to physical activity varies. Duration, intensity, modality, and regularity of physical activity. Timing and type of the previous meal. Timing and type of the insulin injection or other diabetes agent. Pre-physical activity blood glucose level. Person’s fitness level. In individuals taking insulin, blood glucose monitoring is necessary to adjust insulin dosing and carbohydrate intake to reduce hypoglycemia due to physical activity. To reduce the risk of hypoglycemia, when higher intensity physical activity is planned, it may be preferable to adjust the dose of insulin before the activity begins. On the other hand, if the physical activity is unplanned, blood glucose should be checked and a carbohydrate snack can be eaten as needed before the activity begins. If the blood glucose is less than 100mg/dL, a 15- to 30-g carbohydrate snack should be consumed, and glucose should be rechecked in 30 to 60 minutes. If glucose levels are less than 70 mg/dL, physical activity should be postponed. Depending on the blood glucose level at the start of physical activity, as well as duration and intensity of the activity, a snack may need to be consumed before, during and after the physical activity. Moderate intensity physical activity can increase glucose uptake significantly, which may require an additional 15 grams of carbohydrate for every 30-60 minutes of exercise above the normal routine ( 54 ). Physical activity can increase the rate of absorption of insulin into limbs, especially when it is started immediately after the insulin injection. Inject insulin into a less-active area, such as the abdomen, to minimize the effect of physical activity on insulin absorption. Guidelines for glucose management with exercise exist for those with type 1 diabetes ( 55 ). The response to physical activity varies greatly in
