Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


right away to raise the glucose: Glucose tablets (see instructions). Gel tube (see instructions). 4 ounces (1/2 cup) of juice or regular soda (not diet). 1 tablespoon of sugar, honey, or corn syrup. Hard candies, jellybeans, or gumdrops, see food label for how many to consume. High-fat foods will delay peak of glucose levels from carbohydrate intake and should be avoided (e.g., treatment of hypoglycemia with chocolate bars). After 15 minutes, blood glucose should be checked again to make sure that it is increasing. If it is still too low, another serving is advised. Repeat these steps until blood glucose is at least 70 mg/dL. Then, a snack should be consumed if it will be an hour or more before the next meal. Those who take insulin or a sulfonylurea should be advised to always carry one of the quick-fix foods with them, when driving, and also have available nearby when sleeping. Wearing a medical ID bracelet or necklace is also a good idea, as is having a glucagon emergency kit or nasal spray on hand and knowing how to administer, as well as training close contacts to administer as well. WEIGHT LOSS FOR THOSE WHO WISH TO LOSE WEIGHT While the general principles discussed so far apply to all people with diabetes, those with type 2 diabetes who are overweight or obese (BMI >25 kg/m 2 or >23 kg/m 2 for Asians) and wish to lose weight can require greater support to do so. Consistent evidence has indicated that intentional weight loss reduces blood glucose in people with type 2 diabetes, and improves most other major cardiometabolic risk factors ( 58 , 59 ). Clinical guidelines state that weight loss through nutrition and physical activity are fundamental to type 2 diabetes management ( 60 , 61 ). However, with so many weight loss “diets” available, confusion abounds and reinforces the absolute importance that health professionals provide consistent, evidence-based advice. It is also important to have realistic expectations about the speed at which weight is lost. Obesity does not occur overnight, and its treatment requires long term adjustments to energy intake and expenditure. Many randomized, controlled trials and meta-analyses of trials have been undertaken and to ascertain which macronutrient combination leads to greater weight loss. A two-year head- to-head trial comparing four weight loss diets with differing macronutrient content concluded that all four reduced energy diets, regardless of macronutrient content,
