Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


leads to greater weight loss. A two-year head- to-head trial comparing four weight loss diets with differing macronutrient content concluded that all four reduced energy diets, regardless of macronutrient content, led to comparable modest weight loss with weight regain over time ( 62 ). This finding was reinforced by a recent comprehensive Cochrane systematic review of RCTs of adults with overweight or obesity with or without type 2 diabetes ( 11 ). This review concluded that there is probably little to no difference in weight reduction and changes in cardiovascular risk factors up to two years' follow-up, when overweight and obese participants without and with T2DM are randomized to either low-carbohydrate or balanced-carbohydrate weight-reducing diets. The understanding that focusing on reducing energy intake overall, rather than through a specific macronutrient, frees up weight loss advice so that it can be tailored to the individual’s personal, cultural, and social norms. In this context, understanding reasons for eating, portion size, the energy density of different foods, and factors that promote satiety such as high fiber intakes become essential for achieving and maintaining weight loss. The most important variable in selecting a weight loss plan is the ability of the individual to follow it over the long term. Developing an individualized weight loss program together, preferably with a registered dietitian nutritionist familiar with diabetes management, along with regular follow-ups, will help promote and maintain weight loss. Initial physical activity recommendations alongside dietary changes should be moderate, gradually increasing the duration and frequency to at least 30 minutes a day of activities such as walking. Current evidence indicates that ‘low’, and ‘very low’ energy diets using total or partial diet replacement formula diet products are highly effective for weight loss and reduction of other cardiometabolic risk factors when compared with food-based weight-loss diets ( 63 - 65 ). Furthermore, low-energy nutritionally complete formula diets with a ‘total diet replacement’ induction phase are the most effective dietary approach for achieving type 2 diabetes remission ( 65 - 67 ). Comparing ‘low’ with ‘very-low’ energy diets, many people find very-low-energy diets (420–550 kcal/day) difficult to sustain, and they do not generate greater weight loss than formula diets providing ~810 kcal/day ( 63 , 65 ). While fast weight loss is a highly desirable outcome, the ultimate health benefits from weight management are likely to depend on long-term weight loss maintenance ( 10 ). Long-term low-intensity structured
