Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


fast weight loss is a highly desirable outcome, the ultimate health benefits from weight management are likely to depend on long-term weight loss maintenance ( 10 ). Long-term low-intensity structured programs, including support for changing food choice, eating pattern and physical activity, and psychological support for behavior change, can help to sustain new behaviors, relationships with foods and adherence to dietary advice, and thus improve weight-loss maintenance ( 68 , 69 ). Given that dietary adherence can be socially and psychologically testing, skills and empathy from the health professional is needed, providing consistent, long-term, evidence-based support ( 70 ). Discussions with patients around weight loss should be entered into with their permission ( 71 ) and are important, given the prevalence of obesity ( 72 ) and its connection to diabetes incidence ( 18 ). MEAL PLANNING APPROACHES There is no one “diet” for diabetes. There are, however, many meal planning guidelines available for the people with diabetes. Listed in the information below are some of the meal planning approaches available. Choose My Plate Choose My Plate contains general, simple guidelines for healthy eating using a small plate to visually illustrate foods and portion control. Print materials and videos from the USDA are available at www.choosemyplate.gov and The Joslin Diabetes Center https:// www.joslin.org/info/diabetes-and-nutrition.html Diabetes Place Mat Figure 2. Nutrition PlaceMat for Diabetes. A sturdy, heavily laminated, 11" by 17" place mat that can be easily used over and over to apply the meal plan. One side of the Diabetes Place Mat lists food choices and individual portion sizes for each food category of the meal plan. This list replaces easily misplaced or damaged paper lists. When planning the meal, a wipe-off marker is used to write down the number of servings for each food category, as indicated on the plan. Then circle or tally the food choices in each category to track progress toward the plan’s targets. Carbohydrate categories - starch and bread, fruit, milk and other carbohydrates - which affect blood glucose and which can be exchanged for each other, are color coded in yellow for easy identification and proper selection. Other food categories - vegetables, meat, fat and free foods - are individually color-coded. The other side of the Diabetes Place Mat illustrates the "Plate Method" of managing a diet for proper nutrition and control of blood glucose and weight. It shows the proportions of each food category
