Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


the Diabetes Place Mat illustrates the "Plate Method" of managing a diet for proper nutrition and control of blood glucose and weight. It shows the proportions of each food category that are appropriate for a healthy, balanced diet. The food groups shown on the top half of the Plate Method side are carbohydrates, which affect blood glucose the most - fruit, milk, and starch & bread. These are colored in yellow to distinguish them from the other food groups that don't significantly affect blood glucose (meat, vegetables, fat and free foods). The food categories are shown in proportion to how much of each might be eaten in a healthy, balanced diet. The plate method is a great plan for those who have poor math or reading skills or are non- English speaking. Mediterranean-Style Eating The Mediterranean-style eating pattern derived from the Mediterranean region of the world has been observed to improve glycemic control and cardiovascular disease risk factors. The Mediterranean eating pattern includes: Vegetables, fruits, nuts, seeds, legumes, potatoes, whole grains, breads, herbs, spices, fish, seafood and extra virgin olive oil. Emphasis is placed on use of minimally processed foods, seasonal fresh and locally grown foods. Olive oil is the primary fat, replacing other fats and oils (including butter and margarine). Fresh fruit as daily dessert; sweets only rarely. Low-to-moderate amounts of cheese and yogurt. Red meat limited to only 12 oz to 16 oz per month. DASH Eating Plan Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) is a flexible and balanced eating plan that is based on research studies sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI). The DASH diet emphasizes vegetables, fruit, fat-free or low-fat dairy, whole grains, nuts and legumes, and limit the intake of total and saturated fat, cholesterol, red and processed meats, sweets and added sugars, including sugar-sweetened beverages. Results from RCTs indicate reductions in glycemia, blood pressure, body weight, and -cholesterol concentrations ( 73 ). In prospective cohort studies the DASH diet is associated with reductions in the risk of CVD, CHD and stroke ( 73 ). DASH is considerably lower in sodium than the typical American diet. Intermittent Fasting The popularity of intermittent fasting has increased recently as a new way to lose weight and possibly lead to better control of Type 2 diabetes. There are many suggested types of intermittent fasts; some involve eating only on specific days, or not eating
