Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


lose weight and possibly lead to better control of Type 2 diabetes. There are many suggested types of intermittent fasts; some involve eating only on specific days, or not eating for a specified number of hours, alternated by day or hours in which food consumption is allowed. Others greatly restrict energy intake on some days but allow a more normalized diet on other days. There is no one specific intermittent fasting diet that has been proven to be beneficial. Since energy intake is restricted for certain periods of time, an individual with diabetes may lose weight over time if they maintain an overall energy deficit in relation to energy expenditure as is seen with any successful weight loss method. For people with diabetes who are interested in intermittent fasting, current ADA guidance considers time-restricted eating or shortening the eating window adaptable to any eating pattern, and largely safe for adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes ( 1 , 22 ). However, anti-hyperglycemic medication use must be considered ( 74 ). For those on insulin or taking other anti-hyperglycemia medications, intermittent fasting may lead to hypoglycemic events that may become severe when medications are not adjusted down ( 75 ). Careful monitoring of blood glucose is required, and medication adjustment may be necessary. Overall, the simplicity of intermittent fasting and time-restricted eating may make these useful strategies for people with diabetes who are looking for practical eating management tools ( 1 ). Gluten Free Gluten is a protein commonly found in wheat, barley, rye, and other grains. A gluten free diet is essential to treat people with celiac disease. Celiac disease is an inflammatory condition in persons who are intolerant to gluten and suffer inflammatory and gastrointestinal side effects when gluten is consumed, leading to damage of the small intestine. It is noted that approximately 10% of people with type 1 diabetes also have celiac disease, which is significantly higher than the general population (1-2%). There seems to be no connection with Celiac disease and type 2 diabetes ( 76 ). There is no evidence of health benefits when avoiding gluten for those without celiac disease. The gluten free diet has recently grown in popularity in persons who identify as gluten sensitive, but don’t have celiac disease. According to the ADA, people with T1D can follow a gluten free diet should they wish to, but it may provide additional
