Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


as gluten sensitive, but don’t have celiac disease. According to the ADA, people with T1D can follow a gluten free diet should they wish to, but it may provide additional challenges. Common CHO containing foods that do not contain gluten are: white and sweet potatoes, brown and wild rice, corn, buckwheat, soy, quinoa, sorghum, and legumes. These foods can be used in place of gluten containing grains. MAYO Clinic Diet Developed by the Mayo Clinic, a two-phase approach to lose and maintain body weight using the Mayo Clinic food pyramid. For more information see: https://diet.mayoclinic.org/diet/how-it-works. Jenny Craig® The plan emphasizes restricting energy, fat, and portions. Jenny's prepackaged meals and recipes do all three, plus emphasize healthy eating, an active lifestyle, and behavior modification. Personal consultants guide members through their journeys from day one. You'll gain support and motivation, and learn how much you should be eating, what a balanced meal looks like and how to use that knowledge once you graduate from the program. Jenny Craig offers two programs: its standard program and Jenny Craig for Type 2, which is designed for people with Type 2 diabetes by including a lower-carb menu, reinforcement of self-monitoring of blood glucose levels, consistent meals and snacks, and other self-management strategies for weight loss and support for diabetes control. Because you buy foods, this program can be more expensive, but convenient for some. For more information see: https:// www.jennycraig.com/ . Vegan Diet Veganism excludes all animal products from the diet – including dairy and eggs. Fruits, vegetables, leafy greens, whole grains, nuts, seeds and legumes are the staples. It is restrictive, but beneficial for the cardiovascular system. Weight Watchers® The Weight Watchers assigns every food and beverage a point value, based on nutritional content and provides users with a maximum number of points they can consume per day. A backbone of the plan is multi-model access (via in-person meetings, online chat or phone) to support from people who lost weight using Weight Watchers, kept it off and have been trained in behavioral weight management techniques. For more information see: https://health.usnews.com/best-diet/weight-watchers-diet Individualized Menus Provided by a RD/RDN Many people with diabetes might like to have examples to follow when setting up meal plans. The menu describes in writing what foods and what quantities should be consumed over a period of days. A dietitian creates an individualized menu based on the specific nutritional counseling plan and
