Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


describes in writing what foods and what quantities should be consumed over a period of days. A dietitian creates an individualized menu based on the specific nutritional counseling plan and incorporates the client’s unique preferences, schedule, etc. The client then has written examples to follow, and over time may learn how to independently create their own menus and substitutions to fit their individual lifestyle. Month of Meals These menus were created by committees of the Council on Nutritional Science and Metabolism of the American Diabetes Association, and staff of the American Diabetes Association National Service Center in response to frequent requests for menus from people with diabetes and their families. The menus are designed to follow the exchange groups and provide 45-50% of energy from CHO, 20% protein, and about 30% fat. The menus provide 1200 or 1800 calories, and instructions are provided on how to adjust caloric levels upward or downward. Each menu provides 28 days of breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks with a different focus to help make planning meals easier. Exchange List Approach The Exchange Lists for Meal Planning were developed by the American Diabetes Association and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, and have been in existence since 1950. The latest version of Choose Your Foods: Food Lists for Diabetes was released in 2019. The concept for this list is that foods are grouped according to similar nutritional value, and can be exchanged or substituted in the portion size listed within the same group. The exchange lists include: Carbohydrate group – includes starches, fruit, milk and vegetable. Meat and Meat Substitutes group – four meat categories based on the amount of fat they contain. Fat group – contains three categories of fats based on the major source of fat contained: saturated, polyunsaturated or monounsaturated. The exchange lists also give information on fiber and sodium content. They can be utilized for people with type 1 or 2 diabetes. The emphasis for type 1 is on consistency of timing and amount of food eaten, while for type 2, the focus is on controlling the caloric values of food consumed. Use of the exchange list may be helpful for some people while others may benefit by learning from other carbohydrate counting resources available online and through numerous publications and resources. Calorie Counting These are meal planning methods that can be useful for people with type 2 diabetes who want
