Dietary Advice For Individuals with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dietary, weight, type, pubmed, food, foods, intake, health, glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, people, fats, type diabetes


carbohydrate counting resources available online and through numerous publications and resources. Calorie Counting These are meal planning methods that can be useful for people with type 2 diabetes who want to lose weight. Knowledge regarding the number of total calories in a given food (including pre-prepared and fast foods) and becoming adept at label reading, can help promote weight loss when incorporated into other lifestyle changes. One of the first studies designed to determine empirically if people can learn a calorie counting system and if estimated food intake improves with training demonstrated that use of the Health Management Resources Calorie System tool (HMRe, Boston, MA, USA) helped to teach people how to estimate food intake more accurately ( 77 ). RESOURCES FOR DIABETES NUTRITION EDUCATION Table 3. DIABETES NUTRITION EDUCATION RESOURCES View in own window Choose My Plate www.choosemyplate.gov Eat Out, Eat Well Your go-to resource for assembling healthy meals in just about any type of restaurant, from fast food to upscale dining and ethnic cuisines. Order from: The American Diabetes Assn., www ​.shopdiabetes.org, 1-800-232-6455 American Diabetes Associate: Standards of Care Facilitating positive health behaviors and well-being to improve health outcomes: standards of Care in Diabetes. 2024 https://doi ​.org/10.2337/dc24-SINT DNSG European Dietary Guidelines The Diabetes Nutrition Study Group of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes. Diabetologia. 2023 https://doi.org/ 10 ​.1007/s00125-023-05894-8 What Can I Eat? The Diabetes Guide to Healthy Food Choices 2 nd Edition A 28-page guide for planning meals and making the best food choices. Includes carb counting, glycemic index, plate method, eating out, meals/snack ideas, best food choices and more. Order from: The American Diabetes Assn., Inc. www ​.shopdiabetes.org, 1-800-232-6455 Eating Healthy with Diabetes, 5 th Edition Picture cues for portion sizes and color codes for food types teach how to put together a healthy diet plan to manage diabetes Order from: The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. www ​.eatright.org or the American Diabetes Assn., Inc. www ​.shopdiabetes.org. Diabetes Meal Planning Made Easy & Healthy Portions Meal Measure Meet your health and nutrition goals with healthy diabetes meal plans, shopping strategies and our handy portion control guide. Order from: The American Diabetes Association, www ​.shopdiabetes.org, 800-232-6455 Diabetes Place Mat Kit for People with Diabetes Order from: NCES Health & Nutrition Information Catalog- Available in Spanish https:// www ​.ncescatalog.com/NCES- MyPlacemat-for-Diabetes_p_1103.html OR School Health Corporation https:// www ​.schoolhealth.com ​/nutrition-place-mat-for-diabetes The Complete Month of Meals Collection, 2017 Available from:
