PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 November 7; 12(41): 6627-6633
KEYWORDS: hcc, crlm, expression, tumor, tissues, chemokine, hcc crlm, liver, tissue, receptor, significant, gene, protein, figure, rna


(1:500, Biomol, goat anti-human C2099-70B, Biomol, Hamburg, Germany; 1:5000 Santa Cruz, sc-2056 donkey anti-goat HRP) and anti-CCR7 (1:500, Santa Cruz, sc-9700 goat anti-human; 1:5000, Santa Cruz, sc-2056 donkey anti-goat HRP, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA USA), visualized by ECL Western blotting analysis system (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA), and quantified densitometrically. Human cell lysates HL-60 was applied. Subsequently quantitative PCR analysis was (sc-2209, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, performed as described earlier. USA), Imgenex cell lysates A375, and HeLa (Imgenex, San Diego, USA) served as positive controls. Statistical analysis The statistical significance of differences in chemokine and Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay chemokine receptor expression were summarized using Chemokine protein levels in the different tissue lysates mean and SEM (standard error of the mean). All statistical were determined by sandwich-type ELISA according to calculations were done with the MedCalc software package the manufacturer’s protocol: R&D systems (R&D Systems (MedCalc software, Mariakerke, Belgium). Where of CCL19, CCL20, CXCL12 or ProSci (ProSci, San Diego, rank sum test was applied to test for group differences of USA) for CCL21. The absorbance was read at 450 nm. continuous variables. P < 0.05 was considered significant. Laser capture microdissection RESULTS Laser microbeam microdissection (LMM) was employed for obtaining pure tumor cell and pure normal cell samples Chemokine/chemokine receptor expression for subsequent genetic analysis. LMM was performed on To assess potential differences in chemokine/chemokine three samples for each tissue type and each chemokine, receptor expression levels in HCC vs CRLM, we performed respectively. Histochemical staining was used on cryo quantitative RT-PCR analysis in 11 HCC and 23 CRLM sections before microdissection. Specimen preparation, specimens and their corresponding tumor neighboring microdissection and catapulting were performed tissues, respectively. The adjacent, non tumor invaded liver following a laser pressure catapulting protocol according tissues of the HCC and CRLM patients served as control to the manufacturer’s instructions (P.A.L.M. Microlaser groups. qRT analysis of the chemokine ligand CXCL12 Technologies, Bernried, Germany). RNA was extracted displayed no significant difference in gene expression using the P.A.L.M. RNA extraction kit and for reverse between the tumor and the tumor neighboring tissues transcription the invitrogen reverse transcription kit in HCC or CRLM as shown in Figure 1A. In contrast to (Invitrogen Life Technologies, Karlsruhe, Germany) its ligand, the CXCL12 receptor CXCR4 demonstrated noisserpxe eneg dlof-n gnidnopserroc ot detaler eussit lamron A Relative CXCL12/CXCR4 expression in HCC versus CRLM, RNA level a CCL20 CCR6 CCL20 CCR6
