PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 November 7; 12(41): 6627-6633
KEYWORDS: hcc, crlm, expression, tumor, tissues, chemokine, hcc crlm, liver, tissue, receptor, significant, gene, protein, figure, rna


the other lymph node metastasis in various malignant processes and case liver metastases - indicate a possible pathogenetic tumor types such as leukemia, melanoma, gastric or non- role of CCL20 and its receptor in the development of small cell lung cancer[12,32-35], whereas also anti-tumorigenic hepatic malignancies. Moreover, we detected significantly effects have been demonstrated for the corresponding higher CCL20 expression in the CRLM tissues compared CCR7 ligand CCL21. However, we observed no with the HCC tissues. One possible explanation for this correlation between CCR7 expression and HCC or CRLM, marked CCL20 overexpression in the hepatic metastases respectively. Similarly, the corresponding ligands CCL19 could be related to the ferocious malignity of metastatic and CCL21 showed no significant difference in their gene cells. In other words, the malignant status of a cancer expression between the tumor and tumor neighboring cell might be correlated with CCL20 expression. It is tissues in either cancer type. Therefore, we believe that an well known that the survival rate for patients is far worse association of these chemokine/receptor pairs with the when they have developed metastases at the time of progression of CRLM or HCC is rather unlikely. surgery as compared to patients with the same primary While investigating CXCL12/CXCR4 expression, tumor who have not developed metastases. It seems that we made the interesting observation that CXCR4 was as the chemokine metabolism of a cancer cell becomes significantly up-regulated in the CRLM compared with increasingly unbalanced the further the malignity of the the tumor neighboring liver tissues, yet no significant cell proceeds and the more aggressive a cancer tissue difference in gene expression was detected for CXCR4 turns. This assumption is supported by previous clinico- in the HCC tissues thus indicating a distinct difference pathological findings of our group, which demonstrate a in the CXCR4 expression pattern between HCC and significant increase in CCL20 expression rates in HCC tis- CRLM. These results are in line with recent findings sues from grade Ⅲ tumors in comparison to HCC tissues that report CXCR4 gene expression in primary CRC from grade Ⅱ tumors. Consequently, the marked CCL20 demonstrated significant associations with recurrence up-regulation in CRLM in comparison to the HCC tissues and survival suggesting CXCR4 as a prognostic factor for reported here could be interpretated as an indication of poor disease outcome. Unlike CXCR4, the chemokine the extent of alteration in the tumor cells. In line with this ligand CXCL12
