PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 November 7; 12(41): 6627-6633
KEYWORDS: hcc, crlm, expression, tumor, tissues, chemokine, hcc crlm, liver, tissue, receptor, significant, gene, protein, figure, rna


reported here could be interpretated as an indication of poor disease outcome. Unlike CXCR4, the chemokine the extent of alteration in the tumor cells. In line with this ligand CXCL12 displayed no significant difference in gene theory, we would expect higher CCL20 expression rates in expression between the tumor and the tumor neighboring liver metastases in comparison to the moderately differen- tissues in HCC or CRLM thus indicating that CXCL12 tiated tumor cells of the HCC tissues, since metastatic cells and CXCR4 are inversely expressed in CRLM. This type virtually show the highest grading level of tumor differen- of expression pattern was also demonstrated for CRC tiation, usually bearing no resemblance with normal liver cell lines. CXCL12 is presently discussed controversially cells. with respect to its role in promoting tumor growth and In summary, the results presented in this study metastasis. Various studies suggest CXCL12 involvement suggest an association of the CCL20/CCR6 pair and the in metastasis, angiogenic activity and modulation of tumor development and progression of hepatic malignancies and immunity[3,14,15,38-40], while others describe efficient antitu- we propose CCL20 as a predictive pathogenetic marker mor responses promoted by the CXCL12/CXCR4 interac- for tumor grading and the existence of liver metastases. tion, suggesting that secretion of CXCL12 in tumors may Since we also presented evidence for a correlation between mediate T-cell-dependent antitumor responses[41-43]. CXCR4 expression and CRLM, our results also support CCL20 is also presently controversially discussed with theories that suggest CXCR4 as a potential predictive respect to its role in tumorigenesis. With regard to the factor for colorectal metastasis of the liver. Since the chemoattractant properties of CCL20 for dendritic cells identification of chemokines as key targets in cancer and (DC), Fushimi et al reported on the tumor suppressive metastasis has emerged as a quickly progressing research properties of this chemokine showing that CCL20 topic, various chemokine receptor antagonist compounds transgenes attract DC to established murine tumors and are presently being developed. The identification of the suppress tumor growth. However, other studies correlate CCL20/CCR6 and CXCL12/CXCR4 pairs as novel targets CCL20 transfection into a mouse tumor cell line with in CRLM and other metastatic processes may be of poten- decreased immunogenicity and enhanced tumor growth tial clinical value for the staging of primary tumors and the and recent data correlate increased serum levels of CCL20 prevention of hepatic recurrences. in HCC with cancer-related factors. Other reports allocating tumor growth promoting
