www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: hcc, crc, patients, ald, risk, analysis, phase, liver, cohort, history, cirrhosis, ald patients, study, colorectal, alcohol


predictors for alcohol-related HCC, along with old age, comorbid chronic viral hepatitis, and the amount of alcohol consumption8–10. However, even patients with alcoholic cirrhosis have relatively lower risk of developing HCC compared to those with viral hepatitis-associated cirrhosis11–13. Therefore, further refined risk stratification is prerequisite for the development of a cost-effective HCC surveillance strategy in patients with ALD. of Korea. Won Kim and Dongjae Jeong contributed equally. correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to J.-W.K. (email: ) Scientific RepoRts | (2019) 9:3236 | 1 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ www.nature.com/scientificreports Figure 1. Study flow and attrition diagram of study participants. Alcohol is a risk factor not only for HCC but also for colorectal neoplasm: excessive alcohol consumption increases the likelihood of developing adenomas and colorectal cancer (CRC)14–17. Chronic ethanol consump- tion usually promotes carcinogenesis by production of toxic acetaldehyde, induction of cytochrome P450 2E1 that causes oxidative stress and procarcinogen activation, and provocation of global DNA hypomethylation18. Since these carcinogenic pathways are known to contribute to the development of both colorectal neoplasm and HCC10,19,20, we hypothesized that ALD patients who develop colorectal neoplasm are at risk of further developing HCC. The aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship between the presence of colorectal neoplasm and the subsequent risk of HCC in patients with ALD. Methods Organization International Classification of Diseases, tenth revision (ICD-10) code of K70. The diagnosis of alco- holic liver disease was made by four hepatologists (WK, ESJ, SHJ and JWK) by documentation of alcoholic excess and evidence of liver disease23. Alcohol consumption amount was assessed via the hepatologists’ interview with patients and their family members. Diagnosis of fatty liver was made radiologically24, and liver cirrhosis was diag- according to the principles expressed in the Declaration of Helsinki26, and the requirement for informed consent was waived due to the retrospective nature of the current study and anonymous analysis of the data. The institutional review board approved this study (Seoul National University Bundang Hospital IRB; IRB no. B-1703/388-108). Study design. This study consists of two-phase investigations: phase I case-control analysis and phase II ret- rospective cohort analysis (Fig. 1). The case-control analysis aimed to investigate the possible association between history of CRC and HCC risk in ALD patients, whereas the cohort analysis sought to determine the relative risk of HCC in ALD patients with the history of colorectal adenoma (CRA) or CRC. Phase I case-control analysis. In the phase
