www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: hcc, crc, patients, ald, risk, analysis, phase, liver, cohort, history, cirrhosis, ald patients, study, colorectal, alcohol


the cohort analysis sought to determine the relative risk of HCC in ALD patients with the history of colorectal adenoma (CRA) or CRC. Phase I case-control analysis. In the phase I single-center case-control analysis, we selected 1,659 ALD patients who received imaging work-up for HCC, i.e., liver ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT) or mag- 2018. Patients with evidence of other chronic liver disease such as hepatitis B or C virus infection, hemochroma- tosis, Wilson disease, primary biliary cholangitis, autoimmune hepatitis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis were excluded. Decompensated patients with Child-Pugh class C were also excluded from analysis. ALD patients diagnosed with HCC were selected as cases, and those without any evidence of HCC were selected as controls. The index date was defined as the date of HCC diagnosis for cases, and the date of initial imaging work-up for controls. The history of CRC was coded positive if a patient had received surgical treatment for CRC or if colonoscopic examination(s), performed as described below, revealed colorectal adenocarcinoma before the index date. Scientific RepoRts | (2019) 9:3236 | 2 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ www.nature.com/scientificreports Phase II cohort analysis. In the phase II retrospective cohort analysis, an ALD cohort was electronically formed by assembling ALD patients who received imaging work-up for HCC and colonoscopic examination(s) from the two centers. The cohort was composed of a subgroup of the phase I controls and a separate cohort formed at Boramae Medical Center. Patients with evidence of other chronic liver disease were excluded in the same way as the phase I cohort, and the following additional exclusion criteria were applied: patients were excluded if HCC was detected at initial screening or within 6 months after initial screening or if follow-up data was incomplete. The observation starting point for the longitudinal cohort analysis was the time of colonoscopic examination(s). During follow-up, patients underwent additional liver US with or without alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels. Follow-up US at 6 months of interval was recommended for patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis, and follow-up US was performed at the discretion of attending hepatologists for patients without evidence of liver cirrhosis. Dynamic CT or MRI was performed if serum AFP levels or surveillance US indicated a need for further evaluation according to the recall policies27,28. Liver biopsy was performed if CT or MRI showed new hepatic nod- ule(s) which did not show typical enhancement pattern diagnostic of HCC. The primary outcome of this study was the
