www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: hcc, crc, patients, ald, risk, analysis, phase, liver, cohort, history, cirrhosis, ald patients, study, colorectal, alcohol


biopsy was performed if CT or MRI showed new hepatic nod- ule(s) which did not show typical enhancement pattern diagnostic of HCC. The primary outcome of this study was the incidence of HCC, which was diagnosed based on histological or radiological findings29. CRC screening in the study population. CRC is the third most common cancer in Korea30, and Korean National Cancer Screening Programme has implemented programmatic CRC screening by means of fecal occult blood tests for all Koreans aged ≥ 50 years since 200431. If the fecal occult blood test is positive, colonoscopy or double-contrast barium enema has been provided. Colonoscopy has also been recommended for CRC screening regardless of the occult blood test result in average-risk asymptomatic adults according to clinicians’ discretion and recipients’ preference32. In our cohorts, colonoscopic CRC screening was performed either on the program- matic basis following the Korean guideline or on the opportunistic basis. If colonoscopic examinations were performed more than once, the highest grade of colonic pathology was determined and the earliest date of exam- ination was chosen as the ultimate grade of pathology. Station, TX) and R version 3.4.2 ( Wilcoxon rank sum test or one-way ANOVA test were used for continuous variables, and chi-square test was used to analyze categorical variables. In phase I case-control analysis, the odds ratios (ORs) for HCC were calculated by logistic regression analysis. In phase II cohort analysis, the cumulative incidence of HCC was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method and the hazard ratios (HRs) for HCC were derived by a Cox proportional hazards model. Results Phase I case-control analysis: association between the history of CRC and the risk of HCC in patients with ALD. The case-control analysis compared 445 ALD-related HCC cases and 1,214 ALD con- trols without HCC with respect to the history of CRC. Of the 445 HCC patients, 24 had history of CRC, among whom 7 HCC was confirmed pathologically. HCC patients showed older age, higher proportion of female sex, higher smoking rate and drinking amount, higher probability of the history of CRC (5.4% vs. 2.7%; p = 0.008) (Table 1). Logistic regression analysis showed that past history of CRC was significantly associated with future development of HCC (unadjusted OR, 2.04; 95% CI, 1.19–3.49; P < 0.001), along with sex, drinking amount and smoking as additional significant variables associated with HCC development (Table 2). The association of CRC history with HCC remained significant after
