www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: hcc, crc, patients, ald, risk, analysis, phase, liver, cohort, history, cirrhosis, ald patients, study, colorectal, alcohol


(95% CI, 1.05–13.34, P = 0.041) and 23.46 (95% CI, 2.81–195.83, P = 0.004) for ALD patients with or without liver cirrhosis, respectively. Discussion Our study found that the risk of subsequent HCC development increased when CRCs were detected in patients with ALD. The initial case-control analysis revealed higher proportion of the prior history of CRC in HCC, sug- gesting association between the development of CRC and HCC in ALD. The Phase I case-control design cannot confirm the causal relationship, but Phase II longitudinal cohort analysis also demonstrated increased OR of HCC by the history of CRC. Taken together, we believe that the Phase I and II analyses indicate a significant association between the history of CRC and the risk of HCC. Several risk factors for HCC have been established in ALD8,10, but CRC has not been recognized as one yet. The association between CRC and subsequent HCC remained sig- nificant after adjusting for known covariates for HCC, indicating that presence of CRC has additional predictive power. We did not include presence/absence of cirrhosis in Phase I logistic model because not all patients underwent histologic examinations or endoscopic varix study. Since thrombocytopenia is one of the clinical diagnostic crite- ria of cirrhosis, we believe that the significant difference in platelet counts in Phase I analysis indicate significant association of liver cirrhosis with development of HCC in ALD. Similarly, low albumin levels and platelet counts in the CRC group may be explained by the higher prevalence of liver cirrhosis in Phase II analysis (Table 3). However, detection of CRC remained significant in the multivariate Cox model (Table 4), indicating that CRC history may be an independent risk factor for further HCC irrespective of liver cirrhosis. Our study did not provide mechanistic explanation of the association between HCC and preceding CRC. We speculate that presence of CRC may indicate either exposure to alcohol exceeding a certain threshold level, or increased host susceptibility to alcohol for malignancies for the following findings. First, the carcinogenic effect of alcohol and/or aldehyde metabolites on colonic mucosa might also contribute to the carcinogenesis of HCC10,19,20. Second, alcohol-induced changes in gut microbiota increase acetaldehyde production33,34, which is a common inducer of both cancers. Moreover, alcohol-induced dysbiosis increases the level of deoxycholic acid (DCA), a gut bacterial metabolite known as a hepatocarcinogen by inducing a senescence-associated secretory phenotype in hepatic stellate cells35. Colonic neoplasia as well as alcohol intake
