Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. This guideline constitutes NICE's formal guidance on what works in finding and supporting those most at risk of early death and improving their access to services. The evidence statements that underpin the recommendations are listed in appendix C. Definitions Definitions of adults who are disadvantaged and of what constitutes a disadvantaged area and a high risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), along with a brief explanation of why there was a focus on smoking cessation and statin interventions. • Adults who are disadvantaged include (but are not limited to): － those on a low income (or who are members of a low-income family) － those on benefits － those living in public or social housing － some members of black and minority ethnic groups － those with a mental health problem － those with a learning disability － those who are institutionalised (including those serving a custodial sentence) － those who are homeless. • Local agencies (such as local authorities and primary care trusts [PCTs]) define disadvantaged areas in a variety of ways. An example is the Index of Multiple Deprivation 2007 (ID 2007). This combines indicators on economic, social and housing issues to produce a single deprivation score. • According to NICE guidance, if someone has a 20% or higher risk of a first cardiovascular event in the next 10 years, they are deemed at high risk of CVD (see NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification). Smoking cessation and statins Smoking cessation and statin interventions were used as the basis of the recommendations because: • Methods of identifying and supporting adults and improving their access to services need to be assessed using interventions which have already been established as effective and cost effective. Smoking cessation services and the provision of statins are both generally agreed to be effective and cost effective. • Epidemiological data show a clear socioeconomic gradient for smoking and CVD. Tackling smoking and providing statins, as recommended, should make a significant contribution to reducing health inequalities. This guidance should be used alongside NICE's guideline on tobacco: preventing uptake, promoting quitting and treating dependence and the recommendations on statins
