Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


make a significant contribution to reducing health inequalities. This guidance should be used alongside NICE's guideline on tobacco: preventing uptake, promoting quitting and treating dependence and the recommendations on statins and lipid modification therapy in NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease. Cost effectiveness Smoking cessation interventions are generally cost effective, irrespective of the target audience, the methods used to identify and recruit adults or the type of service offered. It is also cost effective to identify adults in secondary care who are disadvantaged and need statins (and then prescribe these drugs). In primary care, the cost effectiveness of identifying people at risk of CVD and providing them with statins is determined by the number at risk of CVD in the baseline population. (The more people at risk, the more cost effective it becomes to identify them and provide them with statins.) Tackling health inequalities Health inequalities are so deeply entrenched that providing disadvantaged groups or areas with better services – and better access to those services – can only be one element of a broader strategy to address the distribution of the wider determinants of health. All activities need to be developed and sustained on a long-term basis. The recommendations focus on system and structural changes to ensure effective clinical and public health practice can take place. This requires a comprehensive approach at all levels of the health system (for example, involving both practitioners and commissioners) and in partnership with others in the wider public, community and voluntary sectors. The recommendations are not aimed at clinical practice itself as the relevant advice is found in other NICE guidance. Effective implementation of the recommendations will require: • an appropriate infrastructure and resources for commissioners, planners and service providers • policy initiatives which prioritise health inequalities and ensure action to tackle them are included in PCT plans and local area agreements. Recommendation 1: identifying adults at risk Who is the target population? Adults who are disadvantaged: • who smoke and/or • who are eligible for statins and/or • who are at high risk of CVD due to other factors. Who should take action? Service providers and commissioners (for example, general practices, PCTs, community services, local authorities and others with a remit for tackling health inequalities). What action should they take? • Primary care professionals should use a range of methods to identify adults who are disadvantaged and at high risk of premature death
