Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


health inequalities). What action should they take? • Primary care professionals should use a range of methods to identify adults who are disadvantaged and at high risk of premature death from CVD. These include: － primary care and general practice registers (for example, to identify adults who smoke; who are from particular minority ethnic groups; or who have family members who have had premature coronary heart disease) － primary care appointments (for example, during routine visits and screening) － systematic searches in pre-identified areas or with specific populations (for example, using direct mail or telephone) － analyses of quality outcomes framework (QOF) data. • Those working with communities should use a range of methods to identify adults who are disadvantaged and at high risk of CVD. Methods to use include: － health sessions run at a range of community and public sites, including post offices, charity shops, supermarkets, community pharmacies, homeless centres, workplaces, prisons and long-stay psychiatric institutions. (Lifestyle factors such as smoking or other indicators, such as blood pressure, could be used to identify those at risk) － culturally sensitive education sessions that include a CVD risk assessment and which take place in black and minority ethnic community settings (including places of worship) － outreach activities provided by community health workers (including health trainers). • Service providers should monitor these methods and adjust them according to local needs. • Service providers should encourage everyone who is disadvantaged to register with a general practice. Recommendation 2: improving services for adults and retaining them Who is the target population? Adults who are disadvantaged: • who smoke and/or • who are eligible for statins and/or • who are at high risk of CVD due to other factors. Who should take action? Service providers (for example, PCTs, general practices, community services, local authorities and other organisations with a remit for tackling health inequalities). What action should they take? • Provide flexible, coordinated services that meet the needs of individuals who are disadvantaged. For example, this could include providing drop-in or community-based services, outreach and out-of-hours services, advice and help in the workplace and single-sex sessions. • Involve people who are disadvantaged in the planning and development of services. Seek feedback from the target groups on whether the services are accessible, appropriate and meeting their needs. • Gain the trust of adults who are disadvantaged. Offer them proactive support. This could include helplines, brochures
