Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


groups on whether the services are accessible, appropriate and meeting their needs. • Gain the trust of adults who are disadvantaged. Offer them proactive support. This could include helplines, brochures and invitations to attend services. It could also include providing GPs with postal prompts to remind them to monitor people who are disadvantaged and who have had an acute coronary event. • Develop and deliver non-judgemental programmes to tackle social and psychological barriers to change. These should be tailored to people's needs. For example, they could make use of social marketing techniques. (Social marketing involves using marketing and related techniques to achieve specific behavioural goals.) • Ensure services are sensitive to culture, gender and age. For example, provide multi- lingual literature in a culturally acceptable style and involve community, religious and lay groups in its production. Where appropriate, offer translation and interpretation facilities. Promote services using culturally relevant local and national media, as well as representatives of different ethnic groups. Consider providing information in video or web-based format. • Provide services in places that are easily accessible to people who are disadvantaged (such as community pharmacies and shopping centres) and at times to suit them. • Provide support to ensure people who are disadvantaged can attend appointments (for example, this may include help with transport, postal prompts and offering home visits). • Encourage and support people who are disadvantaged to follow the treatment that they have agreed to. For example, encourage them to use self-management techniques (based on an individual assessment) to solve problems and set goals. It could also involve providing vouchers for treatments (such as nicotine replacement therapy [NRT]). (For recommendations on the principles of behaviour change, see NICE's guideline on behaviour change: general approaches). • Routinely search GP databases (and other electronic medical records) to generate lists of patients who have not collected repeat prescriptions or attended follow-up appointments. Make contact with them. • Address factors that prevent people who are disadvantaged from using services (for example, they may have a fear of failure or of being judged, or they might not know what services and treatments are available). • Support the development and implementation of regional and national strategies to tackle health inequalities by delivering local activities which are proven to be effective. • Use health equity audits to determine if services are reaching people who are disadvantaged and whether they are effective. (For example, by
