Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


activities which are proven to be effective. • Use health equity audits to determine if services are reaching people who are disadvantaged and whether they are effective. (For example, by matching the postcodes of service users to deprivation indicators and smoking prevalence.) Health equity audits typically consist of 6 steps: 1. agreeing partners and issues for the audit; 2. undertaking an equity profile; 3. identifying high-impact local action to narrow key inequities identified; 4. agreeing priorities for action; 5. securing changes in investment; and service delivery; 6. Reviewing progress and assessing impact (Department of Health 'Health equity audit: a self-assessment tool'). Recommendation 3: system incentives Who is the target population? Service providers (for example, PCTs, community services, local authorities and others with a remit for tackling health inequalities) and practice-based commissioning (PBC) groups. Who should take action? Policy makers, planners and commissioners. What action should they take? • Support and sustain activities aimed at improving the health of people who are disadvantaged by: － using relevant indicators to measure progress and compare performance across areas or organisations － ensuring, wherever possible, that all targets aim to tackle health inequalities – and do not increase them － ensuring exception-reporting does not increase health inequalities: PCTs should be provided with additional levers and tools to monitor and benchmark exception- reporting and to reduce persistent rates of exception coding － considering the provision of comparative performance data to encourage providers to meet targets － using local enhanced services to encourage providers and practitioners to identify and continue to support those who are at risk of premature death from CVD and other smoking-related diseases. • Provide incentives for local projects that improve the health of people who are disadvantaged, specifically those who smoke or are at high risk of CVD from other causes or are eligible for statins. Ensure the projects are evaluated and, if effective, ensure they continue. Recommendation 4: partnership working Who is the target population? Adults who are disadvantaged: • who smoke and/or • who are eligible for statins and/or • who are at high risk of CVD due to other factors. Who should take action? Planners, commissioners and service providers with a remit for tackling health inequalities. This includes PCTs, general practices, community services, PBC groups, local strategic partnerships, local authorities (including education and social services), the criminal justice system and members of the voluntary and business sectors. What action
