Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


general practices, community services, PBC groups, local strategic partnerships, local authorities (including education and social services), the criminal justice system and members of the voluntary and business sectors. What action should they take? • Develop and sustain partnerships with professionals and community workers who are in contact with people who are disadvantaged. Use joint strategic needs assessments, local area agreements, local strategic partnerships, the GP contract, world class commissioning and other mechanisms. (For recommendations on community engagement, see NICE's guideline on community engagement: improving health and wellbeing and reducing health inequalities.) • Establish relationships between primary care practitioners and the community to understand how best to identify and help adults who are disadvantaged to adopt healthier lifestyles. For example, they should jointly determine how best to support health initiatives delivered as part of a local neighbourhood renewal strategy. • Establish relationships with secondary care professionals (for example, those working in respiratory medicine and CVD clinics) to help identify patients at high risk of further cardiovascular events. Offer these patients support or refer them on, where appropriate. • Develop and maintain a database of local initiatives that aim to reduce health inequalities by improving the health of people who are disadvantaged. • Develop and sustain local and national networks for sharing local experiences. Ensure mechanisms are in place to evaluate and learn from these activities on a continuing, systematic basis. • Ensure those working in the healthcare, community and voluntary sectors coordinate their efforts to identify people who need help. Recommendation 5: training and capacity Who is the target population? Service providers (for example, general practices, PCTs, local authorities, community and lay workers and others with a remit for tackling health inequalities). Who should take action? Commissioners and service providers (for example, PCTs, community services, local authorities and others with a remit for tackling health inequalities). What action should they take? • Ensure there are enough practitioners with the necessary skills to help people who are disadvantaged to adopt healthier lifestyles. (For examples of the skills needed, see NICE's guideline on tobacco: preventing uptake, promoting quitting and treating dependence, and the Health Development Agency's 'Standard for training in smoking cessation treatments' or updated versions of this.) • Ensure practitioners have the skills to identify people who are disadvantaged and can develop services to meet their needs. (For a set of generic principles to use when planning and delivering activities aimed at
