Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


skills to identify people who are disadvantaged and can develop services to meet their needs. (For a set of generic principles to use when planning and delivering activities aimed at changing health-related behaviour, see NICE's guideline on behaviour change: general approaches. For advice on getting communities involved, see NICE's guideline on community engagement: improving health and wellbeing and reducing health inequalities.) • Ensure service providers and practitioners have the ability to make services responsive to the needs of people who are disadvantaged. For example, they should be able to compare service provision with need, access, use and outcome using health equity audits. (For examples of the training and skills needed, refer to national organisations such as the Faculty of Public Health, British Psychological Society, Skills for Health and the Institute of Environmental Health.) Public health need and practice People who enjoy a lifetime of advantage are likely to live longer, healthier lives than those who experience disadvantage (Graham and Power 2004; Kawachi and Kennedy 1997; Wilkinson 1996). Yet despite increased prosperity and reductions in mortality among some population groups, cardiovascular disease (CVD), other smoking-related diseases and smoking are still more prevalent among lower socioeconomic and certain ethnic groups compared with the general population. Since 1995 to 1997, circulatory diseases have become more prevalent, in relative terms, among disadvantaged groups. For example, in 2004 to 2006, 44 more people per 100,000 (aged under 75) died from circulatory disease in the most deprived fifth of local authority districts than in the least deprived areas. In relative terms, this means the death rate from circulatory disease was 71% higher in the most deprived areas compared with the least deprived areas (DH 2008a). Since 1998 there has been no significant change in smoking prevalence among adults in manual groups compared to non-manual groups in absolute terms (and some signs of a widening in the gap in relative terms). In 2006 in Britain, smoking prevalence was twice as high among unskilled workers than among professionals (33% and 16% respectively among routine-and-manual and managerial-and-professional groups respectively [Office for National Statistics 2007]). Factors linked to health inequalities Factors such as poor living conditions, lower educational achievement and behaviours which damage health (such as smoking) lead to a greater than average risk of premature death, greater morbidity and lower life expectancy People in lower socioeconomic groups are more likely to adopt behaviours that may damage their health (Graham
