Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


greater than average risk of premature death, greater morbidity and lower life expectancy People in lower socioeconomic groups are more likely to adopt behaviours that may damage their health (Graham and Power 2004; Kawachi and Kennedy 1997; Wilkinson 1996). As a result, there is a steep social class gradient for many different conditions that affect health (DH 2008a). For example, the death rate from coronary heart disease (CHD) is 3 times higher among unskilled workers than among professionals. Similarly, deaths from lung cancer are 4 times higher among unskilled male manual workers of working age than among professional men (reflecting the fact that smoking is much more common among male manual workers than their professional counterparts; Twigg et al. 2004). Tackling health inequalities Government policy encourages PCTs, local authorities and others to identify and target groups and neighbourhoods where health – and the use of health services – is worst. For example: • 'Health inequalities – progress and next steps' (DH 2008b) sets out how the government intends to invest in programmes that have proved a success to achieve its 2010 health inequalities targets. Beyond 2010, it plans to develop new goals, structures and systems to support delivery and sustain the improvements that have been achieved. • The latest comprehensive spending review (HM Government 2007) makes reducing health inequalities a priority, as does the operating framework for the NHS in 2008/09 (DH 2007a). It has also been made a priority in NHS planning guidance for the 3 years until 2011 (DH 2008c). • The document 'PSA delivery agreement 18: promote better health and wellbeing for all' reaffirms the government's commitment to reduce (by 2010) the social class gap in infant mortality and the life expectancy gap (including mortalities from CVD and cancer) between the most deprived areas and the rest of the population. (The most deprived areas are defined as the Spearhead group of local authority and PCT areas.) It also reaffirms its commitment to reduce smoking prevalence among 'routine' and manual groups (HM Government 2007). • The cancer reform strategy (DH 2007b) makes reducing the social class differential in the prevalence of cancer a priority. It highlights action to prevent cancer, particularly by reducing smoking among the population. • From 2008, new statutory requirements arising from the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007 underpin local partnership working, particularly between local authorities and PCTs (UK Parliament 2007).
