Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


From 2008, new statutory requirements arising from the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007 underpin local partnership working, particularly between local authorities and PCTs (UK Parliament 2007). For example, local authorities and PCTs must carry out a joint strategic needs assessment for their area and agree joint local area agreement (LAA) targets (Department for Communities and Local Government 2007). These new requirements are a feature of national performance management and should create a more supportive environment for the NHS. They support the NHS strategy to reduce mortality and morbidity from cancer, CVD and other smoking-related diseases and the white paper 'Pharmacy in England'. (The latter wants to see pharmacists' providing a range of smoking cessation services (DH 2008d). Challenges to preventing cancer and CVD Helping people to stop smoking and the provision of statins are 2 of the most widely used interventions to prevent cancer and CVD. Both have been shown to be effective and cost effective generally – and both have considerable potential to reduce premature mortality rates among people who are disadvantaged (Raw et al. 2001; Ward et al. 2007). However, numerous factors prevent them from being fully effective including: lack of available, appropriate and accessible primary care services; the reluctance of many people within vulnerable or at-risk communities to use health services or to follow agreed treatment (DH 1999; Dixon 2000). Finding effective ways of identifying at-risk or vulnerable groups, tailoring services to make them accessible and keeping people in the system ('client retention') are still key challenges. For example, simply improving services does not guarantee that they will be used by those most in need of them. Nor will it necessarily increase the number of people who follow treatments they have agreed to. Considerations PHIAC took account of a number of factors and issues in making the recommendations. • PHIAC considers a cross-government approach is required to tackle health inequalities and that high quality public services can make an important contribution. Although relatively narrow in scope, PHIAC considers that the interventions in this guidance will make a contribution to reducing health inequalities, particularly if set within wider health promoting policies (such as tobacco control and healthy eating). • The prevalence of diseases with a strong socioeconomic gradient may vary from one location to another. PHIAC recognises that people who are disadvantaged (specifically, those with a higher-than-average risk of premature death from smoking- related
