Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


for NHS Stop Smoking Services do not focus on the most hard- to-reach groups, despite the thrust of stated policy. • PHIAC stressed that the quality and outcomes framework (QOF) needs to be modified to give GPs a greater incentive to find and treat those who are disadvantaged and at greatest risk of premature death from preventable conditions. GPs could play an important role in tackling such health inequalities and PHIAC considers that financial incentives would help. In the meantime, the Committee believes joint working with the voluntary and community sectors is needed to identify individuals who are not registered with a general practice. Similarly, joint working is needed to identify those who have been missed as a result of exception reporting. • The mapping review identified a wide range of activities aimed at both people who are disadvantaged and at disadvantaged areas. These activities appear to operate as discrete and specific projects. It is important to find ways to include these activities in mainstream services so that they are not treated as additional activities or exceptions to the general rule. • PHIAC considers that evaluation (including evaluation of the impact of services on different subgroups) should be an integral part of new policies and services. • The recommendations made in this guidance aim to support and complement other initiatives to reduce premature mortality. Of particular relevance is the coordinated vascular disease control programme commissioned by the UK National Screening Committee. This is set out in the UK National Screening Committee's handbook for vascular risk assessment, risk reduction and risk management. The aim is to identify and reduce the risk of CVD in the general population. Also of relevance is the Department of Health's vascular checks programme, announced in January 2008. This focuses on everyone aged between 40 and 74. Recommendations for research PHIAC recommends that the following research questions should be addressed in order to the improve the evidence relating to finding, supporting and retaining those most at risk of premature deaths from cardiovascular disease (CVD) and other smoking-related diseases and improving their access to services. It notes that 'effectiveness' in this context relates not only to the size of the effect, but also to the cost effectiveness, duration of effect and harmful/negative effects. 1 Proactive case-finding and retention and access to services Can the research on proactive case-finding and retention and access to services in relation to smoking
