Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


of effect and harmful/negative effects. 1 Proactive case-finding and retention and access to services Can the research on proactive case-finding and retention and access to services in relation to smoking cessation and the provision of statins be applied to other services aimed at the reduction of premature mortality amongst disadvantaged people? If so, to what extent? 2 Incentives What factors influence the acceptability and effectiveness of incentives to identify, engage and retain people within the health system? Does the use of incentives lead to any adverse consequences? If so, why and under what circumstances? 3 Expansion of small-scale interventions Do cost-effective, small-scale interventions remain cost effective when they are expanded? If so, what is the best way to expand them? 4 Level and nature of disadvantage of the target population To what extent, if any, does the level and nature of disadvantage of the target population affect the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of interventions? 5 Service uptake How does service uptake change when different barriers to service use are addressed either individually or in combination? More detail on the evidence gaps identified during the development of this guidance is provided in appendix D. References Acheson D (1998) Independent inquiry into inequalities in health: the Acheson report. London: Stationery Office. Department for Communities and Local Government (2007) The new performance framework for local authorities and local authority partnerships: single set of national indicators. London: Department for Communities and Local Government. Department of Health (1999) Saving lives: our healthier nation. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2003) Tackling health inequalities: a programme for action. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2004) Choosing health: making healthy choices easier. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2005) Tackling health inequalities: status report on the programme for action. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2007a) The NHS in England: the operating framework for 2008/09. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2007b) Cancer reform strategy. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2008a) Tackling health inequalities: 2007 status report on the programme for action. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2008b) Health inequalities – progress and next steps. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2008c) Operational plans 2008/09–2010/11: national planning guidance and 'vital signs'. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2008d) Pharmacy in England: building on strengths – delivering the future. London: Department of Health. Dixon J (2000) What
