Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


guidance and 'vital signs'. London: Department of Health. Department of Health (2008d) Pharmacy in England: building on strengths – delivering the future. London: Department of Health. Dixon J (2000) What is the hard evidence on the performance of 'mainstream' health services serving deprived compared to non-deprived areas in England? Report for the Social Exclusion Unit. London: King's Fund. Graham H, Power C (2004) Childhood disadvantage and health inequalities: a framework for policy based on lifecourse research. Child: Care, Health and Development 30 (6): 671–678. HM Government (2007) PSA delivery agreement 18: promote better health and wellbeing for all. ID 2007 Indices of Deprivation 2007. Kawachi I, Kennedy BP (1997) The relationship of income inequality to mortality: does the choice of indicator matter? Social Science and Medicine 45 (7): 1121–7. Kiernan K (1997) Becoming a young parent: a longitudinal study of associated factors. British Journal of Sociology 48 (3): 406–28. Kuh D, Power C, Blane D et al. (1997) Social pathways between childhood and adult health. In: Kuh DL, Ben-Shlomo Y, editors. A life course approach to chronic disease epidemiology: tracing the origins of ill health from early to adult life. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Office for National Statistics (2007) Smoking-related behaviour and attitudes 2006. Raw M, McNeill A, Watt J (2001) National cessation services at risk: they are effective and cost effective and must be made permanent. British Medical Journal (323): 1140–1. Twigg L, Moon G, Walker S (2004) The smoking epidemic in England. London: Health Development Agency. Wanless D (2004) Securing good health for the whole population: final report. London: The Stationery Office. Ward S, Lloyd Jones M, Pandor A et al. (2007) A systematic review and economic evaluation of statins for the prevention of coronary events. Health Technology Assessment 11:14. Wilkinson RG (1996) Unhealthy societies: the afflictions of inequalities. London: Routledge. Appendix A: Membership of the Public Health Interventions Advisory Committee (PHIAC), the NICE project team and external contractors Public Health Interventions Advisory Committee (PHIAC) NICE has set up a standing committee, the Public Health Interventions Advisory Committee (PHIAC), which reviews the evidence and develops recommendations on public health interventions. Membership of PHIAC is multidisciplinary, comprising public health practitioners, clinicians (both specialists and generalists), local authority employees, representatives of the public, patients and carers, academics and technical experts as follows. Professor Sue Atkinson CBE Independent Consultant and Visiting Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London
