Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


deaths from CVD and other smoking- related diseases: finding and supporting those most at risk and improving access to services' was carried out by Dr Foster Intelligence. Appendix B: Summary of the methods used to develop this guidance Introduction The reports of the reviews and economic appraisal include full details of the methods used to select the evidence (including search strategies), assess its quality and summarise it. The minutes of the PHIAC meetings provide further detail about the Committee's interpretation of the evidence and development of the recommendations. All supporting documents are listed in appendix E. Key questions The key questions were established as part of the scope. They formed the starting point for the reviews of evidence and facilitated the development of recommendations by PHIAC. The 2 overarching questions focused on: • the use of statins to combat cardiovascular disease (CVD) • smoking cessation activities. Statins • What are the most effective and cost-effective methods of identifying and supporting people at increased risk of developing CVD, or who already have CVD? － What are the most effective and cost-effective methods of improving access to services, under what circumstances, for whom and when? － What type of support is most effective for different groups, under what circumstances and when? － Is there a trade-off between equity and efficiency? Smoking cessation • What are the most effective and cost-effective methods of identifying and supporting people aged 16 years and over who want to stop smoking, in particular, pregnant women, manual workers and those from disadvantaged backgrounds? － What are the most effective and cost-effective methods of improving access to services, under what circumstances, for whom and when? － What type of support is most effective for different groups, under what circumstances and when? － Is there a trade-off between equity and efficiency? Reviewing the evidence of effectiveness Two reviews of effectiveness were conducted. Identifying the evidence The following databases were searched (from 1995 to 2007): • AMED (Allied and Complementary Medicine) • ASSIA (Applied Social Science Index and Abstracts) • British Nursing Index • CINAHL (Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature) • Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trails • Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) • Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effectiveness (DARE) • EMBASE • EPPI Centre Databases • HMIC (Health Management Information Consortium – comprises King's Fund and DH- Data databases) • MEDLINE • PsychINFO •
