Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


of Reviews of Effectiveness (DARE) • EMBASE • EPPI Centre Databases • HMIC (Health Management Information Consortium – comprises King's Fund and DH- Data databases) • MEDLINE • PsychINFO • SIGLE (System for Information on Grey Literature in Europe) • Social Policy and Practice • Sociological Abstracts Other relevant databases (including sources of grey literature) were also searched, along with references from included studies. The following websites were searched: • Community Development Xchange • Department of Health coronary heart disease policy section • European directory of good practices to reduce health inequalities • NHS networks • World Health Organization (WHO) Health Evidence Network. In addition, information was sought from experts. Selection criteria Studies of primary and secondary prevention activities were included in the effectiveness reviews if they aimed to: • find and then support adults at increased risk of developing (or with established) CHD (coronary heart disease; note, the statins search included CVD) • provide adults at increased risk of developing (or with established) CHD with support services – or improved access to those services (note, the statins search included CVD) • find and help people who smoke (aged 16 years and over) to stop or reduce the habit • provide people who smoke (aged 16 years and over) with smoking cessation services – or improve their access to those services. Studies were excluded if the interventions: • did not aim to reduce or eliminate premature deaths from CHD or other smoking- related causes • tackled the wider determinants of health inequalities (for example, using macro-level policies to tackle poverty and economic disadvantage). Quality appraisal Included papers were assessed for methodological rigour and quality using the NICE methodology checklist, as set out in the NICE technical manual 'Methods for development of NICE public health guidance'. Each study was described by study type and graded (++, +, -) to reflect the risk of potential bias arising from its design and execution. Study type • Meta-analyses, systematic reviews of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or RCTs (including cluster RCTs). • Systematic reviews of, or individual, non-randomised controlled trials, case-control studies, cohort studies, controlled before-and-after (CBA) studies, interrupted time series (ITS) studies, correlation studies. • Non-analytical studies (for example, case reports, case series). • Expert opinion, formal consensus. Study quality ++ All or most criteria have been fulfilled. Where they have not been fulfilled the conclusions are thought very unlikely to alter. + Some
