Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


Expert opinion, formal consensus. Study quality ++ All or most criteria have been fulfilled. Where they have not been fulfilled the conclusions are thought very unlikely to alter. + Some criteria fulfilled. Those criteria that have not been fulfilled or not adequately described are thought unlikely to alter the conclusions. - Few or no criteria fulfilled. The conclusions of the study are thought likely or very likely to alter. Summarising the evidence and making evidence statements The review data was summarised in evidence tables (see the full evidence reviews). The findings from the reviews were synthesised and used as the basis for a number of evidence statements relating to each key question. The evidence statements reflect the strength (quantity, type and quality) of evidence and its applicability to the populations and settings in the scope. Study of current practice The mapping review aimed to identify and describe smoking cessation interventions and the provision of statins in disadvantaged areas and among disadvantaged individuals. It looked at: • ways of reaching people who need this type of support (proactive case finding) • how to encourage those people to keep in touch with services (retention) • service accessibility. Projects and interventions were identified via: • telephone interviews • documentary analysis • questionnaires • scanning of selected conference archives and databases (where these were available online). Work was carried out in 2 phases over a 3-month period. In phase one, semi-structured telephone interviews were carried out with a wide range of national and regional organisations to identify local contacts, interventions and approaches. Selected conference archives and project databases were also scanned. In phase 2, interventions were identified through questionnaires completed by local stakeholders and by analysing local documents. Full details are in the supporting evidence documents. Economic appraisal The economic appraisal consisted of a review of economic evaluations, 4 cost- effectiveness reports and a supplementary cost-effectiveness analysis. The cost- effectiveness reports covered: • Statins: 1 report focused on disadvantaged people, the other looked at the general population. They focused on how to: identify people at risk, improve or increase their access to services, ensure people who require treatment stay in the system and adhere to the treatment protocol. • Smoking cessation: 1 report focused on disadvantaged people, the other looked at the general population. They focused on how to: identify people at risk, improve or increase their access to services, ensure people who require
