Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


on disadvantaged people, the other looked at the general population. They focused on how to: identify people at risk, improve or increase their access to services, ensure people who require treatment stay in the system and adhere to the treatment protocol. Review of economic evaluations The review was conducted using the databases listed for the effectiveness reviews and the following economic databases: • Econlit • Health Economic Evaluation Database (HEED) • NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED). The small number of studies involved and the difficulties involved in making direct comparisons across studies (for instance, due to lack of information on the base year used to estimate prices) meant that it was not possible to undertake a quantitative synthesis of the results. Cost-effectiveness analysis An economic model was constructed to incorporate data from the reviews of effectiveness and cost effectiveness. The approach was applied to all 4 cost-effectiveness reports. The results are reported in: • 'Economic analysis of interventions to improve the use of statins interventions in the general population.' • 'Economic analysis of interventions to improve the use of statins in disadvantaged populations.' • 'Economic analysis of interventions to improve the use of smoking cessation interventions in the general population.' • 'Economic analysis of interventions to improve the use of smoking cessation interventions in disadvantaged populations.' An additional, supplementary economic analysis was undertaken to answer a number of questions posed by PHIAC. See the economic analysis reports. Fieldwork Fieldwork was carried out to evaluate the relevance and usefulness of NICE guidance for practitioners and the feasibility of implementation. It was conducted with practitioners and commissioners who are involved in smoking cessation services and statin provision. Participants included: strategic health authority directors, primary care trust directors of public health and public health teams, commissioning managers and performance managers, GPs and primary care nurses. They also included community pharmacists, health trainers and managers and representatives from other public and voluntary organisations, including New Deal for Communities. The fieldwork comprised: A qualitative study involving a range of different professionals across 4 locations (Coventry, Liverpool, London and Northampton) carried out by Dr Foster Intelligence. The main issues arising from this study are set out in appendix C under fieldwork findings. See the full fieldwork report 'Reducing the rate of premature deaths from CVD and other smoking-related diseases: finding and supporting those most at risk and improving access to services'. How PHIAC formulated the
