Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


fieldwork report 'Reducing the rate of premature deaths from CVD and other smoking-related diseases: finding and supporting those most at risk and improving access to services'. How PHIAC formulated the recommendations At its meetings in November 2007 and March 2008 PHIAC considered the evidence of effectiveness and cost effectiveness to determine: • whether there was sufficient evidence (in terms of quantity, quality and applicability) to form a judgement • whether, on balance, the evidence demonstrates that the intervention is effective or ineffective, or whether it is equivocal • where there is an effect, the typical size of effect. PHIAC developed draft recommendations through informal consensus, based on the following criteria. • Strength (quality and quantity) of evidence of effectiveness and its applicability to the populations/settings referred to in the scope. • Effect size and potential impact on population health and/or reducing inequalities in health. • Cost effectiveness (for the NHS and other public sector organisations). • Balance of risks and benefits. • Ease of implementation and the anticipated extent of change in practice that would be required. Where possible, recommendations were linked to an evidence statement(s) (see appendix C for details). Where a recommendation was inferred from the evidence, this was indicated by the reference 'IDE' (inference derived from the evidence). The draft guidance, including the recommendations, was released for consultation in April 2008. At its meeting in June 2008, PHIAC considered comments from stakeholders and the results from fieldwork and amended the guidance. The guidance was signed off by the NICE Guidance Executive in July 2008. Appendix C: The evidence This appendix lists evidence statements provided by 2 reviews and links them to the relevant recommendations (see appendix B for the key to study types and quality assessments). The evidence statements are presented here without references – these can be found in the full review (see appendix E for details). It also sets out a brief summary of findings from the economic appraisal. The 2 reviews of effectiveness are: • 'The effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions to reduce the rates of premature death in disadvantaged areas through proactive case finding, retention and access to services.' • 'The use of statins: proactive case finding, retention and improving access to services in disadvantaged areas'. Evidence statement '1SM' indicates that the linked statement is numbered '1' in the review 'The effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions to reduce the rates of premature death
