Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


in disadvantaged areas'. Evidence statement '1SM' indicates that the linked statement is numbered '1' in the review 'The effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions to reduce the rates of premature death in disadvantaged areas through proactive case finding, retention and access to services'. Evidence statement '1ST' indicates that the linked statement is numbered '1' in the review 'The use of statins: proactive case finding, retention and improving access to services in disadvantaged areas'. 'MR' is used to indicate that supporting evidence on current practice can be found in the mapping review. As noted in appendix B, study quality provides an overall indication of how well a study was conducted to minimise the likelihood of bias. For example, a quality rating of '++' indicates minimal likelihood of bias, whereas a rating of '-'' indicates a significant likelihood of bias. Some of the studies that informed the evidence statements below were rated '-', due to poor methodology. However, this quality rating does not always apply to the way the studies actually identified, supported and improved individuals' access to services – the areas under investigation for this guidance. See the evidence reviews and economic appraisal for details. Where a recommendation is not directly taken from the evidence statements, but is inferred from the evidence, this is indicated by 'IDE' (inference derived from the evidence) below. Where PHIAC has considered other evidence, it is linked to the appropriate recommendation below. It is also listed in the additional evidence section of this appendix. Recommendation 1: evidence statements 1SM, 2SM, 6SM, 10SM, 13SM, 1ST, 2ST, 5ST, 7ST, 9ST, 10ST, 11ST, 12ST; MR Recommendation 2: evidence statements 2SM, 3SM, 4SM, 5SM, 6SM, 7SM, 10SM, 11SM, 13SM, 14SM, 3ST, 4ST, 12ST, 13ST, 14ST, 15ST, 16ST, 18ST, 19ST, 20ST, 22ST, 23ST, 24ST; MR Recommendation 3: evidence statement 1SM; MR Recommendation 4: evidence statements 4SM, 6SM, 13SM, 14SM, 4ST, 11ST, 12ST, 13ST, 19ST, 20ST, 22ST; MR Recommendation 5: evidence statements 8SM, 9SM, 14SM, 4ST; MR; IDE Evidence statements Evidence statement 1SM Evidence from 1 UK observational study (++) suggests that the QOF component of the 2004 GP contract may have continued, rather than reversed, differences in the quality of care delivered between primary care practices in deprived and less deprived areas. Evidence from another UK observational study (++) suggests that the new GP contract has resulted in an improvement in the recording of smoking status and the recording of the delivery
