Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


Evidence from another UK observational study (++) suggests that the new GP contract has resulted in an improvement in the recording of smoking status and the recording of the delivery of brief cessation advice in primary care, but not the prescribing of smoking cessation medication. As these studies took place within UK primary care, they are directly relevant to the review. Evidence statement 2SM One cluster RCT in the UK (++) found that proactively identifying smokers through primary care records was feasible, and providing these smokers with brief advice and referral to NHS Stop Smoking Services increased contact with services and quit attempts but did not increase rates of cessation. One observational study (-), 1 descriptive study (-), 1 cluster-controlled trial (+) and 1 RCT (+) conducted in the USA demonstrate that proactively identifying smokers in a number of ways, for example, through primary care, using a screening tool, or through cold calling, is possible and that these provide effective ways of recruiting smokers to cessation interventions. One observational study in Sweden (+) demonstrates that direct mailing to smoking mothers can be successful in increasing both participation in smoking cessation programmes and quit rates. One study took place within English primary care and it is directly applicable to the review. The remainder took place in the USA and may have limited applicability. Only 1 (American) study focused upon disadvantaged individuals and therefore the applicability of this evidence to target populations for this review may be limited. Evidence statement 3SM Two observational studies (both [++]) demonstrate that the NHS Stop Smoking Services have been effective in reaching smokers living in disadvantaged areas of England. As both took place in England and are focused on disadvantaged individuals, they are directly applicable to the review. Evidence statement 4SM Two studies provide evidence to suggest that barriers such as fear of being judged, fear of failure and lack of knowledge need to be tackled in order to motivate smokers from lower socioeconomic groups to access cessation services. Interventions need to be multi- dimensional in order to tackle social and psychological barriers to quitting as well as dealing with the physiological addiction. (Two UK-based studies, 1 involving focus groups [++] and 1 involving interviews [++]). As both these studies took place with disadvantaged smokers in the UK, they are directly relevant to this review. Evidence statement 5SM Evidence from 4 studies suggests that social marketing
