Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


and increase cessation rates (1 international systematic review comprising 6 RCTs [-], 1 UK review of mixed-study designs [-] and 1 international review of 7 RCTs [+]). One study took place within the UK and is directly applicable to the review. Two studies took place in the USA and so may have limited applicability to this review. There is limited reference to disadvantaged individuals in any of the reviews and therefore the applicability of this evidence to target populations for this review may be limited. Evidence Statement 10SM Three studies provide some evidence of the potential benefit of drop-in or rolling, community-based sessions to reach smokers and increase cessation rates: 2 UK-based studies involving face-to-face interviews (both [-]) and 1 UK-based observational study (- ). All studies took place within the UK and are directly applicable to the review. Evidence Statement 11SM One cohort study (+) provides evidence of the potential benefits of locating smoking cessation services in the workplace of manual groups to increase cessation rates. This study took place in the USA and so may have limited applicability to this review but does have potential implications for the UK population. Evidence Statement 13SM One RCT in the UK (++) with coronary heart disease (CHD) patients randomised to nurse- run clinics or controls found little evidence of a change in smoking behaviour. Two RCTs in the UK (+) and (-) exploring smoking cessation interventions at routine cervical screening appointments found some evidence that brief interventions change the motivation or intention to quit smoking. One international RCT (+) examined the recruitment of women smokers attending a child's paediatric appointment into a smoking cessation intervention and found some evidence of an impact on quitting smoking. One international RCT (+) and 1 observational study using face-to-face interviews (+) investigated the use of cellular phones for smoking cessation in HIV-positive patients and showed a potential benefit for using this method of support. One US cohort study (+) provided preliminary evidence that offering a reduction programme could reach and influence more smokers than a programme just offering cessation. Three studies were carried out in the UK and are directly applicable to the target population, but they did not examine disadvantaged individuals separately. Four studies were carried out in the US and so may have limited applicability to this review. Evidence Statement 14SM Two UK surveys (1 telephone [+] and 1 internet [+]) and 1
