Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


were carried out in the US and so may have limited applicability to this review. Evidence Statement 14SM Two UK surveys (1 telephone [+] and 1 internet [+]) and 1 descriptive and audit survey (-) carried out in the UK provide evidence of pregnant smokers' perceptions of barriers to using smoking cessation support. Barriers include, among others: unsatisfactory information, lack of integration of cessation into routine antenatal care, lack of enthusiasm or empathy from health professionals and lack of short-term support. One RCT in the UK (+) of motivational interviewing with pregnant smokers and 2 international RCTs, 1 of a brief versus more intensive intervention (++) and 1 of proactive telephone support (-) provide little evidence of the effectiveness of these interventions. One US descriptive study (-) described the reach of a multifaceted pregnancy campaign but reported no outcomes. The UK studies are directly applicable to the target population, although only 1 of these focused on pregnant smokers in disadvantaged areas. Evidence Statement 1ST There is evidence from 3 case studies suggesting interventions inviting specific populations (South Asians, homeless people or patients with psychosis) to attend risk screening at their GP practice or primary care clinic may identify a number of people at risk of coronary heart disease (outcomes reported in 2 case studies [+], [-]). However, it is difficult to draw firm conclusions on how well such interventions are attended due to poor reporting of participation rates (outcomes reported in 3 case studies: 2 [+] and 1 [-]). Evidence Statement 2ST There is evidence from 1 small case study (+) that screening long-term psychiatric hospital patients can identify previously undetected CHD. Screening 64 patients identified 1 new case of established CHD and 22 previously undetected test abnormalities. Participation in the intervention was high (66%) but only a small proportion consented to having blood tests. Evidence Statement 3ST There is evidence from 1 RCT (+) that in an area of deprivation, postal prompts to patients and their GPs following an acute coronary event, improves monitoring of the patient's risk and the likelihood of the patient having at least 1 consultation with their GP or nurse. Evidence Statement 4ST There is evidence from 1 case study (+) to suggest that, in an area of deprivation, a project funding a nurse and exercise worker to develop practice nurse and GP skills in identifying and monitoring patients and facilitate the provision of exercise
