Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


an area of deprivation, a project funding a nurse and exercise worker to develop practice nurse and GP skills in identifying and monitoring patients and facilitate the provision of exercise facilities for CHD patients, may lead to a small improvement in cholesterol testing of patients. 72.5% of control patients reported receiving cholesterol tests in the past year compared to 77.8% of the intervention group, p=0.002. No differences were seen in blood pressure measurement. Evidence Statement 5ST There is weak quality evidence from 2 case studies (both [-]) to suggest that offering cardiovascular risk assessment opportunistically to African-Caribbean general practice patients, or patients from a range of socioeconomic categories, may identify a number of people at risk of CHD. However, the interventions require further research using well- conducted studies before firm conclusions can be made. Evidence Statement 7ST There is evidence from 3 studies to suggest that workplace cardiovascular screening provided in schools or businesses in multi-ethnic, low-income areas (CBA [-], case study [-]), or for factory workers (case study [+]) is moderately well attended. Results suggest that a number of participants were identified for referral to a physician for follow-up (outcome reported in 2 studies: CBA [-], case study [-]). No firm conclusions can be made on patients' completion of follow-up as this was only reported in 1 poor quality study (case study [-]). Evidence Statement 9ST Evidence from 1 UK case study (-) evaluating the establishment of a health screening clinic in a prison indicated a moderate 35% voluntary uptake by the inmates. There were active interventions following the screening for 87 (34%) inmates and 13 (32%) staff screened. These ranged from simple anti-smoking and dietary advice to more formal medical interventions to manage raised blood pressure and cholesterol. Uptake data should be viewed cautiously, as the number of potential participants was not reported. Evidence Statement 10ST Two case studies suggest that offering blood pressure measurements at community sites in areas of deprivation can identify a number of people with elevated blood pressure. No firm conclusion can be made on participation rates as these were not reported in the studies. One UK case study (+) found 221 people out of 758 first-time users of self- reading sphygmomanometers placed in public sites had elevated blood pressure measurements. No firm conclusions can be made regarding physician follow-up as the researchers were unable to contact all of these people. One US RCT
