Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


public sites had elevated blood pressure measurements. No firm conclusions can be made regarding physician follow-up as the researchers were unable to contact all of these people. One US RCT (+) providing blood pressure measurements at a range of community sites identified 31.4% with elevated blood pressure and 10.7% with severely elevated blood pressure. Transferability and cost effectiveness of such interventions requires further study. Evidence Statement 11ST There is evidence from 2 case studies evaluating phase 1 (+) and phase 2 (-) of the Well- Integrated Screening and Evaluation for Women Across the Nation (WISEWOMAN) programme to suggest that adding cardiovascular screening to state breast and cervical cancer screening programmes reaches financially disadvantaged and minority ethnic women and identifies a number at risk of CHD. No conclusions can be made on participation rates or physician referrals as these outcomes have not been reported. Applicability and transferability of these programmes to a UK setting requires further study. Evidence Statement 12ST Evidence from 3 studies (2 case studies [+] and 1 uncontrolled before- and-after study [+]) suggests that culturally sensitive education sessions that include an element of cardiovascular risk assessment may be effective in the identification of at-risk individuals. Two moderate-quality studies evaluated educational interventions in black and minority community groups (+) and Turkish immigrants at a mosque (+) offering blood pressure measurements. Participation with blood pressure measurements were high, and revealed a number of patients with uncontrolled hypertension or with elevated blood pressure readings. Evidence from 1 case study (-) in which health checks were conducted before and after a church-based educational intervention with predominantly black participants should be viewed more cautiously owing to concerns of transferability and applicability. Evidence Statement 13ST Evidence from 1 qualitative study (++) of service users with severe mental illness (SMI), and primary care staff and community mental health teams, indicate a range of perceived obstacles to CHD screening. These include: lack of appropriate resources in existing services; anticipation of low uptake rates by patients with SMI; perceived difficulty in making lifestyle changes among people with SMI; patients dislike having blood tests; and lack of funding for CHD screening services or it not being seen as a priority by trust management. There was some disagreement about the best way to deliver appropriate care, and the authors concluded that increased risk of CHD associated with SMI and antipsychotic medications requires flexible solutions with clear lines of responsibility
