Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


the best way to deliver appropriate care, and the authors concluded that increased risk of CHD associated with SMI and antipsychotic medications requires flexible solutions with clear lines of responsibility for assessing, communicating and managing CHD risks. Evidence Statement 14ST There is a paucity of good quality research on the effectiveness of pharmacist interventions to improve compliance with lipid-lowering therapy, particularly in disadvantaged individuals. Results from the 4 studies identified (2 RCTs [-, -] 1 UCBA [uncontrolled before and after study] [-] and 1 observational study [-]) should be viewed with caution owing to poor methodological quality and doubts about applicability to disadvantaged individuals. Evidence Statement 15ST Evidence from 1 low-quality RCT (-) suggests that telephone reminders and postcards to reinforce messages about coronary risk reduction does not produce significant improvements in short-term compliance in patients prescribed pravastatin treatment. Results should be viewed with caution as the poor-quality study is likely to be highly biased and may not be applicable to disadvantaged individuals. Evidence Statement 16ST Well-conducted research examining patient education to improve compliance with lipid- lowering therapy is required before firm conclusions can be made regarding its effectiveness, particularly in disadvantaged individuals. Evidence from 1 uncontrolled before-and-after study (+) of nurse-led education in heart failure patients suggested there was no significant difference in self-reported compliance at 1 year. One RCT (-) of a pharmacy intervention including patient education for heart failure patients found a significant difference in compliance at 2 and 6 months, but not at 12 months. Applicability of the studies may be limited as the medication prescribed was not specified. Evidence Statement 18ST Well-conducted research is required examining the effectiveness of improving retention of patients at risk of or with CHD within services. Evidence from the 1 systematic review identified (+) highlights the dearth of literature reporting the evaluation of simple interventions aimed at improving adherence to cardiac rehabilitation for all patients or specific groups of patients. The systematic review identified few studies of sufficient quality to enable the recommendation of specific methods to improve adherence to outpatient cardiac rehabilitation. The most promising approach was the use of self- management techniques based around individualised assessment, problem solving, goal setting and follow up. This was most likely to be effective in improving specific aspects of rehabilitation, including diet and exercise. Evidence Statement 19ST Evidence from 1 systematic review (+) highlighted the need for trials of interventions applicable to
