Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


be effective in improving specific aspects of rehabilitation, including diet and exercise. Evidence Statement 19ST Evidence from 1 systematic review (+) highlighted the need for trials of interventions applicable to all patients and targeting specific under-represented groups. The review revealed some evidence to support the use of approaches aimed at motivating patients, regular support and practice assistance from trained lay volunteers and a multifaceted approach for the coordination of transfer of care from hospital to general practice. Applicability and transferability of these programmes to disadvantaged populations requires further study. Evidence Statement 20ST Evidence from 3 studies indicated the importance of providing additional staff resources to encourage or support the uptake of services by people living in socially deprived areas. One US moderate-quality RCT (+) in a predominantly black population from a low-income area found improved uptake of services with a tracking and outreach intervention, where community health workers supported patients in completing referral to their physician for high blood pressure. Evidence from 1 non-comparative UK case study (+) indicates that additional resources for tertiary cardiology may have reduced socioeconomic inequities in angiography without being specifically targeted at the needier, more deprived groups, but the impact on revascularisation equity is not yet clear. Evidence from 1 UK case study (-) suggested that a project funding 1 nurse and 1 exercise worker to support GP practices in a socially deprived area increased the practices' provision of cardiac rehabilitation services such as exercise programmes, psychological and social support and dietary advice. Project nurses worked directly with practice nurses and GPs to develop their skills in identifying and monitoring patients with CHD, giving lifestyle advice and ensuring optimum medication regimes. An exercise worker worked with practices and the community to identify and facilitate the provision of exercise resources suitable for CHD patients. Evidence Statement 22ST A number of barriers and enablers to accessing services were identified in 5 qualitative studies involving people from socially deprived areas ([++], [+, +, +] [-]). Common themes were a lack of understanding of services and treatments and the need for flexible services; the inconvenient timing of appointments and the lack of transport were both cited as barriers; with the latter overcome by the provision of home visits. Personal factors, such as the need to minimise the severity of their illness, taking a 'cope and don't fuss' approach and fear of blame were also reported as barriers. The absence
