Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


factors, such as the need to minimise the severity of their illness, taking a 'cope and don't fuss' approach and fear of blame were also reported as barriers. The absence of cardiac rehabilitation services and long waiting lists was also noted and, for some patients, a reluctance to attend group care ([++], [+, +], [-]). Healthcare providers agreed on the need to expand cardiac rehabilitation services to reach out into communities and that the expansion would need to take place in the community (+). Evidence Statement 23ST A number of barriers and enablers to accessing services were identified in 5 qualitative studies involving Asian populations ([++], [+, +, +]) and African-Caribbean populations (+). Among Asian populations, a range of religious and cultural issues were identified including female inhibitions, religious practices, family commitments and influence and 'inappropriate' topics. The need for flexibility in the timing of services was highlighted and sensitivity in planning activities around religious events was viewed positively. Patients' lack of understanding of services and treatment was suggested as a barrier to access, including low levels of education and misunderstanding of western medicine, and lack of knowledge on what services were available and how to apply. Communication and language barriers were also perceived. A 'cope and don't fuss' approach among African- Caribbean hypertensive patients was a reported barrier to accessing services (+). Evidence Statement 24ST One qualitative study of cardiac rehabilitation coordinators in Scotland (+) found that age was widely perceived to influence access to services, both during initial assessment and in assessments for exercise components. Focus groups revealed that staff appeared to have knowledge of the benefits for older people but that scarcity of resources prevented them offering more accessible and appropriate services. Mapping review Brown et al. (2007) Guidance for the NHS and other sectors on interventions that reduce the rates of premature death in disadvantaged areas: proactive case finding and retention and improving access to services. Cost-effectiveness evidence Smoking cessation The cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of smoking cessation interventions for disadvantaged groups is low or very low. It is rarely likely to exceed £6,000. Statins Secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD; that is, after a CVD event) among a disadvantaged population costs an estimated £4,000 per QALY gained (£3,100 per QALY for finding the person and £900 per QALY for treating them with statins). Therefore, it is cost effective. Whether or not it is
