Cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early
KEYWORDS: health, evidence, services, disadvantaged, people, smoking, interventions, risk, study, studies, cessation, review, local, statement, inequalities


£4,000 per QALY gained (£3,100 per QALY for finding the person and £900 per QALY for treating them with statins). Therefore, it is cost effective. Whether or not it is cost effective to provide statins to prevent a first occurrence of CVD among a disadvantaged population depends on the number of people at risk in the baseline population. Data from a USA study of financially disadvantaged women aged 40 to 64 who enrolled in the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program was analysed. The analysis found that it is cost effective if more than 14% of the population is at risk. For example, when 40% were at risk of CVD, primary prevention was estimated to cost £8,500 per QALY gained (£4,900 per QALY for finding the person and £3,600 per QALY for treating them). This compared with about £125,600 when only 1.6% were at risk (£122,000 per QALY for finding them and £3,600 per QALY for treating them). Fieldwork findings Fieldwork aimed to test the relevance, usefulness and the feasibility of implementing the recommendations and the findings were considered by PHIAC in developing the final recommendations. For details, go to the fieldwork section in appendix B and 'Reducing the rate of premature deaths from CVD and other smoking-related diseases: finding and supporting those most at risk and improving access to services'. Fieldwork participants who work with adults who are disadvantaged (in particular, those who smoke and/or are eligible for statins and/or are at high risk of CVD due to other factors) were very positive about the recommendations. Some said they will support work already being carried out in this area. Participants felt that incentives had a role to play in helping to encourage people who are disadvantaged to attend NHS services and complete treatment. However, they felt that the use of incentives should be driven by national policy. Overall, the lists of 'target populations' and 'who should take action' were seen as appropriate, although participants believed it would be helpful to include commissioners in the latter. Highlighting who should have overall responsibility for a recommendation would also aid implementation, they said. Participants highlighted training, long-term funding, partnership working and cultural sensitivity as key issues that needed addressing for successful implementation of the recommendations. Appendix D: Gaps in the evidence PHIAC identified a number of gaps in the evidence relating to the interventions under examination, based on an assessment
