HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2022 August 01; 117(8): 1197–1220. doi:. ACG Clinical Guideline: Gastroparesis Thomas L. Abell, MD4 4University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky 6University of California San Diego, San Diego, California Abstract Gastroparesis is characterized by symptoms suggesting retention of food in the stomach with objective evidence of delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction in the gastric outflow. This condition is increasingly encountered in clinical practice. These guidelines summarize perspectives on the risk factors, diagnosis, and management of gastroparesis in adults (including dietary, pharmacological, device, and interventions directed at the pylorus) and they represent the official practice recommendations of the American College of Gastroenterology. The scientific evidence for these guidelines was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation process. When the evidence was not appropriate for Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation, we used expert consensus to develop key concept statements. These guidelines should be considered as preferred but are not the only approaches to these conditions. 507-266-2305, . Authors’ contributions: All authors contributed to researching, writing, and editing this manuscript. Drs. Abell and Camilleri serve as senior authors of the manuscript. Potential conflicts of interest: MC: Single-center research studies: Allergan, Takeda, and Vanda; Consulting with compensation to his employer: Takeda, Alpha Sigma Wasserman TA: Investigator: Censa, Clndome, Vanda, Allergan, Neurogastrix; Consultant: Censa, Nuvaira, Takeda, Medtronic; Speaker: Takeda, Medtronic; Reviewer: UpToDate; Writer: Med Study; Editorial: Neuromodulation, Wikistim; ADEPT-GI: IP for autonomic/enteric diagnosis and therapies for Medtronic LN: Investigator: Allergan, Vanda; Consultant: Abbvie, Ironwood, Alnylam, Eli Lilly, Gemelli, Neurogastrx, Pendulum, Phathom, RosVivo, Salix, Takeda. Scientific Advisory Board: Gemelli, RosVivo VMV: Nothing to disclose JP: Nothing to disclose KG: Nothing to disclose RY: Consultant through Institutional Agreement: Medtronic, Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Diversatek, StatLinkMD; Research support: Ironwood Pharmaceuticals; Advisory Board: Phathom Pharmaceuticals; RJS Mediagnostix Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Gastroparesis is a motility disorder characterized by symptoms and objective documentation of delayed gastric emptying of solid food without mechanical obstruction, which should be excluded by imaging studies such as upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or radiology (1,2). The chronic symptoms experienced by patients with gastroparesis may be associated with acute exacerbation of symptoms after oral intake of food; the symptoms include postprandial fullness, nausea, vomiting, and upper abdominal pain. focused on the state of
