HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


gastroparesis may be associated with acute exacerbation of symptoms after oral intake of food; the symptoms include postprandial fullness, nausea, vomiting, and upper abdominal pain. focused on the state of diagnosis and management at the time including assessment and correction of nutritional state, relief of symptoms, improvement of gastric emptying, and, in patients with diabetes, glycemic control. Patient nutritional state should be managed by oral dietary modifications and, if oral intake is not adequate, by enteral nutrition via jejunostomy tube or rarely parenteral nutrition. Medical treatment detailed the use of prokinetic and antiemetic therapies including metoclopramide, short term use of erythromycin, and gastric electrical stimulation (GES, need, medications used off-label including domperidone, erythromycin (primarily over a short term), and centrally acting antidepressants used as symptom modulators. Second- line approaches include venting gastrostomy or feeding jejunostomy; the latter may be placed directly by percutaneous endoscopic jejunostomy (3). Modifications in percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy jejunal feeding tubes have reduced likelihood of retrograde displacement of gastrojejunal tubes and reflux of enteral feed back into the duodenal loop and the stomach. These modifications include suture application on the connector and a balloon transgastric jejunal feeding device (4). Intra-pyloric botulinum toxin injection was not effective in two randomized, controlled trials (5,6). Partial gastrectomy and pyloroplasty should be used rarely, only in carefully selected patients (7). These procedures have been largely replaced by gastric per-oral endoscopic myotomy (G-POEM), which is discussed in detail in this article. Gastroparesis carries a substantial patient burden (8–10), with a negative correlation observed between symptom severity and patient quality of life. The disease also has wider impacts on healthcare burden such as increased hospitalizations and associated direct and indirect economic consequences. Several publications have demonstrated increased morbidity and mortality in patients with gastroparesis (11–14). While gastroparesis is known to be associated with use of narcotics in pain syndromes, and opioid agents affect gastric as well as pyloric function resulting in retardation of gastric emptying, this was not an objective of the current review, and is covered in a separate, recently published article (15). Nevertheless, it is important to emphasize that potent opioids were associated with worse gastroparesis (16), and pain associated with gastroparesis should not be treated with opioids (including tramadol and tapentadol which retard orocecal transit and gastric emptying respectively) (17,18). The treatment of pain in gastroparesis was not considered in this guideline; there are essentially no clinical trials addressing the
