HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


tapentadol which retard orocecal transit and gastric emptying respectively) (17,18). The treatment of pain in gastroparesis was not considered in this guideline; there are essentially no clinical trials addressing the treatment of pain Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript in gastroparesis. However, the review addresses the use of central neuromodulators and cannabis in gastroparesis. In 2021, members of the European Society of Neurogastroenterology and Motility (ESNM) with expertise in gastroparesis and the United European Gastroenterology (UEG) Federation joined forces for developing comprehensive recommendations on gastroparesis (19). This involved a Delphi consensus processes, systematic literature reviews, and grading of the strengths of accepted criteria. An initial North American perspective of those recommendations has been recently published (20) with endorsement or further commentary on the recommendations by the ESNM working group, as well as commentary based on the published evidence base. The objective of this new guideline is to document, summarize, and update the evidence and ACG guideline on gastroparesis (Figure 1) (1). It is necessary to acknowledge the limitations of guideline recommendations on therapies in the absence of FDA-approved therapies for gastroparesis in the United States and the limitation in duration of prescription to 3 months for the only currently-approved medication, metoclopramide. ACG guidelines are established to support clinical practice and suggest preferable approaches to a typical patient with a particular medical problem based on the currently at a patient-centered care approach. METHODS Key Questions The guideline is framed around several key questions, outlined below. The key questions were developed by the authors and vetted through the ACG leadership. We developed specific questions to address the topics of clinical relevance in the Patient Intervention Comparison and Outcomes (PICO) format (see Supplemental Materials). Emphasis has been placed on having practical recommendations that would be helpful for practicing providers in the US. A broad literature search was conducted to document, by means of detailed tables, information pertaining to the PICO questions, followed by a focused evaluation of the most relevant literature to develop recommendations (Table 1). Literature Search In February and March 2019, comprehensive literature searches were conducted by two Cochrane Library databases. Key concepts from the PICO questions were used to develop search terms and translated to appropriate controlled vocabulary for each database; detailed strategies for each section are provided in Appendix 1. Results for all searches were filtered
