HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


used to develop search terms and translated to appropriate controlled vocabulary for each database; detailed strategies for each section are provided in Appendix 1. Results for all searches were filtered for English language publications, and searches regarding therapeutics were further limited to human populations. Searches were updated in May 2021 using the same criteria to capture Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript literature published during the screening and review process. A hand search of references was conducted, and relevant publications identified by content experts were incorporated for analysis. Screening Between February 2019 and July 2021, a team of five content experts (DA, TA, MC, BK, LN) screened a total of 1908 distinct references retrieved by the original and updated searches. Each reference was screened independently by no fewer than two reviewers, with a third reviewer resolving any conflicts. The inclusion criteria were original research studies on the incidence, diagnosis, and treatment of gastroparesis in adult populations, predominantly based on observational studies and randomized, controlled trials. Open-label and observational studies of treatment modalities were included in the tables. Exclusion criteria were inclusion in the previous ACG guideline (although, where relevant, these were included in tables for completeness of the literature surveyed), theoretical studies using computational models, animal trials, pediatric populations, and publications without original data analysis. While no restriction was placed on publication dates during the retrieval process, emphasis was placed during screening by content experts on studies published after the searches included in the previous guideline, and tables from the 2013 guideline were updated with more recent evidence from the literature. Similarly, searches were not limited by age range within the databases, but any retrieved studies on an exclusively pediatric population were manually excluded during screening. Review articles, correspondence, and other publications without original data were excluded from analysis, though relevant reviews were retained for hand search of their included references. After screening, a total of 121 references were identified for inclusion and progressed for evidence appraisal in July 2021. Assessment The Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) process (Table 2) (21) was used to assess the quality of evidence for each question, by two formally trained GRADE methodologists (RHY & KG) to evaluate the quality of the evidence and strength of the recommendations. The quality of evidence is expressed as high (we are confident
