HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


formally trained GRADE methodologists (RHY & KG) to evaluate the quality of the evidence and strength of the recommendations. The quality of evidence is expressed as high (we are confident in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation), moderate, low, or very low (we have very little confidence in the effect estimate to support a particular recommendation) based on the risk of bias of the studies, evidence of publication bias, heterogeneity among studies, directness of the evidence and precision of the estimate of effect. A strength of recommendation is given as either strong (noted as “recommendations,” and meaning that most patients should receive the recommended course of action) or conditional (noted as “suggestions,” and meaning that many patients should have this recommended course of action, but different choices may be appropriate for some patients) based on the quality of evidence, risks versus benefits, feasibility, and costs, taking into account perceived patient and population-based factors. Furthermore, a narrative Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript evidence summary for each section provides important details for the data supporting the statements. The panel have additionally highlighted “key concepts” that were not included in the GRADE assessment. Key concepts are statements to which the GRADE process has not been applied and often include definitions and epidemiological statements rather than diagnostic or management recommendations. NARRATIVE REVIEW OF EVIDENCE Risk Factors Recommendation 1. In patients with diabetic gastroparesis, optimal glucose control is suggested to reduce the future risk of aggravation of gastroparesis. (conditional recommendation, low level of evidence). Optimal glucose control reduces the future risk of aggravation of the gastroparesis.—Acute hyperglycemia delays gastric emptying in patients with diabetes and, in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) study, delayed gastric emptying was associated with gastrointestinal symptoms and with measures of early and long-term hyperglycemia (22). However, it was unknown if better glycemic control increases the risk of hypoglycemia or improves hemoglobin A1c levels and gastrointestinal symptoms in diabetic gastroparesis. Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) were assessed in 45 poorly controlled type 1 or 2 patients with diabetes and gastroparesis (20). Symptom scores decreased with lower nausea/vomiting, fullness/early satiety, and bloating/distention scores as well as quality-of-life scores, and volumes of liquid nutrient meals tolerated increased at 24 weeks. In conclusion,
