HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


(20). Symptom scores decreased with lower nausea/vomiting, fullness/early satiety, and bloating/distention scores as well as quality-of-life scores, and volumes of liquid nutrient meals tolerated increased at 24 weeks. In conclusion, CSII plus CGM appear to be safe with minimal risk of hypoglycemic events and associated improvements in glycemic control, gastroparesis symptoms, quality-of-life, and meal tolerance in patients with poorly controlled diabetes and gastroparesis. This study supports the safety, feasibility, and potential benefits of improving glycemic control in diabetic gastroparesis (23). On the other hand, after 6 months of intensive therapy which led to decreased levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (from mean 10.6±0.3% to 9±0.4%), gastric emptying (GE) T did not change 1/2 (24). Nevertheless, Izzy et al. (25) documented that HbA1C level is significantly associated with the 4-hour retention value on nuclear GE scan. Diagnostic Testing After exclusion of mechanical obstruction, diverse tests are available to objectively document the presence of delayed GE. The gold standard is scintigraphic gastric emptying (SGE); this section addresses the diverse methods available for diagnosis of gastroparesis. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 2. Scintigraphic gastric emptying is the standard test for the evaluation of gastroparesis in patients with upper GI symptoms. The suggested method of testing includes appraising the emptying of a solid meal over a duration of 3 hours or greater. (strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Optimal duration of gastric emptying tests.—It is customary to recommend cessation for 48 hours prior to the test of medications including opioids, cannabinoids, prokinetics, antiemetics, and neuromodulators with potential impact on the results of the GE test. Based on a systematic review and meta-analysis (26) of the literature from 2007 to 2017 that included studies evaluating the association between GE (in 92 studies: 26 breath test, 62 scintigraphy, 1 ultrasound and 3 wireless motility capsule) and nausea, vomiting, early satiety/postprandial fullness, abdominal pain and bloating, 25 studies provided quantitative data for meta-analysis (15 scintigraphy studies enrolling 4056 participants and 10 breath test studies enrolling 2231 participants). Meta-regression demonstrated a significant difference between optimal and suboptimal GE test methods when comparing delayed GE with nausea and vomiting. Studies using optimal GE test methodology (that is solid meal and at least 3 hours of data collection) showed significant associations between GE and nausea (OR: 1.6; 95% CI: 1.4 to 1.8), vomiting (OR: 2.0; 95% CI:
