HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


is solid meal and at least 3 hours of data collection) showed significant associations between GE and nausea (OR: 1.6; 95% CI: 1.4 to 1.8), vomiting (OR: 2.0; 95% CI: 1.6 to 2.7), abdominal pain (OR: 1.5; 95% CI: 1.0 to 2.2), and early satiety/fullness (OR: 1.8; 95% CI: 1.2 to 2.6) for patients with upper gastrointestinal symptoms. Among patients with diabetes, the most significant association with delayed GE was with the symptom of early satiety and fullness, but not with nausea and vomiting (26). Therefore, systematic review and meta-analysis supports an association between optimally measured delayed gastric emptying and upper gastrointestinal symptoms. It is worth noting that scintigraphic assessment should be ideally performed up to 4 hours unless it is documented that more than 90% of the solid meal has emptied at 3 hours (27). Potential Confounding between Gastroparesis and Functional Dyspepsia There is increasing attention (28) to the possibility that gastroparesis and functional dyspepsia (FD) may be on a spectrum of gastric dysfunction. Despite generally unaltered symptoms over time, 42% of patients initially diagnosed with gastroparesis and 37% of those diagnosed with FD were reclassified based on presence or absence of GE delay on repeat SGE (28). Degree of impairment of GE may vary over time in patients whose symptoms are generally unaltered over the same time. However, it is also conceivable that part of the overlap of the syndromes reflects the cut–off value of 10% retention at 4 hours that is applied to identify patients with delayed GE based on the ingestion of a 255 kilocalorie, 2% fat Eggbeaters® meal. Further studies are required to appraise the optimal meal composition and cut-off to define normality to address the reported significant overlap between gastroparesis and FD, which may be confounded by the low calorie and fat content of the meal and the use of >10% retention at 4 hours to define delayed gastric emptying. It Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript has been emphasized that the distinction between the two diagnoses is relevant because of the better prognosis of FD in contrast to the persistence of gastroparesis (28). Diagnosis of gastroparesis using scintigraphy Recommendation 3. Radiopaque markers testing is not suggested for the diagnostic evaluation of gastroparesis in patients with upper GI symptoms. (Conditional recommendation, very low level of evidence) Compared to radiopaque markers (ROM).—There
