HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


than by WMC (3.3%) (P<.001) (35,36). Research supports WMC testing as an alternative test to SGE for the evaluation of gastroparesis in patients with upper GI symptoms, and one advantage is that it provides a measure of gastric contractile amplitude and this can correspond to the timing of capsule emptying documented by the change in pH measured as the capsule traverses the pylorus. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript These features underscore the differences in emptying of a solid meal that could be homogenized in the stomach from the emptying of a solid nondigestible capsule which is greater than 1.5 cm in length and which typically empties from the stomach with the reestablishment of the interdigestive migrating motor complex after the emptying of a meal (37); the capsule is able to provide information about the amplitude of pressure activity in the stomach and small bowel which may be relevant, for example to identify myopathic diseases of the gut or severe antral hypomotility or disorders of motility affecting other regions of the gut such as the small bowel or colon (38). However, overall gastroparesis symptoms and nausea/vomiting, early satiety/fullness, bloating/distention, and upper abdominal pain subscores showed no relation to WMC transit (38). Transit delays beyond the stomach were found in 45.6% of patients with suspected gastroparesis who underwent WMC testing: 22.8% small bowel, 31.5% colonic and 5.4% global (35). Such extragastric dysmotility may be considered in patients with symptoms of gastroparesis; indeed, up to 64.7% of patients with symptoms of gastroparesis have been found to have slow transit constipation by ROM study (39), and, among 149 patients evaluated at a single tertiary referral center, 77 (52%) had rectal evacuation disorders, and 21 patients (15%) with delayed colonic transit associated with slow ascending colon emptying halftime in 9 and delayed colonic transit due to evacuation disorder in 12 patients (40). The WMC, as with pan-gastrointestinal scintigraphy, provides opportunity to appraise motor function through the entire GI tract (38,41) which may be indicated in patients with gastrointestinal symptoms. Compared to intra-gastric food identified on upper GI endoscopy.—Retained gastric food (RGF) is frequently identified during esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD); however, this should not be deemed to be diagnostic of gastroparesis. In a retrospective study of 85,116 EGDs, 2991 patients without structural abnormalities had undergone SGE using a standard 320kcal 30% fat egg meal.
