HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


be deemed to be diagnostic of gastroparesis. In a retrospective study of 85,116 EGDs, 2991 patients without structural abnormalities had undergone SGE using a standard 320kcal 30% fat egg meal. Overall, the positive predictive value (PPV) of RGF for delayed GE was 55%. However, the PPV varied from 32% in patients without risk factors to 79% in patients with type 1 diabetes. Opioids, cardiovascular medications, and acid suppressants were associated with RGF (42). Therefore, the presence of RGF should not be assumed to be diagnostic of gastroparesis, and confounding by medications should be excluded in such patients. Diagnosis of gastroparesis using stable isotope breath test and comparison with scintigraphy Recommendation 5. Stable isotope (13C-spirulina) breath test is a reliable test for the evaluation of gastroparesis in patients with upper GI symptoms. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) The stable isotope gastric emptying breath test (GEBT) using 13-carbon spirulina has been validated in simultaneous measurements performed with the gold standard scintigraphy and a solid test meal. This has been validated both in patients with upper gastrointestinal Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript symptoms and healthy controls as well as in pharmacologically induced slowing or acceleration of GE (43,44). Though the kappa statistic is not provided, a validation study of 38 healthy volunteers and 129 patients with clinically suspected delayed GE showed that, at 80% specificity, the 45- and 180-minute samples combined were 93% sensitive to identify accelerated GE, and 150- and 180-minute combined were 89% sensitive for delayed GE (43). The test is also approved for use in children. electrogastrography (EGG) There are the three types of cutaneous electrogastrography (EGG): 1. Single channel, 2. Low-resolution, and 3. high resolution. They all measure different aspects of gastric electrical activity. In addition, both mucosal and serosal electrical measurements of EGG are also performed. Single channel cutaneous EGG measures only frequency; low resolution EGG measures frequency and amplitude and some measures of propagation; high resolution EGG measures frequency, amplitude, and more precise measures of propagation such as initiation and conduction of gastric electrical signals. The prevalence of 3 cycle per minute (cpm) electrical control activity measured by single channel EEG was more prevalent in patients with gastric outlet obstruction compared to patients with idiopathic gastroparesis (IG) or healthy controls (45). High-amplitude and excessively regular 3 cpm EGG patterns were identified in
