HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


more prevalent in patients with gastric outlet obstruction compared to patients with idiopathic gastroparesis (IG) or healthy controls (45). High-amplitude and excessively regular 3 cpm EGG patterns were identified in gastric outlet obstruction, whereas high-amplitude and excessively regular 3 cpm EGG patterns differentiated idiopathic gastroparesis (IG) and healthy controls and were more likely in those with delayed GE (45,46) and in patients with cyclical vomiting and diabetic gastropathy (47) including uremic diabetics and children with diabetes (48,49). In another study, patients with depleted interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) (50) had significantly more tachygastria and significantly greater total symptom scores compared to those patients whose gastric full-thickness biopsies showed less ICC depletion. Using high-resolution electrical mapping (256 electrodes; 36 cm2) (51), it was shown that 9 patients with chronic unexplained nausea and vomiting had slow-wave dysrhythmias, with only 1 of 9 controls showing these dysrhythmias. Dysrhythmias included abnormalities of initiation (stable ectopic pacemakers, unstable focal activities) and conduction (retrograde propagation, wavefront collisions, conduction blocks, and re-entry) across slow, normal, or fast frequencies; dysrhythmias also showed velocity anisotropy (mean, 3.3 mm/s longitudinal vs 7.6 mm/s circumferential; P <.01). Such high resolution, spatial mapping is recommended, especially because of the evidence that abnormalities of slow-wave initiation aberrant conduction and low amplitude activity in gastroparesis often occur at normal frequency, which could be missed by tests that lack spatial resolution (52). In summary, studies suggest a complimentary role of spatial mapping EGG for identification of the pathophysiologic mechanism of gastric function (53). However, at this time, it is unclear that the information is clinically meaningful. Ongoing research of high-resolution Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Other Tests for Gastroparesis Based on Full-Thickness Biopsies The evidence regarding changes at the level of the stomach as identified in histological and molecular studies performed on biopsies taken from patients with gastroparesis are detailed in the Supplement. Similar to the European Society of Neurogastroenterology and full-thickness biopsies. Full-thickness biopsies should be reserved for research purposes to help better understand the causes of gastroparesis, identify biomarkers, guide therapy, and predict outcomes. MANAGEMENT OF GASTROPARESIS Small particle diet and nutrition interventions Recommendation 6. Dietary management of gastroparesis should include a small particle diet to increase likelihood of symptom relief and enhance GE. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder symptoms are frequent in patients
