HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


should include a small particle diet to increase likelihood of symptom relief and enhance GE. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder symptoms are frequent in patients with gastroparesis (54), and the ESNM guidelines recommend that eating disorders must be considered in patients with gastroparesis (19). After the pioneering randomized, controlled trial by Olausson et al. (55) demonstrated efficacy of small particle diet compared to normal diet for relief of symptoms, improving GE and enhancing glycemic control (56) in patients with diabetes, a systematic review (57) of all study types evaluated current evidence-based nutrition interventions involving a total of 15 studies and of 524 subjects, using a stepwise process, progressing from oral nutrition to jejunal nutrition and lastly to parenteral nutrition. Small particle, low-fat diets were significantly better tolerated than the converse, with jejunal nutrition prior to consuming oral food significantly improving oral intake and motility. In more progressive cases, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy with jejunal extension nutrition had lower reported symptoms than other enteral routes. Exclusive long-term parenteral nutrition is a feasible option for advanced cases, with a 68% survival rate at 15 years duration, though oral intake plus parenteral nutrition is associated with higher survival rates. The primary role of maintaining or reinstating oral intake was recommended to reduce morbidity and mortality risk. Pharmacologic agent use in gastroparesis Recommendation 7. In patients with idiopathic and diabetic gastroparesis, pharmacologic treatment should be considered to improve GE and gastroparesis symptoms, considering benefits and risks of treatment. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 8. In patients with gastroparesis, we suggest treatment with metoclopramide over no treatment for management of refractory symptoms. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) 9. In patients with gastroparesis where domperidone is approved, we suggest use of domperidone for symptom management. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) 10. In patients with gastroparesis, we suggest use of 5–HT4 agonists over no treatment to improve gastric emptying. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) The two medications with the largest number of individual clinical trials for gastroparesis are metoclopramide and domperidone. Metoclopramide is the only U.S. FDA-approved medication for the treatment of gastroparesis. The FDA placed a Black-Box warning on metoclopramide because of the risk of side effects, including tardive dyskinesia. The efficacy of metoclopramide in the treatment of diabetic
