HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


treatment of gastroparesis. The FDA placed a Black-Box warning on metoclopramide because of the risk of side effects, including tardive dyskinesia. The efficacy of metoclopramide in the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis (DG) has been assessed in studies that are summarized in Table 3 (58–68) which include newer trials involving the intra-nasal formulation of metoclopramide. The most common adverse effects of metoclopramide nasal spray were dysgeusia (bad, metallic, or bitter taste), headache, and fatigue. Regulatory authorities issued restrictions and recommendations regarding long-term use of metoclopramide at oral doses exceeding 10 mg 3–4 times daily because of the risk for development of tardive dyskinesia; the restrictions include use for <12 weeks and age <65 years. Studies in the last decade have addressed the risk of tardive dyskinesia in contrast to reversible involuntary movements on treatment with metoclopramide. First, the relative risk (69) of tardive dyskinesia in metoclopramide users in a VA medical center was not significantly greater than in non-user controls (RR: 1.67; 95% CI: 0.93 to 2.97). Second, it was estimated that the risk of tardive dyskinesia from metoclopramide use is likely to be <1% (70). The most comprehensive assessment (71) showed that the risk of tardive dyskinesia from metoclopramide is in the range of 0.1% per 1000 patient years, below a previously estimated 1%–10% risk suggested in treatment guidelines by regulatory authorities. High-risk groups are elderly females, diabetics, patients with liver or kidney failure, and patients with concomitant antipsychotic drug therapy which reduces the threshold for neurological complications. The FDA package insert on metoclopramide specifies that restlessness, drowsiness, fatigue, and lassitude occurred in approximately 10% of patients who received 10 mg four times daily. No other quantitative data are provided in the FDA approved insert on the prevalence of other, reversible central nervous system disorders with metoclopramide. One study (72) that documented the epidemiology of extrapyramidal reactions to metoclopramide was studied by examining reports in the Adverse Reactions Register of the Committee on the Safety of Medicines in the United Kingdom in the period 1967–82. Out of an estimated 15.9 million prescriptions, there were 479 reports of extrapyramidal reactions (455 of dystonia-dyskinesia, 20 of parkinsonism, and 4 of tardive dyskinesia). A more recent study of metoclopramide adverse events in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for the period 2004–2010 yielded
