HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for the period 2004–2010 yielded reports of 4,784 neurological reactions and 944 reports were for tardive dyskinesia; the total number of prescriptions was almost 40.5 million (73). These data suggest that 0.1% of prescriptions are associated with non-tardive dyskinesia neurological symptoms, which seem to be low estimates and may reflect the fact that medication cessation with reversal of the neurological symptoms may not be reported to regulatory agencies. Domperidone is available for treatment of gastroparesis under a special program administered by the Food and Drug Administration. Table 4 provides a summary of clinical trials with domperidone (74–86). Domperidone has been tested in studies that involved patients with IG, DG, or post-surgical gastroparesis (PSG), and it has been associated with symptom improvement manifested as lower overall scores or reduction in frequency and intensity of symptoms of gastroparesis. Four studies have also documented acceleration of GE compared to control or baseline. Table 5 summarizes efficacy of other prokinetic agents (5-HT and ghrelin receptor agonists) on symptoms or GE (64,87–100). As a group of medications, prokinetics have the most benefit. For all the medications, the recommendation is conditional for use of treatment over no treatment to improve gastric emptying. The methodological assessment for the 5-HT4 agonists concluded that there was inconsistent data for symptom improvement. Another class of agents is the motilin agonists which are used in the treatment of gastroparesis in adults and children. These medications include erythromycin, clarithromycin, and azithromycin. These medications are generally used in the short term (1–4 weeks) because of development of tachyphylaxis to motilides (101). Based on a systematic review and network meta-analysis of 33 studies and data on 22.6 million subjects, macrolide use was not associated with the risk of arrhythmia or cardiovascular mortality (102). Antiemetics, central neuromodulators in gastroparesis Recommendation 11. In patients with gastroparesis, use of antiemetic agents is suggested for improved recommendation, low quality of evidence) 12. Central neuromodulators are not recommended for management of gastroparesis. (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) 13. Current data do NOT support the use of ghrelin agonists for management of gastroparesis. (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) 14. Current data do NOT support the use of haloperidol for treatment of gastroparesis. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript;
