HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) 14. Current data do NOT support the use of haloperidol for treatment of gastroparesis. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Table 6 summarizes efficacy of antiemetics and central neuromodulators in gastroparesis (103–109). These are therapies commonly used for symptom relief in gastroparesis. The central neuromodulator studied with the highest level of evidence was the tricyclic antidepressant, nortriptyline, in IG (105). In this randomized, placebo-controlled trial, nortriptyline was no better than placebo in relieving global symptoms of gastroparesis, but some improvement in abdominal pain was noted. In a study of amitriptyline, 50mg/day, there was no retardation of GE in patients with FD (110). Further RCTs are needed to determine the efficacy of other central neuromodulators. Although there are no formal randomized trials, experience with use of haloperidol in emergency room treatment of patients presenting with gastroparesis has led to reduced need for morphine treatment and admission to hospitals (111), rather than documenting effect on gastroparesis symptoms. Other drug therapies for gastroparesis A recent study has targeted previously described impaired nitric oxide metabolism and an abnormal tetrahydrobiopterin (BH-4) pathway in gastroparesis patients with diabetes mellitus. This phase II study needs confirmation in other larger controlled studies (112). A number of other medications are being developed for treatment of gastroparesis. These include 5–HT4 receptor agonists (prucalopride, felcisetrag, and velusetrag) and dopamine D2/D3 receptor antagonists, and the therapeutic trials of these medications are included in Table 5. Use of pharmacotherapy to reduce the future aggravation of gastroparesis Based on a referral center experience, predictors of responsiveness to pharmacotherapy (113) were identified. A good response to pharmacological agents can be expected in the viral and dyspeptic subgroups of idiopathics, Parkinson’s disease, and the majority of diabetics; whereas a poorer outcome to prokinetics can be expected in post-vagotomy patients, those with connective tissue disease, a subgroup of diabetics (e.g., with evidence of vagal neuropathy), and the subset of IG dominated by abdominal pain and history of physical and sexual abuse (113). The comprehensive NIH Gastroparesis Consortium database of 748 patients (86) showed 181 (24%) on domperidone and 567 not receiving domperidone; 63% had IG. Compared to patients not receiving domperidone, those patients who were receiving domperidone (median time on domperidone following initiation of 32 weeks, 95% CI: 25–35 weeks) experienced moderate, but
