HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


had IG. Compared to patients not receiving domperidone, those patients who were receiving domperidone (median time on domperidone following initiation of 32 weeks, 95% CI: 25–35 weeks) experienced moderate, but significantly more improvement in gastroparesis outcome measures of the Gastroparesis Cardinal Symptom Index (GCSI) total score, nausea and fullness subscales, upper abdominal pain score, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) score, and the patient assessment of upper gastrointestinal disorders – quality of life (PAGI-QOL) score. In a systematic review (114) of 14 studies that evaluated GE and upper GI symptoms, including IG or DG, and including only studies with optimal GE test methods being evaluated, there was a significant positive association between improvements in GE and upper GI symptoms in response to prokinetic agents. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Immunological therapies There is insufficient evidence to support routine clinical use of autoimmune therapies in management of gastroparesis. A retrospective analysis of 11 female patients (115) with drug and device resistant gastroparesis with coexisting positive autoimmune profiles who were treated for 8–12 weeks with diverse immunomodulatory treatment showed that total symptom score improved in 6 of 11 patients, with maximum GI symptom improvement with IVIg (2 of the 3 patients treated). In a subsequent open-label study, 14 patients (3 DG, 1 PSG, and 10 IG) with serological and/or tissue evidence of immunological abnormality, IVIg therapy (400 mg/kg infusion weekly for 12 weeks) was associated with significant improvement in symptoms scores for nausea, vomiting, early satiety, and abdominal pain, and 9/14 patients were responders to this open-label treatment (116). This study built upon the retrospective medical record review suggesting a positive experience among 11 patients treated with IVIg or combined mycophenolate mofetil with methylprednisolone, or only mycophenolate mofetil therapy (115). Non-pharmacological therapy for gastroparesis: gastric electrical stimulation (GES), acupuncture, and herbal medicines Recommendation 15. Gastric electric stimulation (GES) may be considered for control of gastroparesis (GP) symptoms as a humanitarian use device (HUD). (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) GES is approved as a humanitarian use (HUD), as defined by the FDA for medically refractory DG or IG. The recommendation includes the use of GES in humanitarian use. Table 7 shows efficacy of several bioelectric treatments including vagal nerve stimulation, spinal cord stimulation and GES (117–142). A recent randomized, crossover trial of ON vs. OFF GES in patients with medically
