HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


shows efficacy of several bioelectric treatments including vagal nerve stimulation, spinal cord stimulation and GES (117–142). A recent randomized, crossover trial of ON vs. OFF GES in patients with medically refractory vomiting with or without delayed GE, GES decreased the vomiting frequency. Severity of nausea and appetite improved while ON compared to OFF. However, there were no differences in GI quality of life, nutritional parameters, or GE (121). Randomized crossover trials of GES for medically refractory DG or IG have shown mixed results which may reflect the variation in trial designs with differing timing of the ON vs. OFF randomization and crossover (120–124). Other modalities of electrostimulation (vagal and spinal cord) appear promising; however, larger randomized, sham-controlled trials are needed to determine the efficacy. However, documented clinical usefulness in both IG and DG (documented in Table 7) suggests there is a role for GES in accordance with its HUD approval. Recommendation 16. Acupuncture alone or acupuncture combined with prokinetic drugs may be beneficial for symptom control in patients with DG. Acupuncture cannot be recommended as beneficial for other etiologies of gastroparesis. (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 17. Herbal therapies such as Rikkunshito or STW5 (Iberogast) should NOT be recommended for treatment of gastroparesis. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Table 8 summarizes information on effects of electro-acupuncture, acupuncture, and herbal medicines in gastroparesis (143–154). The evidence available does not support their use in clinical practice. Pyloric Interventions: Diagnostic and Therapeutic Recommendation 18. In patients with gastroparesis, EndoFLIP evaluation may have a role in characterizing pyloric function and predicting treatment outcomes following peroral pyloromyotomy. (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) 19. Intrapyloric injection of botulinum toxin is not recommended for patients with gastroparesis based on randomized, controlled trials. (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) 20. In patients with gastroparesis with symptoms refractory to medical therapy, we suggest pyloromyotomy over no treatment for symptom control. (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) Table 9 shows results of EndoFLIP for selection of patients for pyloromyotomy or pyloric botulinum toxin injection (155–161). Current evidence suggests that such measurements of pyloric diameter and distensibility index or compliance are associated with greater gastric retention, and that the measurements may predict response to therapy, particularly, significant enlargement of the post-G-POEM pyloric diameter (159). It is reasonable
