HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastroparesis, manuscript, author manuscript, author, patients, manuscript author, evidence, symptoms, gastric, recommendation, studies, quality, treatment, emptying, use


index or compliance are associated with greater gastric retention, and that the measurements may predict response to therapy, particularly, significant enlargement of the post-G-POEM pyloric diameter (159). It is reasonable to consider such pyloric interventions in a clinical trial and to include assessments of pyloric physiology to appraise the impact of pyloric dysfunctions on outcomes. Thus, whereas intrapyloric injection of botulinum toxin is not recommended for patients with gastroparesis based on randomized, controlled trials (162), a recent large multicenter study from France documents the efficacy of botulinum toxin injection, particularly for the relief of vomiting, when patients are selected based on measurements of pyloric distensibility (161). Efficacy of G-POEM for gastroparesis based on open-label studies Table 10 shows efficacy of G-POEM for gastroparesis based on open-label studies (163– 181). Overall, these open-label studies suggest there is benefit in terms of symptom improvement and improved GE, though most studies were of only 3–6 months’ duration. A 12-month study showed 56% patients improved at 1 year (173). Symptom control after endoscopic pyloromyotomy is comparable to surgical myotomy; however, endoscopic myotomy has been associated with fewer post–procedural complications and shorter length of hospital stay. A recent study has identified benefit in relief of symptoms as well as improved GE with G-POEM procedure followed for 6 months in a sham-controlled study (174). Other pylorus-directed procedures are also available such as surgical pyloroplasty, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript though there is more evidence on G-POEM. Heineke-Mikulicz pyloroplasty involves longitudinal incision across the pylorus, which is then closed transversely, and this results in division of both longitudinal and circular muscle layers. In 177 patients with gastroparesis, laparoscopic pyloroplasty achieved improved GE in 90% of patients and induced short-term improvement of nausea, vomiting, bloating, and abdominal pain. However, morbidity rate was 6.8%, with problems such as confirmed leaks or further surgical interventions including jejunostomy and subtotal gastrectomy (182). CONCLUSION AND A LOOK TO THE FUTURE This guideline has focused on the diagnosis and treatment of gastroparesis in adults (including dietary, pharmacological, device, and interventions directed at the pylorus). The recommendations made are guided by assessment using GRADE methodology. Nevertheless, this is an area with considerable ongoing innovation, validation, and research that is likely to impact future iterations of these guidelines. In particular, the following have potential future impact on the management of gastroparesis:
