Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, exercise, mcardle, rhabdomyolysis, muscle, mcardle disease, case, severe, history, patients, injury, bmj, intolerance, acute, creatine


Rare disease Case report Wave of renal impairment Helena pinto,1 ana Catarina teixeira,1 Nuno oliveira,1 rui alves1,2 1Department of Nephrology, Summary family history or when the muscle injury is dispro- Centro Hospitalar e Universitário We present a case of a 51-year-old man who went portionate to the muscle exercise.1–3 2Clínica Universitária de drowning episode, presenting with muscular weakness, who presented with a severe case of rhabdomyolysis Nefrologia, Universidade de myalgia and dark urine. Laboratory data showed a secondary to McArdle’s disease, briefly reviewing Coimbra Faculdade de Medicina, severe rhabdomyolysis (creatine kinase 497 510 U/L). this entity and when to consider it in the differential Coimbra, portugal Despite aggressive fluid therapy, an oliguric acute diagnosis of rhabdomyolysis. Correspondence to kidney injury was established with temporary need of Dr Helena pinto, haemodialysis. the patient had a longtime history of CaSe preSenTaTion helenasofiapinto@ gmail. com exercise intolerance and family history of a metabolic We report the clinical case of a 51-year-old man myopathy, namely a sister with Mcardle’s disease. without any relevant known medical condition or accepted 9 January 2018 the genetic test was positive. Mcardle’s disease is an chronic medication. There was no history of illicit autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in drug or alcohol abuse. He had a longtime history the muscle glycogen phosphorylase gene that encodes of exercise intolerance with several minor traumatic the myophosphorylase. the main symptom consists in injuries due to falls. exercise intolerance and the most severe complication He went to the emergency department with is rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure. Metabolic complaints of muscular weakness, myalgia and myopathies, such as Mcardle’s disease, should be darkening of his urine. The first symptoms had considered in patients with acute renal failure due to appeared previously that day when he was standing unexplained severe rhabdomyolysis, especially if there near the sea and had been caught by a bigger wave. are chronic complaints of exercise intolerance and He recalled feeling severe limitation in moving positive family history. himself and almost drowning, being rescued in time by some locals. On admission, the physical examination was unre- markable except for brownish urine colouration. BaCkground Laboratory data showed a small elevation in Rhabdomyolysis is a frequent cause of acute kidney serum creatinine, significant elevation of hepatic injury (AKI). It results in the release of intracellular enzymes and a severe rhabdomyolysis (creatine muscle constituents into the circulation causing an kinase 4 97 510
