Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, exercise, mcardle, rhabdomyolysis, muscle, mcardle disease, case, severe, history, patients, injury, bmj, intolerance, acute, creatine


significant elevation of hepatic injury (AKI). It results in the release of intracellular enzymes and a severe rhabdomyolysis (creatine muscle constituents into the circulation causing an kinase 4 97 510 U/L). He was kept in the emer- elevation of the levels of creatine kinase (CK) and gency department and treated with aggressive fluid myoglobin in the blood stream and sometimes elec- therapy. However, during the following 2 days, trolyte disturbances. CK is the most commonly used oliguric AKI developed and urgent consultation to a marker to guide the diagnosis. Although the mech- nephrologist was sought. anism of renal dysfunction is not completely under- stood, it is believed to result predominantly from inveSTigaTionS myoglobin-direct tubular cytotoxicity, vasocon- On our first evaluation, on physical examination, striction and tubular obstruction. Volume depletion his temperature was 36.3°C, heart rate 90 bpm, enhances both vasoconstriction and the formation blood pressure 160/90 mm Hg, respiratory rate 24 of obstructing casts. Patients with severe rhabdomy- bpm and oxygen saturation 92% while breathing olysis should be treated with adequate fluid admin- ambient air. On chest examination, there were bilat- istration to limit the degree of renal impairment or eral lung crackles; the cardiac examination revealed even prevent it. However, careful attention must be a normal rate and rhythm, with no murmurs. The paid to fluid balance to avoid hypervolaemia and abdomen was soft and non-tender. There was acute pulmonary oedema. The causes of rhabdomy- marked peripheral oedema. olysis are multiple but are usually readily apparent There was a marked elevation in serum creati- causes are trauma (eg, crush syndrome), prolonged olysis (creatine kinase >160 000 U/L), a discrete immobilisation, extreme muscle exercise (eg, hyperkalaemia (5.47 mmol/L), hypocalcaemia, seizures, alcohol withdrawal, strenuous exercise), hyperphosphataemia and hypernatraemia. The infections (eg, influenza), hypothermia and drug/ renal ultrasound showed no abnormalities. There To cite: pinto H, teixeira aC, toxin exposure (eg, statins, cocaine abuse). Unusual was no diuretic response to bolus intravenous oliveira N, et al. BMJ Case causes, such as metabolic muscle diseases, must be loop diuretics, and emergency haemodialysis was Rep published online First: [please include Day Month considered when the clinical history provides no initiated. Year]. doi:- apparent explanation, particularly when there are The patient was admitted in the nephrology 223437 chronic complaints of exercise intolerance, positive ward, and the subsequent evolution was favourable. Pinto H, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2018. doi: 1 rare disease figure 1 Temporal
