Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, exercise, mcardle, rhabdomyolysis, muscle, mcardle disease, case, severe, history, patients, injury, bmj, intolerance, acute, creatine


nephrology 223437 chronic complaints of exercise intolerance, positive ward, and the subsequent evolution was favourable. Pinto H, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2018. doi: 1 rare disease figure 1 Temporal evolution of laboratory values of serum creatinine and creatine kinase (CK). The patient rapidly recovered diuresis during the first week and the bloodstream and extracellular space. It usually presents with slowly recovered from both the rhabdomyolysis and the kidney a triad of symptoms, including myalgia, weakness and myoglo- injury (figure 1 and table 1). Haemodialysis was stopped after binuria (typically described as tea-coloured urine). Treatment is four sessions. primarily supportive with emphasis on vigorous fluid adminis- sisters had been diagnosed with McArdle’s disease. This fact and use crystalloid solutions such as isotonic saline (NS) at a high the previously mentioned history of chronic muscular fatigue led rate, for example 500–1000 mL/hour, reducing the rate admin- us to propose a genetic disease, namely the McArdle’s disease, istration if there is any sign of volume overload. The majority of as the cause of the severe rhabdomyolysis. A blood sample was authors advise to correct the metabolic acidosis, alternating NS sent to Instituto Nacional de Saúde Dr. Ricardo Jorge and the with isotonic bicarbonate. The use of bicarbonate can also lead to diagnosis of McArdle’s disease was confirmed through genetic urinary alkalisation that is believed to protect against myoglobin testing of a specific mutation of the gene PYGM, the c.2392T>G toxicity. If there is no diuretic response, the fluid administration (p.W798R), that was previously found in his sister. must be limited to avoid fluid overload. Careful attention must be paid to seriated measurement of serum potassium levels as they TreaTmenT can rise fast in cases of severe rhabdomyolysis. Fluids containing The patient began supplementation with vitamin B, and during potassium should not be used. During the initial phase of rhab- hydroelectrolytic disturbs. He received counselling about phys- deposition on damaged tissue; on recovery, the calcium is again ical activity and diet. mobilised and there is usually transient hypercalcaemia. Intrave- nous calcium administration is only required during acute phase ouTCome and follow-up if the hypocalcaemia is symptomatic and otherwise should be After discharge, there was continuous improvement of kidney avoided, as calcium supplementation may increase muscle injury. function with complete recovery. There were no other episodes Criteria for dialysis initiation are the standard: fluid overload of severe rhabdomyolysis. unresponsive to loop diuretics, electrolyte disturbances
