Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, exercise, mcardle, rhabdomyolysis, muscle, mcardle disease, case, severe, history, patients, injury, bmj, intolerance, acute, creatine


muscle of patients.24 25 V, glycogenosis type V or myophosphorylase deficiency, is one of It remains unproven the potential effect of therapeutics such the most common disorders of muscle glycogenosis.7 8 McArd- as D-ribose, glucagon, verapamil, branched-chain amino acids, le’s disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive pattern and dantrolene sodium, aminoglycosides (eg, gentamicin) or high- is caused by mutations in the muscle glycogen phosphorylase dose creatinine (150 mg/kg/day).18 gene (PYGM), located at chromosome 11q13 that encodes the In conclusion, AKI is rare in McArdle’s disease since the muscle isoform of glycogen phosphorylase, also called myophos- symptoms often limit the degree of physical activity. However, glycogen to glucose-1-phosphate in skeletal muscle. In case of severe rhabdomyolysis and should promptly be treated in to produce energy.7 9 other metabolic myopathies should be suspected in symptomatic Symptoms usually present in childhood but clinical heteroge- young adults or adolescents and when there is family history. neity exists. Some individuals have mild symptoms as fatigue, The second wind phenomenon is characteristic of this disease.10 whereas others have a severe and rapidly progressive form that Although there is no specific treatment, an early diagnosis is manifests shortly after birth. The typical clinical manifesta- important to promote lifestyle changes. Even though preven- tions consist in exercise intolerance with early fatigue, muscle tive measures such as avoiding acute physical efforts should be stiffness and contractures, myalgia and sometimes episodes of enforced, recent evidence suggests that careful exercise training ‘dark urine’ (myoglobinuria). The most severe complication with moderate aerobic exercise may help to reduce symptoms is rhabdomyolysis with AKI, eventually leading to chronic of exercise intolerance.10 26 There is not enough evidence kidney disease, although this is a rare occurrence. Patients about the efficacy of dietary changes: although some authors often describe the second wind phenomenon. It occurs when support the advantage of a high protein diet, the majority refer the patient rests or diminishes the intensity of the exercise that a rich carbohydrate diet is preferable.7 18 There is also after the first minutes, being then capable of continuing the some evidence about the benefits of vitamin B supplementa- exercise with symptomatic improvement. This occurs prob- tion.24 Patients should also receive genetic counselling. ably because of the activation of fatty acid metabolism and the release of hepatic stores of energy.8 10 11 Our patient had a late learning points diagnosis, although he had muscular weakness and some
