Rare disease
KEYWORDS: disease, exercise, mcardle, rhabdomyolysis, muscle, mcardle disease, case, severe, history, patients, injury, bmj, intolerance, acute, creatine


activation of fatty acid metabolism and the release of hepatic stores of energy.8 10 11 Our patient had a late learning points diagnosis, although he had muscular weakness and some falls due to exercise intolerance long before the admission in our ► Rhabdomyolysis is a frequent cause of renal impairment, and of McArdle’s disease, such as the complaints of exercise intol- ► When the cause of the rhabdomyolysis is not evident or the erance since childhood, the severe rhabdomyolysis dispropor- severity is disproportionate to the muscle damage, hereditary tionate to the muscle exercise, the high serum level of total CK muscle enzyme defects should be suspected. activity, even at rest and without heavy exercise in the previous ► McArdle’s disease and other metabolic myopathies should be hours or days and the existence of positive family history. suspected in symptomatic young adults or adolescents and Muscle biopsy or molecular genetic testing of PYGM can when there is family history. make the diagnosis. McArdle's disease is genetically heteroge- ► The second wind phenomenon is characteristic of McArdle’s neous, but the majority of patients can be diagnosed without disease. the need of muscle biopsy, by testing the most frequent muta- ► Early diagnosis is important to promote lifestyle changes and tions.7 12–15 The forearm exercise test, during which serum to avoid unnecessary efforts that can result in life-threatening ammonia and lactate levels are measured, is a simple and episodes of rhabdomyolysis. sensitive test that can be used when there is a suspect case of McArdle’s disease.16 Contributors Hp contributed to the article with the conception of the manuscript, A diet high in fat and/or protein has not been found to acquisition, analysis and interpretation of data and drafting the work. aCt lead to significant improvement in patients with McArdle’s contributed to the article with the conception of the manuscript and to the disease. However, a high-carbohydrate diet may replenish acquisition, analysis and interpretation of data. No contributed to the article with hepatic glycogen stores and help in its mobilisation during the conception of the manuscript, with bibliographic research and revising it critically for important intellectual content. ra contributed to the article revising it critically for exercise. Some studies demonstrate an improvement in symp- important intellectual content and to approval of the final version of the manuscript. toms and a decrease of exercise-induced rhabdomyolysis with the consumption of simple carbohydrates (eg, sucrose or fruc-
