Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


handbook to the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis Companion handbook to the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis Companion handbook to the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis ISBN 978 92 4 154880 9 Companion handbook to the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis This book is a companion handbook to existing WHO policy guidance on the management of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, including the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis and the WHO interim policy guidance on the use of bedaquiline in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, which were developed in compliance with the process for evidence gathering, assessment and formulation of recommendations, as outlined in the WHO Handbook for Guideline Development (version March 2010; available at bitstream/10665/75146/1/9789241548441_eng.pdf). WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data Companion handbook to the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis. 1.Antitubercular agents – administration and dosage. 2.Tuberculosis, Multidrug-Resistant – drug therapy. 3.Treatment outcome. 4.Guideline. I.World Health Organization. ISBN 978 92 4 154880 9 (NLM classification: WF 360) © World Health Organization 2014 All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization are available on the WHO website (www.who.int) or can 791 3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; e-mail: ). Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications –whether for sale or for non-commercial distribution– should be addressed to WHO Press through the WHO website (www.who.int/about/licensing/copyright_form/en/index. html). The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted and dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement. The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters. All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for
