Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


(MSF), Timothy Holtz (US CDC), Tauhid Islam (WHO), Ernesto Jaramillo (WHO), Thomas Joseph (WHO), Joel Keravec (Stop TB Lonnröth (WHO), Fuad Mirzayev (WHO), Carole Mitnick (Harvard Medical School- Aires, Argentina), Maria I. Quelapio (independent consultant), Andreas A. Reis (WHO), of California, USA), Archil Salakaia (USAID/SIAPS, MSH), Michael Selgelid (Monash Thomas M. Shinnick (US CDC), Jacques van den Broek (KNCV, the Netherlands), Wayne van Gemert (WHO), Francis Varaine (MSF), Fraser Wares (WHO), Diana Weil (WHO), Karin Weyer (WHO), Diego Zalloco (WHO). Technical research and administrative assistants Caoimhe Smythe (Partners in Health) Anne Peruski (Partners in Health) Tracy Mawer (WHO) Henriikka Weiss (WHO) ix COMPANION HANDBOOK TO THE WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE PROGRAMMATIC MANAGEMENT OF DRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS Denisa Pohancanikova (WHO) External expert reviewers Lixia (China CDC, China). Funders Funding from the United States Agency for International Development through USAID-WHO Consolidated Grants No. GHA-G-00–09–00003/ US-2013–0580 and No. GHA-G-00–09–00003/US-2012–0392 is gratefully acknowledged. The co-authors, and the institutions where they work, contributed their time to the drafting of chapters, follow-up editing, and review of the final document; this support is also gratefully acknowledged. x Foreword Resistance to tuberculosis (TB) drugs is a formidable obstacle to effective TB care and prevention globally. Multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) is multifactorial and fuelled by improper treatment of patients, poor management of supply and quality of drugs, and airborne transmission of bacteria in public places. Case management becomes difficult and the challenge is compounded by catastrophic economic and social costs that patients incur while seeking help and on treatment. In 2006, MDR-TB strains with additional resistance to second-line drugs were described as extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) strains, further compromising treatment options available to patients infected with these strains. Since then, clinicians in some settings have reported patients infected with strains in which virtually all treatment options have been exhausted. This rapidly evolving landscape is a clarion call to policy-makers and practitioners to respond with improvements in care delivery and introduction of innovative tools and universal access to care for drug-resistant TB patients. In that resolution, it was acknowledged that national TB programme managers, clinicians, nurses, all care providers and affected people themselves need guidance on how best to bring together different elements of health systems and services needed to effectively address the MDR-TB challenge. Therefore, this Handbook has been developed for the purpose of describing ways to implement established WHO policies relevant for the management of MDR-TB. These WHO policy recommendations
