Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


the MDR-TB challenge. Therefore, this Handbook has been developed for the purpose of describing ways to implement established WHO policies relevant for the management of MDR-TB. These WHO policy recommendations have been produced using the GRADE methodology for evidence assessment, as adopted by WHO in 2008. While drug-resistant TB is today a major threat worldwide – and in some settings up to one third of new cases are multidrug-resistant at first diagnosis – it is important to remember that most patients are infected by drug-susceptible strains and can be cured with the standard six-month first-line regimen. Therefore, besides focusing on care for drug-resistant TB, the programmatic management of MDR-TB is premised upon keeping the number of cases with drug resistance to a minimum and treating those that have the condition with the best possible means available. We trust that you will find this publication useful. WHO will continue working to keep pace with scientific advances in diagnostics, therapeutics and care delivery options so that it can respond effectively and in a timely manner to the needs of TB patients with drug resistance in all countries. Dr Mario Raviglione Director WHO Global TB Programme COMPANION HANDBOOK TO THE WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE PROGRAMMATIC MANAGEMENT OF DRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS Executive summary This Companion handbook to the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug- resistant tuberculosis is intended to be a tool for use by national tuberculosis (TB) programme partners committed to the prevention, care, diagnosis and treatment of drug-resistant TB. It provides practical information on how to implement the relevant World Health Organization (WHO) policies, and provides expert opinion whenever there is, as yet, no WHO policy. Effective management of drug-resistant TB requires input from those responsible for activities related to prevention, case detection, care and treatment, surveillance, drug management, and monitoring and evaluation of a programme’s performance. The coordination of all these activities at different levels of a national TB programme are referred to as the “programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis” (PMDT), and should be seen in the context of be seen as an implementation guide that requires adaptation in the local context without departing from WHO’s general policy guidance. The introduction of new diagnostic and treatment tools for the management of drug-resistant TB is making a significant contribution to enable earlier diagnosis of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), and more effective treatment in cases were therapeutic options are very limited. management of
