Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


of drug-resistant TB is making a significant contribution to enable earlier diagnosis of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), and more effective treatment in cases were therapeutic options are very limited. management of MDR-TB a highly complex public health intervention. Several important new policy areas in TB care and control have been developed by WHO in recent years. These have been incorporated into this new Handbook, making it a derivative product of the 2008 and 2011 editions of the WHO Guidelines for programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis, and of subsequent WHO policy guidance on diagnostics and new anti-TB drugs. The section on diagnostics, for example, takes into account the revolutionary changes that occurred with the swift scale-up of reliable rapid molecular technologies, particularly the Xpert MTB/RIF assay since early 2011. WHO has developed updated policies given the fast emergence of new evidence on its use and incorporated them in this Handbook. Treatment regimens for MDR-TB consider the WHO guidelines of 2011 (which are based on a systematic review using the GRADE system) and growing experience reported from the field. The Handbook also takes into account the 2013 WHO interim policy recommendations for the use of bedaquiline, the first drug since the introduction of rifampicin in the late 1960s to be released specifically for the treatment of TB. Illustrative examples have been given in some sections to enable the user to weigh the different options, such as for deciding upon the composition of a drug regimen. Specific mention is also made of other innovations added to the comprehensive response to MDR-TB care delivery, such as active surveillance for adverse effects of treatment. More space has been devoted to additional disciplines and innovations required for the comprehensive delivery of MDR-TB care. This includes pharmacovigilance, or the surveillance for the adverse effects of treatment, a discipline that is becoming crucially important as new TB drugs and regimens enter the market and ‘off-label’ use becomes a common practice for the treatment of extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) in view of the limited options. The chapter (and annexes) on monitoring and evaluation have been revised completely with a focus on the indicator approach that national programmes are advised by WHO to adopt in order to assess their efforts to detect and successfully treat patients with rifampicin-resistant TB (RR-TB) or MDR-TB, which are being more easily identified since the introduction of molecular assays. The methods and options to deliver palliative/end-of-life
