Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


detect and successfully treat patients with rifampicin-resistant TB (RR-TB) or MDR-TB, which are being more easily identified since the introduction of molecular assays. The methods and options to deliver palliative/end-of-life care to patients in whom all treatment options are exhausted have been expanded, given that patients can experience relief from issues related to TB treatment and accompanying stigma and discrimination, and should be part of a comprehensive response to MDR-TB. A full chapter is devoted to access to drugs under development for compassionate use, and the ethics of diagnosis, treatment and care, which are increasingly important issues in the management of MDR-TB. Reference is also made to the role that electronic health (eHealth) tools can play to enhance different aspects of care, surveillance and programme management, taking advantage of the increased use of cellular phones and the expansion of Internet networks across the world. Methods and process for developing the Handbook To develop this Handbook, a prospective table of contents with the main topical areas being and national policies on drug-resistant TB was developed by the chief editors, with the input of members of the WHO Green Light Committee. This table was based heavily on the areas already covered in the 2008 emergency update of the WHO guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis, and on emerging new policy areas developed by WHO after 2008. Two leading international clinical and public health practitioners were assigned to draft each chapter of the Handbook, drawing on the best practices reported in the literature and based on their professional experience. The corresponding draft chapters were subsequently reviewed by at least two external experts in the respective field. The final draft of the Handbook was reviewed by five external experts bringing together the perspective of patients, clinicians, researchers, TB programme managers and national TB policy-makers, all well experienced in their respective fields. The chief editors of the Handbook were responsible for the technical editing of the document, taking into account the feedback received from the reviewers and existing WHO policies. The most sensible and relevant expert opinions were presented in those instances where there was no approved WHO policy, albeit without recommending any specific course of action. Declaration of interest forms were obtained from all non-WHO contributors and reviewers of the Handbook. The following potential conflicts of interest were declared: • Charles Daley reported being chair of the data monitoring committee for clinical
