Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


from all non-WHO contributors and reviewers of the Handbook. The following potential conflicts of interest were declared: • Charles Daley reported being chair of the data monitoring committee for clinical trials for delamanid (US$30 000 over five years). • Dalene von Delft declared having received funding to cover flight, hotel and per-diem costs to attend meetings from AERAS, CPTR, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, TAG, and USAID. • Maria I. Quelapio declared having worked until 2010 with the Tropical Disease Foundation, • Salmaan Keshavjee declared that his employer has ongoing research grants from Eli Lilly Foundation (USD$2.5 million) and Janssen Pharmaceuticals (USD$2.5 million); and that he had a consultancy contract (US$3900) with Johnson & Johnson. The WHO Secretariat assessed the interests declared by each contributor to the Handbook. Potential conflict of interest was not identified to preclude Charles Daley, Dalene von Delft and Maria I Quelapio from contributing to the development of the Handbook, given that this document is not presenting new WHO policies. The role of delamanid in the treatment of MDR-TB is not addressed in this version of the Handbook. Salmaan Keshavjee did not contribute to any chapter of this Handbook related with the use of bedaquiline, a new anti-TB drug developed by Janssen, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson. No conflict of interest was considered for the funding reported from the Eli Lilly Foundation by Salmaan Keshavjee, given that Eli Lilly Inc. is currently only producing cycloserine and capreomycin for the United States market (and not for any others). CHAPTER 1 Prevention of drug-resistant tuberculosis 1.1 Introduction 7 1.2 Causes of drug-resistant TB 7 1.2.1. Two pathways leading to drug-resistant TB 7 1.2.2. Cross-cutting factors contributing to the spread of drug-resistant TB 10 1.3 Interventions to prevent drug-resistant TB 11 1.3.1 Early detection and high quality treatment of drug-susceptible TB 11 1.3.2. Early detection and high quality treatment of drug-resistant TB 12 1.3.3. Infection control 12 1.3.4. Health system strengthening and regulation 12 1.3.5. Addressing underlying risk factors and social determinants 13 Figure 1.1 Two pathways leading to drug resistant TB 8 Table 1.1 Factors contributing to poor TB treatment outcomes (2) 9 1.1 Introduction This chapter underscores that countrywide, comprehensive and effective implementation of the WHO-recommended Stop TB strategy (developed from the DOTS framework), is an important approach for preventing drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) (1). Drug-resistant TB requires an understanding of the causes and their effective response. Section two of
