Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


(developed from the DOTS framework), is an important approach for preventing drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) (1). Drug-resistant TB requires an understanding of the causes and their effective response. Section two of this chapter describes the two pathways of development of drug-resistant TB and factors contributing to drug resistance. Section three outlines the main interventions that help prevent the development and spread of drug-resistant TB. 1.2 Causes of drug-resistant TB 1.2.1. Two pathways leading to drug-resistant TB There are two principal pathways leading to the development of active drug-resistant TB: (i) acquired (secondary) drug resistance and (ii) primary drug resistance. These pathways are interconnected and have many contributing factors (Figure 1.1). COMPANION HANDBOOK TO THE WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE PROGRAMMATIC MANAGEMENT OF DRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS Figure 1.1 Two pathways leading to drug resistant TB Acquired drug resistance Primary drug resistance Exposure to Exposure to drug-susceptible drug-resistant TB 1, 2 1, 2 TB Infection with Infection with drug-susceptible drug-resistant TB 2, 3 TB 1, 4 Active 2, 4 drug-susceptible TB Exposure to anti-TB drug/s 4 Active drug-resistant TB 4 Exposure to anti-TB drug/s Factors that can prevent transmission or progression Further drug 1. Infection control and environmental interventions resistance 2. Good host immunity 3. Latent TB treatment 4. High quality diagnosis, treatment, patient support and management of drug-resistant TB Note: Pathways to development of drug-resistant TB. Arrows represent progression along the two pathways. Numbers represent factors that can contribute to the prevention of progression. Acquired drug resistance. Acquired drug resistance is the result of inadequate, incomplete or poor treatment quality that allows the selection of mutant resistant strains. If drug-susceptible TB is treated with a regimen exclusively based on a single effective TB medicine, there is a risk that bacteria with drug-resistant mutations will be selected and multiply further during the course of treatment, eventually becoming the dominant strain. If a person infected with a strain, initially resistant to a specific medicine is treated with that medicine plus a new additional medicine, then there is a risk of developing resistance to the additional medicine. Step-wise additions of drugs may eventually lead to more severe patterns of drug resistance and eventually to untreatable forms of TB. 1. Prevention of drug-resistant tuberculosis Simultaneous natural mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis resulting in resistance to more than one TB medicine are very rare. Therefore, appropriate treatment with a combination of several quality-assured TB medicines dramatically diminishes the risk of
