Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


Mycobacterium tuberculosis resulting in resistance to more than one TB medicine are very rare. Therefore, appropriate treatment with a combination of several quality-assured TB medicines dramatically diminishes the risk of selection of resistant strains. This is the rationale for using a combination of quality-assured medicines when treating TB, while ensuring good adherence. Poor treatment outcomes, including acquired drug-resistant TB, can be caused by inappropriate treatment; inadequate drug quality and supply; and patient factors hampering adherence and treatment responses (Table 1.1). Health system weaknesses and social determinants underpinning these factors are discussed below. TABLE 1.1 Factors contributing to poor TB treatment outcomes (2) HEALTH-CARE PROVIDERS: DRUGS: INADEQUATE PATIENTS: INADEQUATE INAPPROPRIATE TREATMENT SUPPLY/QUALITY DRUG INTAKE OR TREATMENT RESPONSE Inappropriate guidelines Poor quality medicines Lack of information Non-compliance with guidelines Unavailability of certain Lack of means to adhere to Absence of guidelines medicines (stock-outs treatment (transportation, food, or delivery disruptions) etc.) Poor training Poor storage conditions Adverse effects Financial disincentives Wrong dose or Social barriers Poor patient education combination HIV No monitoring of treatment Poor regulation of Diabetes mellitus Poor management of adverse medicines drug reactions Undernutrition Poor treatment support Malabsorption Poorly organized or funded TB Substance abuse/dependency control programmes Psychiatric condition Primary drug resistance. Primary or initial drug resistance means that a person has been infected with a drug-resistant TB strain. Transmission of drug-resistant TB occurs exactly in the same way as transmission of drug susceptible TB. High prevalence of drug-resistant TB in the community increases the risk of drug-resistant TB exposure in the community. Undiagnosed, untreated, or poorly treated drug-resistant TB contributes to sustained high drug-resistant TB prevalence, as well as high proportions of infectious drug-resistant TB cases among the community. Environments conducive for TB transmission (such as crowding, poor ventilation and poor transmission of drug-resistant TB. Infection control measures to prevent infection with drug- resistant TB are discussed in Chapter 14. Similar to drug susceptible TB, drug-resistant TB only progresses to active disease in a minority of those infected, and drug-resistant TB infection can remain latent for long periods of time. A poorly functioning immune system increases the risk of progression, and therefore factors that COMPANION HANDBOOK TO THE WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE PROGRAMMATIC MANAGEMENT OF DRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS can impair the immune system (e.g. HIV, under-nutrition, diabetes, silicosis, smoking, alcohol abuse, a wide range of systemic diseases and treatments with immunosuppressant) are also risk factors for developing drug-resistant TB disease.
