Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


the immune system (e.g. HIV, under-nutrition, diabetes, silicosis, smoking, alcohol abuse, a wide range of systemic diseases and treatments with immunosuppressant) are also risk factors for developing drug-resistant TB disease. Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccination prevents severe forms of TB in children and may have a protective effect against lung disease among children and adults (although estimates of efficacy for pulmonary disease greatly vary). It is unclear if the protective effect of the BCG vaccine has an overall effect on mitigating TB as a problem for the general population. This efficacy of vaccination is the same for drug susceptible and drug-resistant TB (3). 1.2.2. Cross-cutting factors contributing to the spread of drug- resistant TB Health system weaknesses. Poorly functioning general health systems contribute to poor TB diagnosis and treatment outcomes that may lead to the development and spread of drug- resistant TB. Fundamental aspects of a good health-care system include: sufficient health financing and universal health coverage; government stewardship and regulation; a well- developed health-care infrastructure; well-trained and motivated workforce; uninterrupted supply and good management of medicines; diagnostics and other commodities; and a well- but they are particularly pronounced in low- and middle-income countries. TB-specific programmatic solutions can be pursued to some extent by national TB control programmes (NTPs) and partners to improve financing for TB services, TB drug management, delivery of services, and human resource development for TB as discussed in Part 2 of this publication. However, the solutions are likely to be sub-optimal and temporary unless linked to broader health systems strengthening. Underlying risk factors and social determinants. People belonging to poor socioeconomic background and other vulnerable groups are at increased risk of being exposed to poor living/ working conditions and immunocompromising conditions (such as HIV, undernutrition, smoking, and drug and alcohol abuse), and having poor access to diagnosis and treatment. Poor adherence due to social and economic constraints, as well as poverty and socioeconomic inequalities are determinants that cut across all levels of the two pathways to drug-resistant TB (Figure 1.1). Specific social structures (or lack thereof) also contribute to increased risk of drug-resistant TB in a society. Weak or absent social support and protection may contribute to poor access to TB services, as well as poor adherence to TB treatment. Poor policies and practices within services for prisoners, increase the risk of transmission and acquisition of additional resistance. influx of migrants during complex emergency situations may lead
