Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


to TB treatment. Poor policies and practices within services for prisoners, increase the risk of transmission and acquisition of additional resistance. influx of migrants during complex emergency situations may lead to poor access to quality health services and poor living conditions among refugees and other migrants. 1. Prevention of drug-resistant tuberculosis In very poor settings, access to TB drugs may be (or may have been in the recent past) limited. Therefore, drug-resistant TB rates are still low as people have not yet been sufficiently exposed to inappropriate TB treatment. Drug-resistant TB prevalence rates tend to be high in middle- income countries and more usually affect the poor and vulnerable groups within those settings. Resource-limited countries scaling up TB diagnosis and treatment face the risk of an emerging drug-resistant TB epidemic if the risk factors for drug-resistant TB are not addressed. 1.3 Interventions to prevent drug-resistant TB There are five principal ways to prevent drug-resistant TB: 1. Early detection and high quality treatment of drug-susceptible TB. 2. Early detection and high quality treatment of drug-resistant TB. 3. Effective implementation of infection control measures. 4. Strengthening and regulation of health systems. 5. Addressing underlying risk factors and social determinants. For these interventions to be effective, countries would have to adopt and implement the WHO-recommended TB strategy (see Chapter 16). 1.3.1 Early detection and high quality treatment of drug-susceptible TB In all settings, regardless of the drug-resistant TB prevalence rate, the development of drug- resistant TB in patients with drug-susceptible TB should be prevented. This key drug-resistant TB prevention measure can be achieved by ensuring that drug-susceptible TB is properly diagnosed, treated and managed. Ensuring early detection of TB involves the introduction or strengthening of interventions to including in the private sector. Specific interventions include: suitable diagnostic methods to ensure early detection of TB comprising screening of risk groups and inclusion of household contacts of infectious TB patients; placing patients on effective treatment with treatment follow-up; and minimizing barriers to health care access. In every setting, specific challenges for treatment adherence should be assessed and support packages designed accordingly. Moreover, the adverse social and financial consequences for people with TB, arising from the disease itself as well as from its diagnosis and treatment, should be analysed. Appropriate mechanisms should then be put in place to mitigate the consequences. WHO guidelines on TB diagnosis (4–7) and treatment (8,9) provide specific recommendations on best practices.
