Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


should be analysed. Appropriate mechanisms should then be put in place to mitigate the consequences. WHO guidelines on TB diagnosis (4–7) and treatment (8,9) provide specific recommendations on best practices. Additionally, special guidelines are also available on infection control (10). The WHO handbook Implementing the WHO Stop TB Strategy (11) provides guidance on the implementation of all elements of the Stop TB Strategy (12), in conjunction with the international standards of TB care (13). COMPANION HANDBOOK TO THE WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE PROGRAMMATIC MANAGEMENT OF DRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS 1.3.2. Early detection and high quality treatment of drug-resistant TB In settings where treatment of drug-susceptible TB is of sufficient quality, i.e. where the rate of acquired resistance is relatively low, most incident drug-resistant TB cases may still be generated through the transmission of drug-resistant TB from the pool of prevalent drug-resistant TB cases. In such settings, the most important element of drug-resistant TB prevention is to ensure proper diagnosis, as well as treatment and management of drug-resistant TB. Early diagnosis and prompt, effective treatment are among the strongest actions to curb the drug-resistant TB epidemic. The proportion of drug-resistant TB in new cases is typically lower than in retreatment cases. However, the absolute number of new TB cases may be much higher than the number of retreatment cases. Therefore, many countries have a higher absolute number of drug-resistant TB in new cases, rather than in retreatment cases. Presently, in most low- and middle-income countries, drug susceptibility testing (DST) is done only in a fraction of all cases. If done routinely, it is often only done in retreatment cases. This leads to a large number of undetected drug-resistant TB cases, or severely delayed diagnosis of the majority of drug-resistant TB cases. (Strategies for early detection of drug-resistant TB are discussed in Chapter 4, while its effective treatment is discussed in Chapter 5. Investigation of close contacts of people with drug-resistant TB is discussed in Chapter 15.) 1.3.3. Infection control TB infection control is a combination of measures aimed at minimizing the risk of TB transmission within populations. Infection control policies should be well formulated and as correctional facilities, military barracks, homeless shelters, refugee camps, boarding schools and nursing homes, and at the household level. Community campaigns can focus on how to minimize the exposure of TB in general and how households that have a TB patient within them can help prevent transmission. Societal
