Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


level. Community campaigns can focus on how to minimize the exposure of TB in general and how households that have a TB patient within them can help prevent transmission. Societal level infection control involves improved general living and working conditions, thus creating environments that are less conducive to TB transmission. Drug-resistant TB infection control is addressed in Chapter 14 and there are comprehensive recommendations on TB infection control that have been produced by WHO (10). 1.3.4. Health system strengthening and regulation Assessing health system barriers and opportunities is an essential part of planning TB control interventions. Such assessments should identify bottlenecks that could be addressed both through TB-specific programmatic interventions (see Part 2 of this publication) and interventions that need to be pursued beyond the purview of the NTPs. Opportunities for integration of service delivery, sharing of resources and joint actions to improving human programmes should be explored. TB-specific interventions that risk disrupting or distorting overall health system operations and prioritizations should be avoided to the extent possible. 1. Prevention of drug-resistant tuberculosis WHO has provided guidelines for NTPs on how they can contribute to general health systems strengthening (14). A health system element of particular importance for drug-resistant TB prevention is regulation of diagnostics and drugs, which is further discussed in Chapter 22. Quality and availability of both first- and second-line medicines need to be assured, such that regulation of registration, import and manufacturing of TB drugs is addressed. A large proportion of TB drugs are used outside of NTPs and NTP-affiliated facilities, notably in the private sector where prescription practices and treatment management is often of very poor quality. This is an important contributor to drug-resistant TB development in many settings. Some countries have successfully restricted the use of first-line TB medicines to NTP-affiliated facilities, which is an effective method to help keep the drug-resistant TB prevalence low. It is essential to regulate the availability of both first- and second-line TB medicines and restrict use to those facilities where quality of prescription and treatment management can be ensured. In particular, banning over-the-counter sales of TB medicines should be strictly enforced. Private and public providers not linked to the NTP, including those providing drug-resistant TB diagnosis and treatment without following international standards and programmatic management of drug-resistant TB (PMDT) principles, can be engaged through public–private mix approaches, allowing access to free quality-assured TB medicines upon adherence to national guidelines
