Companion
KEYWORDS: drug-resistant, treatment, drug, management, tuberculosis, resistance, handbook, health, mdr-tb, poor, guidelines, management drug-resistant, programmatic, drug-resistant tuberculosis, programmatic management


following international standards and programmatic management of drug-resistant TB (PMDT) principles, can be engaged through public–private mix approaches, allowing access to free quality-assured TB medicines upon adherence to national guidelines (15) (see Chapter 17). Another important regulatory intervention is to make TB a notifiable disease and enforce regulation. This concept is key to both enabling proper surveillance of TB as well as identifying where TB (including drug-resistant TB) is being diagnosed and managed. These monitoring strategies will help ensure that quality and treatment outcomes can be assessed across the whole health system. 1.3.5. Addressing underlying risk factors and social determinants Optimal diagnosis and treatment of known TB cases are essential, however, they are not sufficient to manage or prevent drug-resistant TB. The most critical and immediate social intervention for prevention of drug-resistant TB is to assess social and financial barriers to access and adherence to health-care services and to address them accordingly. While this includes providing all TB diagnostic and treatment services free of charge to the patients, it must also minimize the cost to patients for other related clinical services (such as managing comorbidities, notably HIV infection which may have a negative impact on TB treatment outcomes, see Chapters 7 and 8), as well as minimize the indirect costs of care (for example, those related to transport and loss of income). Indirect costs of TB care are often catastrophic, even when TB diagnosis and treatment is provided free of charge. Access to available social protection schemes, including sickness/disability funds and other cash transfers, should be ensured for people with TB. If such schemes are not fully developed or if people with TB are not eligible, the NTP should advocate for the development/adaptation of social protection schemes. Such interventions are critical for both drug-susceptible and drug-resistant TB patients in order to reduce the risk of poor treatment outcomes leading to acquired/amplified resistance and transmission of drug-resistant TB. They may also contribute to poverty alleviation on a household level, with medium- to long-term preventive effects. (See Chapter 12 for details on adherence and social support interventions). COMPANION HANDBOOK TO THE WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE PROGRAMMATIC MANAGEMENT OF DRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS Addressing risk factors and social determinants of drug-resistant TB when people have already fallen ill and try to seek care is necessary, but not sufficient. For long-term and sustainable TB control – drug-resistant TB control included – the underlying vulnerabilities of TB-affected
