NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, studies, chronic, history, prostatitis-like symptoms, prostatitis-like, visits, participants, pain, prevalence


Author Manuscript Int J Antimicrob Agents. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 February 1. Published in final edited form as: Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2008 February ; 31(Suppl 1): S85–S90. Epidemiology of prostatitis * John N. Krieger , Shaun Wen Huey Lee, Jeonseong Jeon, Phaik Yeong Cheah, Men Long Liong, and Donald E. Riley Abstract Background—Prostatitis describes a combination of infectious diseases (acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis), chronic pelvic pain syndrome, and asymptomatic inflammation. Materials and methods—We employed evidence-based methods to review the epidemiology of prostatitis syndromes. Results—The prevalence of prostatitis symptoms could be compared in five studies surveying 10 617 men. Overall, 873 participants met various criteria for prostatitis, representing an overall rate of 8.2%, with prevalence ranging from 2.2 to 9.7%. A history of sexually transmitted diseases was associated with an increased risk for prostatitis symptoms. Men reporting a history of prostatitis symptoms had a substantially increased rate of benign prostatic hyperplasia, lower urinary tract 4.9 cases per 1000 person-years. Two studies suggest that about one-third of men reporting prostatitis symptoms had resolution after 1 year. Patients with previous episodes and more severe symptoms are at higher risk for chronic pelvic pain. Discussion—The prevalence of prostatitis symptoms is high, comparable to rates of ischamic heart disease and diabetes. Clinical evaluation appears necessary to verify that prostatitis is responsible for patients’ symptoms. Prostatitis symptoms may increase a man’s risk for benign prostate hypertrophy, lower urinary tract symptoms and prostate cancer. We need to define natural history and consequences of prostatitis, develop better algorithms for diagnosis and treatment, and develop strategies for prevention. A resurgence of interest in prostatitis has occurred during the last decade. This has been accompanied by a new level of understanding of the epidemiology, morbidity and economic impact of these conditions. Much progress dates from the recognition that infection and inflammation are important in certain prostatitis syndromes. Despite limited information on the causes of other prostatitis syndromes, these conditions can be defined and important treatment studies have been initiated. This article employs evidence-based methods to review and outlines areas for future research. *Corresponding author: Tel.: 206 764 2265; fax: 206 764 2239. Email address: (J.N. Krieger). Competing interests: None declared. Ethical approval: Not required. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript.
