NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, studies, chronic, history, prostatitis-like symptoms, prostatitis-like, visits, participants, pain, prevalence


This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 1. Introduction 1.1. Current classification of prostatitis syndromes Prostatitis describes a combination of infectious diseases (acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis), a chronic pelvic pain syndrome and asymptomatic inflammation. The National Institutes of Health classification has been accepted internationally and includes four syndromes (Table 1) . Category I, acute bacterial prostatitis, is characterised by an acute bacterial urinary tract infection. Category II, chronic bacterial prostatitis, is a persistent bacterial infection of the prostate leading to recurrent urinary tract infections caused by the same bacterial strain. Category III, chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome, is characterised by chronic pelvic pain symptoms in the absence of urinary tract infection. The symptoms include characteristic urogenital pain, voiding and sexual dysfunction that substantially reduce patients’ quality of life. There are two subtypes. a. Inflammatory chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome is associated with leukocytes in the expressed prostatic fluid, post-prostate massage urine or seminal fluid. b. Non-inflammatory chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome with no evidence of urogenital inflammation. Category IV, asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis, occurs in patients who have no symptoms but who have documented inflammation in prostatic tissue or in their seminal fluid. For example, the most common prostatic inflammation (‘prostatitis’ as diagnosed by pathologists) represents the most common benign condition found in men who have biopsies to evaluate possible prostate cancer. 1.2. Identification of studies for systematic analysis Papers published in peer-reviewed journals were included in this review. Papers in non-peer- reviewed supplements were excluded. An exhaustive list was obtained through the major databases (e.g., Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library and Science Citation Index). Search terms included: prostatitis, pelvic pain, inflammation, epidemiology and survey. We also reviewed tables of contents of the major urology journals and other relevant journals, for the previous 3 months, to take into account possible delay in indexing papers in the databases. These approaches identified more than 4000 references. After reviewing the titles and abstracts, 86 articles
