NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, studies, chronic, history, prostatitis-like symptoms, prostatitis-like, visits, participants, pain, prevalence


previous 3 months, to take into account possible delay in indexing papers in the databases. These approaches identified more than 4000 references. After reviewing the titles and abstracts, 86 articles were identified for detailed review. 1.3. Inclusion criteria for epidemiological studies For inclusion in this analysis, studies were required to meet criteria that have been outlined for epidemiological studies of prostatitis (Table 2) . Three criteria were required: 1. Included studies were population-based rather than case series or referral patients from tertiary care institutions. 2. A clear case and standardised definition was required, ideally a reasonable relationship to patients seen in routine clinical practice. 3. Publication in the peer-reviewed literature was required. In addition to the required criteria, at least one other desirable criterion was necessary for inclusion. 4. It is desirable to incorporate a validated survey instrument such as the National Institutes of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) . To facilitate evaluation of varied populations, the NIH-CPSI has been translated and validated for use in Int J Antimicrob Agents. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript English , Spanish , Japanese , Chinese , Malay , German , Korean , Finnish , Italian , French , and Estonian . However, a population-based study found low suggesting that the index, by itself, may have limited ability to determine the presence or absence of prostatitis . Therefore, use of the NIH-CPSI was considered desirable, but was not required for inclusion. 5. A standardised strategy for surveying the population should be used to assure that participants are likely to represent the overall population. The optimal strategy should incorporate a mechanism to verify that cases identified in the survey actually examination. 6. The population should be large enough to provide reasonable statistical power for the desired comparisons. 2. Results 2.1. Limitations of the available literature Although the studies described below met the inclusion criteria, most had important limitations. Few studies included adequate microbiological evaluation. Most did not include chart reviews or physical examination to assure that subjects did not have the exclusion criteria for chronic prostatitis (listed in Table 1, footnote 2). Most studies relied exclusively on symptom questionnaires, or portions of validated symptom assessment instruments. Such surveys are easy to administer, but they were not designed for diagnosis. Other urological conditions may present with symptoms that overlap the symptoms of prostatitis.
