NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, studies, chronic, history, prostatitis-like symptoms, prostatitis-like, visits, participants, pain, prevalence


validated symptom assessment instruments. Such surveys are easy to administer, but they were not designed for diagnosis. Other urological conditions may present with symptoms that overlap the symptoms of prostatitis. 2.2. Prevalence of prostatitis symptoms We identified ten studies that met the inclusion criteria. Of these ten studies: seven were from North America [14–19], two were from Asia , and one was from Europe . 2.3. Prevalence of prostatitis in studies that permitted comparison of various populations (Table 3) The prevalence of prostatitis symptoms could be compared in five studies that surveyed varied ambulatory populations . These populations included a total of 10 617 men. Overall, 873 participants met various criteria for symptoms of prostatitis, representing an overall rate of 8.2%. In these studies the prevalence of prostatitis symptoms ranged from 2.2% to 9.7% , with a median rate of 8.7%. Roberts and associates determined the occurrence of a physician-assigned diagnosis of prostatitis using a self-administered, validated questionnaire as part of the Olmsted County Study of Urinary Symptoms and Health Status Among Men study . Their population included 2115 randomly selected 40–79-year-old men from Minnesota. Medical records were assigned diagnosis of prostatitis was 9%. Participants with a previous prostatitis diagnosis had a much higher cumulative probability of subsequent prostatitis episodes (20%, 38% and 50% among men 40, 60 and 80 years old, respectively). These findings suggest that the prevalence disease and diabetes. Participants suffering an initial episode of prostatitis were more likely to suffer from further episodes than other participants. In a subsequent study, this group determined the prevalence of prostatitis-like symptoms in a community-based cohort of older men . Their self-administered questionnaires included questions similar to the NIH-CPSI to evaluate a randomly selected sample of 40–79-year-old white men from Olmsted County, Minnesota. Subjects were participants in a longitudinal study of lower urinary tract symptoms. Of 1541 men, 182 (12%) had at least one urogenital pain Int J Antimicrob Agents. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript symptom, including 34 men (2.2%) with prostatitis-like symptoms. Participants reporting prostatitis-like symptoms had higher pain scores (mean 6.7 versus 0.5), urinary symptoms (mean 3.5 versus 2.1) and quality of life impact (mean 3.7 versus 1.9) compared to men who did not report prostatitis-like symptoms (all P <0.001). Pain frequency (odds ratio (OR) 39.2, 95% confidence interval (CI) 18.8–81.9) and intensity (OR 21.5, CI
