NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, studies, chronic, history, prostatitis-like symptoms, prostatitis-like, visits, participants, pain, prevalence


control group reported prostatitis-like symptoms in the follow-up survey. Thus, about one-third had resolution of prostatitis-like symptoms after 1 year (usually those with a shorter duration and less severe symptoms). The severity of symptoms of men with persistent, chronic prostatitis remained relatively unchanged over the year. Turner and associates studied 286 men with physician-diagnosed prostatitis in a large health- maintenance organisation . Telephone interviews were conducted at baseline, 3, 6 and 12- Int J Antimicrob Agents. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript month follow-up. On average, symptoms improved substantially during months 1–3, modestly from months 3–6, then remained unchanged. Better outcomes were noted for men whose initial visit was for a first lifetime episode compared with a recurrent episode. Patients with more severe symptoms were more likely to report symptoms 1 year later (P = 0.0008). They concluded that men who make physician visits for new prostatitis/pelvic pain episodes experience usually improve during the next 6 months. However, chronic, persistent or recurrent symptoms are common. Patients with previous episodes and more severe symptoms are at higher risk for chronic pelvic pain. 4. Discussion The limited number of studies that met our evidence-based criteria were sufficient to support the conclusion that prostatitis is an important worldwide problem that merits additional investigation. The prevalence of prostatitis-like symptoms (defined variously) ranged from 2% to 9.7%, with a mean prevalence of 8.2%. Possible reasons for this almost five-fold variation in prevalence include differences: in study design, selection of populations for investigation, cultural factors, variations in practice patterns, genetic differences or exposure to undefined risk factors. Identification of the reasons underlying such epidemiological variation may identify factors that may be changed to decrease the risk, morbidity and consequences of chronic prostatitis syndromes. Prostatitis-like symptoms result in a substantial number of physician visits. Sixty percent of participants with prostatitis-like symptoms sought medical help . The odds of a prostatitis diagnosis were 13-fold greater during visits to urologists during visits to visits to primary care physicians. Patients with prostatitis received antimicrobials 45% of the time compared to 27% of the time for patients with no genitourinary symptoms . Prostatitis was a diagnosis in 2 000 000 visits annually in the US, including 8% of all visits to urologists and 1% of all primary care physician visits . Men with prostatitis symptoms appear to be at increased
