NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, studies, chronic, history, prostatitis-like symptoms, prostatitis-like, visits, participants, pain, prevalence


visits annually in the US, including 8% of all visits to urologists and 1% of all primary care physician visits . Men with prostatitis symptoms appear to be at increased risk for persistent symptoms and for recurrent episodes. Participants with a previous prostatitis diagnosis had a substantially higher cumulative probability of subsequent episodes of prostatitis . Symptom surveys alone may have limited ability to distinguish patients with prostatitis from patients with other urological disorders . Clinical evaluation appears necessary to verify that prostatitis is indeed responsible for patients’ symptoms . Limited data also suggest that a history of prostatitis symptoms is more common in individuals with both BPH and prostate cancer. Men reporting a history of BPH had an 8-fold greater odds of a history of prostatitis . Other factors associated with a history of prostatitis included lower urinary tract symptoms, a history of sexually transmitted disease and stress. These epidemiological studies provide an important foundation for a research agenda. Future studies should be population-based. The case definition should be clear and should have a reasonable relationship to clinical practice. Medical record review and ideally clinical evaluation should verify that chronic prostatitis is responsible for subjects’ symptoms. It is also important to limit confounding issues, including treatment bias, selection bias and referral bias. These issues can pose particular problems for studies limited to tertiary care patients from referral centres. We need to define natural history and consequences of prostatitis. Most importantly, we need to develop better algorithms for diagnosis and treatment of prostatitis syndromes and to determine strategies for primary prevention. Acknowledgements Funding: No funding sources. Int J Antimicrob Agents. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 February 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript
