Survival of Small Intestine Following Excision,
KEYWORDS: small, intestine, hours, small intestine, perfusion, following, segments, bowel, tissue, experiments, organ, canine, culture, viability, intestinal


Survival of Small Intestine Following Excision, Perfusion and Autotransplantation KATsUICHI IIJIMA, M.D., ROBERT A. SALERNO, M.D. IN A PREVIOUS report from this labora- moist, had tone and peristaltic movements; tory,10 a method was described by which the arteriovenous oxygen saturation differ- segments of canine sigmoid colon were ence was in the 23-25% range; the histo- excised, connected to a model perfusion logical appearance of periodic biopsy system and perfused for periods of 5 hours. showed normal architecture. In these experiments the gross and micro- Following 5 hours of colon perfusion, scopic appearance of the perfused bowel, attempts were made to transplant the its arteriovenous oxygen difference and its bowel segments. In no instance was the ability to produce mucus suggested that procedure technically feasible due to the these bowel segments remained viable extremely small calibre and fragility of throughout the in vitro perfusion. The the inferior mesenteric artery and vein. ultimate test of viability, however, is sur- Small Bowel Segments. In a second vival and function of the excised, perfused series of experiments conducted at room bowel segments following reimplantation temperature the small intestine and its in the donor animal. The present report superior mesenteric artery and vein were summarizes the result of a series of experi- used. Initially the entire small intestine ments in which bowel segments were auto- was excised and perfused. The optimal transplanted as the final test of the per- perfusion flow rate was 120 to 150 cc./ fusion system in maintaining in vitro minute. organ viability. Once again the excised, perfused in- testine grossly and microscopically ap- Results peared viable. Arteriovenous oxygen satura- Large Bowel Segments. In an initial tion, production of enteric juice and peri- series of experiments, the canine sigmoid staltic movements seemed consistent with colon was excised with intact inferior anatomic and functional integrity. mesenteric artery and vein and connected Following perfusion periods of up to 5 to the perfusion system. Using a perfusate hours, autotransplantation was carried out. consisting of heparinized, fresh autologous Reanastomosis was technically easy due to blood and Ringer's solution, perfusion was the relatively large caliber of the superior carried out under normothermic conditions mesenteric artery and vein. for 5 hours. In ten experiments the per- Since the small intestine plays so vital a fused sigmoid segments met many criteria role in digestion, severe physiologic dis- of viability; the bowel appeared pink and turbance were anticipated following auto-
