Survival of Small Intestine Following Excision,
KEYWORDS: small, intestine, hours, small intestine, perfusion, following, segments, bowel, tissue, experiments, organ, canine, culture, viability, intestinal


small intestine plays so vital a fused sigmoid segments met many criteria role in digestion, severe physiologic dis- of viability; the bowel appeared pink and turbance were anticipated following auto- transplantation of the small intestine. Bal- Submitted for publication May 15, 1967. This research was supported by a grant of the linger2 suggests that denervation of the Damon Runyon Fund. small intestine results in a high incidence Volume 166 SURVIVAL OF SMALL INTESTINE FOLLOWING AUTOTRANSPLANTATION 969 Number 6 FIG. 1. Microphotograph of normal small intestinal organ culture (x240). of postoperative diarrhea with malabsorp- thrombosis of the superior mesenteric vein tion and a high death rate. The interruption at the anastomotic site, the clot being of lymphatics and lacteals and any mucosal propagated a short distance, 1.0 to 1.5 cm. damage could also be expected to con- Occasionally there was a thrombus in the tribute considerably to morbidity and superior mesenteric artery. Several deaths mortality. could be attributed to peritonitis and sepsis With these considerations in mind a se- following leakage of the end-to-end small ries of 25 small intestinal experiments were bowel anastomosis. carried out. Seven animals died from tech- Beginning with the twenty-sixth experi- nical failures such as laceration of mesen- ment, anticoagulation of the postoperative teric vessels, incompatibility of homologous animal was carried out, whereas in earlier blood, hypoxia from over medication, or experiments only the perfusate had been poor airway. Eighteen animals recovered anticoagulated. Prothrombin time of the from the perfusion-autotransplantation only dog's blood was determined preoperatively to die 1 to 5 days later. In no instance could and once daily postoperatively. During the death be attributed to small intestinal fail- first 24-hour period heparin was adminis- tire per se. Death was nearly always due to tered, followed by coumadin on the opera- 970 IIJINIA AND SALERNO Annals of Surgery December 1967 FIG. 2. Microphotograph of organ culture of small intestine after four hours perfusion at rooIm1 tenmperatuire ( X240). tive and succeeding days. In the beginning throughout the day of operation. Fluid and poor control of anticoagulation resulted electrolyte balances wvere carefully main- in death from intraperitoneal hemorrhage. tained; the pH of the perfusate kept was Ten experiments were required before a in the 7.2 to 7.3 range. Eventually an im- proper dosage of anticoagulant drug could proved perfusate was developed; in early be established, the margin of error in anti- experiments homologous bank blood di-
