Survival of Small Intestine Following Excision,
KEYWORDS: small, intestine, hours, small intestine, perfusion, following, segments, bowel, tissue, experiments, organ, canine, culture, viability, intestinal


7.3 range. Eventually an im- proper dosage of anticoagulant drug could proved perfusate was developed; in early be established, the margin of error in anti- experiments homologous bank blood di- coagulation of dogs apparently being much luted with Ringer's solution used; later was narrower than in humans. The dosage regi- a four-part perfusate was found to be more men finally evolved for animals weighing effective: 1) fresh heparinized autologous between 18 to 23 Kg. is as follows: 2.5 mg. blood (150 cc.); 2) Tis-u-sol (balanced of coumadin on the day of operation, fol- salt solution, 100 cc.); 3) low molecular lowed by daily maintenance dose of 1.0 to weight dextran 10%l (50 cc.); 4) Dextrose 1.25 mg. 50% (20 cc.). Added to the perfusate is In addition to more refined anticoagula- 250,000 units of aqueous penicillin. With tion, other improvements in method were this new perfusate, edema of the specimen instituted. A greater effort was made, for ' Tis-u-sol supplied by Baxter Laboratories, example, to avoid hypotension in the dog Inc., Mlorton Grove, Illinois, Volume 166 SURNVIVAL OF SMALL INTESTINE FOLLOWING AITTOTRANSPLANTATION 971 Number 6 FIC. 3. MIicrophotograph of organ culture of small intestine kept in N/S and room temperature for four hours (x240). decreased sharply as indicated by speci- due to regeneration of the mucosa and re- men weights before and after perfusion. establishment of absorptive function. With these improvements, seven animals A major technical improvement was survived 2 or more weeks following auto- added in later experiments with the use of transplantation; one animal is alive 3 the Nakayama anastomosis clamp,9 an in- months and one 6 months following per- genious device which allows for quick, fusion-autotransplantation of its small in- faultless small vessel anastomosis utilizing testine. metal clips instead of suture material. With Diarrhea usually began 2 to 3 days fol- this device, shorter segments of intestines lowing operation and continued for several and small caliber vasculature wvere excised weeks, during which time intravenous or and reanastomosed with diminished ad- hypodermoclysis fluid supplement was re- verse effect upon intestinal function. quired. Penicillin and streptomycin were Organ Culture and Radioisotope Stud- given during the first postoperative wveek ies. Organ cultures were performed by to minimize secondary infection. Diarrhea Merchant's method.' A piece of tissue ap- usually stopped after 2 weeks, presumably proximately 1 x 2 mm. was placed into :. ... .: . .: . S_F S m
