Survival of Small Intestine Following Excision,
KEYWORDS: small, intestine, hours, small intestine, perfusion, following, segments, bowel, tissue, experiments, organ, canine, culture, viability, intestinal


loss of the non-viable. normal bowel architecture. This tissue must be considered non-viable. Discussion Figure 4 demonstrates the uptake of Through these experiments a major ob- tritiated thymidine in intact, normal canine jective has been achieved, i.e., establishing small intestine. This radioautograph is a the ability of the excision-perfusion method normal control. to maintain an in vitro environment com- Figure 5 demonstrates the uptake of patible with organ viability and subsequent tritiated thymidine of canine small intes- in vivo function. The ultimate test of this tinal culture after excision-perfusion. This system was survival and good function fol- study shows a slight increase of uptake, lowing autotransplantation. This has now consistent with active, viable tissue. been clearly demonstrated. Figure 6 shows complete absence of Lillehei and his group have added the tritiated thymidine uptake in a canine small hyperbaric chamber to their previous hy- intestinal culture four hours after immer- pothermic method of prolonged organ pres- 974 IIJIMA AND SALERNO Annats of SurgetY December 1967 N_ /.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ N/S and roo tepeature_ FIG. 6. Uptake of Tritiated Thymidine in small intestine kept in for four hours (X1,600). ervation.4-7 Using 7.9 atmospheres of 02 at lism in bowel segments thus reducing cel- C. they have preserved dog kidney, lular damage which usually follows pro- heart and small intestine for periods of up longed hyperbaric-hypothermic storage. to 48 hours. In some experiments they Austen and McLaughlin, recently con- homotransplanted the small intestinal seg- cluded that in vitro non-pulsatile blood ments to the neck of recipient dogs and flow to isolated small intestine results in claim a 90%/ "success." They describe "suc- impaired metabolic function and gross cess" as tissue viability as determined by changes in the bowel and mesentery within gross and microscopic study of the small 6 hours. With pulsatile flow these changes intestine for up to four days. No organ cul- did not occur after perfusion of up to ture studies were done. They have not suc- eighteen hours. cessfully autotransplanted these segments. Their work establishes a histologic viability Summary but does not test physiologic integrity of the reimplanted tissue. The object of this research was to estab- In one study2 the influence of chlor- lish the ability of a specially designed promazine was found to depress metabo- model perfusion system to maintain the Volume 166 SURVIVAL OF SMlALL INTESTINE FOLLOWINC AUTOTRANSPLANTATION 975 Number 6 viability of canine intestinal segments in sion
