Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


ABSTRACT Hyperglycemic emergencies, including diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS), are life-threatening complications requiring urgent treatment. DKA is more common in type 1 diabetes and results from absolute insulin deficiency, leading to hyperglycemia, dehydration, ketonemia and metabolic acidosis. Symptoms include polyuria, polydipsia, nausea, vomiting, and altered mental status. HHS is typically seen in type 2 diabetes and is defined by extreme hyperglycemia, severe dehydration, and hyperosmolarity without significant ketoacidosis. It often presents with confusion and neurological symptoms. Diagnosis of these conditions relies on blood glucose and ketone levels, blood gas, and electrolyte measurements. Fluid resuscitation, insulin therapy, and electrolyte correction are the mainstays of treatment. In HHS, intravenous insulin is used more cautiously to prevent rapid osmolar shifts and cerebral edema. Treatment protocols slightly differ in pregnancy, euglycemic ketoacidosis, and advanced kidney disease. Preventative strategies include education on sick day rules, regular clinic follow-ups in high-risk groups, and adherence to insulin therapy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes mellitus (DM) affects approximately 828 million people and its prevalence is expected to further grow in the coming years ( 1 ). It’s estimated that 193 million people are asymptomatic and remain undiagnosed. Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) are acute life-threatening emergencies resulting from severe metabolic decompensation. DKA more commonly affects individuals with type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and is characterized by insulin deficiency and the triad of hyperglycemia, ketonemia and/or ketonuria, and metabolic acidosis, whereas HHS primary affects people with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and presents with severe hyperglycemia, hyperosmolality, and severe dehydration. Epidemiologic studies conducted in the U.S. and Europe over the past decade have revealed a concerning rise in the rate of hyperglycemic emergencies in adults with both T1DM and T2DM despite the previously noted reduction between 2000 and 2009 ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ). The reported incidence of DKA in adults with T1DM varies across Europe, the U.S., and Israel, ranging from 0 to 56 events per 1,000 person-years. However, a study conducted in China between 2010 and 2012 reported a significantly higher rate of 263 per 1,000 person-years ( 5 ). In developing countries, DKA episodes affect 3.8%-73.4% of the diabetes population ( 6 ). In the US, 240,000 patients had a primary diagnosis of DKA in 2020, corresponding to 10.2 cases per 1000 admissions and
