Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukins-1, -6, and -8, C-reactive protein, reactive oxygen species, and lipid peroxidation biomarkers, even in the absence of apparent infection or an acute cardiovascular event ( 13 ). PRECIPITATING FACTORS Most admissions for DKA/HHS are precipitated by one of the following risk factors ( 9 ) ( 14 ): 1. Infection: The stress of the infection can exacerbate the effects of the insulin deficiency by a rise in counterregulatory hormone levels and cytokines. In T1DM cohorts, infection accounts for up to 79.4% of the cases. Similarly, infection is a trigger factor for HHS in about 40-60% of cases. 2. Inadequate insulin dose or poor adherence to treatment: Lack of insulin due to omission or suboptimal treatment regimens is one of the most common precipitants of DKA and HHS. 3. New diagnosis of diabetes: DKA can be the initial clinical presentation of T1DM. In recent years, more people with undiagnosed T2DM diabetes present with DKA or mixed DKA/HHS; part of these cohorts are eventually diagnosed with ketosis prone diabetes (discussed in the special cases section). 4. Medical or surgical emergencies, such as myocardial infarction, stroke, or trauma, can be complicated by diabetes related emergencies. 5. Medications: Certain medications can impair glucose metabolism, increase gluconeogenesis and insulin resistance. Glucocorticoids can lead to significant hyperglycemia and subsequently DKA or HHS. A rare complication of SGLT-2 inhibitors is euglycemic ketoacidosis that is further discussed below. DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA AND CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Based on the recent global consensus, the following three criteria are used to establish the diagnosis of DKA ( 13 ): 1. Hyperglycemia ≥200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) or a prior history of diabetes irrespective of the presenting glucose reading. 2. Elevated ketone body concentration: venous or capillary β-hydroxybutyrate ≥3.0 mmol/L or in the early stages of DKA urine ketone 2+ or greater. 3. Metabolic acidosis: pH<7.3 and/or bicarbonate concentration <18 mmol/L. It’s worth noting that urine ketone testing, which measures acetoacetate, may underestimate the level of ketonemia due to a lag in the formation of acetoacetate and overestimate it in the advanced stages of DKA due to the increased clearance of β-hydroxybutyrate and conversion to acetoacetate ( 10 ). Moreover, ketone tests based on the nitroprusside reaction can give false-positive results in the presence of drugs containing sulfhydryl groups ( 15 , 16 ). Hence, measurement of venous or capillary β-hydroxybutyrate is recommended
