Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


<18 mmol/L ≥ 15 mmol/L Osmolality Moderately elevated Severely elevated (>320 mOsm/kg) Neurological symptoms Mild to moderate confusion Severe confusion, seizures, coma Other Laboratory Findings Leukocytosis is a common finding in patients with DKA or HHS and might be resulting from acute stress, but a white blood cell count > 25,000/μL may indicate an underlying infection and warrants further investigations ( 18 ). Hypertriglyceridemia is frequently seen in HHS and is nearly always present in DKA ( 19 ). Additionally, elevated amylase and lipase levels can be found in DKA ( 20 ). In DKA, the anion gap, calculated as [Na + ] - ([Cl − ] + [HCO 3 − ]), is typically elevated (>12 mEq/L), reflecting the progression of ketoacidosis. However, other factors such as nausea, vomiting, and renal losses can attenuate this rise by contributing to bicarbonate loss and deranged electrolytes. Moreover, Kussmaul breathing induces respiratory alkalosis, often resulting in a mixed metabolic and respiratory acid-base disturbance. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS DKA must be differentiated from the following conditions: 1. Alcoholic Ketoacidosis: Like DKA, it’s characterized by high anion gap metabolic acidosis but with normal or low glucose levels ( 21 ). 2. Starvation Ketoacidosis: Malnutrition or prolonged fasting can lead to ketosis and mild acidosis; however blood glucose levels are normal or low ( 22 ). 3. Lactic Acidosis: Often seen in sepsis and dehydration, it leads to metabolic acidosis in the absence of ketonemia. It’s sometimes seen in individuals with impaired renal function and diabetes treated with metformin ( 10 ). 4. Toxins: Substances such as methanol and ethylene glycol can lead to high anion gap metabolic acidosis. 5. Renal Failure: Acute or chronic kidney disease is associated with metabolic acidosis and uremia, which can present with symptoms similar to those of DKA as discussed later ( 23 ). Besides distinguishing HHS from DKA, several conditions can mimic or coexist with HHS ( 24 ). 1. Sepsis: Characterized by dehydration and altered mental status, sepsis can also act as a precipitating factor for HHS. 2. Stroke: When focal neurological deficits are present, HHS may be mistaken for stroke. Glucose testing is essential for an accurate diagnosis. 3. Uremia: Acute or chronic kidney disease can cause altered mental status, but in the absence of diabetes, blood glucose levels tend to remain normal. 4. Electrolyte disorders: Hyponatremia or hypernatremia can lead to confusion and neurological symptoms including seizures, lethargy,
