Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


status, but in the absence of diabetes, blood glucose levels tend to remain normal. 4. Electrolyte disorders: Hyponatremia or hypernatremia can lead to confusion and neurological symptoms including seizures, lethargy, and coma. Presence of hyperosmolality and hyperglycemia along with electrolyte disorders can unmask an underlying hyperglycemic crisis. COMPLICATIONS 1. Hypoglycemia: One of the most common complications of treatment especially in patients with DKA ( 25 ). 2. Hypokalemia: Due to intracellular shift of potassium following insulin treatment, hypokalemia is often seen during treatment of hyperglycemic emergencies. It’s estimated to affect about 55% of DKA and 51% of HHS patients ( 25 ). 3. Hyperchloremic Non–Anion Gap Acidosis: This transient and typically self-resolving condition can result from excessive normal saline infusion or the metabolism of ketoanions to bicarbonate during DKA resolution ( 26 ) ( 27 ). 4. Cerebral Edema: This complication is more common in DKA, particularly in younger patients, but has also been reported in HHS. A declining level of consciousness, lethargy, and headache should raise suspicion. If untreated, it can progress to seizures, pupillary abnormalities, bradycardia, and respiratory arrest, with a high risk of mortality and permanent neurological damage. The exact cause remains unclear but may involve osmotic shifts, hypoperfusion, and inflammatory processes ( 10 ) ( 28 ). 5. Hypoxemia and rarely non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema: It may be associated with a decrease in the colloid osmotic pressure leading to pulmonary edema. 6. Thrombosis: Both DKA and HHS are prothrombotic states ( 29 ) ( 30 ). The risk is higher in HHS potentially due to the concurrent hypernatremia or raised vasopressin concentrations, which are considered thrombogenic. Hyperglycemia is also linked to a pro-inflammatory effect on the endothelium. An individual risk assessment for venous thromboembolism (VTE) should be performed for all patients presenting with DKA or HHS to decide if prophylactic or therapeutic dose of anticoagulation should be prescribed ( 31 ) ( 9 ). Given limited clinical trial data, therapeutic anticoagulation dose in all patients presenting with HHS is not recommended. 7. Acute kidney failure: A common complication of DKA and HHS, usually resulting from severe dehydration due to osmotic diuresis. TREATMENT Fluids Administration of intravenous (IV) fluids restores circulating intravascular volume and thus organ perfusion, facilitating the excretion of glucose and ketone bodies. Additionally, it improves insulin sensitivity by reducing the effect of counterregulatory hormones. Isotonic fluids have been the preferred choice for over 50 years.
