Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


the excretion of glucose and ketone bodies. Additionally, it improves insulin sensitivity by reducing the effect of counterregulatory hormones. Isotonic fluids have been the preferred choice for over 50 years. Normal saline 0.9% has been the standard fluid; however, concerns have been raised about its potential to cause hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, particularly when administered in large volumes. Recent prospective and observational studies, as well as meta-analyses, have shown that using balanced crystalloid solutions such as Ringer’s lactate leads to faster resolution of DKA, shorter hospital stays, and lower incidence of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis ( 32 ) ( 33 , 34 ). In DKA, an infusion of 15-20 ml per Kg body weight within the first hour is usually appropriate in adults without renal or cardiac compromise ( 35 ). As a general rule, administration of isotonic saline or crystalloid solutions at a rate of 500–1,000 mL/h during the first 2–4 hours is recommended ( 13 ). Once intravascular volume is repleted, fluid replacement rate and choice of fluid are guided by vital signs, fluid balance, and serum electrolyte levels ( 8 ) .In hypernatremia, isotonic solutions are still the preferred choice due to lower risk of rapid correction of sodium levels and cerebral edema ( 36 ). Fluid replacement should restore estimated deficits within the first 24–48 h. Rapid replacement might not be appropriate in individuals with chronic cardiac failure, chronic kidney disease (CKD), frailty, and older age. If there are concerns about hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, Ringer’s lactate solution can be used instead. When plasma glucose falls below 250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L), 5–10% dextrose in addition to the 0.9% sodium chloride is suggested to prevent hypoglycemia while insulin is used to correct ketonemia. In HHS, the goal of treatment is to replace approximately 50% of the fluid deficit within the first 12 h and the remainder in the following 12 h. Similarly to DKA, initial administration rate of isotonic saline is 500–1,000 mL/h during the first 2–4 h. Fluid replacement alone leads to reduction in glucose levels which in turn decreases serum osmolality due to the water shift into the intracellular space. This results in increasing sodium levels, but this is not necessarily an indication for hypotonic solutions unless the osmolality is not adequately decreasing. If the rise in serum sodium is much greater than 2.4 mmol/L for every 5.5 mmol/L fall in blood glucose, this suggests inadequate fluid replacement
