Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


osmolality is not adequately decreasing. If the rise in serum sodium is much greater than 2.4 mmol/L for every 5.5 mmol/L fall in blood glucose, this suggests inadequate fluid replacement and requires a higher infusion rate ( 37 ). If fluid replacement is adequate but glucose and osmolality are not falling at the desired rate, then 0.45% sodium chloride solution should be considered. Overall, the goals of treatment are a decrease in osmolality between 3 and 8 mOsmol/kg per hour, a sodium reduction by no more than 10 mmol/L in 24 hours, and hourly glucose fall by up to 5mmol/L ( 37 ). Insulin Insulin therapy is the mainstay of DKA treatment and should be started immediately after the diagnosis using a fixed-rate intravenous insulin infusion started at 0.1 units/kg/h. Short-acting insulin is the preferred choice. An insulin bolus (0.1 units/kg/hour) given intravenously or intramuscularly is suggested in some treatment protocols if a delay in obtaining venous access is expected, followed by the fixed rate infusion ( 13 ) ( 38 ). When blood glucose falls below 250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L), the rate should be halved to 0.05 units/kg/h. Subsequently, the infusion continues until the ketoacidosis is resolved and rate adjustments are made depending on the glucose levels with a target glucose of 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) ( 13 ). For patients on long-acting insulin before admission, basal insulin can be continued during the administration of the IV insulin infusion, which will later enable the transition to a subcutaneous basal bolus regimen ( 39 ). In the newly diagnosed patients, basal insulin is initiated at 0.15–0.3 units/kg. Once DKA has resolved and oral intake is adequate, IV insulin can be discontinued, and rapid acting insulin is resumed with meals or initiated in the newly diagnosed. For patients who hadn’t been on simultaneous IV insulin and SC basal insulin during treatment, the infusion should be stopped at least 1-2 hours after the administration of SC insulin. If oral intake is poor, transition to variable rate insulin infusion along with glucose solutions is recommended. Criteria for resolution of DKA include ( 40 ): 1. Blood glucose< 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) 2. Venous pH > 7.3 and / or bicarbonate ≥18 mmol/L 3. Plasma ketone <0.6 mmol/L The anion gap is no longer used as a criterion, as it may also be elevated in hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In HHS, mild or moderate ketonemia
