Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


<7.0). In this case, 100 mmol of sodium bicarbonate (8.4% solution) in 400 mL of an isotonic solution can be administered every 2 h to achieve a pH >7.0 ( 43 ). Potassium Total body potassium is reduced in DKA/HHS due to renal losses resulting from osmotic diuresis, extrarenal losses due to vomiting, and concurrent hyperaldosteronism, however this reduction is often masked by the potassium movement from the intracellular to the extracellular space due to the lack of insulin and presence of acidosis. A further reduction results from treatment with insulin that increases uptake of potassium by cells and fluids that restore the intravascular volume and metabolic balance leading to increased potassium excretion in the urine ( 44 ). Potassium replacement should be started when serum levels are below 5.5 mmol/L with a target range of 4–5 mmol/L. This is usually achieved with 20–30 mmol of potassium in each liter of intravenous solution. Potassium levels below 3.5 mmol/L require a higher rate of 10 mmol/h and insulin therapy should be deferred until the potassium level is above 3.5 mmol/L to reduce risk of lethal arrhythmias and respiratory muscle weakness ( 45 ). Phosphate Hypophosphatemia can result from the osmotic shift into the extracellular fluid and the renal losses due to osmotic diuresis. Replacement is indicated in the presence of muscle weakness or respiratory / cardiac distress and phosphate levels below 1.0 mmol/L. In this case 20–30 mmol of potassium phosphate is added to the replacement fluids. Figure 1. Key points for the management of DKA. Figure 2. Key points for the management of HHS. SPECIAL SITUATIONS Pregnancy DKA is rare in pregnancy and has an estimated incidence of 0.5–3% with up to 30% being euglycemic DKA (glucose less than 13.9 mmol/l) ( 46 ). Fetal demise rates remain as high as 35% for a single episode of DKA despite substantial improvements in perinatal and neonatal care ( 47 ). DKA most commonly presents in the third trimester and in women with T1DM followed by gestational diabetes ( 48 ). Since euglycemic DKA can present in one third of the cases, increased awareness and low threshold for ketone testing is required when women present with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, or recent osmotic symptoms. During pregnancy, insulin resistance progressively increases to ensure adequate fetal nutrition, while insulin secretion rises to meet these higher demands. Additionally, pregnancy is a ketogenic state characterized by
