Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


osmotic symptoms. During pregnancy, insulin resistance progressively increases to ensure adequate fetal nutrition, while insulin secretion rises to meet these higher demands. Additionally, pregnancy is a ketogenic state characterized by increased lipolysis and ketogenesis, driven by relative maternal starvation and hypoglycemia ( 49 ). This explains why DKA can develop in response to triggers such as insulin omission, steroid use, or infection. Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) is rare in pregnancy due to physiological adaptations, including an 8–10 mmol/kg reduction in maternal plasma osmolality and a lower threshold for vasopressin secretion, both of which reduce the risk of hyperosmolality. However, as insulin resistance increases throughout gestation, HHS is more likely to occur in women with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) ( 50 ). Diabetic emergencies in pregnancy should be managed in level 2 critical care units such as HDU or ICU. Differences in the management of DKA in pregnancy include the need for fetal monitoring with frequent cardiotocography (CTGs) and in some cases ultrasounds and potentially a more conservative approach in the fluid resuscitation that should be guided by frequent assessment of the hemodynamic status ( 51 ). Isotonic saline (0.9%) remains the fluid of choice and should be administered in boluses of 500 ml over 10-15 min if the SBP is less than 90 mmHg and repeated if SBP remains below target. Following initial resuscitation, maintenance fluids can be prescribed as per adult guideline for management of DKA with a recommended rate of 5-15 ml/kg/hour. When it comes to insulin administration, current weight should be considered to determine the infusion rate. Once DKA is resolved, stricter glycemic control should be promptly achieved based on current recommended targets (fasting glucose <5.3 mmol/l, 1 hour post meals< 7.8 mmol/l). Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) can lead to fetal cardiac arrhythmias and, in up to one-third of cases, fetal demise ( 52 ). Fetal heart rhythm often normalizes after correction of maternal metabolic acidosis, though this may take 4–8 hours ( 51 ). The decision for urgent delivery should be individualized, taking into account gestational age and response to therapy ( 46 ). As noted, euglycemic DKA (euDKA) is common in pregnancy. This is attributed to increased fetal glucose utilization via enhanced placental glucose transporter expression, increased renal glucose excretion due to higher glomerular filtration, and hemodilution from expanded plasma volume. The treatment of euDKA differs from standard DKA management, requiring early initiation of 5%
