Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


team. Ketosis Prone Diabetes Ketosis prone diabetes is a distinct variant form that has been described in recent decades, in which patients present with DKA without the underlying autoimmunity of T1DM (GAD and anti-islet cell antibody negative). The genetic aspect remains under investigation with contradictory results so far. It most frequently presents in African, Asian and Indian and Hispanic populations. It’s estimated that it accounts for 25% to 50% of African Americans and Hispanics with a new diagnosis of DKA ( 60 ). However, the overall prevalence remains unknown. It’s also more common in middle aged individuals, males, and overweight or obese people ( 61 ). One of the unique aspects of this entity is the reversibility with high chance of insulin cessation and diabetes remission. This usually occurs after several months of insulin therapy and lifestyle interventions with only one fourth of patients remaining insulin dependent ( 62 ). Recurrent DKA is rare, and the clinical course generally resembles that of T2DM with oral agents such as metformin often being an effective treatment. Ketoacidosis stems from the lack of beta cell insulin secretion on the background of severe hyperglycemia. There is often no preceding trigger factor. Patients may report osmotic symptoms prior to DKA presentation. The mechanism for the acute onset of severe hyperglycemia is currently unknown. Once normoglycemia is restored, glucose-stimulated insulin secretion starts to recover and maximizes approximately 12 weeks after the resolution of DKA and initiation of insulin treatment ( 63 ) ( 64 ). Improvement in c-peptide levels suggests temporary functional abnormalities of beta cells as opposed to permanent damage. Insulin sensitivity also remarkably improves following treatment. Biochemical parameters during the acute presentation are consistent with the classic form of DKA. Management of DKA doesn’t differ, however once patients are established on subcutaneous insulin, close monitoring is advised since requirements are expected to decrease in the following months ( 60 ). Hyperglycemic Emergencies In Chronic Kidney Disease DKA IN CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE Chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains a major complication of diabetes, with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) affecting up to 31.3% of cases ( 65 ). Declining kidney function leads to impaired gluconeogenesis and reduced insulin degradation, resulting in lower insulin requirements. However, despite these lower needs, individuals with advanced CKD can still develop DKA and, more rarely, HHS. Water excretion is impaired and osmotic diuresis decreases, which is less pronounced in people with impaired
