Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


lower needs, individuals with advanced CKD can still develop DKA and, more rarely, HHS. Water excretion is impaired and osmotic diuresis decreases, which is less pronounced in people with impaired renal function, and it is absent in those with anuria. On the contrary, polydipsia is still present due to hypertonicity leading to increased water intake, and subsequent expansion of interstitial and intravascular volume. Chronic metabolic acidosis is common in advanced CKD due to decreased acid excretion and high endogenous and exogenous acid loads ( 66 ). Acidosis deteriorates rapidly with the accumulation of ketone bodies. Distinguishing between DKA and acidosis of uremia remains challenging as both share similar symptoms ( 67 ). Ketone measurements are therefore crucial for prompt diagnosis especially in the presence of markedly elevated anion gap (>20). The recommended diagnostic threshold remains a ß-hydroxybutyrate level of more than 3 mmol/L ( 68 ). The diagnostic criteria for DKA do not differ in individuals with CKD. Clinical findings vary significantly depending on the stage of renal impairment. In individuals with adequate diuresis, volume status is often reduced, further exacerbated by extrarenal losses such as vomiting and diarrhea. In those with decreased diuresis or anuria, volume status may be expanded, leading to signs of fluid overload such as shortness of breath, raised jugular venous pressure, peripheral edema, hypertension, and pulmonary edema. In patients on dialysis hyperglycemia can be corrected with hemodialysis, with studies reporting a 36% decrease in blood glucose levels two hours post-dialysis ( 69 ); hemodialysis also helps correct hyperkalemia and acidosis; however, ketogenesis may persist due to insufficient insulin. The timing of the latest dialysis session, the volume of fluid removed, the presence of extra renal or excessive insensible losses affects the above parameters making diagnosis even more challenging. For this reason, some authors suggest measuring capillary ketone and lactate levels in all people with ESRD and metabolic acidosis ( 63 ). The management of DKA depends on the stage of CKD, which directly influences fluid balance and insulin requirements. In ESRD, insulin requirements are lower, so an initial infusion rate of 0.05 units/kg/hour is recommended instead of 1 unit/kg/hour. The insulin dose should be adjusted based on treatment response, aiming for blood glucose reduction of 3–5 mmol/L per hour, plasma ketone reduction of 0.5 mmol/L per hour, and serum bicarbonate increase of 3 mmol/L per hour. The reduction of effective osmolality should not exceed 8
