Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


3–5 mmol/L per hour, plasma ketone reduction of 0.5 mmol/L per hour, and serum bicarbonate increase of 3 mmol/L per hour. The reduction of effective osmolality should not exceed 8 mOsm⁄kg⁄hour to minimize the risk of cerebral osmotic demyelination. If the initial assessment shows normal or increased volume status, intravenous fluids are not required unless there is hypotension or other signs of volume depletion. If fluid overload is present, insulin infusion alone may be sufficient. However, severe overload with pulmonary edema requires dialysis, and renal consultation is recommended. If volume status is unclear, central pressure monitoring can help guide management. If the patient is hypovolemic (GI losses, excessive insensible losses, dry mucous membranes, reduced skin turgor, hypotension, weight at or below their post-dialysis weight), fluid resuscitation with boluses of 250 ml of sodium chloride 0.9% with frequent monitoring of clinical and laboratory parameters is recommended. In individuals on dialysis, pre-dialysis weight should be targeted ( 67 ). Serum electrolytes should be closely monitored with potassium supplementation reserved for patients with hypokalemia. Serum potassium levels are often elevated, and hyperkalemia tends to be more severe in people on dialysis for the same level of hyperglycemia. In either case, it is expected to improve with the administration of intravenous insulin ( 70 ). Continuous cardiac monitoring is recommended when potassium exceeds 5.5 mmol/L. Correction with 40 mmol/L of potassium chloride is recommended when serum potassium is below 3.5 mmol/l ( 71 ). Emergency hemodialysis should be considered in major hyperglycemia, severe metabolic acidosis in anuric patients, significant hypertonicity with often co-existent severe hyponatremia, and persistent hyperkalemia that does not respond to insulin administration. Rapid correction of blood glucose levels and plasma osmolality should be avoided to reduce risk of cerebral edema ( 72 ). Use of bicarbonates is generally limited for severe metabolic acidosis (pH<6.9) ( 34 ). Since bicarbonate regeneration is insufficient in advanced CKD, their use can be considered when pH<7.2. EUGLYCEMIC DKA IN ADVANCED CKD Euglycemic ketosis can present during continuous renal replacement (CRRT) with glucose free solutions and low caloric intake. During CRRT, glucose is removed from the blood (from 30 to 160 g per day depending on glycemia and hemofiltration rate) and glycogen stores are depleted within 2-3 days when glucose free solutions are used ( 73 ). This leads to increased glucagon levels and enhances gluconeogenesis and ketogenesis, resulting in euglycemic ketoacidosis. It can present even
