Hyperglycemic Crises
KEYWORDS: dka, diabetes, insulin, pubmed, ketoacidosis, hhs, mmol, diabetic, diabetic ketoacidosis, patients, glucose, free, acidosis, pmc, pmc free


2-3 days when glucose free solutions are used ( 73 ). This leads to increased glucagon levels and enhances gluconeogenesis and ketogenesis, resulting in euglycemic ketoacidosis. It can present even in the absence of diabetes ( 74 ). A high anion gap metabolic acidosis in people on CRRT should raise suspicion and prompt ketone testing. Ketosis is managed by raising the daily caloric intake (some authors suggest 25 kcal/kg/day) with a supplemental dextrose infusion along with insulin administration. Glucose-containing CRRT solutions should also be considered ( 73 ). HHS IN ADVANCED CKD HHS is rare in people with advanced CKD, due to lack of significant diuresis, but a mixed HHS/DKA picture can be seen considering that glucose accumulates in the extracellular space leading to hypertonicity and significant hyperglycemia. Diagnostic criteria remain the same in advanced CKD, however since urea is often increased, effective osmolality is a more reliable marker for both diagnosis and assessing response to treatment ( 23 ). Mixed DKA/HHS should be managed as DKA. There are no evidence-based recommendations on the management of HHS in people with advanced CKD. Aggressive fluid resuscitation (30 mL/kg crystalloid) is considered safe for dialysis-dependent patients in other settings, such as sepsis-induced hypotension, based on retrospective data ( 75 ) ( 76 ). Since people with HHS are usually significantly dehydrated, a similar initial approach with frequent reassessment of fluid responsiveness and volume status could be considered. PREVENTION Approximately one in five patients admitted for DKA will be readmitted within 30 days ( 77 ). Insulin omission and underlying infections are the most common precipitating factors. As mentioned before, psychological factors, low socioeconomic status, younger age, and substance abuse are often present in people with recurrent episodes of DKA. Identifying patients at risk is crucial to prevent diabetic emergencies; this can be achieved with more frequent clinic visits, structured education programs for example those designed for type 1 diabetes and disordered eating, additional support from the psychiatry service, access to continuous glucose monitoring, and when appropriate, use of hybrid closed loop systems. Funding of community programs targeting people who struggle to access medical care due to socioeconomic reasons should be encouraged especially if we consider the financial implications of diabetic emergencies and complications ( 78 ) ( 79 ). Patient education on sick day rules is important for DKA prevention and should be discussed periodically. Temporary discontinuation of SGLT-2 inhibitors in acute
