Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


ABSTRACT Lipoprotein and lipid physiology in pregnancy has important implications for the developing mother and her fetus/newborn.. Adequate cholesterol and essential fatty acids are needed for normal fetal development. In pregnancy, multiple physiological changes contribute to changes in lipid profiles of healthy, gestating women. Initially, an anabolic phase is characterized by increased lipid synthesis and fat storage in preparation for the increasing fetal energy needs in late pregnancy. In mid to later pregnancy, lipid physiology transitions to a net catabolic phase with increasing maternal insulin resistance. In a normal pregnancy, total cholesterol levels increase by approximately 50%, LDL-C by 30-40%, HDL-C by 25%, and TGs by 2- to 3-fold. Our understanding and appreciation of the full scope and implications of dyslipidemia in pregnancy for both maternal and fetal outcomes is not complete; however, it is well known that dyslipidemia in pregnancy is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes affecting both maternal and fetal health. There are direct implications of dyslipidemia on perinatal outcomes as well as intricate relationships between dyslipidemia and other comorbid intrauterine conditions. There is also developing research indicating that the in-utero environment influences susceptibility to chronic diseases later in life, a concept known as “developmental programming.” It is prudent to screen women for lipid disorders. The ideal time is before conception; if a woman has not been screened before pregnancy, the initial obstetrical visit is an alternative time to screen. Keep in mind there is a dip in circulating lipids in the first trimester however patients are often seen the first time by their pregnancy provider later than in the first trimester. Abnormal lipids should be followed through pregnancy. The treatment of dyslipidemia in pregnancy is multifactorial, including diet, exercise, and weight management. Medical management is complicated by FDA classifications for medication risks to the fetus; however, some evidence indicates there may be permissible pharmacological treatments for dyslipidemia in pregnancy. In certain instances, plasmapheresis or lipoprotein apheresis is employed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Lipoprotein physiology before and during pregnancy has important implications for the mother, the developing fetus, the newborn, and their future health. Cholesterol is important for normal fetal development. It is provided to the fetus via both endogenous and exogenous mechanisms. As our understanding of normal and abnormal lipid metabolism in pregnancy improves, it is clear that abnormal lipid metabolism reflected as
