Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


to the fetus via both endogenous and exogenous mechanisms. As our understanding of normal and abnormal lipid metabolism in pregnancy improves, it is clear that abnormal lipid metabolism reflected as dyslipidemia is associated with adverse perinatal outcomes. Dyslipidemia has profound associations with other pathologies in pregnancy, most notably hypertensive disorders and gestational diabetes. Evidence is increasing as to the deleterious impact of hyperlipidemia in pregnancy on fetal epigenetic programming and subsequent risk of atherogenesis for the mother baby unit. CHOLESTEROL AND OTHER LIPIDS IN FETAL DEVELOPMENT Cholesterol plays a key role in the formation of cell membranes. It is essential for the formation of cell membranes, maintaining membrane integrity, and preserving cholesterol-rich domains essential for most membrane-associated signaling cascades, including sonic hedgehog signaling ( 1 ). It is also the precursor for many important hormones, such as steroids, vitamin D, and bile acids. There are multiple sources of fetal cholesterol. A significant portion is produced de novo by the fetus. Defects affecting cholesterol biosynthesis are associated with many, sometimes lethal, birth defects ( 2 , 3 ). Both endogenous and exogenous sources are important to fetal cholesterol homeostasis, as illustrated by a number of lines of evidence. Cholesterol in the maternal circulation, which similarly has endogenous and exogenous sources, contributes significantly to the fetal cholesterol pool in animals and in humans ( 4 , 5 ). Interestingly, Vuorio and colleagues noted that concentrations of plant stanols in the cord blood of healthy newborns were 40% to 50% lower than the maternal levels ( 6 ). Because the plant stanols evaluated can only be derived from the maternal diet, placental transfer is illustrated. Fetuses with null-null mutations of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome), a disorder characterized by an inability to synthesize endogenous cholesterol at normal rates, have measurable amounts of cholesterol in their bodies. This also illustrates maternal derivation ( 7 , 8 ). The umbilical vein, which carries blood to the fetus, has higher levels of LDL-C than the umbilical artery ( 9 ). For exogenous cholesterol to be available for fetal use, it must be transported across the tissues separating the mother and fetus. Early in pregnancy, the yolk sac is the site of the transport system between the two ( 10 ). Approaching 8 weeks of gestation, the placenta becomes fully functional and takes over as the nutrient transporter ( 10 ). The transfer of lipids across the placenta
