Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


( 10 ). Approaching 8 weeks of gestation, the placenta becomes fully functional and takes over as the nutrient transporter ( 10 ). The transfer of lipids across the placenta and yolk sac under normal and abnormal circumstances is complex and is still incompletely understood. Cholesterol is taken up on trophoblasts’ apical or maternal side via receptor-mediated and receptor-independent transport processes. Apolipoprotein lipids are then transported across cellular barriers and delivered into the fetal circulation on the basolateral, or fetal, side of trophoblasts ( 4 , 10 , 11 ). Cultured trophoblast cells express low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors (LDLRs), and LDL-cholesterol taken up by endothelial cells is well understood. How placental endothelial cells transport and deliver substantial amounts of cholesterol to the fetal microcirculation and regulate the efflux of cholesterol is being studied. As opposed to adults, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) is the main cholesterol-carrying lipoprotein in fetal circulation. It differs from adult HDL by its higher proportion of apolipoprotein (Apo) E ( 12 ), but lower proportion of Apo A1 ( 13 ). The major HDL receptor, scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI), contributes to local cholesterol homeostasis. Arterial endothelial cells (ECA) from the human placenta are enriched with cholesterol compared to venous endothelial cells (ECV). Moreover, umbilical venous and arterial plasma cholesterol levels differ markedly. There is elevated SR-BI expression and protein abundance in endothelial cell arteries compared to veins in situ and in vitro. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that SR-BI is mainly expressed on the apical side of placental endothelial cells in situ, allowing interaction with mature HDL circulating in the fetal blood ( 14 ). This was functionally linked to a higher increase of selective cholesterol ester uptake from fetal HDL in endothelial arteries than in endothelial veins and resulted in increased cholesterol availability in ECA. SR-BI expression on endothelial veins tended to decrease with shear stress, which, together with heterogeneous immunostaining, suggests that SR-BI expression is locally regulated in the placental vasculature ( 15 ). Changes in maternal vasculature enable an increased uterine blood flow, placental nutrient, and oxygen exchange, and subsequent fetal development. Potassium (K+) channels seem to be important modulators of vascular function, promoting vasodilation, inducing cell proliferation, and regulating cell signaling ( 16 ). Different types of K(+) channels, such as Ca(2+)-activated, ATP-sensitive, and voltage-gated, have been implicated in the adaptation of maternal vasculature during pregnancy. Conversely, K(+) channel dysfunction has been associated with
