Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


Different types of K(+) channels, such as Ca(2+)-activated, ATP-sensitive, and voltage-gated, have been implicated in the adaptation of maternal vasculature during pregnancy. Conversely, K(+) channel dysfunction has been associated with vascular-related complications of pregnancy, including intrauterine growth restriction and pre-eclampsia. It is thought that vascular ischemia may lead to inflammation, which is important in pregnancy complications. Abnormalities in these pregnancy-associated vascular dilation and remodeling processes are associated with the pregnancy complications of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and pre-eclampsia, in which, the normal vasodilatory effects of acetylcholine (ACh), bradykinin, nitric oxide (NO), endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF), and thromboxane-mediated responses are impaired ( 16 ). Placental lipid metabolism may influence pregnancy outcomes, fetal growth, development, and life-long health ( 17 ). The placenta converts circulating maternal lipids to free fatty acids (FFAs) for uptake and processing by trophoblast cells, for metabolic demands, to produce hormones for pregnancy maintenance, and to transfer them to the developing fetus. Robust lipid uptake and metabolism early in gestation are vital to meeting the high energetic demands needed to simultaneously grow the placenta and develop embryonic organ systems. Late in gestation the human fetus requires lipids for neurodevelopment and growth, so as pregnancy progresses, metabolic adaptations in the mother and placenta uniquely support increasing lipid transport and biomagnification of essential long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids in the last trimester ( 18 ). These fatty acids serve as local mediators of metabolism, inflammation, immune function, platelet aggregation, signal transduction, neurotransmission, and neurogenesis for the developing fetal brain and retina ( 19 ). Because these essential long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids cannot be synthesized de novo , the fetus relies on increasing placental transport, especially during the last trimester when the peak in utero accretion can surpass maternal intake to support rapid fetal brain growth. Placental lipid uptake and metabolism is a critical, highly regulated, and surprisingly dynamic process as gestation proceeds. Lipids are crucial structural and bioactive components that sustain embryo, fetal, and placental development, and growth. Intrauterine development can be disturbed by several diseases that impair maternal lipid homeostasis and lead to abnormal lipid concentrations in fetal circulation. Deficiency in essential fatty acids can lead to congenital malformations and visual and cognitive problems in the newborn. Either deficient mother-to-fetus lipid transfer or abnormal maternal-fetal lipid metabolism can cause fetal growth restriction. On the other hand, excessive mother-to-fetus fatty acid transfer can induce fetal overgrowth and lipid overaccumulation in different
