Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


lipid transfer or abnormal maternal-fetal lipid metabolism can cause fetal growth restriction. On the other hand, excessive mother-to-fetus fatty acid transfer can induce fetal overgrowth and lipid overaccumulation in different fetal organs and tissues. The placenta plays a fundamental role in the transfer of lipid moieties to the fetal compartment and is affected by maternal diseases associated with impaired lipid homeostasis. Studies investigating the relationship between gestational dyslipidemia and small for gestational age (SGA) have reported differing results. A recent meta-analysis found that gestations complicated with lower concentrations of TC, TG, and LDL-C, were at significantly higher risk of delivery of SGA ( 20 ). Postnatal consequences may be evident in the neonatal period or later in life. Indeed, both defects and excess of different lipid species can lead to the intrauterine programming of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases in the offspring ( 21 ) NORMAL LIPID CHANGES IN A PREGNANT MOTHER Figure 1 shows the average values of total cholesterol, TGs, LDL-C, and HDL-C measured in normal women from pre-conception through several months postpartum and table 1 shows the percent change in these lipids in the 3 rd trimester ( 22 , 23 ). These values were from measurements in a cohort of women proceeding through a normal pregnancy and delivery. In the first trimester, there was a small decrease in total cholesterol, TG, and LDL-C levels during the first 6 weeks of pregnancy. Total cholesterol, TGs, LDL-C, and HDL-C begin to increase around the end of the 1 st trimester and reach a peak level at delivery. Levels of lipoprotein particles and lipids, particularly in the later part of pregnancy, are in the atherogenic range when compared to non-pregnant levels in women of comparable ages without medical conditions. Plasma cholesterol levels are approximately 50% higher than pre-pregnancy levels while TG levels are increased 2-3 times. In normal pregnancies neither total cholesterol nor TG levels should exceed 250 mg/dL at any time during pregnancy ( 23 , 24 ). After delivery the lipid levels return towards pre-pregnancy levels. Other large studies and a meta-analysis of lipid changes during pregnancy have described similar results ( 22 , 24 - 27 ). The increases in circulating lipid levels provide substrates to support the growth and development of the fetus. However, as discussed below, excessive increased lipid levels are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes and likely are associated with residual vascular damage after
