Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


the growth and development of the fetus. However, as discussed below, excessive increased lipid levels are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes and likely are associated with residual vascular damage after some key obstetrical adverse events which may put the mother at risk for later cardiovascular disease. Figure 1. Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels During Normal Pregnancy (Adapted from Wiznitzer A, Mayer A, Novack V, et al. Association of lipid levels during gestation with preeclampsia and gestational diabetes mellitus: a population-based study. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2009; 201( 5 ):482.e1–8;) ( 23 ). Table 1. Increase in Lipid, Lipoprotein, and Apolipoprotein Levels (from ( 22 )) View in own window TGs 2.7-fold increase Total Cholesterol 43% increase LDL Cholesterol 36% increase HDL Cholesterol 25% increase Lipoprotein (a) 190%* Apolipoprotein B 56% increase Apolipoprotein AI 32% increase All increases are from 3 rd trimester except the increase in HDL cholesterol * from reference ( 28 ). Levels of apolipoprotein lipids are also influenced by body weight as pregnancy progresses ( figure 2 ) ( 29 ). Figure 2. Lipoprotein lipids and PCSK9 levels in women with no complications: by trimester of pregnancy for normal (red, < 25 kg/m2), overweight (blue, 25-30 kg/m2), and obese (green, > 30 kg/m2) BMI categories. This is from Journal of Clinical Lipidiology Volume 16, issue 4 August 2022 pp 483-90 ( 29 ). Circulating levels prior to pregnancy may differ depending upon genetics, the presence of other disorders, medication use, and the nutritional environment but will still increase during pregnancy. For example, baseline lipoprotein concentrations are lower in Gambian women but increase throughout pregnancy ( 30 ). Early in pregnancy the TG levels were 31mg/dL and total cholesterol 129mg/dl with both increasing by week 30 (TG 53mg/dL and total cholesterol 180mg/dL). Conversely pregnant women with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) will have high LDL-C levels prior to pregnancy but these levels will nevertheless increase similar to what is observed in women with normal baseline LDL-C levels ( 31 ). Similarly, in women with the familial chylomicronemia syndrome, pregnancy can result in further increases in their already markedly elevated TG levels ( 32 ). As one would expect given the increase in TGs, LDL-C, and HDL-C, apolipoprotein B, and A-I levels also increase during pregnancy ( table 1 ). Small dense LDL levels increase during pregnancy, particularly in individuals who have a large increase in TG levels ( 29 ,
