Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


levels also increase during pregnancy ( table 1 ). Small dense LDL levels increase during pregnancy, particularly in individuals who have a large increase in TG levels ( 29 , 33 , 34 ). The number of non-HDL particles are also increased ( 29 ). Total and active pcsk9 levels increase as pregnancies progress, which could decrease the clearance of LDL particles ( 29 ). During pregnancy LDL and HDL are enriched in TGs ( 35 ). There is an increase in large HDL late in gestation and a decrease in medium HDL ( 36 ). In normal pregnant women, the atherogenic index, LDL/HDL, remains essentially unchanged during pregnancy. This suggests that while the total lipoprotein levels increase, the cholesterol-containing lipoprotein fractions are evenly distributed ( 37 ). Physiological hyperlipidemia/hypertriglyceridemia is distinguished from pathological dyslipidemias by a paralleled increase in HDL-C in normal women as they progress through pregnancy. In cross-sectional studies Lp(a) levels are usually not elevated in pregnancy ( 38 , 39 ). However, in some studies that measured Lp(a) serially throughout pregnancy an increase in Lp(a) levels was observed near term ( table 1 ) ( 28 , 29 , 40 , 41 ). One study found that the increase in Lp(a) was greatest in women who were obese or overweight prior to pregnancy ( 29 ). The failure of cross-sectional studies to find a difference in Lp(a) levels is likely due to the wide variation in Lp(a) levels between individuals ( 42 ). Lp(a) values in individuals range from 1mg/dL to over 200mg/dL and are largely determined by genetic factors. There is evidence that higher Lp(a) levels in pregnant women is associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia ( 43 - 45 ). MECHANISMS ACCOUNTING FOR THE CHANGES IN LIPIDS DURING PREGNANCY Multiple physiological changes occur during pregnancy ( 46 , 47 ). Hormonal and metabolic changes that occur in the mother contribute to changes in the lipid physiology in healthy, gestating women. It is clinically useful to think of the two phases of lipid metabolism in normal pregnancy. The first half as primarily “anabolic”. There is an increase in lipid synthesis and fat storage in preparation for the exponential increases in fetal energy needs in late pregnancy. This increase in lipid synthesis between 10 and 30 weeks of pregnancy is promoted by maternal hyperphagia in early pregnancy as well as an increase in insulin sensitivity.
