Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


late pregnancy. This increase in lipid synthesis between 10 and 30 weeks of pregnancy is promoted by maternal hyperphagia in early pregnancy as well as an increase in insulin sensitivity. The increase in insulin sensitivity stimulates fatty acid synthesis in adipocytes and stimulates the expression of lipoprotein lipase, which results in increased uptake of fatty acids from circulating TG-rich lipoproteins into adipocytes. Additionally, the increased production of progesterone, cortisol, leptin, and prolactin contributes to increased fat storage ( 23 , 46 - 48 ). There is also significant hypertrophy of the adipocytes to accommodate increased fat storage ( 46 - 48 ). Lipid metabolism in the third trimester is a “‘net catabolic phase” and is associated with a decrease in insulin sensitivity (i.e., insulin resistance) ( 46 , 47 ). This decrease in insulin sensitivity is associated with enhanced lipolysis of stored TGs in adipocytes. The third-trimester elevation of human placental lactogen (HPL) also stimulates lipolysis in adipocytes. In addition, insulin resistance results in a decrease in lipoprotein lipase in adipocytes leading to a decrease in the uptake of fatty acids from plasma TG-rich lipoproteins. These changes result in a reduction in fat stored in adipocytes. The hypertriglyceridemia during pregnancy is due to increased production and the decreased clearance of TG-rich lipoproteins ( 46 ). The increased production of TG-rich lipoproteins by the liver occurs with increased lipolysis of TGs in adipocytes, which increases free fatty acids transported to the liver. These free fatty acids are then synthesized into TGs and packaged into VLDL and secreted by the liver. The high estrogen levels in the third trimester stimulate liver lipogenesis and VLDL production. Insulin resistance may also play a role in the increase in fatty acid synthesis in the liver as insulin induced inhibition of glucose production can be resistant to insulin while lipogenesis is not. The increase in insulin levels that occur can stimulate hepatic fatty acid synthesis is shown in a mouse model ( 49 ). The decrease in clearance of TG-rich lipoproteins is due to a decrease in lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase ( 35 ). The decrease in hepatic lipase is due to elevated estrogen levels ( 50 ). The decrease in lipoprotein lipase is believed to be due to a combination of factors including insulin resistance and elevated estrogen levels. The TG enrichment of LDL and HDL is due to an increase in CETP activity
