Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


to be due to a combination of factors including insulin resistance and elevated estrogen levels. The TG enrichment of LDL and HDL is due to an increase in CETP activity ( 35 ) resulting in the transfer of TG from VLDL to LDL and HDL and a decrease in hepatic lipase, which decreases the removal of TGs from these lipoprotein particles. At term, LPL activity increases in the mammary glands, which will enhance the uptake of fatty acids to increase the formation of TGs for lactation ( 48 ). The increase in plasma cholesterol levels is likely due to increased hepatic cholesterol synthesis ( 51 , 52 ). The increase in PCSK9 during pregnancy suggests an additional mechanism. The PCSK9 could result in a decrease in hepatic LDL receptors leading to increased LDL-C levels ( 29 , 53 ). The increase in small dense LDL particles during pregnancy is likely secondary to the elevations in circulating TG levels that results in the exchange of TG from VLDL for cholesterol carried in LDL, a process mediated by cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) ( 54 ). The TG transferred to LDL is metabolized by lipoprotein lipase and/or hepatic lipase resulting in small dense LDL and LDL that is enriched in TG ( 54 ). A similar exchange of TG in VLDL for cholesterol in HDL occurs leading to HDL enriched in TG. Table 2. Role of Hormones in Inducing Hyperlipidemia in the Third Trimester View in own window Estrogen increase Inhibits Hepatic Lipase Stimulates VLDL production Stimulates lipogenesis in the liver Human Placental Lactogen increase Induces insulin resistance Increases lipolysis Insulin Resistance Decreases LPL activity Increases lipolysis Increase CETP Stimulates lipogenesis in the liver IMPLICATIONS FOR THE FETUS AND MOTHER Our understanding of the full scope and implications of dyslipidemia in pregnancy on both maternal and fetal outcomes is not complete. Maternal dyslipidemia, particularly, high TG and low HDL-C levels, is associated with several adverse perinatal outcomes. To demonstrate that lipid abnormalities are causative, intervention studies to lower lipid levels demonstrating a reduction in adverse perinatal outcomes are needed. This is difficult because the study of pregnant women is protected, underfunded, and understudied, in part because of medical legal concerns and the first rule of do no harm. Dyslipidemia, while asymptomatic, is an integral factor in the metabolic syndrome (MetS). Having the MetS has clear implications for maternal vascular health, and this
