Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


first rule of do no harm. Dyslipidemia, while asymptomatic, is an integral factor in the metabolic syndrome (MetS). Having the MetS has clear implications for maternal vascular health, and this portends a multitude of other health concerns for mom and her fetus. Gestational Diabetes Pregnancy is an insulin resistance state and gestational diabetes (GDM) is thought to be unmasked due to the stress test of insulin resistance of pregnancy. Risks to the fetus from GDM include brachial plexus injuries, hypoglycemia, respiratory distress, hyperbilirubinemia, and cardiomyopathy. Women with GDM are at increased risk of pre-eclampsia and after pregnancy, a very high risk of developing overt diabetes. A meta-analysis of thirteen cohorts and three nested case‐control studies found that high TGs early in pregnancy were associated with an increased risk of the development of GDM ( 55 ). Similarly, increasing TGs during pregnancy was also associated with an increased risk of developing GDM ( 55 ). An HDL‐C of <51mg/dL was associated with higher odds of GDM ( 55 ). Another meta-analysis similarly found a link between GDM and high TG levels and low HDL-C levels ( 56 ). Remnant cholesterol levels are also positively associated with an increased risk of GDM ( 57 ). Total cholesterol levels and LDL-C levels during pregnancy were not associated with an increased risk of GDM ( 56 ). In women with a history of GDM, TG, total cholesterol, and LDL-C levels are increased and HDL-C levels are decreased post pregnancy signaling the need to closely follow lipid levels in women with a history of GDM ( 58 ). Additionally, women with GDM have an increased risk of developing cardiovascular events later in life even in the absence of developing diabetes ( 59 ) Several high-risk groups may have derangements in lipid levels that put them at risk before pregnancy. In the PPCOS II study, conducted by the Reproductive Medicine Network, having the metabolic syndrome before ovulation induction for fertility enhancement was associated with a lower rate of live birth success, independent of obesity, and it was also a risk factor for pregnancy complications, in particular gestational diabetes and macrosomia ( 60 ). Efforts to reduce weight before fertility treatments have been challenging. In an obese population with unexplained infertility, although weight loss was not associated with an improvement in healthy live birth success, it was associated with a reduction in the risk of preeclampsia (
