Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


population with unexplained infertility, although weight loss was not associated with an improvement in healthy live birth success, it was associated with a reduction in the risk of preeclampsia ( 61 ) High Birth Weight A review of 46 publications with 31,402 pregnancies reported that maternal high TGs and low HDL-C levels during pregnancy were associated with increased birthweight, a higher risk of large-for-gestational-age, macrosomia, and a lower risk of small-for-gestational-age ( 62 ). Another meta-analysis also found a link between high TGs and low HDL-C levels and large birthweight ( 63 ). Elevations in TG levels in the first trimester are associated with increased birth weight ( 64 ). The concentration of TGs in the third trimester is a stronger predictor of birth weight than glucose parameters ( 65 - 67 ). Additionally, in women with a normal glucose tolerance test during pregnancy TG levels are still predictive of birthweight ( 68 ). Elevated levels of maternal TGs predict macrosomia independently of other maternal factors, such as BMI and glucose levels ( 65 - 67 ). In contrast, total cholesterol and LDL-C levels were not predictive of large birthweight ( 63 ). Some studies suggest that high levels of maternal HDL-C are significantly associated with a decreased risk for macrosomia, perhaps indicating that HDL might have protective qualities ( 69 , 70 ). Pre-Eclampsia Pre-eclampsia is a rapidly progressive condition that affects 5-8% of pregnancies and is characterized by hypertension and proteinuria. Risks to the fetus with preeclampsia include poor fetal growth and sometimes devastating consequences of preterm birth, whether spontaneous or induced. These can manifest as cerebral palsy, epilepsy, small size, and even death. Pre-pregnancy TG, total cholesterol, LDL-C and, non-HDL-C levels are positively associated with an increased risk of pre-eclampsia ( 71 ). In another study pre-pregnancy high total cholesterol/HDL-C ratio and an elevated TG level were associated with an increased risk of pre-eclampsia ( 72 ). In a meta-analysis of 74 studies, pre-eclampsia was associated with elevated total cholesterol, non-HDL-C, and TG levels, regardless of gestational age at the time of blood sampling, and with lower levels of HDL-C in the third trimester ( 73 ). Other meta-analyses have confirmed the linkage of elevated TG levels and decreased HDL-C levels with pre-eclampsia ( 74 - 76 ). LDL-C levels were not associated with pre-eclampsia in some meta-analyses ( 73 , 77 ) but in other meta-analyses,
