Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


nested case-control studies and eight cohort studies of 13,025 pregnant women, women with elevated lipid levels were at increased risk of preterm birth (OR 1.68; 95% CI 1.25-2.26) ( 88 ). The increased risk was seen for elevated levels of total cholesterol (OR 1.71), TGs (OR 1.55), LDL-C (OR 1.19 not significant), and lower levels of HDL (OR 1.33). A study by Vrijkotte et al that was not included in the meta-analysis also found that elevated TGs but not elevated total cholesterol were associated with an increased risk of preterm birth ( 64 ). Women with Familial Hypercholesterolemia In women with FH, the percent increase in LDL-C levels during pregnancy is similar to that observed in women with a normal lipid profile before pregnancy even though the baseline LDL-C levels are much higher in women with FH resulting in a greater absolute increase ( 31 ). Despite the markedly higher LDL-C levels in women with FH, the incidence of prematurity, low birth weight, and congenital malformations was not increased, however, maternal hypertension incidence was higher than for women without dyslipidemia before pregnancy who became pregnant ( 31 , 89 ). In a retrospective review of women with homozygous FH of which 18/39 were exposed to statins with or without ezetimibe,1 was treated with a statin, ezetimibe, and a PCSK9 inhibitor, and 5 patients were exposed to cholestyramine, and only 14 patients were not exposed to lipid-lowering therapy, complications associated with pregnancy included 3 premature infants, one preeclampsia related, the other two because of chorioamnionitis and maternal cardiac disease ( 90 ). One Intrauterine death was because of intrauterine infection. For additional information on FH see the Endotext chapter entitled “Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond” ( 91 ). Women with the Familial and Multifactorial Chylomicronemia Syndrome Women with familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) may have marked elevations in TG levels during pregnancy leading to pancreatitis ( 92 ). A recent report of 20 women with FCS with 51 pregnancies noted that 42% of the women had at least one episode of pancreatitis ( 92 ). 17% of the pregnancies in women with FCS were complicated by pancreatitis. In contrast, in 29 women with Multifactorial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (MCS) with 65 pregnancies only 10% of the women had an episode of pancreatitis (5% of pregnancies) ( 92 ). Of interest pancreatitis occurred at a much younger age in the women with FCS (FCS age
