Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


of the women had an episode of pancreatitis (5% of pregnancies) ( 92 ). Of interest pancreatitis occurred at a much younger age in the women with FCS (FCS age 24 vs. MCS age 42) and occurred during the first pregnancy in 56% of women with FCS while none of the women with MCS had pancreatitis during their first pregnancy. Preeclampsia was not observed in women with FCS, and only 1 case occurred in a woman with MCS suggesting that chylomicronemia does not contribute to the risk of pre-eclampsia. Miscarriages and fetal failure to thrive were similar to the general population. For additional information on FCS and MCS see the Endotext chapter entitled “Hypertriglyceridemia: Pathophysiology, Role of Genetics, Consequences, and Treatment” ( 93 ). Developmental Programming Preclinical models demonstrate that interventions that reduce maternal cholesterol during pregnancy, that decrease oxidative stress associated with gestational dyslipidemia, or that enhance active immune defenses against oxidative stress in offspring protect against developmental programming ( 94 - 96 ). This is thought to be because of excess maternal cholesterol during pregnancy, all factors collectively provide evidence for causality. Early atherogenic processes in the human aorta begin during fetal development and are accelerated by dyslipidemia during pregnancy. Maternal hypercholesterolemia is associated with greatly accelerated atherogenesis in normocholesterolemic children, as shown by the FELIC study ( 97 ). In experimental models lacking the genetic and dietary variability of humans, postnatal atherosclerosis increases in proportion to the maternal cholesterol levels well into adult ages ( 95 , 98 ). A molecular mechanism explaining the transfer of maternal cholesterol to the fetus has been elucidated ( 99 ) and involvement of increased oxidative stress has been established ( 94 - 96 ). The absence of routine cholesterol determinations during gestation in most countries has limited investigations of the impact of elevated maternal cholesterol during pregnancy on the clinical manifestations of dyslipidemia in adult offspring. In the Framingham Heart Study gestational dyslipidemia in mothers was predictive of dyslipidemia in their offspring ( 100 ). Adults who had been exposed to elevated maternal LDL-C levels had 3.8 times higher odds of having elevated LDL-C levels. They found that this explained 13% of the variation in adult offspring LDL-C levels beyond common genetic variants and classic risk factors for elevated LDL-C levels. A positive association has also been reported between maternal cholesterol and newborn HDL cholesterol and subclasses ( 101 ).
