Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


common genetic variants and classic risk factors for elevated LDL-C levels. A positive association has also been reported between maternal cholesterol and newborn HDL cholesterol and subclasses ( 101 ). From studies of 78 fetal aortas, maternal cholesterol explained 61% of the variance of early lesion sizes by multivariate analysis, independent of HDL-C, TGs, glucose, and body mass index (BMI). Maternal total cholesterol and LDLC levels were positively associated with methylation of SREBP2 in fetal aortas, suggesting a role of maternal cholesterol levels during pregnancy on epigenetic signature in offspring as reported by Napoli et al ( 97 ). SREBP2 methylation has been mapped ( 97 ). The long-term effects of maternal dyslipidemia on the progression of atherosclerosis and, its clinical manifestations are understudied. In several cohort studies, whole blood DNA methylation signatures of diet were associated with cardiovascular disease ( 102 ). Dyslipidemia can persist well into adult age and affect clinically relevant outcomes ( 98 ). In studies where elevated maternal cholesterol during pregnancy is associated with atherogenesis in childhood, maternal lipid levels during pregnancy have been associated with adult BMI, atherosclerosis-related risk, and the severity of anterior myocardial infarctions as reported by Cacciatore et al ( 98 ). Pre-eclampsia ( 103 ) and gestational diabetes ( 59 ) are linked to having a greater risk for early and maternal cardiovascular events. Effect of Pregnancy on Future Risk of Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease A number of studies have suggested that an increasing number of pregnancies is associated with cardiovascular disease. Li and colleagues did a meta-analysis of 10 cohort studies with 3,089,929 participants and 150,512 incident cases of cardiovascular disease and found an association between the number of pregnancies and the risk of cardiovascular disease ( 104 ). Similar results suggesting a relationship of pregnancies with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease have been seen in other studies (( 105 - 107 ). It should be noted that the increased risk of cardiovascular disease with increased number of pregnancies is not seen in all studies ( 108 ). Whether the increase in pro-atherogenic lipoproteins that may occur during pregnancy contributes to the increased risk of future atherosclerosis is unknown. Of course, many other factors could contribute to or cause the increased risk of cardiovascular disease as the number of children seems to increase the risk of cardiovascular disease in both men and women ( 109 ), suggesting that factors
