Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


the increased risk of cardiovascular disease as the number of children seems to increase the risk of cardiovascular disease in both men and women ( 109 ), suggesting that factors independent of pregnancy could be important. LIPID SCREENING The National Lipid Association (NLA) supports checking lipids routinely if there is no normal current pre-pregnancy lipid profile ( 110 , 111 ). Screening for reproductive-aged women, in general, remains deficient in part due to disparities in health services ( 112 ). Identifying pregnant women with prior atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), familial hypercholesterolemia, or hypertriglyceridemia is important to allow for multi-disciplinary collaborative care. Increased knowledge and awareness are needed at both the patient and provider levels. In a survey study of 200 pregnant women within the University of Pennsylvania Health System, 59% self-reported previous lipid screening; non- Hispanic Black women were less likely to report screening (43% vs. 67%) and they had lower awareness of high cholesterol as a risk factor for ASCVD (66% vs 92%) ( 113 ). The perinatal period, when a woman sees a physician most regularly, is an opportunity to screen for lipid disorders and facilitate prevention by bringing lipid values to normal age specific target ranges. Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy are among the leading causes of maternal morbidity and mortality in the US. Pre-eclampsia, which includes hypertension and proteinuria during pregnancy, is thought to result from placental ischemia. Risk factors for pre-eclampsia parallel those for cardiovascular disease and recent studies point to hyperlipidemia, specifically hypertriglyceridemia. Current practice does not routinely include lipid testing pre-conception or during pregnancy. Professional and societal recommendations should advocate for hyperlipidemia screening, followed by appropriate management, pre-conception, and during pregnancy as an important evaluation for risk of preeclampsia during pregnancy ( 61 ). A study has shown that screening in the 1 st trimester is feasible and identifies patients with abnormal lipid levels ( 114 ). A recent review recommended measuring lipids at the first visit and if normal at the beginning of third trimester ( 115 ). High risk patients should have lipids measured at first visit, beginning of second trimester, and monthly during the 3 rd trimester. If TG levels are greater than 250mg/dl at any time the lipid panel should be measured monthly. When and if more specialized lipid testing such as NMR or ion mobility to measure small dense LDL levels, apo B and apo A1 levels, and Lp(a)
