Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


be measured monthly. When and if more specialized lipid testing such as NMR or ion mobility to measure small dense LDL levels, apo B and apo A1 levels, and Lp(a) levels is needed is not defined and further studies are required. Measuring Lp(a) levels at the first visit is reasonable in patients who have not had their Lp(a) levels determined previously. If lipid abnormalities are noted during pregnancy follow-up lipid panels post-pregnancy should be obtained. High plasma triglyceride concentrations in late pregnancy may be a marker of dyslipidemia post pregnancy ( 116 ). TREATMENT OF DYSLIPIDEMIA DURING PREGNANCY Lifestyle Modifications Addressing lifestyle modifications is vital in the management of any lipid disorder regardless of pregnancy status. Counseling patients regarding a heart-healthy dietary pattern that includes vegetables, fruits, whole grains, legumes, healthy protein sources, and limiting intake of sweets, sweetened beverages, highly processed foods, and red meats along with an emphasis on weight management and exercise is essential ( 117 ). A review that examined the relation between dietary patterns before and during pregnancy and pregnancy complications (pre-eclampsia and gestation diabetes) found the data suggestive that a diet higher in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, nuts, legumes, fish, and vegetable oils and lower in meat and refined grains was associated with reduced risk of pregnancy complications ( 118 ). There is strong evidence that moderate-intensity physical activity reduced the risk of gestational diabetes and limited evidence suggesting an inverse relationship between physical activity and risk of preeclampsia ( 119 ). To counsel patients with elevated lipids to lower their intake of saturated fats and increase dietary fiber is important. Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet or Mediterranean diet are well described diets that are beneficial in reducing cardiovascular risk ( 120 ). A Mediterranean-style diet is associated with a decreased risk of pre-eclampsia ( 121 ). Given that women report increased motivation to enact dietary changes during pregnancy, this is an ideal time to intervene with lifestyle modifications. Diet is a critical pillar of management for hypertriglyceridemia. A very low-fat diet is recommended to mitigate the risk of pancreatitis particularly when TG levels are >500-1000mg/dL. Severe gestational hypertriglyceridemia can lead to acute pancreatitis and the mortality rate for pancreatitis is approximately 2% for the mother and 12% for the fetus ( 122 ). Dietary interventions have benefits beyond LDL lowering due to their effects on the placenta. A low-cholesterol low-saturated fat diet
