Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


for the mother and 12% for the fetus ( 122 ). Dietary interventions have benefits beyond LDL lowering due to their effects on the placenta. A low-cholesterol low-saturated fat diet in a trial of 290 pregnant patients led to a decrease in the umbilical artery pulsatility index, a method for fetal surveillance in high-risk pregnancies (less vascular resistance) ( 123 ). Increased vascular resistance is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes such as preeclampsia, preterm delivery, and small for gestational age infants. Drug Therapy- Cholesterol Lowering Drugs For a complete discussion of lipid lowering drugs see the Endotext chapters entitled “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs” and “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 124 , 125 ). STATINS While statins are the first-line treatment of hypercholesterolemia in the general population, their use is not recommended during pregnancy in several guidelines. The 2018 AHA/ACC/multi-society cholesterol guidelines give a class 1 recommendation that women of childbearing age with hypercholesterolemia who plan to become pregnant should stop statins 1 to 2 months before pregnancy is attempted, or if they become pregnant while on a statin, the statin should be stopped as soon as possible ( 126 ). Similarly, the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2019 guidelines have a class III recommendation that statin therapy is not recommended in premenopausal patients who are considering pregnancy or are not using adequate contraception ( 127 ). Historically, statins became contraindicated in pregnancy as a result of a case series in 2004 that demonstrated an association between first-trimester statin exposure and fetal malformations. Other cohort studies of statin exposure in pregnancy have not shown an increase in teratogenic risk ( 128 ). Of all the statins, hydrophilic statins, such as pravastatin, have not been associated with anomalies ( 129 ). Meta-analyses of studies of pregnant women exposed to statins showed no increased risk of birth defects (RR 1.15) but did reveal an increased risk of miscarriage (RR 1.35) ( 128 , 130 ). This increased risk of miscarriage may be due to confounders such as older age and ASCVD risk factors. In a retrospective review of 39 pregnancies including 20 patients with FH and 18 patients on statins, miscarriage rates were not higher in statin-exposed patients as compared to the healthy population; there was also no difference in birth weights between statin-exposed and not-exposed ( 90 ). Given the lack of clear evidence on the teratogenicity of statins, in July 2021 the FDA
