Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


was also no difference in birth weights between statin-exposed and not-exposed ( 90 ). Given the lack of clear evidence on the teratogenicity of statins, in July 2021 the FDA requested the removal of the strongest recommendation against using statins during pregnancy. They continue to advise against the use of statins in pregnancy given the limited data and quality of information of studies. The decision of whether to continue a statin during pregnancy requires shared decision-making between the patient and clinician, and healthcare professionals need to discuss the risks versus the benefits in high-risk women, such as those with homozygous FH or prior ASCVD events, that may benefit from statin therapy ( 131 ). Breastfeeding while taking statins is not recommended because statins may be present in human milk in small amounts. Discontinuation of statins in patients with FH allows cholesterol levels to increase even beyond pre-treatment levels due to higher physiologic levels during pregnancy. In a study of 80 women with FH the combination of pregnancy and breast feeding results in a median 2.3 years off of lipid lowering therapy with large individual variation ranging from 0 to 14.2 years ( 132 ). This period is a vulnerable time as interruptions of treatment can increase the lifelong risk of ASCVD. More studies examining outcomes in pregnant women with FH are needed to assess short-term and long-term outcomes on the mother and the offspring. The FDA has taken a wait and see approach. Certain statins, such as pravastatin, are being investigated for use in the prevention of preeclampsia. Given the impact of statins on endothelial dysfunction and their potential ability to mediate pathways of inflammation and oxidative stress, statins are promising agents for pre-eclampsia treatment in persons at high risk for a severe disease which centers on vascular dysfunction. Pravastatin is the most hydrophilic statin with a short half-life and is also a substrate for multiple efflux transporters, which leads to lower transplacental transfer. Several relatively small, randomized trials examined the effect of pravastatin administration on fetal outcomes. Costantine and colleagues examined the safety of pravastatin 10 mg (n= 10) vs. placebo (n=10) started between 12- 16 weeks gestation in a randomized controlled trial for the prevention of preeclampsia in high-risk pregnant women, in which the primary outcome was maternal-fetal safety ( 133 ). There were no differences between groups in rates of drug side effects, congenital anomalies, or other
