Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


high-risk pregnant women, in which the primary outcome was maternal-fetal safety ( 133 ). There were no differences between groups in rates of drug side effects, congenital anomalies, or other adverse events. Akbar and colleagues randomized pregnant women at high risk of pre-eclampsia to pravastatin 20mg twice a day (n= 87) vs. placebo (n= 86) starting from 14 to 20 weeks’ gestation until delivery ( 134 ). The pravastatin group had a significantly lower rate of preterm pre-eclampsia (13.8 vs. 26.7%; p = 0.034) and the pravastatin group showed better perinatal outcomes. Finally, Rui and colleagues randomized pregnant women at high risk for pre-eclampsia to pravastatin 20mg twice a day (n= 18) vs. placebo (n= 15) between weeks 12-20 ( 135 ). No differences were found in fetal outcomes such as preterm birth, fetal growth retardation, and the incidence of pre-eclampsia between the pravastatin and placebo groups. These randomized trials while not definitive suggest that pravastatin is safe when given after the 1 st trimester. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine, colestipol, and colesevelam can be used for LDL-C lowering during pregnancy ( 136 ). Since bile acid sequestrants are not absorbed they do not pass into the systemic circulation and are safer than other lipid-lowering agents. However, they do decrease the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins and folate. Patients should be monitored for vitamin A, D, E, and K and folate deficiency ( 136 ). Bile acid sequestrants also bind certain drugs inhibiting their absorption (can be particularly important for patients taking thyroid hormone). Additionally, they can increase TG levels, particularly in patients with borderline or increased TG levels. According to the 2011 NLA recommendations, Colesevelam was classified as a Class B pregnancy category medication, as there are no adequate studies in pregnant women and animal studies have failed to demonstrate a risk to the fetus ( 137 ). Thus, bile acid sequestrants are considered safe for use in treating LDL-C elevations during pregnancy and breastfeeding. However, there is a lack of controlled trial data during pregnancy. They can be associated with constipation in pregnancy. EZETIMIBE Ezetimibe was classified as Class C pregnancy category; Class C meant that there is a lack of adequate studies in pregnant women, but animal studies have demonstrated a risk to the fetus ( 110 ). Animal studies have found that ezetimibe crosses the placenta. At levels higher than those achieved with
