Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


women, but animal studies have demonstrated a risk to the fetus ( 110 ). Animal studies have found that ezetimibe crosses the placenta. At levels higher than those achieved with human doses, there appears to be a slightly increased risk of skeletal abnormalities in rats and rabbits. Therefore, this agent is not recommended for use during pregnancy. If used prior to pregnancy, ezetimibe should be discontinued prior to attempting to become pregnant ( 138 ). The 2011 NLA Familial Hypercholesterolemia guidelines state that ezetimibe should be stopped at least 4 weeks before discontinuing contraception for women with FH who are planning on conceiving and should not be used during pregnancy and lactation ( 137 ). PCSK9 MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES (EVOLOCUMAB AND ALIROCUMAB) Evolocumab and alirocumab, have not been tested for safety during pregnancy so their role in dyslipidemia treatment in pregnancy is unclear. While older medications were labeled with pregnancy categories, such as A, B, C, D, and X, the FDA has removed these labels for all prescription medications approved after 2015 so there is no pregnancy classification for PCSK-9 inhibitors. The FDA drug package insert for evolocumab and alirocumab indicate that monoclonal antibodies are unlikely to cross the placenta in the first trimester, but may cross the placenta in the second and third trimester. Genetic variants in PCSK9 that result in lower LDL-C levels have been reported to be associated with an increased risk of malformations affecting multiple systems ( 139 ). It is recommended to stop PCSK9-monoclonal antibodies 3 months before conception. Case reports have described the administration of PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies late in pregnancy (after 30 weeks) and have not observed any side effects in the fetus or mother ( 140 , 141 ). In a case report exposure to alirocumab, rosuvastatin, and ezetimibe early in pregnancy reported isolated agenesis of the corpus callosum ( 142 ). Clearly addition studies are needed to determine the safety of PCSK9-monoclonal antibodies during pregnancy. There is no information regarding the presence of PCSK9-monoclonal antibodies in human milk or the effects on the breastfed infant. Human IgG is present in human milk, but published data suggest that breast milk antibodies do not enter the neonatal and infant circulation in substantial amounts (package insert). The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for treatment with a PCSK9 monoclonal antibody. INCLISIRAN Inclisiran is a small interfering
