Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


insert). The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for treatment with a PCSK9 monoclonal antibody. INCLISIRAN Inclisiran is a small interfering RNA that targets hepatic PCSK9 synthesis and has been shown to significantly lower LDL-C levels. Given its infrequent dosing regimen (every 6 months), it could hypothetically be used before conception and immediately afterward though further trials and outcome data are needed ( 143 ). A case report describes inclisiran administration 13 weeks prior to conception in a women with heterozygous FH with no adverse effects on the fetus ( 144 ). Unfortunately, LDL-C levels were not closely followed during pregnancy. The product labeling states that there is no available data on its use in pregnant patients, although animal reproduction studies have shown no adverse developmental effects. There is no information on the presence of inclisiran in human milk or the effects on the breastfed infant but in animal studies inclisiran is present in milk (package insert). However, oligonucleotide-based products typically have poor oral bioavailability and therefore, it is considered unlikely that inclisiran present in milk will adversely impact an infant’s development during lactation (package insert). BEMPEDOIC ACID Bempedoic acid, an inhibitor of ATP citrate lyase (an enzyme in the cholesterol synthesis pathway), is a lipid-lowering therapy shown to reduce the levels of LDL-C. Per the product labeling by the FDA, there is no available data on its use in pregnant women though animal reproduction studies did not show teratogenicity in rat and rabbit models (package insert). It is not recommended that bempedoic acid be taken during breastfeeding. It is suggested to discontinue bempedoic acid 2-3 months before attempting to conceive or when pregnancy is recognized, unless the benefits of therapy outweigh the potential risks to the fetus. EVINACUMAB Evinacumab is a human monoclonal antibody against angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3). It is currently approved for the treatment of homozygous FH but in the future may be approved for lowering TG. No data are available on use during pregnancy ( 136 ). Based on animal studies, exposure during pregnancy may lead to fetal harm. Evinacumab is a monoclonal antibody and human immune globulin are known to cross the placental barrier ( 136 ). Therefore, evinacumab could be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus. There are no data on the presence of evinacumab in human milk or animal milk and the
