Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


). Therefore, evinacumab could be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus. There are no data on the presence of evinacumab in human milk or animal milk and the effects on the breastfed infant are unknown (package insert). Maternal IgG is known to be present in human milk. LOMITAPIDE Lomitapide is a selective microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitor that blocks the formation of lipoproteins in the liver and intestine. It was approved for lowering LDL-C levels in adults with homozygous FH. This drug is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal toxicity (formerly Class X pregnancy category) ( 145 ). Lomitapide was teratogenic in animal models at clinically relevant exposures (package insert). There are no data on the presence of lomitapide in human or animal milk or the effects on the breastfed infant. Breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with lomitapide (package insert). Drug Therapy- Triglyceride Lowering Drugs FIBRATES While fibrates were classified in the Class C pregnancy category, they can be considered after the 1 st trimester in pregnancy depending on the risk vs. benefit discussion. The AHA Scientific Statement for Cardiovascular Considerations in Caring for Pregnant Patients proposes the consideration of fenofibrate or gemfibrozil in the second trimester if TGs are >500 mg/dL despite lifestyle modifications ( 146 ). The AHA/ American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) Presidential Advisory states that pregnant patients with a history of pancreatitis may benefit from the use of fenofibrate when TG levels are >1000 mg/dL ( 86 ). The use of fibrates during the second trimester is after embryogenesis occurs reducing the risk. Studies in animals have found no increased risk of congenital malformations ( 138 ). NIACIN Niacin was classified in the Class C pregnancy category. Niacin should not be used during pregnancy and lactation unless the patient has high TG levels despite treatment with omega-3 fatty acids and fibrates. OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS Omega-3 fatty acids are widely used albeit without large controlled clinical trials during pregnancy. In a meta-analysis of 8 small, randomized trials a decrease in TG levels and an increase in HDL-C levels was reported with no change in LDL-C or total cholesterol levels ( 147 ). Most other medications used to treat hypertriglyceridemia are not considered safe during pregnancy, but omega-3 fatty acids are considered safe as most prenatal vitamins and baby formula contain DHA. A Cochrane review of 70 randomized trials assessed omega-3
