Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


not considered safe during pregnancy, but omega-3 fatty acids are considered safe as most prenatal vitamins and baby formula contain DHA. A Cochrane review of 70 randomized trials assessed omega-3 fatty acid addition during pregnancy as supplements or as dietary additions on maternal, perinatal, and neonatal outcomes and did not find evidence of toxicity except for possibly a small increased risk of large for gestation babies ( 148 ). In patients with high TG levels omega-3 fatty acids can potentially be utilized for their TG-lowering effect, but evidence is only based on a small number of case reports ( 149 ). Prescription omega-3-fatty acids are not approved for use during pregnancy. VOLANESORSEN Volanesorsen is an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of apolipoprotein C-III (apo C-III) mRNA that is approved in Europe for the treatment of familial chylomicronemia syndrome. No experimental data are available on use of volanesorsen during pregnancy. If used prior to pregnancy, volanesoren should be discontinued one month before attempting conception ( 150 ). It is unknown whether volanesorsen or metabolites are excreted in human milk. Due to the poor oral bioavailability it is considered unlikely that significant systemic exposure would occur during nursing. “A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman” (package insert). OLEZARSEN Olezarsen is an antisense oligonucleotide that reduces apo C-III production by binding to Apo C-III mRNA and inducing its degradation and is approved in the US for the treatment of familial chylomicronemia syndrome. There are no data on olezarsen use in pregnant women to inform drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes (package insert). There are no data on the presence of olezarsen in either human or animal milk or the effects on breastfed infants (package insert). Oligonucleotide-based products typically have poor oral bioavailability and therefore, it is considered unlikely that low levels present in milk will lead to clinically relevant levels in breastfed infants (package insert). Summary Several reviews have provided information on the use of lipid lowering drugs during pregnancy and breast feeding ( 111 , 136 , 151 , 152 ). The class of evidence and levels of evidence for lipid lowering drugs are not strong for any of the options given a lack of definitive studies regarding efficacy and safety.
