Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


The class of evidence and levels of evidence for lipid lowering drugs are not strong for any of the options given a lack of definitive studies regarding efficacy and safety. Table 3 provides a summary of use of widely used lipid lowering drugs during pregnancy and lactation. Table 3. The Safety Profile of Lipid Lowering Drugs During Pregnancy and Lactation View in own window Drugs Pregnancy Lactation Statins Should not be used in most patients but can be considered in FH patients and those with high LDL-C levels (>190mg/dL) with ASCVD or at high risk Excreted in milk and should not be used Ezetimibe Discontinue unless potential benefits outweigh risks Unknown if excreted in milk PCSK9 inhibitors Discontinue; insufficient data Unknown if excreted in milk Bempedoic acid Discontinue unless potential benefits outweigh risks Unknown if excreted in milk Bile acid sequestrants Safe to use but may decrease the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins and folic acid Not excreted in milk Omega-3-fatty acids Safety unknown but may be considered for elevated TG Excreted in milk. Effects on infant unknown Fibrates Safety unknown but may be considered for elevated TG after 1 st trimester Unknown if excreted in milk. Wait 5 days after last dose before resuming lactation Niacin Safety unknown but may be considered for elevated TG Safety unknown but may be considered for elevated TG Table based on information from reference ( 111 ). Plasmapheresis and Lipoprotein Apheresis In patients with severe elevations of TG levels with pancreatitis or who are at high risk for pancreatitis plasmapheresis has been employed to rapidly and safely decrease TG levels ( 115 , 153 ). Plasmapheresis should be considered early in asymptomatic pregnant women with fasting TG levels >1000 mg/dL or in pregnant women with clinical signs and symptoms of pancreatitis and TG levels >500 mg/dL despite maximal lifestyle changes and pharmacologic therapy. Lipoprotein apheresis can be safely used during pregnancy and may be beneficial for some women with severely elevated LDL-C and/or Lp(a) levels ( 126 , 153 , 154 ). An American College of Cardiology expert committee suggests consideration of lipoprotein apheresis in pregnant patients with homozygous FH and patients with severe heterozygous FH and an LDL-C ≥ 300 mg/dL despite lifestyle therapy ( 136 ). In patients with FH, ASCVD, and pregnancy, lipoprotein apheresis may be considered when the LDL-C ≥190 mg/dL. MANAGEMENT OF PREGNANT WOMEN WITH PRE-EXISTING LIPID ABNORMALITIES Patients
