Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


therapy ( 136 ). In patients with FH, ASCVD, and pregnancy, lipoprotein apheresis may be considered when the LDL-C ≥190 mg/dL. MANAGEMENT OF PREGNANT WOMEN WITH PRE-EXISTING LIPID ABNORMALITIES Patients with lipid disorders are best managed using a team approach that includes a lipid and maternal-fetal specialist and an experiences dietician. People with these disorders should be provided with genetic counseling in addition to multi-specialty team management and pregnancy offers an important opportunity to address the impact in families and how to recognize, prevent, and treat these disorders. Women taking lipid lowering drugs should be instructed to discuss pregnancy plans 2-3 months prior to trying to conceive so that changes in drug therapy can be instituted if indicated. A discussion of the risks and potential benefits needs to be discussed so that the patient can make an informed decision on the treatment approach. Elevated LDL-C Levels Including Homozygous and Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia In women with FH the percent increase in LDL-C levels during pregnancy is similar to that observed in women with a normal lipid profile prior to pregnancy even though the baseline LDL-C levels are much higher in women with FH ( 31 ). However, the absolute increase in LDL-C is much greater in FH. Despite the markedly higher LDL-C levels in women with FH the prevalence of hypertension, duration of gestation, and fetal body weight were similar between patients with FH and women without dyslipidemia before pregnancy ( 31 ). Decisions to use lipid-lowering medications involve a risk-benefit decision. In patients at very high risk of a heart attack or stroke, such as individuals with homozygous FH and those who have clinical ASCVD the benefits of therapy may outweigh the risks of therapy. If the patient and physician elect to continue or add LDL-C lowering medications it is recommended that these be used after the first trimester of pregnancy if possible. Additionally, the hydrophilic statin, pravastatin, would be a good choice if one elects to use a statin ( 155 ). Given the infrequent dosing regimen (every 6 months), inclisiran could hypothetically be used before conception and immediately afterward though further trials and outcome data are needed. If the patient is on lipoprotein apheresis this can be continued during pregnancy or initiated if available. Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (TG> 500mg/dL) This is managed primarily with a very low-fat diet (<20 g total fat/d or <5-15% total calories) that requires
