Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


during pregnancy or initiated if available. Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (TG> 500mg/dL) This is managed primarily with a very low-fat diet (<20 g total fat/d or <5-15% total calories) that requires consultation with an expert in nutritional advice to ensure adequate caloric intake during pregnancy and sufficient vitamins. Medium-chain TGs can help provide calories and make the very low-fat diet tolerable. For a detailed discussion of dietary management see reference ( 111 ). In the third trimester as TG levels increase hospitalization with parenteral feeding has been employed. In patients with familial chylomicronemia syndrome routine drug therapy often is not beneficial but one can consider omega-3 fatty acids in high doses. In patients with episodes of pancreatitis or with very high TG levels at high risk for pancreatitis plasmapheresis can be beneficial. While Apo CIII inhibitors are not approved for use in pregnancy there are case reports demonstrating benefit of both volanesorsen and plozasiran without harmful side effects ( 156 , 157 ). Multifactorial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (TG> 500mg/dL) This disorder is typically due to a genetic predisposition for high TG levels combined with secondary factors that increase TG levels into the range that causes pancreatitis. Therefore, one should try to control secondary disorders ( Table 4 ) and if possible, stop drugs that increase TG levels ( Table 5 ). If TG levels are very high (>750-1000mg/dL initial therapy should be similar to that described above for patients with the familial chylomicronemia syndrome. If TG levels improve a low-fat diet, avoidance of simple sugars and alcohol, and exercise can be helpful in maintaining safe TG levels. If these steps are not successful in keeping TG levels in a safe range treatment with omega-3- acids and the addition of fenofibrate later in pregnancy (after 1 st trimester) is indicated. If despite therapy there is an episode of pancreatitis due to poorly controlled TG levels or very high TG levels at high risk for pancreatitis plasmapheresis can be employed. Table 4. Disorders Associated with an Increase in TG Levels View in own window Obesity Alcohol intake High simple carbohydrate diet Diabetes Metabolic syndrome Polycystic ovary syndrome Hypothyroidism Chronic renal failure Nephrotic syndrome Inflammatory diseases (Rheumatoid arthritis, Lupus, psoriasis, etc.) Infections Acute stress (myocardial infarctions, burns, etc.) HIV Cushing’s syndrome Growth hormone deficiency Lipodystrophy Glycogen Storage disease Acute hepatitis Monoclonal gammopathy Table 5. Drugs That Increase TG Levels View in own window Alcohol Oral
