Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


infarctions, burns, etc.) HIV Cushing’s syndrome Growth hormone deficiency Lipodystrophy Glycogen Storage disease Acute hepatitis Monoclonal gammopathy Table 5. Drugs That Increase TG Levels View in own window Alcohol Oral Estrogens Tamoxifen/Raloxifene Glucocorticoids Retinoids Beta-blockers Thiazide diuretics Loop diuretics Protease Inhibitors Cyclosporine, sirolimus, and tacrolimus Atypical antipsychotics Bile acid sequestrants L-asparaginase Androgen deprivation therapy Cyclophosphamide Alpha-interferon Propofol Patients with Moderate Hypertriglyceridemia (TG 200-500mg/dL) These patients should be treated the same as patients with the multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome described above. Diet therapy, treatment of secondary disorders, and stopping, if possible, drugs that increase TG levels can frequently prevent an increase in TGs into the range that causes pancreatitis. If this approach is not successful treatment with omega-3- acids and the addition of fenofibrate later in pregnancy is indicated if the TG levels are greater than 500mg/dL. Patients with Very High Lp(a) Levels High Lp(a) may promote atherosclerosis as well as thrombosis by affecting fibrinolysis, inflammation, endothelial function, macrophage lipid uptake, and oxidative stress. Lipoprotein(a) level correlates with the severity of preeclampsia and Lp(a) may be involved in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia ( 45 ). Further studies are required to determine if Lp(a) has a detrimental role during pregnancy and whether therapies that lower Lp(a) levels are beneficial. To prevent pre-eclampsia aspirin therapy is recommended and can be considered for persons with high Lp(a). In patients with very high Lp(a) levels and cardiovascular disease one can consider continuing or initiating lipoprotein apheresis. Patients with Monogenic Disorders Causing Hypobetalipoproteinemia (i.e., Low LDL-C Levels) There are a number of causes of low LDL-C including secondary factors such as a strict vegan diet, malnutrition, malabsorption, hyperthyroidism, malignancy, and chronic liver disease, polygenic disorders due to small effect variants in a number of genes, and several monogenic disorders ( 158 ). Amongst the monogenic disorders only the most severe are associated with pregnancy issues including bi-allelic FHBL-SD1 due to mutations in microsomal TG transfer protein (abetalipoproteinemia), bi-allelic FHBL-SD2 due to mutations in Apo B, and bi-allelic FHBL-SD3 due to mutations in SAR1B (chylomicron retention disorder) ( 159 ). These disorders are characterized by very low LDL-C levels and malabsorption ( 159 ). The dietary treatment of these individuals is summarized in table 6 ( 159 ). Other monogenic disorders causing low LDL-C levels, such as mono-allelic FHBL-SD2 due to mutations in Apo B (familial hypobetalipoproteinemia), bi-allelic FHBL-EC1 due to mutations in ANGPTL3 (combined hypolipidemia), and bi-allelic
