Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


Other monogenic disorders causing low LDL-C levels, such as mono-allelic FHBL-SD2 due to mutations in Apo B (familial hypobetalipoproteinemia), bi-allelic FHBL-EC1 due to mutations in ANGPTL3 (combined hypolipidemia), and bi-allelic FHBL-EC2 due to mutations in PCSK9 do not cause major issues during pregnancy because they do not lead to malabsorption. Table 6. Treatment of Patients with Severe Monogenic Hypobetalipoproteinemia (Low LDL-C) View in own window Low-fat diet- Less than 10-15% (<15 g/day) of total daily calories. Can be adjusted depending upon the tolerance Essential fatty acids- 2-4% daily caloric intake (alpha-linolenic acid/linoleic acid) DHA and EPA- Supplementation may be considered depending on the diet Vitamin E- 100-300 IU/kg/day Vitamin A- 100-400 IU/kg/day Vitamin D- 800-1200 IU/day Vitamin K- 5-35 mg/week Dosing of vitamins A, D, and K can be tailored to plasma vitamin A/β-carotene levels, 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels, and INR reference intervals. Preconception and pregnancy medical counseling, including genetic counseling, should be provided. Because patients with these disorders are very uncommon ideally these patients should be cared for in specialty clinics. During pregnancy, one must balance the need to limit fat intake and the need to increase caloric intake. Consultation with a dietician is important. Supplementation with medium-chain TGs can be used to increase caloric intake if needed ( 159 ). Because maternal serum DHA concentrations have been linked to neurocognitive and anti-inflammatory benefits supplementation with DHA (1-3 g/day) can be utilized to increase plasma concentrations ( 159 ). Additionally, to prevent neural tube defects in pregnancy, a daily supplement of 400-800 µg folic acid is also recommended. The dosing of vitamins A, D, and K should be adjusted as indicated by plasma vitamin A/β-carotene levels, 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels, and INR reference intervals ( 159 ). In normal individuals, excess vitamin A can cause toxicity during pregnancy and therefore it is recommended to set the vitamin A goal at the lower limit of normal levels, which may decrease the dose by 50% during pregnancy ( 159 ). Vitamin E supplements should be continued during pregnancy as vitamin E deficiency has been shown to increase miscarriages ( 159 ) Progesterone production during pregnancy may be reduced during pregnancy and it is recommended to monitor progesterone levels throughout pregnancy and consider the use of exogenous progesterone if levels are low ( 159 ). CONSIDERATIONS FOR BREASTFEEDING The postpartum period is a critical time requiring proactive counseling and shared decision-making regarding
