Effect of Pregnancy on Lipid Metabolism and Lipoprotein Levels
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, levels, pubmed, women, lipid, risk, cholesterol, maternal, increase, free, fetal, pmc, article pubmed, free article, article


consider the use of exogenous progesterone if levels are low ( 159 ). CONSIDERATIONS FOR BREASTFEEDING The postpartum period is a critical time requiring proactive counseling and shared decision-making regarding plans for lactation. Enabling women to breastfeed is a public health priority because, on a population level, interruption of lactation is associated with adverse health outcomes for the woman and her child, including higher maternal risks of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease, and greater infant risks of infectious disease, sudden infant death syndrome, and metabolic disease. Contraindications to breastfeeding are few. Most medications and vaccinations are safe for use during breastfeeding, with few exceptions. Breastfeeding confers medical, economic, societal, and environmental advantages; however, each woman is uniquely qualified to make an informed decision surrounding infant feeding. Risks vs. benefits need to be considered to determine the optimal management of lipid disorders, as all lipid-lowering medications are relatively contraindicated during pregnancy and remain contraindicated during breastfeeding ( table 3 ). Breastfeeding has enormous benefits and is encouraged. Medications taken by the mother can transfer into breast milk through passive diffusion or active transport by membrane proteins and therefore expose the baby to the medication. Therefore, continuing breastfeeding given its benefits in metabolic health needs to be balanced with stopping breastfeeding to resume lipid-lowering therapies and the progression of atherosclerosis ( 160 ). Shared decision-making and discussions of risks and benefits of both time without statin treatment and breastfeeding vs. treatment during pregnancy and lactation are best initiated before delivery and every visit in the fourth-trimester period (after delivery) ( 161 , 162 ). The LactMed database (National Institute of Child Health and Development) contains information on drugs and other chemicals to which breastfeeding mothers may be exposed. It includes information on the levels of such substances in breast milk and infant blood and the possible adverse effects in nursing infants. Suggested therapeutic alternatives to those drugs are provided, where appropriate. All data are derived from the scientific literature and fully referenced. A peer review panel reviews the data to assure scientific validity and currency. The consensus opinion is that women taking a statin should not breastfeed because of a concern with disruption of infant lipid metabolism. However, others have argued that children homozygous for FH are treated with statins beginning at 1 year of age, that statins have low oral bioavailability, and that risks to the breastfed
