Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


ABSTRACT Calcium and phosphate are critical to human physiology (e.g., neuromuscular function) and are also needed for skeletal mineralization. An understanding of calcium and phosphate metabolism is required for the clinician to evaluate disorders of the levels of calcium and phosphorus as well as metabolic skeletal disorders. In this chapter, we review calcium and phosphate homeostasis including the critical organs involved (skeleton, parathyroids, GI tract, kidneys etc.) as well as the hormones (PTH, vitamin D, FGF23, calcitonin) that regulate calcium and phosphate. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Understanding the physiology of calcium and phosphate homeostasis is needed to manage patients with abnormalities of this homeostatic system. Disorders of calcium, phosphate, and skeletal metabolism are among the most common group of diseases in endocrinology ( 1 ). They can involve abnormalities in the serum concentrations of the two minerals, especially calcium; abnormalities of bone; and abnormalities of the major regulating organ systems, especially the parathyroid gland, kidneys and gastrointestinal (GI) tract ( Table 1 ). The serum calcium concentration can be abnormally high, as in malignancy and primary hyperparathyroidism, or abnormally low as it is in renal failure and hypoparathyroidism. The skeleton can have low bone density, as occurs in osteoporosis and osteomalacia, or high bone density as Paget’s disease of bone, osteopetrosis, and other osteosclerotic disorders. The GI tract can exhibit low calcium absorption, as in malabsorptive states, or high calcium absorption, as in vitamin D intoxication and the milk-alkali syndrome. The kidneys can under-excrete calcium, as occurs in some hypercalcemic disorders; over-excrete calcium, as in some patients with nephrolithiasis; under-excrete phosphorus, as in renal failure and defects in fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) action; and over-excrete phosphorus, as in some renal tubular disorders and renal phosphate wasting due to excess FGF23 and other phosphatonins. Corresponding events occur for magnesium, but they will not be discussed in this chapter. The goal of this chapter is to discuss the normal regulation of bone and mineral metabolism in order to provide the clinician a basis for diagnosis and management of patients with the common disorders that involve this homeostatic system. Table 1. Regulation of Calcium and Skeletal Metabolism View in own window Minerals Calcium (Ca) Phosphorus (P) Magnesium (Mg) Organ Systems Skeleton Kidney GI tract Skin Other Hormones Calciotropic hormones Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) Calcitriol (1,25(OH2)D) PTH-related Protein (PTHrP) FGF23
