Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


in own window Minerals Calcium (Ca) Phosphorus (P) Magnesium (Mg) Organ Systems Skeleton Kidney GI tract Skin Other Hormones Calciotropic hormones Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) Calcitriol (1,25(OH2)D) PTH-related Protein (PTHrP) FGF23 and other phosphatonins Calcitonin (CT Other hormones Gonadal and adrenal steroids Thyroid hormones Growth factor and cytokines As detailed in other chapters, disorders of mineral and skeletal metabolism can be due to a primary disease of one of the involved organ systems, as in primary hyperparathyroidism due to a tumor of one or more parathyroid glands; secondary hyperparathyroidism, due to a compensatory response of the parathyroid glands to a low serum calcium, low vitamin D, calcium malabsorption, kidney disease, etc.; perturbations in serum calcium due to malignancy and bone metastases; and the complex mineral and skeletal complications of renal failure. A basis for understanding the pathogenesis of the primary and secondary diseases of bone and its minerals that are discussed in this text is an appreciation of the interplay among hormones, minerals, and organ systems that regulate normal bone and bone and mineral metabolism ( Figure 1 ). The skeleton is the reservoir of calcium for many physiological functions, and it serves a similar but not so unique role for phosphorus and magnesium ( Table 2 ) ( 2 , 3 ). Skeletal calcium is controlled through the regulatory pathways of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and the kidneys, and in bone by the osteoblast, the bone-forming cell, and the osteoclast, the bone-resorbing cell. Calcium reaches the skeleton by being absorbed from the diet in the GI tract. Unabsorbed calcium passes into the feces, which also contains the small amount of calcium secreted into the GI tract. Minor losses occur through perspiration and cell sloughing. In pregnancy, substantial losses can occur across the placenta to the developing fetus and in the postpartum period through lactation. Absorbed dietary calcium then enters the extracellular fluid (ECF) space and becomes incorporated into the skeleton through the process of mineralization of the organic matrix of bone, osteoid. ECF calcium is also filtered by the kidney at a rate of about 6 grams per day, where up to 98 percent of it is reabsorbed ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Schematic Representation of Calcium and Skeletal Metabolism. Abbreviations: A, absorption; S, secretion; ECF, extracellular fluid; GF, glomerular filtration; TR, tubular reabsorption. The dark vertical line between bone and ECF represents bone surface and bone-lining cells. Shaded
