Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


Metabolism. Abbreviations: A, absorption; S, secretion; ECF, extracellular fluid; GF, glomerular filtration; TR, tubular reabsorption. The dark vertical line between bone and ECF represents bone surface and bone-lining cells. Shaded area represents labile skeletal calcium. The various calcium compartments are not to scale. See text for discussion. (see Acknowledgements). The major regulation of bone and bone mineral metabolism results from the interactions of four hormones – parathyroid hormone (PTH), vitamin D (VD), fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) and to a much lesser extent calcitonin (CT) – at three target organs – bone, kidneys, and GI tract – to regulate three bone minerals – calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus. Other hormones also play a role, and skin is a participating organ system ( Table 1 ). Understanding the normal regulatory mechanisms of this system will aid the clinician in evaluation and management of disorders of mineral metabolism ( 1 - 3 ). CELLULAR AND INTRACELLULAR CALCIUM AND PHOSPHORUS METABOLISM Physicians are most aware of the clinical status of calcium and skeletal metabolism in the patient as revealed by the concentrations of these minerals in biological fluids, especially blood and urine, and by the structural integrity of the skeleton ( 1 ). The actions of the calcemic hormones to regulate mineral concentrations in biological fluids are well understood at the target organ level. However, less well understood are the cellular and intracellular mechanisms that underlie the clinically important phenomena. Both calcium and phosphorous, as well as magnesium, are transported to blood from bone, renal, and GI cells, and visa versa ( 4 - 6 ). These transport mechanisms can be through cells (transcellular) and around cells (paracellular). The cellular transport is mediated by the membrane structures illustrated in Figure 2 and by binding transport proteins ( 7 , 8 ). The paracellular transport is generally passive and mediated by mineral gradients. These mechanisms also involve corresponding co-transportation and exchange-transportation with other ions, notably sodium, potassium, chloride, hydrogen, and bicarbonate, some of which are powered by ATP hydrolysis. Similar mechanisms allow for the intracellular distribution of calcium, where it partitions primarily between the mitochondria and cytosol. The details of the regulation of these cellular and intracellular mineral transports are not as well understood as are the whole organ mechanisms that they effectuate. However, some evidence along with inferences lead to the tentative clinical conclusion that changes in ambient concentrations of mineral in extracellular fluids
