Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


are the whole organ mechanisms that they effectuate. However, some evidence along with inferences lead to the tentative clinical conclusion that changes in ambient concentrations of mineral in extracellular fluids are mirrored by corresponding intracellular changes and redistribution ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Schematic representation of cellular transport of bone minerals. The model can be applied to transport of calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus for cells of the renal tubules, gastrointestinal tract enterocytes, and bone cells. The mineral transport can be with (downhill) or against (uphill) a gradient. Lumen refers to GI and renal tracts; for bone, it can refer to bone marrow, blood, and/or matrix space. The site of the indicated membrane transport structures is schematic. Microsomes designate other intracellular organelles such as secretory vesicles and endoplasmic reticulum. See text for details. Figure 2 provides a simplified version of the cellular regulation of bone minerals metabolism and transport. Mineral homeostasis requires the transport of calcium, magnesium, and phosphate across their target cells in bone, intestine, and kidney. This transport can be across cells (transcellular) and around cells (pericellular). The pericellular transport is usually diffusional, down a gradient (“downhill”), and not hormonally regulated. Diffusion can also occur through cell channels, which can be gated. Transport across cells is more complex and usually against a gradient (“uphill”). This active transport is energized by either ATP hydrolysis or electrochemical gradients and involves membrane structures that are generally termed porters, exchangers, or pumps. Three types of porters have been described, uniporters of a single substance; symporters for more than one substance in the same direction; and anti-porters for more than one substance in opposite directions ( 7 , 8 ). Once through the luminal cell membrane, the bone minerals can cross the cell into the extracellular fluid compartment, blood for enterocytes and urine for renal epithelium cells ( 5 , 6 ). For bone cells, the corresponding compartments are marrow and blood ( 1 , 2 ). For calcium, the transcellular transport is ferried by the interaction among a family of proteins that include calmodulin, calbindin, integral membrane protein, and alkaline phosphatase; the latter three are vitamin D dependent in their expression ( 6 ). Cytoskeletal interactions are likely important for transcellular transport as well. Exit from the cell is regulated by membrane structures similar to those that mediate entry. There do not appear to be any corresponding binding proteins for phosphorous, so
