Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


as well. Exit from the cell is regulated by membrane structures similar to those that mediate entry. There do not appear to be any corresponding binding proteins for phosphorous, so diffusional gradients and cytoskeletal interactions seem to regulate its cellular transport. The molecular details of the hormonal regulation of cellular bone mineral transport have not been fully elucidated. It is reasonable to hypothesize that PTH, vitamin D, FGF23, and CT, regulate these molecular mechanisms through their biological effects on the participating membrane structures and transport proteins. For the enterocyte, vitamin D enhances the movement of calcium into the cell through its stimulation of calbindin synthesis ( 6 ). For kidney tubules, PTH and FGF23 are the key regulators for the transport of calcium and phosphate ( 1 , 5 , 9 ). For bone, PTH and to a lesser extent CT are important regulators of cellular calcium and phosphate transport, while vitamin D provides appropriate concentrations of these minerals through it’s GI and perhaps renal actions ( 1 - 3 ). It is important to note that these mineral translocations not only mediate the mineral metabolism represented in Figure 2 , but also the cellular effects summarized in Table 3 . Table 2. Distribution of Calcium, Phosphorus, and Magnesium View in own window Total body content, g % in skeleton % in soft tissues Calcium 1000 99 1 Phosphorus 600 85 15 Magnesium 25 65 35 CALCIUM METABOLISM Serum and extracellular calcium concentrations in mammals are closely regulated within a narrow physiologic range that is optimal for the many cellular functions. ( 1 , 2 ). More specifically, it is the ionized component of serum calcium that is closely regulated, as it subserves the physiological functions of this divalent cation ( Table 3 ). Ambient calcium is so close to its saturation point with respect to phosphates that deviations in concentrations of either can cause precipitation. Intracellular calcium, which serves as second messenger in many signal transduction pathways, is also tightly controlled, but at concentrations several orders of magnitude lower than extracellular calcium. Extraskeletal calcium accounts for only 1% of the total body calcium, as calcium is primarily sequestered in bone ( Table 4 - 6 ). The average diet contains about 1 gm of calcium, but there are great variations. About 500 mg undergoes net absorption from the diet, and the unabsorbed and secreted components appear in the stool
