Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


contains about 1 gm of calcium, but there are great variations. About 500 mg undergoes net absorption from the diet, and the unabsorbed and secreted components appear in the stool ( Table 6 - 9 ). Approximately 10,000 mg/day is filtered at the glomerulus and most is reabsorbed by the renal tubules, with only a few hundred milligrams appearing in urine each day ( Tables 10 and 11 ). The skeleton turns over about 250 mg/day of calcium, but there is wide variation. This turnover is attributed to a labile calcium pool near bone surfaces, but it is difficult to give anatomical assignment to either labile or non-labile calcium compartments. The turnover is mediated by bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts. In disease states, the turnover can be increased (e.g., hyperparathyroidism) or decreased (e.g., hypoparathyroidism) with corresponding changes in blood and urinary calcium. The primary calcium regulating hormones that control this homeostatic system are PTH and vitamin D, which act at bone, kidney, and GI tract to increase serum calcium and to a lesser extent calcitonin, which decreases bone resorption, but does not appear to have a major effect on serum calcium under normal circumstances ( 10 ) ( Figure 1 ). Table 3. Multiple Biological Functions of Calcium View in own window Cell signaling Neural transmission Muscle function Blood coagulation Enzymatic co-factor Membrane and cytoskeletal functions Secretion Biomineralization Table 4. Distribution of Calcium View in own window Total body calcium- 1kg 99% in bone 1% in blood and body fluids; Intracellular calcium Cytosol Mitochondria Other microsomes Regulated by “pumps” Blood calcium – 10mgs (8.5-10.5)/100 mls Non diffusible – 3.5 mgs Diffusible – 6.5 mgs Table 5. Bone Structure (cellular and non-cellular) View in own window Inorganic (69%) Hydroxyapatite – 99%, 3 Ca10 (PO4)6 (OH)2 Organic (22%) Collagen (90%) Non-collagen structural proteins proteoglycans sialoproteins gla-containing proteins α2HS-glycoprotein Functional components growth factor cytokines Table 6. Blood Calcium – 10mgs/100 mls (2.5 mmoles/L) View in own window Non diffusible – 3.5 mgs Albumin bound – 2.8 Globulin bound – 0.7 Diffusible – 6.5 mgs Ionized – 5.3 Complexed – 1.2 mgs bicarbonate – 0.6 mgs citrate – 0.3 mgs phosphate – 0.2 mgs other Close to saturation point tissue calcification kidney stones Table 7. Diet View in own window Dietary calcium Milk and dairy products (1qt ~ 1gm) Dietary supplements Other foods Other dietary factors regulating calcium absorption Lactose Phosphorus Table 8. Calcium
