Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


). While most of phosphorus is skeletal as hydroxyapatite, 15% is distributed among extraskeletal sites like phosphoproteins, phospholipids, and nucleic acids ( Table 13 ). In blood, phosphorus exists as the phosphates, H2PO4G and HPO4=, but its concentration is measured as phosphorus, with a normal range of 2.5 – 4.5 mg/100 ml. The regulation is not as tight as it is for calcium, with substantial perturbations due to diet and alimentation. Table 13. Phosphorus Metabolism View in own window General Widely distributed Multiple biological functions Distribution Skeletal – Hydroxyapatite: Ca(PO4)2 o Ca(OH)2 15% extraskeletal: Phosphoproteins, Phospholipids, Nucleic acids Blood Phosphate: H2PO4- and HPO4= Concentration measured as phosphorus: 2.5 – 4.5 mg/100 ml Regulation Not as closely as calcium Diet Alimentation Growth Diurnal rhythm Hormones Other factors Table 14. Dietary Phosphorus View in own window Most foods 1 gm per day – variable Absorption Site – distal to duodenum Mechanism Calcium dependent Calcium independent Regulation Diet – 70% absorbed Calciotropic hormones Vitamin D – increases CT – decreases Other factors GH – increases Phosphate binders decrease Calcium – decreases Fecal – non-absorbed and secreted Table 15. Urinary Phosphate View in own window Major route of regulation Related to diet, 90% filtered (? protein binding) Proximal tubule – 90% reabsorbed H2PO4- – active HPO4= – passive Distal tubule – 10% reabsorbed Regulation: Diet and Calciotropic hormones PTH – increases excretion CT – increases excretion Vitamin D – decreases excretion FGF23 and other phosphatonins increase excretion Proximal renal tubular NaPi2a, NaPi2c Dietary phosphorus comes from most foods, averaging about 1 gm per day ( Table 14 ), with the most important sources being dairy products, grains, meats, and food additives ( 3 , 4 ). Absorption takes place at a site distal to duodenum and utilizes both calcium dependent and calcium independent mechanisms that can be active or passive. The most significant quantitatively is post-prandial passive absorption. Approximately 60-80% is absorbed primarily by a diffusional process without a significant saturable component; however, there is regulation by the calciotropic hormones, especially vitamin D, whose active metabolites increases absorption, while PTH and CT have only minor direct effects ( 6 ) ( Tables 13 and 14 ). Calcium- and aluminum-containing phosphate binders as well as newer phosphate binders such as sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate, ferric citrate, and sucroferric oxyhydroxide can inhibit absorption and are used to do so in the treatment of the hyperphosphatemia associated with
