Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


newer phosphate binders such as sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate, ferric citrate, and sucroferric oxyhydroxide can inhibit absorption and are used to do so in the treatment of the hyperphosphatemia associated with chronic kidney disease ( 11 ). Fecal phosphate comprises non-absorbed and secreted components ( Table 14 ). Renal phosphate reabsorption controls the concentration of phosphate in serum, and it is usually quantified as the tubular reabsorption of phosphorus and expressed as the renal phosphate threshold (TmP/GFR), which closely mirrors the normal range of serum phosphorus ( 5 ). Although the TmP/GFR can be measured, it is usually estimated by a nomogram from fasting measurements of serum and urinary phosphorus and creatinine. The proximal convoluted tubule reabsorbs about 75 percent of filtered phosphate, and most of the remainder is reabsorbed in the proximal straight tubule; the distal tubule segments may have a limited capacity for reabsorption, about 5 percent of filtered load ( 1 , 5 ). An important role for FGF23 in phosphate metabolism has been elucidated ( 9 ). This glycoprotein product of osteocytes and osteoblasts promotes the renal excretion of phosphorus by decreasing expression of NaPi2a and NaPi2c resulting in decreased renal tubular reabsorption. The expression of FGF23 is up-regulated by serum phosphate and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D ( 9 , 12 ). SKELETAL METABOLISM The metabolic function of bone is to provide a homeostatic mineral reservoir, primarily for calcium, but also for other minerals, especially magnesium and phosphorus ( 1 - 3 ). These bone minerals can be mobilized to maintain systemic mineral homeostasis. This metabolic function of bone prevails over its structural function in that calcium and other minerals are removed from and replaced in bone to serve systemic homeostatic needs irrespective of loss of skeletal structural integrity. Bone is also a depository for certain cytokines and growth factors that can be released upon bone resorption and can exert their effects locally and systemically; notable among these is TFG beta. Bone consists of a mineral phase and an organic phase ( Table 5 ) ( 2 ). The major component of the mineral phase is hydroxyapatite crystal and the major component of the organic phase is type 1 collagen which, with other bone proteins, comprises the osteoid matrix of bone. The organic components of bone are products of the osteoblast. Bone mineral is present in two forms in the skeleton. Hydroxyapatite crystals, represented by the formula Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2,
