Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


matrix of bone. The organic components of bone are products of the osteoblast. Bone mineral is present in two forms in the skeleton. Hydroxyapatite crystals, represented by the formula Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2, are the major forms and occur in mature bone. Amorphous calcium phosphate comprises the remainder; it occurs in areas of active bone formation and matures through several intermediate stages to hydroxyapatite. The end result is a highly organized amalgam of protein, primarily collagen, and mineral, primarily hydroxyapatite, that has sufficient structural integrity to serve the mechanical functions of the skeleton. Upon completion of this process, the osteoblast becomes encased in bone and become an osteocyte. Mineralization can occur if there is a functionally adequate local concentration of these ions, if nucleators are present to promote crystallization, and if local inhibitors of mineralization are removed. While vitamin D is key to providing sufficient ambient concentrations of calcium and other minerals to promote mineralization of osteoid, this hormone does not seem to exert a direct regulatory effect on mineralization. Cortical bone comprises approximately 80% of the skeleton and trabecular bone 20% ( 1 , 3 ). However, the surface area of cortical bone is only one fifth that of trabecular bone, so trabecular bone is metabolically more active than cortical bone, with an annual turnover (remodeling) of approximately 20% to 30% for the former and 3% to 10% for the latter. A given skeletal site in the adult is remodeled approximately every 3 years. Bone mass is acquired up to the fourth decade, with a rapid phase during adolescent growth. Much of peak bone mass is genetically determined. Women have approximately 30% less peak bone mass than men and experience an accelerated loss after the menopause. Both genders experience age-related loss of bone mass. A role for the central nervous system role in fat and skeletal metabolism has received much recent experimental support. The adipocyte-derived hormone leptin appears to inhibit bone mass accrual through a brain pathway, while having direct peripheral anabolic effects on bone ( 13 ). Furthermore, calcium metabolism has recently become linked to glucose metabolism through an appreciation of the biological effects of the osteoblast product, osteocalcin. When carboxylated, osteocalcin acts as a structural bone protein. However, in its undecarboxylated state, osteocalcin may act to regulate glucose metabolism by stimulating insulin secretion. Thus, two major metabolic pathways – calcium/bone and glucose/insulin – seem to be linked ( 14 ).
