Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


undecarboxylated state, osteocalcin may act to regulate glucose metabolism by stimulating insulin secretion. Thus, two major metabolic pathways – calcium/bone and glucose/insulin – seem to be linked ( 14 ). Table 16. Skeletal Metabolism View in own window Bone cells Osteoblast Osteoclast Osteocyte Other – marrow elements Bone structure Cortical bone Trabecular bone Mixed Bone Cells Skeletal metabolism is regulated by bone cells and their progenitors ( Figure 3 ). Among the population of bone cells are osteoblasts, osteocytes, osteoclasts, and lining cells ( Table 16 ) ( 1 - 3 ). Monocytes, macrophages, and mast cells may also mediate certain aspects of skeletal metabolism. Marrow cells contribute to the population of bone cells. The osteoblast forms bone. Osteoblasts express receptors to many bone-active agents such as PTH, PTHrP, vitamin D metabolites, gonadal and adrenal steroids, and certain cytokines and growth factors. The major product of osteoblasts is type 1 collagen, which along with other proteins, forms the organic osteoid matrix that is mineralized to hydroxyapatite. Figure 3. Schematic Representation of Osteoclast and Osteoblast Lineages. Schematic representation of the osteoclast (top) and osteoblast (bottom) lineages. The two lineages are distinct, but there is regulatory interaction among the cells (vertical arrows). Osteoclasts originate from a hematopoietic stem cell that can also differentiate into a macrophage, granulocyte, erythrocyte, megakaryocyte, mast cell, B-cell, or T-cell. Osteoblasts originate from a mesenchymal stem cell that can also differentiate into a chondrocyte, myocyte, fibroblast, or adipocyte. The terminology for these lineages is still evolving and is herein [over] simplified. Many intermediate steps and regulatory factors are involved in lineage development. (see Acknowledgements). Osteocytes are osteoblasts that become encased in bone during its formation and mineralization and reside in the resulting lacuna ( 2 , 3 ). They comprise 90-95% of bone cells in the adult human skeleton ( 15 ). The cells develop processes that communicate as canaliculi with other osteocytes, osteoblasts, and the vasculature. Osteocytes thus present acres of cellular syncytium that permits translocation of bone mineral during times of metabolic activity and can provide minute-to-minute exchanges of minerals from bone matrix. Osteocytes are extremely important in normal skeletal homeostasis. Their function is reviewed by Bonewald ( 15 ). These cells are the likely transducers through their canaliculi of mechanical forces on bone and mediate the complex remodeling response to mechanical stimuli of the skeleton that causes appropriate changes in formation and resorption in response
