Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


through their canaliculi of mechanical forces on bone and mediate the complex remodeling response to mechanical stimuli of the skeleton that causes appropriate changes in formation and resorption in response to skeletal loading. These cells produce sclerostin ( SOST gene), which decreases bone formation and increases bone resorption ( 15 ). Defects in sclerostin function either by a mutation in SOST or a mutation downstream to sclerostin cause the high bone mass disorders sclerosteosis and van Buchem disease respectively ( 15 ). Osteocytes are also important endocrine cells that produce enzymes and hormones which affect bone mineralization and regulate phosphate such as Phosphate Regulating Endopeptidase X-Linked (PHEX), Dentin Matrix Acidic Phosphoprotein 1 (DMP1), Matrix Extracellular Phosphoglycoprotein (MEPE), and FGF23 ( 15 ). Sclerostin antagonism represents a therapeutic target for osteoporosis therapy ( 16 , 17 ). FGF-23 antagonism with a monoclonal antibody to FGF23, burosumab, is now used to treat FGF23-mediated disorders causing renal phosphate wasting ( 18 ). The osteoclast resorbs bone. It is a terminally-differentiated, large, multinucleated giant cell that arises from hematopoietic marrow precursors under the influences of hormones, growth factors, and cytokines ( 3 ). The osteoclast resorbs bone by attachment with a ruffled border through adhesion molecules and by secretion of hydrogen and chloride ions that dissolve mineral and lytic proteases, notably lysosomal proteases active at low pH and metalloproteinases and cysteine proteinases that dissolve matrix. One enzyme involved in bone resorption, (cathepsin K), has been an investigational target for treatment of osteoporosis ( 19 ). In contrast to the receptor-rich osteoblast, the mature osteoclast has few receptors, but it robustly expresses the receptor for CT. After completing its function, the terminally-differentiated osteoclast undergoes apoptosis. Bone-lining cells are flat, elongated cells that cover inactive bone surfaces. Their function is unknown, but they may be osteoblast precursors or function to clean up resorption and formation debris. Mast cells can be seen at sites of bone resorption and may also participate in this process. Cells of the immune system play a key role in bone metabolism, especially resorption, by their interactions with bone cells that are described later. BONE GROWTH, MODELING AND REMODELING Growth, modeling, and remodeling are important processes that allow the skeleton to play its many important roles ( 1 ). Bone grows and models under the influence of metabolic, mechanical, and gravitational forces during growth through adolescence, changing its size and shape in the
