Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


many important roles ( 1 ). Bone grows and models under the influence of metabolic, mechanical, and gravitational forces during growth through adolescence, changing its size and shape in the process. Bone growth continues until approximately the third decade. Bone mass continues to increase until the fourth decade ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Peak Bone Mass. Schematic representation in relative units of normal skeletal development, demonstrating changes in bone resorption and formation. The crossover of formation/resorption occurs during the fourth decade. In osteoporosis, there is an accelerated loss of bone because of increased resorption and decreased formation. (see Acknowledgements). Bone in adults renews itself by remodeling, a cycle in which old bone is first resorbed and new bone is then formed to replace it ( 1 - 3 ). Both cortical bone and trabecular bone remodel, but the latter is more metabolically active. Bone remodeling can be divided into several stages that include resorption by osteoclasts and formation by osteoblasts. Remodeling serves to repair skeletal microdamage and to improve skeletal strength in response to mechanical forces. Osteoclasts and osteoblasts communicate with each other during remodeling in a process that is referred to as coupling and mediated by local regulatory signals that are discussed subsequently. Coupling assures a balance of bone formation and bone resorption in the adult skeleton. The process of bone formation is thus balanced by the process of bone resorption. Cortical bone is resorbed by “cutting cones” of osteoclasts that tunnel through it ( 2 ). Trabecular bone remodels on its surface. Most remodeling occurs in trabecular bone and on the endosteal surfaces of cortical bone, with little periosteal remodeling. However, in diseases like hyperparathyroidism, subperiosteal resorption is activated. With aging, periosteal remodeling and expansion seems to compensate (mechanically) for bone loss at other sites. Bone resorption is mediated by the osteoclast, a large, multinucleated cell that is molecularly equipped to dissolve both the mineral and organic phases of bone ( 1 , 3 ). The processes of osteoblast-mediated bone formation and osteoclast-mediated bone resorption can be assessed by measurement in urine and blood of bone markers. The markers of bone formation include osteoblast products (e.g., alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin) and by-products of collagen synthesis such as procollagen-1 N-terminal peptide (P1NP). Markers of bone resorption include osteoclasts products such as tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) and by products of collagen breakdown such as such as N-terminal telopeptide
