Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


procollagen-1 N-terminal peptide (P1NP). Markers of bone resorption include osteoclasts products such as tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) and by products of collagen breakdown such as such as N-terminal telopeptide (NTX) and C-terminal telopeptide (CTX) ( 20 ). Approximately 20% of adult bone surface is undergoing remodeling at any time. The homeostatic end-point of skeletal metabolism is to provide the appropriate amount of ambient calcium for the many biological functions that this ion serves, with the structural integrity of the skeleton taking second place. These metabolic activities of bone cells can release into blood and urine certain bone cell and matrix products that can serve as clinically useful markers of skeletal metabolism ( Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Schematic Representation of the Cellular and Skeletal Sources of Serum and/or Urinary Markers of Bone Formation and Bone Resorption. Abbreviations: BGP, bone gamma carboxyglutamic acid (GLA) protein (osteocalcin); PICP, C-terminal propeptide of type I procollagen; P1NP, N-terminal propeptide of ty pe I procollagen; BAP, bone-specific alkaline phosphatase; AP, alkaline phosphate; TRAP, tartrate-resistance acid phosphatase; NTX, N-terminal cross-linked telopeptide of type I collagen; CTX, C-terminal cross-linked telopeptide of type I collagen; OH, hydroxyproline glycoside; OL, hydroxylysine glycoside; PYD, pyridinoline (total, free); DPD, deoxypyridinoline (total, free). (see Acknowledgments). RANKL, RANK, AND OPG The elucidation of this pathway of molecular regulation has provided both a physiologic link among bone cell functions as well as a pathogenic link among cancer cells, the immune system, and bone cells in the regulation of the osteoclastic bone resorption that is the final cellular mediator of most cases of hypercalcemia ( Figure 1 ) ( 21 , 22 ). The molecular participants in this pathway are the membrane-associated protein named RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand,) a member of the tumor necrosis factor family of cytokines; its cognate receptor, RANK, and OPG (osteoprotegerin), a soluble “decoy” receptor for RANKL. In the physiology of bone metabolism, RANKL is expressed on the surface of osteoblastic stromal cells ( 21 ). By binding to RANK, its receptor, on osteoclast precursors, RANKL enhances their recruitment into the osteoclastogenesis pathway in the physiology of bone metabolism. RANKL also activates mature osteoclasts to resorb bone. RANKL is considered to be a “coupling factor” through which osteoblasts regulate osteoclasts and bone formation is coupled to bone resorption. In the pathophysiology of hypercalcemia, many of the tumor cell types that are associated with cancer-stimulated bone
