Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


through which osteoblasts regulate osteoclasts and bone formation is coupled to bone resorption. In the pathophysiology of hypercalcemia, many of the tumor cell types that are associated with cancer-stimulated bone resorption express a soluble form of RANKL, sRANKL. Furthermore, during the inflammation that can be associated with malignancy, activated T-lymphocytes also express increased amounts of RANKL, which can stimulate osteoclasts. The activated lymphocytes also express interferon gamma (INF), which opposes the effect of RANKL on osteoclast mediated bone resorption. The osteoclastic effects of RANKL can also be attenuated by its soluble decoy receptor, OPG, also produced by osteoblasts and tumor cells. Hypercalcemia results when these opposing regulatory interactions of RANKL, RANK, OPG, and INF allow osteoclastic activation to predominate ( Figure 5 ). These molecular participants in the interaction between bone cells, tumor cells, and the immune system are also regulated by several hormones, growth factors, and cytokines that mediate increased bone resorption, both physiologic and pathophysiologic. They include PTH, PTHrP, TNF, PGE2, vitamin D metabolites, IL-1, and TGF ( 22 ). An antibody to RANKL (denosumab) decreases bone resorption, increases bone density, and decreases fractures and is FDA approved for treatment of osteoporosis ( 23 ). Furthermore, defects in this system may cause bone diseases. Loss of function mutations of OPG are responsible for the excess bone resorption in juvenile Paget’s disease and gain of function mutations of RANK cause familial expansile osteolysis and expansile skeletal hyperphosphatasia ( 24 , 25 ). Figure 6. Schematic representation of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of the effects of OPG, RANK, and RANKL on skeletal metabolism. A variety of skeletal and non-skeletal cells can express several cell products [in brackets] that regulate the balance between osteoblastic bone formation (left) and osteoclastic bone resorption (right). They include PTHrP (parathyroid hormone related protein); 1, 25 Vit D (1, 25- dihydroxyvitamin D); prostaglandins, especially of the PGE2 series; cytokines, especially interleukin 1 (IL-1); growth factors, especially TGF beta; RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand), a cell membrane-associated member of the tumor necrosis factor family of cytokines; soluble RANKL (sRANKL); and their cognate receptor, RANK; and OPG (osteoprotegerin), a soluble “decoy” receptor for RANKL. The latter group are also expressed by osteoblast precursors as they develop into osteoblasts in the osteoblastic cascade (left). In addition to OPG, the stimulation of osteoclastic bone resorption by RANKL is opposed by activation of the gamma interferon
