Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


as they develop into osteoblasts in the osteoblastic cascade (left). In addition to OPG, the stimulation of osteoclastic bone resorption by RANKL is opposed by activation of the gamma interferon receptor (INFR) by gamma interferon (INF) production by activated lymphocytes and by the peptide hormone, calcitonin. The relative activity of the osteoclast stimulatory effects of RANKL and sRANKL and the inhibitory effects of OPG and INF determine the balance between bone resorption and formation. Arrows indicate a positive (stimulatory) effect except where indicated by the negative sign, (-). Several growth factors in addition to TGF beta reside in bone matrix and can be released upon resorption to exert their biological effects, often osteoclast stimulation. They include BMP (bone morphogenetic proteins, especially BMP-2); FGF (fibroblast growth factor); PDGF (platelet derived growth factor); and IGFs in (insulin like growth factors). Macrophages may fuse into giant cells and resorb bone. (see Acknowledgements). LIPOPROTEIN RECEPTOR-RELATED PROTEIN (LRP)-5, WNT, BETA CATENIN SYSTEM Activation of the LRP5/WNT system increases intracellular beta catenin which increases bone formation ( 26 ). Gain-of-function mutations of LRP-5 cause a high bone density phenotype and loss-of-function mutations cause the osteoporosis-glioma syndrome ( 26 ). Dkk1 and sclerostin inhibit this pathway and decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption. Sclerostin production by osteocytes is increased with acute immobilization; resulting in decreased bone formation ( 27 ). Loss-of-function mutations of sclerostin cause the high bone density conditions sclerosteosis and van Buchem disease ( 15 ). A monoclonal antibody to sclerostin (romosozumab) increases bone formation and decreases bone resorption with resultant increased bone density and decreased fracture risk. This drug is approved for women with post-menopausal osteoporosis at high risk for fractures ( 16 , 17 ). Other monoclonal antibodies to sclerostin are being studied for treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) ( 28 ) and hypophosphatasia ( 29 ). Figure 7. Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. A, In the absence of Wnt ligand, β-catenin is phosphorylated by GSK-3β leading to its degradation and pathway signaling inactivation. B, After Wnt binding to its LRP5/6 and Fz coreceptors, GSK-3β is inactivated. β-Catenin is then stabilized and accumulates in the cytoplasm. β-Catenin will consequently translocate into the nucleus where it affects gene expression. C, The secreted Dkk proteins bridge LRP5/6 and the transmembrane protein Krm. This results in the LRP5/6 membrane depletion by internalizing the receptors. As a consequence, Wnt signaling is inhibited. Sclerostin (Sost) also inhibits Wnt signaling
