Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


LRP5/6 and the transmembrane protein Krm. This results in the LRP5/6 membrane depletion by internalizing the receptors. As a consequence, Wnt signaling is inhibited. Sclerostin (Sost) also inhibits Wnt signaling through binding to LRP5/6, but its activity is independent of Krm proteins. Reprinted with permission from Baron, R and Rawadi G. Targeting the Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway to Regulate Bone Formation in the Adult Skeleton. Endocrinology 148: 2635-2643, 2007 Copyright (2007), The Endocrine Society. HORMONAL REGULATION OF SKELETAL AND MINERAL METABOLISM Several hormones regulate skeletal and mineral metabolism. PARATHYROID HORMONE Parathyroid hormone is an 84-amino-acid peptide secreted by two pairs of parathyroid glands located adjacent to the back of the thyroid gland in the neck. There can also be ectopic parathyroid glands along their developmental route between the thyroid gland and mediastinum. The mature PTH is packaged into dense secretory granules for regulated secretion ( 1 , 2 ). Secretory Regulation Of Parathyroid Hormone And The Calcium Sensor PTH is synthesized as a 115 amino acid pre-pro-peptide, however, the 84 amino acid peptide is secreted by the parathyroid glands. The major regulatory signal for PTH secretion is serum calcium ( Table 17 ) ( 30 ). Serum calcium inversely affects PTH secretion, with the steep portion of the sigmoidal response curve corresponding to the normal range of both. An increase in ionized calcium inhibits PTH secretion by increasing intracellular calcium through the release of calcium from intracellular stores and the influx of extracellular calcium through cell membranes and channels. This mechanism differs from most cells, where secretion of their product is stimulated by increased calcium. Intracellular magnesium may serve this secretory function in the parathyroids in that hypermagnesemia can inhibit PTH secretion and hypomagnesemia can stimulate PTH secretion. However, prolonged depletion of magnesium will inhibit PTH biosynthesis and secretion, as it will the function of many cells. Hypomagnesemia also attenuates the biological effect of PTH by interfering with its signal transduction. Serum calcium also inversely regulates transcription of the PTH gene, and increased levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-D) inhibit PTH gene transcription. The parathyroid gland senses the concentration of extracellular ionized calcium through a cell-surface calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) for which calcium is an agonist. The same sensor also regulates the responses to calcium of thyroid C cells, which secrete CT in direct relationship to extracellular calcium; the distal nephron of the kidney, where calcium excretion is regulated; the placenta, where fetal-maternal calcium
