Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


calcium of thyroid C cells, which secrete CT in direct relationship to extracellular calcium; the distal nephron of the kidney, where calcium excretion is regulated; the placenta, where fetal-maternal calcium fluxes occur; and the brain and gastrointestinal (GI) tract, where its function is unknown, and bone cells. Loss-of-function mutations of the CaSR cause familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) 1 ( 31 ). Two other mutations downstream in this pathway (GNA11 and AP2S1) have been identified that cause FHH2 and FHH3 respectively ( 31 ). Gain-of-function mutations of CaSR and GNA11 cause autosomal dominant hypocalcemia (ADH) type 1 and type 2 respectively ( 32 ). Drugs have been identified that allosterically activate the CaSR (calcimimetics) and are useful treatment agents; they are available for treatment of the increased PTH secretion that occurs in secondary hyperparathyroidism of renal failure (oral cinacalcet, intravenous etelcalcetide) ( 33 ) severe primary hyperparathyroidism (oral cinacalcet), and parathyroid cancer (oral cinacalcet )( 34 ). Calcilytic agents which antagonize the CaSR are being studied for treatment of ADH ( 35 ). FGF23 may also inhibit PTH secretion, an action that requires binding to the FGF receptor and the co-receptor alphaKlotho ( 36 ). (See below) Table 17. Regulation of PTH Biosynthesis and Secretion View in own window Ambient calcium acting through the calcium sensing receptor (CaSR) Vitamin D [1,25(OH)2D] Ambient phosphorus FGF23 Other Some studies fail to demonstrate a direct effect of serum phosphate on PTH secretion, however, others show that high phosphate increases PTH biosynthesis and visa versa ( 4 ). However, serum phosphate has an inverse effect on calcium concentration and low ambient phosphate directly increases 1,25-D production. Thus, serum phosphate may directly and indirectly regulate PTH expression. Metabolism And Clearance Of Parathyroid Hormone Parathyroid hormone has a circulating half-life of less than 5 minutes ( 2 , 36 ). The hormone is metabolized to amino-terminal and carboxyl-terminal fragments primarily in the liver, also in the kidney, and perhaps in the parathyroid gland and blood. The carboxyl-terminal fragments are cleared by glomerular filtration (GF), so they accumulate in renal failure. All of the classic biological effects of PTH are mediated by the amino terminus, PTH1-34, and likely a subpeptide of this sequence, but other fragments may have their own biologic actions. For example, the carboxy terminus may regulate calcium channel flux. As a result of the biosynthesis, secretion, and metabolism of PTH, the circulation contains several forms
