Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


their own biologic actions. For example, the carboxy terminus may regulate calcium channel flux. As a result of the biosynthesis, secretion, and metabolism of PTH, the circulation contains several forms of the molecule ( 36 ). The forms that comprise this heterogenous collection of PTH species include primarily native PTH1-84 and amino terminal, mid-region and carboxy terminal PTH fragments. Overall, 10-20% of circulating PTH immunoreactivity comprises the intact hormone, with the remainder being a heterogeneous collection of peptide fragments corresponding to the middle and carboxy regions of the molecule. Recent studies have demonstrated a PTH 7- 84 fragment that accumulates in renal failure and may even be secreted by the normal as well as abnormal parathyroid gland. While only the amino terminus of PTH can bind to the PTH receptor at a site that mediates its classical biological effects, which result in hypercalcemia, PTH 7 – 84 may act as an antagonist and/or weak agonist to PTH at its receptor. Nevertheless, it should be kept in mind that each of the circulating forms of PTH, regardless of biological activity, contain within them peptide sequences that can be recognized by a variety of immunoassay systems and thus complicate clinical interpretation. The so-called intact PTH assays do not require the far amino-terminus of the molecule, a sequence need for full biological activity. The intact PTH assays recognize both PTH 1-84 and PTH 7-84. Newer assays, designated “bio-intact” or “whole” apparently do not recognize PTH 7-84, but there does not appear to be any clear clinical advantage of the “whole” compared to intact PTH assays ( 37 ). Biologic Effects Of Parathyroid Hormone Parathyroid hormone regulates serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations through its receptor-mediated, combined actions on bone, intestine, and kidney ( 3 , 38 ). The skeletal effects of PTH on bone are complex. High levels of PTH, as seen in primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism, increase osteoclastic bone resorption. Low levels, especially if delivered episodically, seem to increase osteoblastic bone formation, an effect that has been applicable to osteoporosis treatment by daily injections of teriparatide (PTH 1-34) ( 39 ) and the PHTrP analogue, abaloparatide ( 40 ). The skeletal effects of PTH are mediated through the osteoblast, since they are the major expressor of the PTH receptor. However, osteoblasts communicate with osteoclasts to mediate PTH effects. This communication seems mediated through the RANK-OPG pathway ( 21 ). Any direct gastrointestinal (GI)
