Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


major expressor of the PTH receptor. However, osteoblasts communicate with osteoclasts to mediate PTH effects. This communication seems mediated through the RANK-OPG pathway ( 21 ). Any direct gastrointestinal (GI) effect of PTH on intestinal calcium or phosphate absorption is weak. However, PTH through its stimulating effects on the renal production of 1,25-D, discussed later, promotes the absorption of both. In the kidney, PTH increases the reabsorption of calcium, predominantly in the distal convoluted tubule, and inhibits the reabsorption of phosphate in the renal proximal tubule, causing hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia. PTH also inhibits NA+/H+ antiporter activity and bicarbonate reabsorption, causing a mild hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. PTH mediates most of its effects through the PTH/PTHrP receptor (PTH1 receptor) ( 38 ). This receptor is an 80,000-MW membrane glycoprotein of the G protein receptor superfamily. The classic PTH receptor recognizes the amino-terminus of PTH and the homologous terminus of the parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) with indistinguishable affinity; it is therefore designated the PTH/PTHrP receptor. Both PTH and PTHrP generate cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) as a cellular second messenger by activating protein kinase A (PKA), and the phospholipase C effector system increasing cellular IP3 and calcium and activating protein kinase C (PKC). There may be some tissue specificity as to which pathway dominates. In addition to this shared receptor, there is accumulating evidence for the existence of receptors that are respectively specific for PTH and PTHrP and for some of their subpeptides. The PTH2 receptor is activated by PTH but not PTHrP and is expressed in brain and pancreas ( 41 ). For PTH, a carboxy-terminal peptide seems to mediate cellular calcium flux; for PTHrP, a nuclear localizing sequence (NLS) has been identified ( 38 ). Table 18. Effects of Parathyroid Hormone on Calcium and Skeletal Metabolism View in own window Bone Increases resorption Increases formation, especially at low and intermittent concentrations Kidney Decreases calcium excretion (clearance) Increases phosphorus excretion Gastrointestinal Tract Increases calcium and phosphorus absorption Indirect effect via 1,25-D production Blood Increases calcium Decreases phosphorus PARATHYROID HORMONE-RELATED PROTEIN (PTHrP) PTHrP is a major humoral mediator of the hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 1 , 3 , 22 ). The polypeptide is a product of many normal and malignant tissues ( 22 ). PTHrP is secreted by many types of malignant tumors, notably by breast and lung cancer, and produces hypercalcemia by activating the PTH/PTHrP receptor. PTHrP is produced in many fetal tissues,
