Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


PTHrP is secreted by many types of malignant tumors, notably by breast and lung cancer, and produces hypercalcemia by activating the PTH/PTHrP receptor. PTHrP is produced in many fetal tissues, but as development proceeds its expression becomes restricted. PTHrP expression reappears in adult tissues when injury or malignancy occurs ( 22 ). The PTHrP gene expresses three native forms of the polypeptide through alternate mRNA splicing, PTHrP 1-141, a truncated 139 residue form, and a 173 residue form expressed primarily in humans ( 37 ). Whereas PTHrP 1-139 is quite similar to PTHrP 1-141, PTHRP 1-173 completely diverges from both at its own carboxy terminus. The amino-terminus of PTHrP reacts with the shared PTH/PTHrP receptor and has the potential to produce most of the biological effects of native PTH, including hypercalcemia. Other cell products, such as cytokines and growth factors, are also likely to play a casual role in the hypercalcemia because of their direct and indirect skeletal actions. As discussed later, these can be produced by the tumor cells or immune cells. TGF beta can also participate in pathogenesis by stimulating PTHrP production from tumors or immune cells as it is released from its skeletal reservoir upon resorption. PTHrP is required for normal development as a regulator of the proliferation and mineralization of cartilage cells and as a regulator of local calcium transport. The amino terminus of PTHrP reacts with the PTH/PTHrP receptor and produces most of the biological effects of native PTH, including hypercalcemia. The PTHrP gene expresses three forms of polypeptide through alternate messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) splicing. In addition to mRNA splicing, processing of PTHrP into peptides is an important regulatory mechanism. Distinct biological properties have been attributed to the different PTHrP peptides, and specific receptors and effects have been identified. Although multiple, the functions of PTHrP in malignant and normal tissues seem to be growth- and proliferation-related ( 22 ). In most physiologic circumstances, PTHrP carries out local rather than systemic actions. When produced in excess by malignancy, PTHrP has systemic effects, especially hypercalcemia. Because of its protean and developmental effects, PTHrP can be considered an oncofetal protein. Malignancy and PTHrP The hypercalcemia of malignancy is usually due to increased bone resorption that is caused by skeletal metastases or the production by the tumor of a “humour” that stimulates osteoclasts ( 22 ). It is likely that the first mechanism also involves the second, since
