Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


by skeletal metastases or the production by the tumor of a “humour” that stimulates osteoclasts ( 22 ). It is likely that the first mechanism also involves the second, since most tumor cells do not have the capacity to directly resorb bone and more likely stimulate the neighboring osteoclast to do so through their “humours.” Many cell types and their products participate in and many tumor products have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the hypercalcemia of malignancy ( Figure 5 ). The most common seems to be PTHrP, especially in solid tumors where abnormal PTHrP expression can be implicated in up to 80% of patients. Originally discovered as a product of malignant cells that produce hypercalcemia, PTHrP has been demonstrated to be a product of many normal and malignant tissues. The growing appreciation of the key role of PTHrP in the pathogenesis of the hypercalcemia of malignancy has revealed that ectopic PTH production by cancer cells is a rare event. PTHrP expression was initially noted to be common in squamous cell cancers, but it has been subsequently shown that many other cancer types can overexpress PTHrP. PTHrP production and secretion by breast and prostate cancers is especially common, occurring in more than half of the cases, with even a higher incidence in breast when the patient is hypercalcemic. Breast tumors that produce PTHrP are more likely to metastasize to bone, and breast cancers that metastasize to bone are even more likely to produce PTHrP. PTHrP is commonly expressed in lung cancer, especially in those lung cancers that metastasize to bone. While breast and lung cancer are among the most common PTHrP producing tumors that cause hypercalcemia, this pathway has been described in many cancers. PTHrP production that often accompanies prostate cancer does not usually cause hypercalcemia, perhaps because this tumor processes the polypeptide to a non-hypercalcemic peptide. It is notable that some non-malignant PTHrP-producing tumors can also be associated with hypercalcemia ( 42 ). While PTHrP is the most common humour produced by malignant cell to cause osteoclast-mediated hypercalcemia, increased 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D is causal in lymphomas and some leukemias. Furthermore, certain cytokines, notably IL-1, and growth factors, notably TGF beta, can also produce hypercalcemia by stimulating osteoclastic bone resorption; but excess prostaglandin production is no longer considered an important hypercalcemic humour in malignancy. VITAMIN D Metabolism and Activation Vitamin D is a secosterol hormone that is present in
