Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


resorption; but excess prostaglandin production is no longer considered an important hypercalcemic humour in malignancy. VITAMIN D Metabolism and Activation Vitamin D is a secosterol hormone that is present in humans in an endogenous (vitamin D3) and exogenous (vitamin D2) form ( 43 , 44 ). The endogenous form of vitamin D, cholecalciferol (vitamin D3), is synthesized in the skin from the cholesterol metabolite 7-dehydrocholesterol under the influence of ultraviolet radiation. Vitamin D3 is also available in oral supplements. An exogenous form of vitamin D (vitamin D2) (ergocalciferol) is produced by ultraviolet irradiation of the plant sterol ergosterol and is available through the diet. Both forms of vitamin D require further metabolism to be activated, and their respective metabolism is indistinguishable ( figure 8 ). Vitamin D metabolites are solubilized for transport in blood by specific vitamin D-binding proteins. Figure 8. The Metabolic Activation of Vitamin D. Abbreviations: 25-D, 25-hydroxyvitamin D; 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D; VDR, vitamin D receptor. Vitamin D from the diet or the conversion from precursors in skin through ultraviolet radiation (light) provides the substrate of the indicated steps in metabolic activation. The pathways apply to both the endogenous animal form of vitamin D (vitamin D3, cholecalciferol) and the exogenous plant form of vitamin D (vitamin D2, ergocalciferol), both of which are present in humans at a ratio of approximately 2:1. In the kidney, 25-D is also converted to 24-hydroxylated metabolites which seem generally inactive but may have unique effects on chondrogenesis and intramembranous ossification. The many effects ( Table 8 ) of vitamin D metabolites are mediated through nuclear receptors or effects on target-cell membranes (see Acknowledgments). In the liver, vitamin D is converted by a hydroxylase to 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-D), the principal fat storage form of vitamin D ( 45 ). Thus, the serum level of 25-D is the best measure of overall vitamin D status. In the proximal tubule of the kidney, 25-D is 1alpha-hydroxylated to produce 1,25-D, the most active form of the hormone. The animal form is referred to as 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol. This hydroxylation step is up-regulated by several factors, the most important of which are PTH and low ambient concentrations of calcium, phosphorus, and 1,25-D itself. The 1alpha-hydroxylase that mediates this conversion in the kidney is also produced in the placenta and in keratinocytes. In certain disease states, macrophages (e.g., in sarcoidosis) and lymphocytes (e.g., in lymphoma) overexpress 1alpha-hydroxylase and produce hypercalcemia ( 46
