Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


kidney is also produced in the placenta and in keratinocytes. In certain disease states, macrophages (e.g., in sarcoidosis) and lymphocytes (e.g., in lymphoma) overexpress 1alpha-hydroxylase and produce hypercalcemia ( 46 ). The normal serum concentration of 1,25-D is about 20-60 pg/ml. The kidney can also convert 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Although this metabolite circulates at 100-fold higher than the concentration of 1,25-D, its biologic role is unclear. Some studies suggest that it is a degradation product with no important biological effects; others suggest that it is important in chondrogenesis and bone formation, especially intramembranous. Vitamin D and its metabolites are inactivated in the liver by conjugation to glucuronides or sulfates and oxidation of their side chains. Mutations of the 24-hydroxylase enzyme (CYP24A1) have been shown to cause hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria in infants and adults ( 47 ). In this condition, 1,25(OH)vitamin D levels are elevated because of inadequate metabolism of 1,25(OH)2D ( 47 ). Studies also suggest the presence of the C-3 epimer of 25(OH)D in serum ( 48 ). The biologic importance of this epimer is unknown. There is controversy about the optimal 25(OH) vitamin D level. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) has suggested that a 25(OH) vitamin D > 20 ng/ml is adequate ( 49 ), while The Endocrine Society suggests that > 30 ng/ml is optimal ( 50 ). The IOM suggests that supplements of 600-800 IU daily will produce adequate levels in most adults, with an upper safe dose of 4000 IU daily ( 49 ). Biological Effects of Vitamin D and It’s Mechanism of Action Vitamin D mediates its biological effects through its own member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily, the vitamin D receptor (VDR) ( 43 ). The receptor binds many vitamin D metabolites with affinities that generally mirror their biological effects, and 1,25-D thus has the highest affinity. The VDR regulates gene transcription by homodimerization and by heterodimerization to a retinoic acid X receptor (RXR). The complex binds to target DNA sequences and regulates the transcription of several genes important in mediating vitamin D’s effects on calcium and skeletal metabolism and its diverse biological effects. Vitamin D metabolites, as well as other steroid hormones, may also act through a membrane receptor to produce rapid changes in cellular calcium flux ( Figure 7 ) ( 51 ). There continues to be debate about the relative importance of Vitamin D2 and Vitamin D3
