Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


to produce rapid changes in cellular calcium flux ( Figure 7 ) ( 51 ). There continues to be debate about the relative importance of Vitamin D2 and Vitamin D3 in human health and disease. Administration of vitamin D3 may result in more persistent elevation of 25(OH)D than administration of vitamin D2 ( 52 - 54 ). Intestinal Calcium Absorption Vitamin D increases intestinal calcium absorption, primarily in the jejunum and ileum, by increasing calcium uptake through the brush border membrane of the enterocyte ( Tables 8 , 9 , and 19 ). For this action, vitamin D induces the calcium-binding calbindins, which participate in calcium transport across the cell, and through its action on calcium transporting membrane structures ( Figure 2 ), it promotes the efflux of calcium from the basolateral side of the enterocyte into the circulation. The initial effects of vitamin D on intestinal calcium absorption occur within minutes, so the actions of vitamin D on intestinal calcium transport may be also mediated by a membranous nongenomic receptor. The net result is an increase in the efficiency of intestinal calcium transport. In a vitamin D-deficient state, only 10 to 15% of dietary calcium is absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract, but with adequate vitamin D adults absorb approximately 30% of dietary calcium. During pregnancy, lactation, and growth, increased circulating concentrations of 1,25-D promote the efficiency of intestinal calcium absorption by as much as 50% to 80%. Vitamin D also regulates skeletal metabolism through the RANK pathway ( Figure 6 ). 1,25-D also increases the efficiency of dietary phosphorus absorption by about 15 to 20%. Table 19. Mechanisms of GI Calcium Absorption View in own window Vitamin D Dependent Duodenum > jejunum > ileum Active transport across cells calcium binding proteins (calbindins) calcium channels and pumps Na exchanger Passive diffusion Bone The effects of vitamin D metabolites on bone are complex ( 1 ). By providing sufficient ambient calcium and/or through some other unappreciated direct effect, vitamin D promotes the mineralization of osteoid. Vitamin D causes bone resorption by mature osteoclasts, but this effect is indirect, requiring cell recruitment and interaction with osteoblasts. Vitamin D also promotes the fusion of monocytic precursors to osteoclasts. Vitamin D regulates the expression several bone proteins, notable osteocalcin. It promotes the transcription of osteocalcin and has bidirectional effects on type I collagen and alkaline phosphatase gene transcription. Kidney The VDR is robustly expressed
