Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


several bone proteins, notable osteocalcin. It promotes the transcription of osteocalcin and has bidirectional effects on type I collagen and alkaline phosphatase gene transcription. Kidney The VDR is robustly expressed in the kidney, and acting through it, 1,25-D stimulates renal proximal phosphate reabsorption and maintenance of normal calcium reabsorption. However, compared to PTH, these effects are relatively weak ( 43 ). Other Tissues Vitamin D and its metabolites have protean effects on cell function and signaling ( 45 ). Although vitamin D has many in vitro effects on the immune system, no major immune defect is apparent in individuals who are deficient or who lack vitamin D or its receptor. Vitamin D also inhibits proliferation and stimulates maturation of epidermal keratinocytes, which robustly express the VDR. This antiproliferative effect is being used for the treatment of psoriasis, a hyperproliferative skin disorder. Since many persons who lack vitamin D receptors have lifelong alopecia totalis, vitamin D may play a role in the maturation of the hair follicle ( 55 ). Many studies have suggested the association of low 25(OH)D levels with a variety of diseases including cardiovascular, metabolic, autoimmune, malignant, and neurologic disorders. Thus far, these largely observational findings have not been confirmed in randomized trials ( 56 ). Table 20. Effects of 1,25-D (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D) on Mineral Metabolism View in own window Bone Promotes mineralization of osteoid Increases resorption at high doses Kidney Decreases calcium excretion Decreases phosphorus excretion Gastrointestinal Tract Increases calcium absorption Increases phosphorus absorption Blood Increases calcium Increases phosphorus FGF23 FGF23 is a 251 amino acid peptide hormone produced by osteoblasts, osteocytes and flattened bone-lining cells. O -glycosylation of FGF23 by UDP-N-acetyl-alpha-D-galactosmanine; polypeptide N- acetylgalactosaminyl transferase 3 (GALNT3) at specific sites is required to prevent intracellular degradation of the intact active molecule. The action of FGF23 is mediated by binding an FGF receptor (FGFR) with it’s coreceptor alphaKlotho ( 9 , 12 ). FGF23 decreases production of the sodium phosphate cotransporters, Npt2a and Npt2c. As these cotransporters increase phosphate reabsorption in the renal proximal tubule, FGF23 increases renal phosphate wasting. FGF23 also decreases 1,25(OH)2D levels probably by decreasing the expression of the 1 alphahydroxylase enzyme and increasing production of the 24-hydroxylase enzyme ( 9 , 12 ).). FGF23 expression is regulated by phosphorus and by 1,25(OH)2D. Although regulation by 1,25(OH)2D is believed to be via the vitamin D receptor, the mechanism of phosphate sensing is unknown. Iron
