Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


FGF23 expression is regulated by phosphorus and by 1,25(OH)2D. Although regulation by 1,25(OH)2D is believed to be via the vitamin D receptor, the mechanism of phosphate sensing is unknown. Iron deficiency also increases FGF23 transcription and translation. In normal subjects, however, increased processing of FGF23 prevents hypophosphatemia. Patients with autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR), however, who have an abnormal FGF23 which is resistant to degradation may not be able compensate particularly when iron deficiency is present ( 57 ). X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH) ( PHEX gene ), autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR) (FGF23 gene), autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets (ARHR) (DMP1, ENPP1, FAM20C genes), and tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO) are associated with excessive FGF23 ( 58 ). Interestingly, intravenous iron (especially iron carboxymaltose) may cause FGF23 mediated renal phosphate wasting, hypophosphatemia, and osteomalacia ( 59 ). Recently, a monoclonal antibody to FGF23 (burosumab) was approved for treatment of XLH and TIO ( 18 ). Loss-of-function mutations of GALNT3, FGF23, and alpha Klotho result in decreased intact FGF23 levels or decreased FGF23 action and result in hyperphosphatemia and tumoral calcinosis. ( 9 , 58 ) FGF23 is elevated in chronic kidney disease. Elevations of FGF23 may be associated with progression of renal disease, left ventricular hypertrophy, cardiovascular events, and mortality. It is not known whether these associations are due to FGF23 or are related to more severe underlying disease ( 9 , 12 ) FGF23 may be measured by a c-terminal assay which measures full-length FGF23 in addition to c-terminal fragments as well as by an intact assay. FGF23 in both assays is elevated or inappropriately normal in XLH, ADHR, ARHR, and TIO. In tumoral calcinosis due to FGF23 and GALNT3 mutations, these assays may be discordant with elevated C-terminal FGF23 and reduced intact (active) FGF23. FGF23 measured by both assays is elevated in TC caused by Klotho mutations ( 58 ) because of resistance to FGF23. Table 21. FGF23 Secretion and Action View in own window FGF23 Secretion Increased by high phosphate Increased by high 1,25(OH)2D FGF23 Action Mediated via FGF receptor and Klotho Increases renal phosphate wasting Decreases production of 1,25(OH)2D Lowers serum phosphate CALCITONIN Calcitonin is a 32-amino acid peptide whose main effect is to inhibit osteoclast-mediated bone resorption ( 60 ). CT is secreted by parafollicular C cells of the thyroid and other neuroendocrine cells. Hypercalcemia increases secretion of hypocalcemia-inducing CT while hypocalcemia inhibits secretion ( 61 ). CT
