Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


60 ). CT is secreted by parafollicular C cells of the thyroid and other neuroendocrine cells. Hypercalcemia increases secretion of hypocalcemia-inducing CT while hypocalcemia inhibits secretion ( 61 ). CT secretion is controlled by serum calcium through the same CaSR that regulates PTH secretion, but in an inverse manner and at higher concentrations of calcium. CT directly inhibits bone resorption by inactivating the CT-receptor rich osteoclast. CT also inhibits the renal reabsorption of phosphate, thus promoting renal phosphate excretion. CT also induces a mild natriuresis and calciuresis, the latter contributing to its hypocalcemic effect. However, calcitonin does not appear to have a major effect on human calcium metabolism as evidenced by normocalcemia in thyroidectomized patients as well as patients with medullary thyroid cancer and very high calcitonin levels ( 10 , 60 ). Calcitonin in pharmacologic doses has been used to decrease bone resorption in osteoporosis, Paget’s bone disease, and hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 10 ). It is unclear whether long-term use of calcitonin is associated with increased cancer risk ( 62 ). Table 22. Regulation of Calcitonin Secretion View in own window Calcium and related ions (CaSR) Age and gender Gastrointestinal factors The CT receptor, like the PTH and calcium-sensing receptor, is a heptahelical G protein-coupled receptor coupled to the PKA, PKC, and Ca++ signal transduction pathways ( 63 , 64 ). The CT gene through alternative exon splicing and polypeptide processing ultimately encodes two peptide products, CT in thyroid C-cells which is processed from a 141-amino acid precursor, and a 37-amino peptide called gene-related peptide (CGRP) in neural tissues which is processed from a 128-amino acid precursor ( 1 , 65 ). CGRP is weakly recognized by the CT receptor and thereby has a CT-like effect on osteoclasts and osteoblasts. CGRP also acts through its own receptor to produce vasodilation and to act as a neurotransmitter. In addition to its role in calcium and skeletal metabolism, CT is important as a tumor marker in medullary thyroid carcinoma and other neuroendocrine tumors. The receptor that mediates the effects of the peptide products of the CT gene can be modulated by accessory proteins to alter binding characteristics ( 65 ). Table 23. Effects of Calcitonin on Mineral Metabolism View in own window Bone Inhibits resorption Kidney Increases calcium excretion Increases phosphorus excretion Gastrointestinal Tract ? Inhibitory effect on calcium/phosphorus absorption Blood Decreases calcium Decreases phosphorus OTHER HORMONES In addition to
