Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


own window Bone Inhibits resorption Kidney Increases calcium excretion Increases phosphorus excretion Gastrointestinal Tract ? Inhibitory effect on calcium/phosphorus absorption Blood Decreases calcium Decreases phosphorus OTHER HORMONES In addition to the primary calcemic hormones, other hormones play an important role in calcium and skeletal metabolism ( 1 - 3 ). Gonadal steroids maintain skeletal mass. Estrogen deficiency is a major factor in the development of postmenopausal osteoporosis by permitting increased bone resorption. There is controversy about whether the elevation in FSH that accompanies menopause also contributes to increased bone resorption ( 66 ). In an animal model, a blocking antibody to the beta subunit of FSH decreased bone resorption ( 67 ). Glucocorticoids have significant deleterious effects on the skeleton including decreased bone density, increased fracture risk, and increased risk of avascular necrosis ( 68 ). Glucocorticoids transiently increase bone resorption, chronically decrease bone formation and cause osteoblast and osteocyte apoptosis ( 68 ). Insulin, growth hormone, and thyroid hormones promote skeletal growth and maturation. Excess production of the latter can cause hypercalcemia ( Table 24 ). Table 24. Effects of Hormones on Mineral Metabolism View in own window Decrease Bone Resorption Calcitonin Estrogens Increase Bone Resorption PTH/PTHrP Glucocorticoids (early) Thyroid Hormones High dose vitamin D ? FSH Increase Bone Formation Growth Hormone Vitamin D Metabolites Androgens Insulin Low-dose PTH/PTHrP Decrease Bone Formation Glucocorticoids (also increase osteocyte apoptosis) SUMMARY Through their actions and interactions on bone, kidney and the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, the calciotropic hormones, parathyroid hormone (PTH), FGF23, and vitamin D metabolites, especially 1,25-D, act to maintain serum (and extracellular fluid) calcium within a normal range, a range that optimally subserves many calcium-requiring physiological functions such as neural transmission and muscle contraction. Perturbations in serum calcium, which plays an important role in regulating the concentrations of the calciotropic hormones, will cause a homeostatically appropriate and reciprocal change in the secretion of PTH by the parathyroid glands. These responses are designed to return the serum calcium, and, to a lesser extent, the serum phosphorus and magnesium to normal, with the skeleton acting as a reservoir for these minerals that can be emptied or filled. During the last several years, a more physiologically integrated view of calcium metabolism has emerged. The metabolism of the skeleton has been linked to the metabolism of glucose in a manner that coordinates the regulation of bone mass with energy expenditure. And in addition to peripheral
