Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: bone, calcium, vitamin, pth, metabolism, cells, resorption, pubmed, pthrp, phosphate, receptor, phosphorus, skeletal, effects, table


metabolism of the skeleton has been linked to the metabolism of glucose in a manner that coordinates the regulation of bone mass with energy expenditure. And in addition to peripheral hormone regulation, the CNS exerts important regulatory effects on both systems, which encompass calcium and glucose metabolism, body and skeletal mass regulations, and energy expenditure and appetite. The patient with hypoparathyroidism will have hypocalcemia with an inappropriately normal or low PTH and low 1,25(OH)2D. The patient with nonparathyroid hypocalcemia will have an increased serum PTH and1,25-D (unless vitamin D stores are severely reduced). This will result in increased GI absorption of calcium, increased bone resorption, and decreased renal calcium excretion all acting to increase the serum calcium toward normal. The patient with primary hyperparathyroidism will have hypercalcemia and inappropriately normal or elevated PTH. The patient with PTH-independent hypercalcemia (e.g., due to bone metastases) will have a decreased serum PTH and 1,25-D (unless the hypercalcemia is PTHrP-mediated or calcitriol-mediated). This will result in decreased GI absorption of calcium, decreased bone resorption, and increased renal calcium excretion all acting to decrease the serum calcium toward normal. Although these compensatory mechanisms act to restore serum calcium to normal, the homeostasis will not be complete until the primary abnormality has been corrected. In addition to these calciotropic hormones, other hormones, cytokines, and growth factors play an important role in calcium metabolism. Among the other important hormones are insulin, growth hormone, and the gonadal and adrenal steroids and thyroid hormone ( Table 20 ). They are discussed in other chapters. FGF23 is an important phosphate regulator with excess action causing renal phosphate wasting, hypophosphatemia, and low 1,25(OH)2D and decreased action causing renal phosphate retention, hyperphosphatemia, and inappropriately high 1,25(OH)2 D levels. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS The clinician can consider a simplified scheme when confronted with a patient with a disorder of calcium and skeletal metabolism – the serum or urinary calcium can be abnormally high or low and bone density can be increased or decreased. In practical terms, when the serum calcium is high, primary hyperparathyroidism, granulomatous and inflammatory conditions causing unregulated 1,25D production, and malignancy are at the top of the diagnostic list. When the serum calcium is low, hypoparathyroidism, malabsorption, vitamin D deficiency, and kidney disease should be considered. Chronically abnormal phosphate levels in the non-acutely ill patient may be caused by renal failure, renal tubular defects, and abnormalities of FGF23 action. When bone density
