Laparoscopic repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm
KEYWORDS: laparoscopic, aneurysm, hals, repair, procedure, days, mean, surgery, tls, aortic, open, patients, following, reported, aortic aneurysm


1 Guidance 1.1 There is adequate evidence of the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm, but the technical demands are such that this procedure should not be used without special arrangements for consent and for audit or research. 1.2 Clinicians wishing to undertake laparoscopic repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm should take the following actions. • Inform the clinical governance leads in their Trusts. • Ensure that patients understand the procedure and its place in the elective treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm. They should provide patients with clear, written information. In addition, the patient should be informed of other available techniques, and told that conversion to open surgery may be necessary. Use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. 1.3 Clinicians undertaking this procedure should submit data on all patients to the National Vascular Database held by the Vascular Society. 1.4 Selection of patients should be performed by a multidisciplinary team experienced in the management of aortic aneurysms and able to offer alternative treatment options. 1.5 This procedure should be performed by vascular surgeons who have had training in advanced laparoscopic surgery, and are mentored in these techniques. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 Dilatation of the aorta forming an aneurysm occurs in about 2% of men over the age of 65 (it is less common in women). Small aneurysms may present no problems, but some continue to grow, and larger aneurysms can leak or rupture. This carries a high risk of mortality, even when it is possible to offer emergency surgery. Preventive treatment is often advised for patients with aneurysms that represent an appreciable rupture risk. 2.1.2 The traditional treatment for abdominal aortic aneurysm is open surgical repair. The aneurysm is opened and a graft is then sewn in above and below the weakened area to allow normal blood flow. A less invasive approach is now commonly used, involving endovascular stent graft placement via the femoral arteries, but not all aneurysms are suitable for endovascular treatment. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Laparoscopic repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm can be done by hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery (HALS) or by the technically more demanding totally laparoscopic surgery (TLS). In HALS, a midline minilaparotomy incision is made for insertion of one of the surgeon's hands to aid the procedure. In both techniques, small skin incisions are made for insertion of a laparoscope and instruments to guide and/or perform
