Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 January 21; 21(3): 913-918
KEYWORDS: liver, nafld, steatosis, cancer, hepatic, patients, study, development, risk, colorectal, neoplasms, association, fibrosis, liver cancer, lmcc


Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 January 21; 21(3): 913-918 Help Desk: ISSN 1007-9327 (print) ISSN 2219-2840 (online) DOI: © 2015 Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. ORIGINAL ARTICLE Retrospective Study Association of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and liver cancer Perla Oliveira Schulz, Fabio Gonçalves Ferreira, Maria de Fátima Araújo Nascimento, Andrea Vieira, Mauricio Alves Ribeiro, André Ibrahim David, Luiz Arnaldo Szutan Perla Oliveira Schulz, Andrea Vieira, Gastroenterology Service, Abstract Sciences, São Paulo 01277-900, Brazil AIM: To investigate the association between nonalcoholic Santa Casa School of Medical Sciences, São Paulo 01277-900, prevalence in different liver tumors. Brazil Brazil diagnosed with primary or secondary hepatic neoplasms Fabio Gonçalves Ferreira, Mauricio Alves Ribeiro, Luiz and treated at a tertiary center where they underwent hepatic resection and/or liver transplantation, with Hypertension Group, Santa Casa School of Medical Sciences, subsequent evaluation of the explant or liver biopsy. São Paulo 01277-900, Brazil The following criteria were used to exclude patients Author contributions: Schulz PO performed the research and from the study: a history of alcohol abuse, hepatitis collected and analyzed the data; Ferreira FG contributed to the design of the study; Nascimento MFA performed the histological B or C infection, no tumor detected in the liver tissue analysis; Vieira A, Ribeiro MA, David AI and Szutan LA examined by histological analysis, and the presence contributed to the design of the study and analysis of the data; of chronic autoimmune hepatitis, hemochromatosis, Schulz PO and Ferreira FG wrote the manuscript. Wilson’s disease, or hepatoblastoma. The occurrence of Supported by CAPES-MEC-Brazil - Grant master’s thesis. NAFLD and the association with its known risk factors Open-Access: This article is an open-access article which was were studied. The risk factors considered were diabetes selected by an in-house editor and fully peer-reviewed by external mellitus, impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting reviewers. It is distributed in accordance with the Creative glucose, body mass index, dyslipidemia, and arterial Commons Attribution Non Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) license, hypertension. Presence of reticulin fibers in the hepatic which permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon this neoplasms was assessed by histological analysis work non-commercially, and license their derivative works on using slide-mounted specimens stained with either different terms, provided the original work is properly cited and hematoxylin and eosin or Masson’s trichrome and silver the use is non-commercial. See: licenses/by-nc/4.0/ impregnation. Analysis of tumor-free liver parenchyma Santa Casa School of Medical Sciences,
