Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 January 21; 21(3): 913-918
KEYWORDS: liver, nafld, steatosis, cancer, hepatic, patients, study, development, risk, colorectal, neoplasms, association, fibrosis, liver cancer, lmcc


or secondary. The aim of this studies have suggested that the early stage of hepatic study was to evaluate the possible association of NAFLD steatosis can be a favorable microenvironment for the with the most common primary and secondary liver development of liver metastases of colorectal cancer cancers. (LMCC). Others have suggested that hepatic steatosis has a protective role in the development of LMCC. Our MATERIALS AND METHODS analysis of the association of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) with liver primary and secondary Study design malignancies found a statistically higher prevalence of NAFLD in patients with LMCC, but not in non-cirrhotic and histological data of 120 patients diagnosed with HCC patients. either primary or secondary hepatic neoplasms. Patients were treated in the Hospital of Santa Casa Medical School of São Paulo between the dates of January 2007 Schulz PO, Ferreira FG, Nascimento MFA, Vieira A, Ribeiro and December 2011. All of the studies were conducted MA, David AI, Szutan LA. Association of nonalcoholic fatty following approval by the local Ethics in Human liver disease and liver cancer. World J Gastroenterol 2015; Research Committee. 21(3): 913-918 Available from: URL: All of the 120 patients underwent hepatic resection com/1007-9327/full/v21/i3/913.htm DOI: and/or liver transplantation followed by subsequent org/ evaluation of the explant or liver biopsy. Patients were excluded from the study due to: history of alcohol abuse, defined as intake of 20 g/d or more; hepatitis B or C infection; absence of tumor-free liver tissue in INTRODUCTION histological material; presence of chronic autoimmune With the increasing prevalence of obesity and insulin hepatitis, hemochromatosis, or Wilson’s disease; resistance in the Western world, nonalcoholic fatty liver hepatoblastoma cases due to very specific characteristics disease (NAFLD) has become a major cause of chronic and histopathological features. liver disease. Based on studies using different diagnostic The medical records of the included patients prevalence vary from 6.3% to 33.0% (average = 20%). comorbidities. Comorbidities were defined as: previous Molecular and pathophysiological changes caused by diagnosis of diabetes mellitus (DM) or impaired glucose NAFLD may lead to liver cancer, increasing the incidence tolerance (GI) and/or impaired fasting glucose (defined rate and modifying the epidemiology of primary and as ≥ 100 mg/dL); overweight, using the patient’s height metastatic liver cancer[3-6]. It is predicted that NAFLD and weight to calculate the body mass index (BMI) will emerge as the main risk factor for the development and with the overweight threshold set
