Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 January 21; 21(3): 913-918
KEYWORDS: liver, nafld, steatosis, cancer, hepatic, patients, study, development, risk, colorectal, neoplasms, association, fibrosis, liver cancer, lmcc


of experience in liver Neither liver fibrosis nor NAFLD showed any and/or patient demographics. The histological diagnosis for any of the tumors studied (Table 2). Although two of hepatic neoplasms was made using slide-mounted individuals with steatohepatitis had GI and/or DM, these specimens stained with hematoxylin and eosin or findings were not statistically significant (P = 0.507). An Masson’s trichrome and silver impregnation to assess analysis based on the type of liver cancer showed an reticulin fibers. Using the Kleiner et al classification association of steatosis only in liver metastasis due to scoring system, we assessed the histological grade of colorectal cancer (Table 3) and fibrosis only in HCC. lesions in the tumor-free liver parenchyma. DISCUSSION Statistical analysis Descriptive statistics using the previously defined The clinical course of NAFLD may vary according to variables were performed to assess the results. The the initial histological diagnosis and can range from a Statistical Package for Social Sciences version 13.0 was reversible benign outcome (steatosis) to the development used for statistical calculations. Epi Info version 3.4.3 of an inflammatory steatohepatitis (NASH) in 10%-20% was used to evaluate confidence intervals (CIs) and odds of cases. Once established, 3%-5% of NASH cases ratios (ORs). Descriptive analyses were performed on the progress to cirrhosis within 15-20 years, with an summary measures for quantitative variables. Qualitative increase in risk of developing HCC. In the Western variables were calculated, and absolute and relative population, the cumulative annual incidence rate of frequencies were determined. The Student’s t-test was HCC in patients with NASH and cirrhosis was reported used for comparisons of NAFLD with liver malignancy. as 2.6%, while in the Asian population this rate was The Mann-Whitney test was used for nonparametric reported as 11.3%. variables. The χ2 test and Fisher’s exact test were used Recently, Hamady et al identified hepatic steatosis for statistical analysis. Significance level for all tests was as an independent risk factor for recurrence following defined at 5% (P < 0.05). curative resection of liver metastasis from colorectal cancer (LMCC) and was also associated with a worse prognosis. The biological characteristics of these RESULTS metastases include bilateral distribution, lymph node The demographic characteristics and histological features involvement, and the presence of extrahepatic disease of the 120 included patients are listed in Table 1. Milder at diagnosis. Changes in inflammatory cytokines and degrees of steatosis (grade 1; 39 cases) and liver fibrosis extracellular matrix remodeling proteinases
