Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 January 21; 21(3): 913-918
KEYWORDS: liver, nafld, steatosis, cancer, hepatic, patients, study, development, risk, colorectal, neoplasms, association, fibrosis, liver cancer, lmcc


in in some cases represented an absence of demographic patients involved in the current study was similar to that information, anthropometric measurements, laboratory reported in the literature. No statistical differences were data, and other patient details. A prospective study found in the association of hepatic steatosis neoplasms may have provided more accurate evidence of a causal compared with the general population (34.2% in the relationship between NAFLD and hepatic neoplasms. study group vs 20%-30% in the general population). However, such a study design is logistically very difficult However, when analysis was performed in our study to perform due to the low annual incidence rate of according to the different cancer types, we found a higher different cancers in non-cirrhotic liver. prevalence of hepatic steatosis in patients with LMCC, Surveillance screening of hepatic neoplasms in every even in cases with milder liver fibrosis, suggesting that obese or diabetic non-cirrhotic individual would not be even milder degrees of steatosis may be used as predictors cost-effective, considering that both metabolic disorders for the development of hepatic neoplasms. Steatosis are epidemic in Brazil and several other countries around and liver cancer share several risk factors (including the world. Thus, defining risk factors responsible for obesity, hyperinsulinemia, GI, and DM), with hepatic the development of liver cancer is crucial for increasing steatosis directly changing the liver microcirculation and response rates of patients diagnosed at an early disease inflammatory cytokines promoting the development stage and treated with appropriate therapies for malignant of liver metastases. It is also possible, however, that tumors, which would consequently lead to a better there is no direct relationship of steatosis with the onset prognosis. of metastasis. Previous exposure to chemotherapy has In conclusion, the present study found no statistically been shown to result in an increase in both steatosis significant association of NAFLD in patients with liver and steatohepatitis, in up to 92% of cases studied. neoplasms in the general population. Only liver metastasis Furthermore, steatosis induced by neoadjuvant of colorectal cancer showed a significant association with chemotherapy was shown to lead to greater circulation NAFLD. disorder with increased susceptibility to complications, such as micro-metastases. Yet another possibility is that C COOMMMMEENNTTSS the association of NAFLD with liver colorectal metastases may occur randomly, as suggested by the high prevalence Background of hepatic steatosis in the general population, with no real Some studies have suggested that early stages of hepatic steatosis can
