Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 January 21; 21(3): 913-918
KEYWORDS: liver, nafld, steatosis, cancer, hepatic, patients, study, development, risk, colorectal, neoplasms, association, fibrosis, liver cancer, lmcc


occur randomly, as suggested by the high prevalence Background of hepatic steatosis in the general population, with no real Some studies have suggested that early stages of hepatic steatosis can relationship existing between these two diseases. be considered a favorable microenvironment for the development of liver A discrete prevalence (with no statistically significant metastases of colorectal cancer (LMCC) as well as for the development of primary liver cancers such as hepatocellular carcinoma and intrahepatic association) of steatosis was observed in the presence cholangiocarcinoma. Yet, other studies have suggested a protective role of of GI and/or DM, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and hepatic steatosis in the development of LMCC. overweight status. GI, DM and obesity are considered Research frontiers risk factors for the development of most of the hepatic Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) includes a spectrum of diseases WJG|www.wjgnet.com 916 January 21, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 3| Schulz PO et al. NAFLD and liver cancer starting with simple steatosis, steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis, and finally 11 Reddy SK, Hyder O, Marsh JW, Sotiropoulos GC, Paul cirrhosis. Associations of NAFLD with cirrhotic stage and primary liver cancer A, Alexandrescu S, Marques H, Pulitano C, Barroso E, have already been shown. Although primary liver cancer has been extensively Aldrighetti L, Geller DA, Sempoux C, Herlea V, Popescu studied, there has not been strong scientific evidence reported for non-cirrhotic I, Anders R, Rubbia-Brandt L, Gigot JF, Mentha G, Pawlik NAFLD patients. In early stages of steatosis, the associations with liver cancer TM. Prevalence of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis among have ranged from protection to NAFLD as a causal factor in the development of patients with resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. LMCC. J Gastrointest Surg 2013; 17: 748-755 [PMID: 23355033 DOI: Innovations and breakthroughs ] This study found a significant association between NAFLD and liver metastasis 12 Welzel TM, Graubard BI, Zeuzem S, El-Serag HB, Davila of colorectal cancer, but not with any of the other liver neoplasms studied. JA, McGlynn KA. Metabolic syndrome increases the risk Applications of primary liver cancer in the United States: a study in the SEER-Medicare database. Hepatology 2011; 54: 463-471 [PMID: Surveillance screening of hepatic neoplasms in every obese or diabetic non- 21538440 DOI: ] cirrhotic individual would be cost prohibitive since both metabolic disorders are 13 Wong VW, Wong GL, Tsang SW, Fan T, Chu WC, Woo J, epidemic. Thus, defining risk factors responsible for the development of liver Chan AW, Choi PC, Chim AM, Lau
