NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amantadine, influenza, liver, antiviral, agents, antiviral agents, drug, disease, pmid, injury, review, pubmed, pubmed pmid, drugs, treatment


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amantadine. [Updated 2020 Jun 22]. Bookshelf URL: Amantadine Updated: June 22, 2020. OVERVIEW Introduction Amantadine is a primary amine that has both antiviral and dopaminergic activity and is used in the therapy of influenza A and management of Parkinson disease. Amantadine has not been associated with clinically apparent liver injury. Background Amantadine (a man' ta deen) is a cyclic primary amine that has antiviral and anti-Parkinsonian activities. Th e antiviral activity of amantadine is attributed to inhibition of virion uncoating and release of viral RNA in the initial stages of viral replication. Amantadine is active only against influenza A virus and has no activity against influenza B or other upper respiratory viruses. In addition, resistance to amantadine (with cross resistance to rimantadine) can develop rapidly and is now common. The anti-Parkinsonian activity of amantadine appears to be due to its effects on release of dopamine in the substantia nigra. Amantadine is indicated for therapy of influenza A and in management of Parkinson disease and extrapyramidal reactions. Amantadine was approved for use in the United States in 1968 and is currently used both for influenza and Parkinson disease. Amantadine is available as capsules or tablets of 100 mg and as oral syrup generically and under the brand name of Symmetrel. The recommended oral dose for treatment of influenza in adults is 200 mg daily until symptoms have resolved; amantadine can also be administered as prophylaxis as soon as possible after close personal exposure. The dose in Parkinson disease is 100 to 400 mg daily in divided doses. Side effects include anxiety, dizziness, ataxia, confusion, fatigue, headache, insomnia, dry mouth and gastrointestinal upset. Rare potentially severe adverse events include convulsions, depression, suicidal ideation and behavior, acute psychosis, heart failure and hypersensitivity reactions. Hepatotoxicity Despite widespread use, there is little evidence that amantadine when given orally causes liver injury, either in the form of serum enzyme elevations or clinically apparent liver disease. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Amantadine has minimal hepatic metabolism and is excreted largely unchanged in the urine, factors which perhaps explain the absence of significant hepatotoxicity. Drug Classes: Antiviral Agents; Antiparkinson Agents 2 LiverTox Other Drugs in the Class for Influenza: Baloxavir, Oseltamivir, Peramivir, Rimantadine, Zanamivir PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Amantadine – Generic, Symmetrel® DRUG
