Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


ABSTRACT In the early 1990’s, clinicians’ choices for pharmacological management of type 2 diabetes were limited to insulin, sulfonylureas, and metformin. Since then, multiple classes of agents have been discovered, approved, and put into clinical use. Through a series of cardiovascular outcome trials and other clinical trials, some classes of agents have been found to have benefits on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, congestive heart failure, and chronic kidney disease, sometimes independent of glycemic control. As a result, diabetes management has shifted away from a “one size fits all” care to an individualized approach for each patient. Important factors to consider include efficacy, cost, side effects, adherence and treatment burden, comorbidities, mechanisms of action, and non-glycemic effects on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, congestive heart failure, and chronic kidney disease. The goal of this chapter is to discuss an approach to pharmacological management that reviews current guidelines, discusses choosing appropriate glycemic targets, and presents the rationale for choosing certain medications in different situations. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Foundational to the treatment of type 2 diabetes is glucose control. Diabetes increases the risk of microvascular and macrovascular complications, as well as mortality, morbidity, and healthcare costs. While lifestyle interventions are the basis for glucose control, most people will eventually need one or more pharmacologic treatments. This is because type 2 diabetes is a disease characterized by progressive beta-cell loss and dysfunction, leading to deterioration of metabolic control over time. Because of the growth in the number of antihyperglycemic agents in recent years, there are now more choices than ever in terms of how to achieve glucose control. Agents should be chosen with a goal of achieving glucose control, reducing risk of microvascular and macrovascular disease, and minimizing treatment burden ( 1 - 8 ) SELECTION OF GLYCEMIC TARGETS The first step in the approach to glycemic control in type 2 diabetes is the selection of an appropriate glycemic target. Glycemic control can be measured in a variety of ways, including hemoglobin A1c, self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG), and continuous glucose monitoring. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) makes available a range of metrics, including time in target, percent of time with hypoglycemia, percent of time with hyperglycemia, and glucose variability (as determined by standard deviation or coefficient of variation). Hemoglobin A1c has traditionally been the metric used in clinical trials. However, there is
