Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


of time with hyperglycemia, and glucose variability (as determined by standard deviation or coefficient of variation). Hemoglobin A1c has traditionally been the metric used in clinical trials. However, there is increasing interest in the use of time in range from CGM, as it is not subject to the same measurement limitations as hemoglobin A1c, responds more quickly to changes in glucose, and better reflects glucose variability ( 4 , 6 , 9 , 10 ). Note that the hemoglobin A1c may not be accurate in conditions in which there is altered red blood cell turnover or in the presence of some hemoglobin variants. Further details can be found in the Endotext chapter (Monitoring Techniques-Continuous Glucose Monitoring, Mobile Technology, Biomarkers of Glycemic Control ( 11 )). Professional societies such as the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE) differ somewhat on their recommendations for glycemic targets. However, the tenant of individualization of glycemic targets is central to both of their recommended approaches. The ADA recommendations are shown in Table 1 , and were modified to include time in range targets from CGMs in 2021 ( 4 , 12 ). In contrast, the AACE clinical guidelines state that “An A1c of ≤ 6.5% (48 mmol/mol) is considered optimal if it can be achieved in a safe and affordable manner, but higher targets may be appropriate for certain individuals and may change for a given individual over time.” ( 1 ) Table 1. Glycemic Target Recommendations from the American Diabetes Association 2021 Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes View in own window An A1c goal for many nonpregnant adults of <7% without significant hypoglycemia is appropriate. If using ambulatory glucose profile/glucose management indicator to assess glycemia, a parallel goal for many non-pregnant adults is time in range of >70% with time below range <4% and time <54 mg/dL <1%. On the basis of provider judgement and patient preference, achievement of lower A1c levels than the goal of 7% may be acceptable and even beneficial if it can be achieved safely without significant hypoglycemia or other adverse effects of treatment. Less stringent A1c goals (such as <8% [64 mmol/mol]) may be appropriate for patients with limited life expectancy or where the harms of treatment are greater than the benefits. Adapted from American Diabetes Association ( 4 ). The differing recommendations of the ADA and AACE are based, in part,
