Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


where the harms of treatment are greater than the benefits. Adapted from American Diabetes Association ( 4 ). The differing recommendations of the ADA and AACE are based, in part, on considerations and interpretations of the ADVANCE (Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation), ACCORD (Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes), and VADT (Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial) trials. A discussion of these trials is outside the scope of this chapter, but excellent summaries can be found elsewhere ( 1 , 4 , 13 - 17 ). The primary risk of lower glycemic targets is hypoglycemia. In general, rates of hypoglycemia are unappreciated ( 18 ). A meta-analysis has found that among individuals with type 2 diabetes on insulin, the average incidence of hypoglycemia is 23 mild or moderate events and 1 severe episode annually ( 19 ). In 2015, there were 235,000 emergency room visits in the U.S. for hypoglycemia among adults with type 2 diabetes. This corresponds to a rate of 10.2 per 1,000 adults with diabetes ( 20 ). Hypoglycemia is associated with significant morbidity, mortality, and decreased quality of life. For example, among Medicare beneficiaries in 2010, hospitalizations for hypoglycemia were associated with an adjusted 30-day readmission rate of 18.1% and 30-day mortality rate of 5% ( 21 ). The use of glucose lowering drugs with a low potential for hypoglycemia allows one to safely achieve lower glycemic targets. Other risks of lower glycemic targets include increased burden of treatment, polypharmacy, cost, and side effects from particular medications (weight gain, pancreatitis, etc.). Lower glucose targets early in the course of the disease can have a favorable legacy effect which can last for years later. Conversely, individuals with multiple comorbidities and complications from diabetes show less benefit from lower glucose targets. Factors to consider in the individualization of glycemic targets are shown in Table 2 ( 4 ). Table 2. Factors Guiding Individualization of Glycemic Targets View in own window Favoring lower glucose targets Favoring higher glucose targets Low risks associated with hypoglycemia and other drug adverse effects High risks associated with hypoglycemia and other drug adverse effects Newly diagnosed Long standing diabetes Long life expectancy Short life expectancy No important comorbidities Many comorbidities No vascular complications Severe vascular complications Highly motivated patient with excellent self-care capabilities Patient preference for less burdensome therapy Available resources and support system Limited resources and support
