Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


Many comorbidities No vascular complications Severe vascular complications Highly motivated patient with excellent self-care capabilities Patient preference for less burdensome therapy Available resources and support system Limited resources and support system Adapted from American Diabetes Association ( 4 ). For most patients, an A1c goal of <7% will be appropriate. However, for older patients with multiple comorbidities, an A1c goal of 8-8.5% is more appropriate, and will minimize risks of hypoglycemia, increased treatment burden, and potential side effects. Major exceptions to this goal would be patients with a short life expectancy for any reason (severe comorbidities, very old age, etc.) in which the risks of tight control outweigh the long-term benefits in reduction of complications that may never be realized. In these populations, the goal is to avoid hypoglycemia and symptomatic hyperglycemia ( 4 , 6 ). GENERAL PRINCIPLES Table 3 outlines basic principles of type 2 diabetes management, as formulated by the AACE and the American College of Endocrinology. Table 3. Principles of Type 2 Diabetes Management View in own window Lifestyle modification underlies all therapy (e.g. , weight control, physical activity, sleep, etc.) Avoid hypoglycemia Avoid weight gain Individualize all glycemic targets Optimal A1c is ≤6.5% or as close to normal as is safe and achievable Therapy choices are patient centric based on A1c at presentation and shared decision-making Choice of therapy reflects presence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, congestive heart failure, and renal status Comorbidities must be managed for comprehensive care Get to goal as soon as possible – adjust at ≤ 3 months until at goal Choice of therapy includes ease of use and affordability Continuous glucose monitoring is highly recommended, as available, to assist patients in reaching goals safely Adapted from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology and the American College of Endocrinology ( 1 ). Specific medication choices should be tailored to the needs of the individual patient. Important factors to consider include initial A1c, duration of diabetes, comorbidities, cardiac, cerebrovascular and renal status, cost, risk of hypoglycemia, available social supports, and patient preference. Classes of Antihyperglycemic Medications The number of classes of diabetes medications available have increased greatly since the 1990’s, as shown in Figure 1 . In 2022 a new type of incretin was added to the antihyperglycemic armamentarium – a combined GIP/GLP-1 receptor agonist ( 22 - 26 ). A thorough discussion of the available medication types can be found in other
