Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


insulin secretion Decrease glucagon secretion Dopamine-2 agonist Activates dopaminergic receptors Meglitinides Increase insulin secretion GLP-1 receptor agonists / combined GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonists Increase glucose-dependent insulin secretion Decrease glucose secretion Slow gastric emptying Increase satiety SGLT-2 inhibitors Increase urinary excretion of glucose Sulfonylureas Increase insulin secretion Thiazolidinediones Increase glucose uptake in muscle and fat Decrease hepatic glucose production DDP-4 = dipeptidyl peptidase 4; GLP-1 = glucagon-like peptide 1; SGLT-2 = sodium-glucose co-transporter 2. Adapted from AACE 2015 and slideshow ( 2 , 33 ) Table 6. Characteristics of Commonly Used Antihyperglycemic Medication Classes View in own window Drugs Ability to Lower Glucose Risk of Hypoglycemia Weight Change Effect on ASCVD Effect on CHF Effect on Renal Disease 2 nd generation SU High Yes Increase Neutral Neutral Neutral Metformin High No Neutral-modest weight loss Potential benefit Neutral Neutral TZDs High No Increase Potential benefit (pioglitazone) Increased Neutral DPP-4 inhibitors Intermediate No Neutral Neutral Potential increase (saxagliptin, alogliptin) Neutral SGLT-2 inhibitors Intermediate No Decrease Potential benefit Benefit Benefit – reduced progression of renal failure GLP-1 receptor agonists High No Decrease Benefit Neutral-Potential Benefit Benefit-decreased proteinuria DDP-4 = dipeptidyl peptidase 4; GLP-1 = glucagon-like peptide 1; SGLT-2 = sodium-glucose co-transporter 2; SU = sulfonylurea; TZD = thiazolidinediones. Adapted from American Diabetes Association and Endotext Chapter Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes ( 5 , 27 ) Therapeutic Inertia Reassessment of patient’s achievement of their glycemic goals as well as the appropriateness of these goals at regular intervals is necessary. In diabetes, therapeutic inertia can include both the failure to advance or to de-intensify treatment when appropriate to do so. Failure to escalate therapy when appropriate is associated with worse microvascular and macrovascular outcomes and higher health costs ( 34 , 35 ). Furthermore, several studies have shown that achieving A1c targets early in the course of the disease is associated with maintaining lower A1c levels for longer ( 35 - 37 ). Delays in appropriate deintensification of therapy is also a widespread problem ( 35 , 38 , 39 ). A number of factors contribute to therapeutic inertia, many of which can be classified as patient-related factors, physician-related factors, and health care system factors (see Table 7 ) ( 40 ). In addition, societal level factors, such as health care payment models, society inequity, and social determinants of health care contribute to therapeutic inertia. Table 7. Factors Contributing to
