Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


40 ). In addition, societal level factors, such as health care payment models, society inequity, and social determinants of health care contribute to therapeutic inertia. Table 7. Factors Contributing to Therapeutic Inertia in Diabetes Care View in own window Patient-related Physician-related Healthcare system-related Denial of disease Time constraints No clinical guidelines Lack of awareness of progressive nature of disease leading to feeling of “failure” Lack of support No disease registry Lack of awareness of implications of poor glycemic control Concerns over costs of treatment and testing No visit planning Fear of side effects (hypoglycemia, weight gain) Reactive rather than proactive care No active outreach to patients Concerns over ability to manage more complicated treatment regimens Underestimation of patient’s needs No decision support Too many medications Lack of information/understanding of new treatment options No team approach to care Treatment costs Lack of information on side effects/fear of causing harm Poor communication between physician and staff Poor communication with physician Lack of clear guidance on individualizing treatment Lack of support Concern over patient’s ability to manage for complicated treatment regimens Lack of trust in physician Concerns over patient adherence Adapted from Okemah ( 40 ). ALGORITHM FOR ANTIHYPERGLYCEMIC MEDICATIONS There are a number of algorithms available to guide the choice of antihyperglycemic medications for type 2 diabetes. These include algorithms from the American Diabetes Association, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology and American College of Endocrinology, and the European Society of Cardiology and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes, among others. While these differ in the details, they share a similar approach ( 1 - 3 , 5 , 28 , 41 , 42 ). The cornerstone of treatment of type 2 diabetes is comprehensive lifestyle education. This includes diabetes self-management education and support (DSMES), medical nutrition therapy, routine physical activity, smoking cessation counseling, and psychosocial care. DSMES has been shown to result in improved quality of life, reduced all-cause mortality risk, and health care costs ( 43 - 49 ). Specific lifestyle goals, if possible, include at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise per week and a reduction in body weight by 5-10% ( 1 , 49 ). Weight loss in type 2 diabetes can improve glycemic control, result in diabetes remission, and cause improvements in blood pressure, lipids, hepatic steatosis, obstructive sleep apnea, osteoarthritis, and renal function ( 1 , 2 , 50 - 53 ). Initiating Treatment
