Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


in diabetes remission, and cause improvements in blood pressure, lipids, hepatic steatosis, obstructive sleep apnea, osteoarthritis, and renal function ( 1 , 2 , 50 - 53 ). Initiating Treatment For individuals requiring pharmacologic treatment, monotherapy is a reasonable approach for patients whose A1c is close to goal. Historically, metformin has been recommended as the first line agent, unless there are contraindications. However, in light of the growing evidence supporting use of GLP-1 receptor agonists and/or SGLT-2 inhibitors to decrease atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), heart failure, and/or chronic kidney disease, there has been movement to consider use of these agents before metformin ( 1 , 5 , 42 ). In 2022, the ADA modified its previous recommendations that metformin be used as a first line agent in the absence of contraindications ( 54 ). The ADA now recommends that “First-line therapy depends on comorbidities, patient-centered treatment factors, and management needs and generally includes metformin and comprehensive lifestyle modification…. Other medications (glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists, sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors), with or without metformin based on glycemic needs, are appropriate initial therapy for individuals with type 2 diabetes with or at high risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure, and/or chronic kidney disease” ( 5 ). AACE recommends that “The choice of diabetes therapies must be individualized based on attributes specific to both patients and the medications themselves…. The choice of therapy depends on the patients cardiac, cerebrovascular, and renal status” ( 1 ). Thus, the ADA and AACE are now in agreement that GLP-1 receptor agonists and SGLT-2 inhibitors should be considered as first line agents in certain patients ( 1 , 5 ). Of note, use of these agents as first line treatment can often still be limited by cost and insurance coverage considerations. Combination Therapy Many patients will require combination treatment. Initial combination treatment should be considered in individuals with an elevated A1c. AACE recommends initial combination treatment for A1c > 7.5%, while the ADA recommends initial combination treatment for patients with A1c 1.5-2% above their glycemic target ( 1 , 5 ). For individuals with A1c > 9-10% with symptoms of hyperglycemia or catabolism, insulin therapy should be the initial treatment. For individuals with A1c > 9-10% without symptoms, initial treatment with dual or triple therapy without insulin can be considered, although insulin is often needed. Generally, medications are added, instead of substituting medications. This is because
