Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


without symptoms, initial treatment with dual or triple therapy without insulin can be considered, although insulin is often needed. Generally, medications are added, instead of substituting medications. This is because of the progressive nature of diabetes, and because medications can be chosen that act in complementary manners. Important exceptions to this is that incretin agents should not be combined (i.e. DDP-4 inhibitors and GLP-1 receptor agonists), and that sulfonylureas and meglitinide are typically stopped when prandial insulin is initiated. Durability The natural history of type 2 diabetes is one of progressive beta cell failure that leads to the need to intensify a medical regimen over time. This generally means starting with one medication and adding others as needed to meet glycemic goals. Some medications are able to maintain glycemic control for longer than others, and thus have a more favorable effect on the natural history of diabetes, likely by successfully modifying and improving the underlying abnormal physiology. In general, sulfonylureas have been found to be less durable than other diabetes medications. For example, in the A Diabetes Outcome Progression Trial (ADOPT), among patients with newly diagnosed diabetes, the 5-year failure rate for sulfonylureas was 15% for rosiglitazone, 21% for metformin, and 34% for glyburide ( 55 ). While sulfonylureas are able to affect an increase in insulin production, they are unable to correct the underlying beta cell dysfunction. Metformin Metformin is traditionally considered the first line agent due to low risk of hypoglycemia, good antihyperglycemic efficacy, ability to promote weight loss, and cost. Compared to sulfonylureas, its effects tend to be more durable, and there is stronger data supporting its cardiovascular safety ( 56 ). Metformin commonly causes gastrointestinal side effects, which can often be minimized by starting at a low dose and gradually titrating and using extended release formulations ( 57 ). While the maximum dose is 850 mg three times a day, most people do not titrate past 1000 mg twice a day. Metformin is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, and should not be used in individuals at increased risk of lactic acidosis, such as in chronic kidney disease or hepatic disease. While metformin used to have contraindications based on creatinine levels, in 2016 the FDA changed these recommendations ( 58 ). Current renal dosing guidance is shown in Table 8 ( 1 , 5 , 59 - 62 ). Metformin can also lead to
