Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


FDA changed these recommendations ( 58 ). Current renal dosing guidance is shown in Table 8 ( 1 , 5 , 59 - 62 ). Metformin can also lead to vitamin B12 malabsorption and/or deficiency, which can lead to anemia and peripheral neuropathy, and so B12 levels should be monitored periodically ( 63 ). Table 8. Metformin Dosing Recommendations View in own window eGFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Recommendation > 60 No adjustments Monitor annually 45-60 No adjustments Monitor every 3-6 months 30-45 Initiation generally not recommended, but can be considered Continuation of therapy: maximum dose of 500 mg twice a day < 30 Contraindicated eGFR = estimated glomerular filtration rate. Adapted from multiple sources ( 1 , 5 , 59 - 62 ). Patients with ASCVD, Congestive Heart Failure, or Chronic Kidney Disease For patients with high-risk or established ASCVD, heart failure, or chronic kidney disease, GLP-1 receptor agonists and SGLT-2 inhibitors should be considered independent of baseline A1c, individualized A1c target, or metformin use. As described in Endotext chapter Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes, the GLP-1 receptor agonists dulaglutide, liraglutide, and semaglutide have been shown to reduce cardiovascular events in individuals at high-risk or with established ASCVD ( 1 , 5 , 27 , 64 - 66 ). In secondary analysis, improvement in renal outcomes were also seen in prespecified secondary outcomes in these trials (LEADER, SUSTAIN-6, and REWIND) ( 64 - 66 ). Markers of high-risk of ASCVD can include patients 55 years or older with coronary, carotid, or lower-extremity artery stenosis of >50% or left ventricular hypertrophy ( 5 ). Contraindications to the use of GLP-1 receptor agonists include history of pancreatitis and a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma or multiple endocrine neoplasia 2A or 2B. Some agents (exenatide, lixisenatide) are not approved in the setting of chronic kidney disease. Increase in the progression of retinopathy was seen in the pivotal trial of semaglutide, but it is unclear whether that was an effect specific to the medication or a consequence of the rapid glucose lowering ( 65 ). Tirzepatide is a novel combined GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonist which has showed substantial A1c lowering and weight loss ( 22 - 26 ). The tirzepatide cardiovascular disease outcome trials are still ongoing. SGLT-2 inhibitors have been shown to reduce diabetic kidney disease progression, hospitalizations for heart failure, and ASCVD (
