Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


- 26 ). The tirzepatide cardiovascular disease outcome trials are still ongoing. SGLT-2 inhibitors have been shown to reduce diabetic kidney disease progression, hospitalizations for heart failure, and ASCVD ( 5 , 7 , 8 , 67 - 82 ). See in Endotext chapter Pharmacological Agents for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes for additional details ( 27 ). SGLT-2 inhibitors with benefits on progression of diabetic kidney disease include canagliflozin, empagliflozin, and dapagliflozin. SGLT-2 inhibitors with proven effects on ASCVD include empagliflozin and canagliflozin. SGLT-2 inhibitors with proven effects on heart failure include empagliflozin, canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and ertugliflozin. SGLT-2 inhibitors are contraindicated in patients with a history of or increased risk of diabetic ketoacidosis, due to increased risk of euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis with these agents. In addition, they should be used caution in individuals with frequent bacterial urinary tract infections or genitourinary yeast infections, high risk for fractures and falls, foot ulceration, or other factors predisposing to diabetic ketoacidosis. An area of ongoing discussion is the use of SGLT-2 inhibitors in individuals who already have advanced chronic kidney disease. At estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 45 mL/min/1.73m 2 , SGLT-2 inhibitors are unlikely to result in substantial glucose lowering. However, they have been shown to have beneficial effects on delaying the progression of chronic kidney disease in patients with eGFRs down to 25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( 7 ). Patients with advanced chronic kidney disease on SGLT-2 inhibitors must be monitored closely, and counselled to maintain adequate fluid intake and avoid hypoglycemia. Thus, for individuals with established ASCVD or at high risk for ASCVD, either a GLP-1 receptor agonist with proven cardiovascular disease benefits (dulaglutide, liraglutide, semaglutide) or an SGLT-2 inhibitor with proven cardiovascular disease benefit (empagliflozin, canagliflozin) should be strongly considered, potentially as a first line agent. For patients with heart failure, a SGLT-2 inhibitor with a proven benefit for heart failure hospitalizations should be considered, potentially as a first line agent. For patients with chronic kidney disease and albuminuria, a SGLT-2 inhibitor should be strongly considered regardless of glycemic control. If SGLT-2 inhibitors are not tolerated or are contraindicated, a GLP-1 receptor agonist can be considered. For patients with chronic kidney disease without albuminuria, either a GLP-1 receptor agonist with proven cardiovascular disease benefit or a SGLT-2 inhibitor with proven cardiovascular disease benefit can be considered. In addition, combination therapy with GLP-1 receptor agonist and SGLT-2
