Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


GLP-1 receptor agonist with proven cardiovascular disease benefit or a SGLT-2 inhibitor with proven cardiovascular disease benefit can be considered. In addition, combination therapy with GLP-1 receptor agonist and SGLT-2 inhibitor likely has synergistic effects on glucose lowering and CVD prevention, and thus should be considered ( 8 , 83 ). Note that some SGLT-2 inhibitors and GLP-1 receptor agonists have indications for individuals without diabetes (see Table 9 ). Table 9. Antihyperglycemic Medications with Indications in Individuals Without Diabetes View in own window Medication Indication Liraglutide (Saxenda) As an adjunct to a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity for chronic weight management in adults with an initial BMI of 30 kg/m 2 or greater or BMI of 27 kg/m 2 and at least one weight-related comorbid condition (e.g. hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia) ( 84 ) Semaglutide (Wegovy) As an adjunct to a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity for chronic weight management in adults with an initial BMI of 30 kg/m 2 or greater or BMI of 27 kg/m 2 and at least one weight-related comorbid condition (e.g. hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia) ( 85 ) Dapagliflozin (Farxiga) Reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (NYHA class II-IV) ( 86 ) Dapagliflozin (Farxiga) Reduce the risk of sustained eGFR decline, end stage kidney disease, cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with chronic kidney disease at risk for progression ( 86 ) Empagliflozin (Jardiance) Reduce the risk of cardiovascular death plus hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction ( 87 ) BMI = body mass index; eGFR = estimated glomerular filtration rate; NYHA = New York Heart Association. Patients at Risk for Hypoglycemia While hypoglycemia should be avoided for all patients, it is especially important in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness, in older patients, and in patients with multiple comorbidities or diabetes complications. Medications with a higher risk of hypoglycemia should be avoided in these patients, and include sulfonylureas, meglitinides, and insulin. Medications to consider with a low risk of hypoglycemia include metformin, DPP-4 inhibitors, GLP-1 receptor agonists, SGLT-2 inhibitors, or thiazolidinediones. If a sulfonylurea must be added, a later generation agent should be chosen. Meglitinides also can be considered in some patients, and generally have a lower risk of hypoglycemia (and also less
