Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


sulfonylurea must be added, a later generation agent should be chosen. Meglitinides also can be considered in some patients, and generally have a lower risk of hypoglycemia (and also less A1c lowering potential) than sulfonylureas. Basal insulins with lower risk of hypoglycemia can also be chosen. The risk of hypoglycemia is lowest for degludec and glargine U-300, followed by glargine U-100 and detemir, with the highest risk of hypoglycemia with Neutral Protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin ( 5 ). Patients with Compelling Need for Weight Loss Most patients with diabetes have obesity or overweight, and thus benefit from medications that promote weight loss. Two of the pillars of the AACE’s treatment approach to individuals with diabetes are lifestyle modifications including weight control, and avoiding weight gain. Both GLP-1 receptor agonists and SGLT-2 inhibitors can result in weight loss, although effects are generally greater for GLP-1 receptor agonists ( 5 , 52 ). Liraglutide and semaglutide also have separate indications for weight loss regardless of diabetes status. In general, the degree of weight loss for semaglutide and liraglutide is greater than that of dulaglitude, which is greater than that of exenatide ( 5 , 52 ). The combined GIP and GLP-1 agonist tirzepatide has shown even greater weight loss than that for GLP-1 receptor agonists ( 23 , 25 ). In contrast, medications such as sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, and insulin tend to lead to weight gain ( 1 , 5 ). Patients Where Cost is an Issue For many patients, cost can be a substantial barrier to care. Many patients are uninsured or underinsured. One in four patients on insulin report rationing their insulin doses due to cost ( 88 ). Patients should be asked about barriers to care. Often medication assistance programs and rebate programs can be used to decrease or eliminate the cost burden for patients. If these approaches are not successful, medications should be chosen keeping in mind the out-of-pocket cost for the patient. The cheapest medications are metformin, sulfonylureas, and thiazolidinediones. The typical approach, unless there are contraindications, is to start with metformin, then if additional agents are necessary to add sulfonylureas and then thiazolidinediones. If additional agents are needed, insulin can be added. Human insulins (regular, NPH) are cheaper than analogue insulins, and are discussed in the Insulin Therapy section. Insulin Therapy For individuals with A1c > 9-10% with symptoms of hyperglycemia or catabolism, insulin therapy should be
