Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


cheaper than analogue insulins, and are discussed in the Insulin Therapy section. Insulin Therapy For individuals with A1c > 9-10% with symptoms of hyperglycemia or catabolism, insulin therapy should be the initial treatment. Once the initial glucotoxicity has resolved, some individuals will be able to stop insulin, especially if they are able to make lifestyle modifications and achieve weight loss. Individuals who are on maximal non-insulin therapy and still not at their goal A1c should have insulin initiated. Insulin should not be presented as a “threat” to patients. The natural history of type 2 diabetes should be discussed with patients, so that they understand that escalation of therapy and/or initiation of insulin are common, and do not represent a “failure” on the patient’s part. If individuals are not already taking a GLP-1 receptor agonist, it should be considered prior to starting insulin. There are a number of insulin titration regimens that can be followed ( 1 , 5 ). If cost is an issue, NPH and Regular insulin can be used. In patients with type 2 diabetes, insulin analogues do not always have a major advantage over human insulin products. Most studies comparing analogue insulins to human insulin products have not shown an improvement in glycemic control or reduced risk of severe hypoglycemia, although they do show reduced risk of overall and nocturnal hypoglycemia ( 89 , 90 ). A number of algorithms are available for insulin initiation and titration ( 1 , 5 ). The key is to continue to adjust the insulin doses until the patient achieves their glycemic target. Typically, the patient is first started on basal insulin, and then the dose is gradually increased. The appropriateness of their preexisting diabetes medications should be evaluated when basal insulin is started. Most medications can be continued, but consideration can be given to stopping medications without cardiovascular, congestive heart failure, or renal benefit. Patients should be regularly assessed for “overbasalization.” Signs of overbasalization are shown in Table 10 . Table 10. Signs of Overbasalization View in own window Basal dose > 0.5 IU/kg Elevated bedtime-morning differential (≥50 mg/dL) Elevated post-preprandial differential Hypoglycemia High glucose variability Adapted from American Diabetes Association ( 5 ) At that point, prandial insulin should be initiated. If patients have a meal that is substantially larger than others (typically supper), prandial insulin can be started at the largest meal, and then additional doses added as
