Management of Type 2 Diabetes: Selecting Amongst Available Pharmacological Agents
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, insulin, type, type diabetes, patients, disease, care, glucose, cardiovascular, american, treatment, free, free article, article pubmed


be initiated. If patients have a meal that is substantially larger than others (typically supper), prandial insulin can be started at the largest meal, and then additional doses added as needed. Most individuals with type 2 diabetes use a fixed prandial dose for meals, or a fixed dose with a correctional scale. However, individuals with highly variable meals or minimal insulin reserve (as assessed with a c-peptide measurement), using a carbohydrate to insulin ratio (as is done in type 1 diabetes) can be helpful. As with the initiation of basal insulin, when prandial insulin is initiated the patient’s preexisting diabetes regimen should be evaluated. In particular, sulfonylureas and meglitinides should be stopped when prandial insulin is added. For patients where cost is an issue, human insulins can be more affordable than analogue insulins. In general, insulin doses should be decreased by 20% when switching from analogue insulin to human insulin in order to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia ( 89 , 90 ). The volume of insulin that can absorbed at a given time and given site can be a factor limiting insulin titration, especially as patients get to higher doses. For patients on over 200 units of insulin a day, switching to concentrated insulin formulations should be considered. In the past, U-500 regular insulin was the only option available. It has dose dependent pharmacokinetics, typically intermediate between regular and NPH insulin. In more recent years, U-200 degludec, U-300 glargine, and U-200 lispro have become available, and are often easier to use than U-500 regular insulin. While U-500 is available in vials and pens, if at all possible pens should be used, in order to reduce the chance of dosing errors. Some individuals with type 2 diabetes on basal-bolus insulin regimens can benefit from an insulin pump ( 91 , 92 ). Insurance coverage for insulin pumps for people with type 2 diabetes varies. When coupled with a CGM, some pumps allow for hybrid closed loop dosing, in which insulin doses are adjusted automatically based on current glucose values from the CGM. CONCLUSION Pharmacologic management of type 2 diabetes requires an individualized approach that weighs important factors such as efficacy, cost, side effects, adherence and treatment burden, comorbidities, mechanisms of action, and non-glycemic effects. Appropriate selection of medication can not only result in improved glucose control, but also have favorable effects on obesity, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, congestive heart failure, and
