Nutrients 2013, 5, 3975-3992; doi:
KEYWORDS: vitamin, patients, cd-patients, nutritional, serum, untreated, deficiencies, diagnosis, acid, status, mineral, folic acid, folic, vitamin mineral, deficiency


explained by (Anaemia) nutritional deficiencies. Untreated CD (n = 35), No compromised B and B in 3 groups. 2 6 persistent villous atrophy Dickey, 2008 Homocysteine concentrations are inversely associated (n = 34, recovered (n = 41) with serum and red cell folate and with B . (B-vitamins) Nutrients 2013, 5 3978 Table 1. Cont. Neurological impairment due to vitamin E and Henri-Bhargava, 2008 CD (Vitamin E, copper) copper deficiencies in CD. Untreated CD (n = 150), after 34% anaemia at diagnosis. Iron, vitamin Bergamaschi, 2008 1 year GFD (n = 53) deficiencies and anaemia of chronic disease are (Anaemia) common in CD. GFD treatment improves anaemia. CD (Spanish) (n = 22) and Vitamin D levels correlate negatively with age. CD children (n = 120) 55% of Adult CD-patients had vitamin D Lerner, 2012 (Spanish, Israeli), deficiency (25-hydroxy < 20 ng/mL) and (Vitamin D) should be supplemented. It has been suggested that the current “early diagnosis” of CD might be associated with less vitamin and mineral deficiencies at the moment of diagnosis than the classical CD. Mineral and trace-element status of untreated CD-patients has not been widely studied. There is even a lack of recent reports in the literature (see Table 1) indicating which deficiencies should be checked in newly diagnosed celiacs in Western Europe. Therefore, we aimed to measure essential serum nutritional variables in order to assess the prevalence of vitamin and mineral deficiencies in untreated adult CD-patients from a tertiary referral Celiac Disease Centre, consuming a (gluten containing) standard Dutch (Western) diet before diagnosis. Secondly, we studied the nutritional status and differences in prevalence of vitamin and mineral deficiencies between patients with different grades of intestinal histological damage, nutritional status, and sex. 2. Materials and Methods 2.1. Patients Eighty consecutively diagnosed adult patients (aged 18–75 years) with newly diagnosed CD were Netherlands, during the period 2005–2012. All patients consumed a normal (gluten-containing) Dutch-Western diet until inclusion. The mean daily gluten intake in the Netherlands is around 13 g . Duodenal biopsy specimens were harvested to determine the grade of histological damage due to gluten sensitive enteropathy as classified by Marsh and modified by Rostami . Gastric (corpus) biopsies were routinely harvested to determine whether atrophic gastritis was present. CD associated antibodies, i.e., anti-endomysial antibodies (EMA) and anti-tTG antibodies, were determined . In addition, HLA-genotyping was performed, to analyse the presence of DQ and DQ (heterozygote or homozygote) as
