Nutrients 2013, 5, 3975-3992; doi:
KEYWORDS: vitamin, patients, cd-patients, nutritional, serum, untreated, deficiencies, diagnosis, acid, status, mineral, folic acid, folic, vitamin mineral, deficiency


CD associated antibodies, i.e., anti-endomysial antibodies (EMA) and anti-tTG antibodies, were determined . In addition, HLA-genotyping was performed, to analyse the presence of DQ and DQ (heterozygote or homozygote) as a prerequisite for a definitive diagnosis . The diagnosis of CD was based on these histopathological, serological and genetic criteria. Histopathological classification according to Marsh was used: intraepithelial lymphocytosis, crypt hyperplasia and villous atrophy Marsh IIIA, B and C (respectively, partial, subtotal and total villous atrophy) with or without elevated antibodies. Also, a group was added with low grade histopathological abnormalities Marsh I or Marsh II (lymphocytic enteritis with crypt hyperplasia) with gluten-dependent disorders, in case of elevated antibodies and the HLA-DQ or HLA-DQ genotype. 2 8 Nutrients 2013, 5 3979 Blood samples were collected as part of routine clinical care. Patients were excluded if they had an established or suspected gastrointestinal abnormality other than CD, such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). A representative sample of 24 healthy Dutch subjects (comparable for sex, age and BMI) was added to compare concentrations of vitamin A, B , folic acid and B (see control subjects 6 12 characteristics ). Both groups were studied in the same period, were living in a similar The study protocol was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee (2005, project code 05.153) of 2.2. Nutritional Status Patient characteristics and demographic data (including age (year), body height (m), body weight (kg) and self-reported involuntary weight loss in the past 1 and 6 months) were collected, BMI was calculated and biochemical analyses were performed following diagnosis and before any dietary advice to initiate a GFD. Patients were subsequently classified as “malnourished” when they unintentionally lost more than 10% of their bodyweight in the past 6 months or more than 5% in the past month prior to diagnosis or as having “risk of malnutrition” when 5%–10% of the bodyweight was unintentionally lost in the 6 months before diagnosis. Moreover, patients were classified into 3 groups on the basis of baseline BMI; less than 18.5 kg/m2 (underweight), 18.5–25.0 kg/m2 (normal weight) and more than 25 kg/m2 (overweight, or even “obese” in case of BMI above 30 kg/m2) (according to the definition of the World Health Organisation (2000)). 2.3. Biochemical Analysis Fasting venous blood samples were drawn and subsequently analysed at the endocrine and clinical and serum vitamin B were analysed by competitive immunoassay (Luminescence, Abbott, IL, USA). Serum vitamin B and vitamin
