Nutrients 2013, 5, 3975-3992; doi:
KEYWORDS: vitamin, patients, cd-patients, nutritional, serum, untreated, deficiencies, diagnosis, acid, status, mineral, folic acid, folic, vitamin mineral, deficiency


blood samples were drawn and subsequently analysed at the endocrine and clinical and serum vitamin B were analysed by competitive immunoassay (Luminescence, Abbott, IL, USA). Serum vitamin B and vitamin A status were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Vitamin (25-hydroxy) D was assessed with a competitive binding protein assay (Diasorin, Stillwater, MN, USA). Zinc status was assessed using Flame Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy (FAAS), serum haemoglobin by colorimetric methods (Cell Dyn Sapphire, Abbott, IL, USA) and ferritin values by electro-chemiluminescence immunoassay “ECLIA” (Roche, Mannheim, Germany) or “ACS CENTAUR” (Bayer, Mijdrecht, The Netherlands). Vitamin B and folic acid (both proximally absorbed) and vitamin B (distally absorbed) were 6 12 considered to represent the water-soluble vitamin status. Vitamin A and vitamin (25-hydroxy) D were considered to represent the fat-soluble vitamin status, although sun exposure, even in The Netherlands, may have a strong influence on serum levels of vitamin D. Haemoglobin and ferritin levels below the reference ranges listed were used to establish a respective diagnosis of anaemia, iron-deficiency or iron-deficiency anaemia when both haemoglobin and ferritin were below reference ranges. Patients with a serum value below the lower limit of the reference value were considered “deficient”. Reference values for the different parameters are displayed in Table 3. Nutrients 2013, 5 3980 2.4. Statistical Analysis Data were tested for normal distribution and presented as means ± SD. The percentage of patients with values below the reference value and absolute number of deficient patients were additionally calculated for all assessed serum vitamin and mineral concentrations. Data were analysed for the total group, and in stratified subgroups by sex, histological damage applied in case of continuous data and Pearson’s Chi-Square tests (χ²) in the case of comparing proportions (% of deficient patients). Analysis of variance (ANOVA), with a Bonferroni correction when a statistical significant difference was achieved, was used to compare more than two groups. A Mann-Whitney U test (Wilcoxon) or in case of more than 2 variables, a Kruskal-Wallis test was applied for variables not found in a normal distribution. The level of statistical significance was determined a priori at p < 0.05. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences Inc., Chicago, IL, USA—Windows version 20.0). 3. Results 3.1. Patient Characteristics and Nutritional Status Patient characteristics are shown in Table 2; two-thirds of the population was female. Male patients were significantly older than female patients (p = 0.006). Approximately 46%
