Nutrients 2013, 5, 3975-3992; doi:
KEYWORDS: vitamin, patients, cd-patients, nutritional, serum, untreated, deficiencies, diagnosis, acid, status, mineral, folic acid, folic, vitamin mineral, deficiency


statistically significantly different from 4. Discussion The present study showed that the majority of an “early diagnosis” adult untreated CD patient group (with so-called non-classical presentation) in the Netherlands, had at least one, and often several, serum vitamin or mineral deficiencies at diagnosis. Almost 90% of CD-patients were found to be deficient in at least one or more of the assessed nutritional parameters, and half of patients were deficient for two or more nutritional serum variables. This was observed to be unrelated to severity of In this study, no statistically significant difference in serum vitamin and mineral concentration was found between men and women, although (multi)vitamin use prior to diagnosis was more prevalent in women than men (30% vs. 13%). Information is lacking whether they took the vitamins at their own volition, or if they were prescribed by the general practitioner. In addition, the assessed serum deficiencies were independent of Marsh stratum (Table 4), nutritional status (Table 5) and age (data not shown). Folic acid deficiency was observed in 20% of the untreated CD-patients in this study. The prevalence of folate deficiency varies from 18% to 90% in varying older and newer reports of CD-patients . In studies from Scotland and Finland, folate deficiency was reported in 42% and 37% of the untreated CD-patients, respectively. The difference in prevalence might at least partially be explained by technical aspects of measurement of “folate” (which is the natural form of folic acid) and “folic acid” since bioavailability of folic acid is twice that of folate . Macrocytic anaemia in untreated CD-patients is usually caused by folate deficiency. In two large European studies, anaemia, mostly attributed to malabsorption, was reported to be present in 20%–34% of untreated CD-patients . This corresponds with our results in which 25% of the CD-patients suffered from iron-deficiency anaemia. The presence of vitamin B deficiency has been reported in two studies, albeit in children with “acute celiac disease”. A decreased pyridoxal phosphate was reported in serum samples and in duodenal mucosa, suggestive of vitamin B deficiency and indicative for decreased levels of vitamin B in untreated CD children. We found water-soluble vitamin deficiencies (B , folic acid and 6 6 B ) in approximately one in seven (B ) to one in five (folic acid and B ) untreated CD-patients. This 12 6 12 was despite the fact that more than 20% of the patients were using a
