Nutrients 2013, 5, 3975-3992; doi:
KEYWORDS: vitamin, patients, cd-patients, nutritional, serum, untreated, deficiencies, diagnosis, acid, status, mineral, folic acid, folic, vitamin mineral, deficiency


) to one in five (folic acid and B ) untreated CD-patients. This 12 6 12 was despite the fact that more than 20% of the patients were using a prescribed or over-the-counter multivitamin/vitamin B-complex or a folic acid supplement before diagnosis. Vitamin B deficiency was frequently observed in our CD-patient group (19%), in accordance with earlier studies, notably also in those without atrophic gastritis [17,18,26–28]. Intriguingly, this vitamin is typically absorbed in the terminal ileum. Apparently, the distal small bowel is functionally more Nutrients 2013, 5 3986 affected than previously believed, based on patho-histological analysis of distal small bowel biopsy samples . Vitamin B deficiency in untreated CD-patients has been confirmed in several previously conducted European studies [18,25–28], ranging from 12% up to 41%. It may be hypothesized that vitamin B deficiency is a result of a dysfunctional intrinsic factor . Dickey reported that low vitamin B concentrations in CD were not due to auto-immune gastritis . In this study, none of the patients had histologically or serologically demonstrated atrophic gastritis and, therefore, this was unlikely to be responsible for vitamin B deficiencies in CD. In various small studies in Europeans, deficiencies of the fat soluble vitamins A , E and D in untreated CD-patients have been previously reported. The latter has been associated with deficiency should be increased. As a consequence, the displayed (relatively low) deficiency percentages can therefore be an underestimation. The observed 7.5% of vitamin A deficient patients is less than the percentage reported in Finland (14%) for this vitamin . From healthy subject studies, it is known that the vitamin A body storage is usually stable and sufficient for approximately one to two years . This is confirmed by our healthy sample, in which none of the subjects showed a deficiency. A majority of our untreated CD-patients had a zinc deficiency, which can probably be explained by zinc deficiency remains inconclusive and additional research is warranted. However, it is known that CD is associated with a wide array of skin lesions and manifestations, which may be partly ascribed to zinc deficiency [47–50], and cell mediated immunity and antioxidant buffer capacity may be compromised due to it as well . Possible explanations for the high prevalence of nutritional deficiencies in untreated CD-patients might be an insufficient nutritional intake. This is supported by the presence of malnutrition in this cohort: 17% was malnourished based on the usual
