Nutrients 2013, 5, 3975-3992; doi:
KEYWORDS: vitamin, patients, cd-patients, nutritional, serum, untreated, deficiencies, diagnosis, acid, status, mineral, folic acid, folic, vitamin mineral, deficiency


or the drawing of firm conclusions in subgroups. Vitamin or mineral supplement use, whether at the patient’s own initiative or prescribed by the GP, was based on self-reported information and can therefore be underestimated if patients forget to mention these “medicinal supplements”. However, real numbers and frequencies of deficiencies or anaemia might be underestimated, since some patients were already taking these supplements before the initial diagnosis of CD, potentially leading to misclassification as represent total body stock or physiological function. Based on our experience and supported by a recently published guideline on CD , we suggest monitoring body weight at diagnosis and nutritional serum parameters; at least vitamin B , folic acid, B and zinc and in any case (25-hydroxy) D of the fat soluble vitamins (due to its connection with presence of osteomalacia). Moreover, we suggest follow-up until serum values are at satisfying levels or upon indication (for instance, if bone density deviations, chronic diarrhoea, or skin lesions are present). Practically, a standard complete multivitamin supplement (100%–300% of RDA) should be considered for every newly diagnosed CD-patient. Continuation time has yet to be determined, since patients are at risk for vitamin deficiencies even after 10 years of a GFD . Evidently, hypervitaminosis should be avoided, in particular regarding pyridoxine and iron . It is demonstrated that bone-mineral density and nutritional status can improve after a GFD treatment as well as that of general well-being, which can improve after vitamin B supplementation in CD-patients on a GFD . 5. Conclusions In conclusion, deficiencies of vitamins or minerals are frequently observed in untreated adult Dutch CD-patients using a Western diet, although they are currently diagnosed earlier than in the previous century. This was observed even in obese patients. Almost 90% of the newly diagnosed CD-patients had one or more nutritional deficiencies. Malnutrition, expressed as an involuntary weight loss or being underweight, was found in 16% and 7.5% of patients, respectively, while overweight status (BMI > 25 kg/m2) was present in almost 30% of the patients. Therefore, these results indicate that extensive nutritional assessment of body weight and serum nutritional parameters should be an integral part of celiac disease treatment to guide nutritional advices and follow-up in CD-treatment by means of an adequately composed individual-based, gluten free diet. Acknowledgements The authors thank the Department of Clinical Chemistry of the VU University Medical Centre in Amsterdam for their help with the analyses. And
