NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastric, motility, contractions, manuscript, author manuscript, author, acupuncture, patients, esophageal, gastrointestinal, effects, reported, effect, intestinal, nih-pa author


of EA on GERD by comparing the effect of EA added to a conventional proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy with that of doubling PPI dose in patients with refractory GERD. It was found that addition of acupuncture at ST36, PC6, SP9, CV12 and CV17 to the conventional PPI therapy was more effective than doubling PPI dose in reducing the symptoms of heartburn and acid regurgitation . management of GERD. Effects and mechanisms EA on gastric motility Physiology of gastric motility Gastric motility is one of the most critical physiological functions of the human gut. Without coordinated motility, digestion and absorption of dietary nutrients cannot take place. To Auton Neurosci. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2011 October 28. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript accomplish its functions effectively, the gut needs to generate not just simple contractions but contractions that are coordinated to produce transit of luminal contents (peristalsis). Gastric motility functions include gastric accommodation, gastric myoelectrical activity (pacemaking activity), gastric contractions and gastric emptying described as follows: a. Gastric accommodation. When food enters the stomach, the proximal part relaxes during eating to accommodate the ingested food without producing a large increase in gastric pressure, this reflex is called “gastric accommodation” and is believed to be involved in the regulation of food intake (Gilja et al., 1996; Kim et al., 2001b; Tack et al., 1998). The extent of gastric accommodation has been normally evaluated with Barostat and expressed as an increase in gastric volume in response to a meal . b. Gastric myoelectrical activity. Beginning from the proximal one third and distal two thirds of the stomach to the pylorus, there is gastric myoelectrical activity consisting of two components, slow waves and spike potentials (Chen, 1995). The slow wave is omnipresent and occurs at regular intervals whether or not the stomach contracts. It originates in the proximal stomach and propagates distally toward the pylorus. The gastric slow wave determines the maximum frequency, propagation velocity and propagation direction of gastric contractions. When spike potentials (equivalent to action potentials in single cells) are superimposed on the gastric slow waves, a strong lumen-occluded contraction occurs. The normal frequency of the gastric slow wave is about 3 cycles/min (cpm) in humans and 5 cpm in dogs. A noninvasive method similar to electrocardiography, called electrogastrography, has been developed and applied to detect gastric slow waves using abdominal surface electrodes (Chen, 1995). c. Gastric
