NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastric, motility, contractions, manuscript, author manuscript, author, acupuncture, patients, esophageal, gastrointestinal, effects, reported, effect, intestinal, nih-pa author


5 cpm in dogs. A noninvasive method similar to electrocardiography, called electrogastrography, has been developed and applied to detect gastric slow waves using abdominal surface electrodes (Chen, 1995). c. Gastric contractions and gastric emptying. Coordinated and distally propagated gastric contractions are called gastric peristalsis. The gastric contraction is stronger in the antral area than the proximal stomach and is believed to play an important role in the regulation of solid gastric emptying. In healthy humans, the ingested food is usually emptied by 50% or more at 2 hours after the meal and by 95% or more at 4 hours after a solid meal . In the postprandial period, there is electromechanical coupling: every slow wave is associated with one contraction. When the stomach is empty, the pattern of gastric contractions changes. The gastric contract pattern in the fasting state undergoes a cycle of periodic fluctuation divided into three phases: phase I (no contractions, 40–60 minutes), phase II (intermittent contractions, 20–40 minutes) and phase III (regular rhythmic contractions, 2–10 minutes)(Yamata, 1995). Functional dyspepsia (FD) and gastroparesis are two common gastric motility disorders. Functional dyspepsia is characterized by symptoms of postprandial fullness, early satiation, epigastric pain and burning, in the absence of a readily identifiable organic cause (Tack et al., 2006). Gastroparesis is defined as severely delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction, and classified as diabetic, postoperative and idiopathic according to its etiology . Main pathophysiologies of functional dyspepsia and gastroparesis include visceral hypersensitivity, impaired gastric accommodation and impaired gastric motility (antral hypomotility, impaired coordination, gastric dysrhythmia and delayed gastric emptying) (Chen et al., 1995; Malagelada et al., 1980; Tack, 2007; Tack et al., 1998; Tack et al., 2006). Effect of EA on gastric accommodation In the literature, few papers were found on the effect of EA on gastric accommodation . It was reported that EA at ST36 restored vagotomy-induced Auton Neurosci. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2011 October 28. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript impaired gastric accommodation in dogs but showed no effects on gastric accommodation in normal dogs. Impaired accommodation is often seen in patients with FD or gastroparesis. It is especially common in patients with diabetic gastroparesis due to autonomic neuropathy as the accommodation reflex is mediated via the vagal and nitrergic mechanisms. The ameliorating effect of EA on vagotomy-induced impairment in gastric accommodation suggests that therapeutic potential of EA for FD
