NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: gastric, motility, contractions, manuscript, author manuscript, author, acupuncture, patients, esophageal, gastrointestinal, effects, reported, effect, intestinal, nih-pa author


measured by strain gauges (used in animals) and manometry (used clinically). The effects of EA on gastric contractions have been reported in rats (Iwa et al., 2007; Sato et al., 1993; Tatewaki et al., 2003), rabbits and dogs (Chen et al., 2008; Ouyang et al., 2002). Sato et al reported that in anesthetic rats, gastric contractions in the pyloric region were inhibited by acupuncture-like stimulation applied to the abdomen or lower chest region, and excited when the limbs were stimulated . Niu et al reported that EA at ST 36 significantly increased the number and amplitude of spikes assessed from gastric myoelectrical activity, indicative of increased gastric contractions, in rabbit, and that the effect was mediated via the cholinergic nerve . In dogs, EA was found to improve impaired antral contractions induced by rectal distension and the ameliorating effect involved the opioid pathway . These previous findings indicate that the stimulatory effect of EA on gastric contractions is consistent among different species. Inhibitory or dual effects of EA on gastric motility were also reported in a few studies (Qian et al., 1993; Tatewaki et al., 2003; Yuan et al., 1986; Zhou, 1986). In a rodent study with the measurement of gastric contractions using strain gauge transducers Tatewaki et al reported that manual acupuncture at ST36 induced dual effects: stimulating gastric contractions in rats with hypomotility and inhibiting gastric contractions in rats with Auton Neurosci. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2011 October 28. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript hypermotility. It was further reported that the stimulatory effect was medicated in part via the vagal and opioid pathway . In general, the inhibitory or dual effects of EA were not as consistent as the excitatory effects of EA on gastric contractions; more data are needed to support the inhibitory or dual effects of EA on gastric contractions. Effects of EA on gastric emptying Acceleration of gastric emptying with acupuncture has been reported in both animals and humans (Iwa et al., 2006b; Ouyang et al., 2002; Tabosa et al., 2004; Wang et al., 2008; Xu et al., 2006). In rats with delayed gastric emptying induced by restraint stress, EA at ST36 was found to significantly improve gastric emptying of solid . Similar accelerative effect of EA on solid gastric emptying was also reported in normal rats (Tabosa et al., 2004). In dogs with delayed gastric emptying induced by duodenal
