WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


of the evidence 36 Applying the GRADE approach to making the recommendations 38 Annex C: Lists of references for reviewed evidence 39 Recommendation 1 39 Recommendation 2 39 Recommendation 3 40 Recommendation 4 41 Recommendation 5 42 Recommendation 6 43 Recommendations for people living with HIV 43 Web annexes available at: www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/rtis/genital- HSV-treatment-guidelines/en/ Web annex D: Evidence profiles and evidence-to-decision frameworks Web annex E: Systematic reviews for genital herpes simplex virus guidelines Web annex F: Summary of conflicts of interest ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS iii ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS thank the members of the STI Guideline Development Harrel Chesson, Craig Cohen, Francisco Garcia, Group for their consistent availability and commitment Suzanne Garland, Sarah Hawkes, Mary Higgins, is also grateful to the STI External Review Group for Nicola Low, David Mabey, Angelica Espinosa Miranda, peer reviewing these guidelines, and appreciates the Nelly Mugo, Saiqa Mullick, Francis Ndowa, Joel Palefsky, contribution of the WHO Steering Committee. Keith Radcliffe, Ulugbek Sabirov, Judith Stephenson, The names of the members of each group are listed Richard Steen, Magnus Unemo, Bea Vuylsteke, below, with full details provided in Annex A. Anna Wald, Thomas Wong and Kimberly A. Workowski Special thanks to Dr Nancy Santesso, the guideline STI GDG working group for genital herpes simplex methodologist who also led the systematic review virus: Yaw (Sax) Adu-Sarkodie, Xiang-Sheng Chen, process, for her hard work and firm commitment to Suzanne Garland, Jeffrey Klausner, David Lewis, the guideline development process. We also thank Ornella Lincetto, Nelly Mugo, Saiqa Mullick, the members of the Systematic Review Team from Francis Ndowa, Joel Palefsky, Anna Wald, Thomas Wong McMaster University. STI External Review Group: Laith Abu-Raddad, We appreciate the overall support of the WHO Chris Akolo, Adele Schwartz Benzaken, Guidelines Review Committee Secretariat during the Mircea Betiu, Anupong Chitwarakorn, Carolyn Deal, guideline development process, with grateful thanks Margaret Gale-Rowe, William M. Geisler, to Dr Susan Norris. Amina El Kettani, Mizan Kiros, Ahmed Latif, Philippe Mayaud, David McCartney, Ali M. Mir, We thank MsTheresa Ryle for the administrative Nuriye Ortayli, Khantanouvieng Sayabounthavong support, and 400 Communications for assistance and Aman Kumar Singh with the guideline design and layout. This guideline document was edited by Ms Jane Patten, of Green Ink, WHO Steering Committee: United Kingdom. WHO regional offices: Massimo Ghidinelli, Hamida Dr Teodora Wi led the guideline development process Khattabi, Lali Khotenashvili, Ornella Lincetto, and Dr Nathalie Broutet co-led the process under Ying-Ru Lo, Frank Lule and Razia Pendse the
