WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


a direct impact on reproductive and pregnancy complications, and they have an indirect impact through their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and thus they also have an impact on national and individual economies. More than a million STIs are acquired every day. 2 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF GENITAL HERPES SIMPLEX VIRUS Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is the most RATIONALE FOR THE GUIDELINES common cause of genital ulcers in many countries. Since the publication of the World Health Organization An estimated 19.2 million new HSV-2 infections (WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually occurred among adults and adolescents aged 15–49 transmitted infections in 2003, changes in the years worldwide in 2012, with the highest rates among epidemiology of STIs and advancements in prevention, younger age groups. HSV-2 is a lifelong infection; diagnosis and treatment necessitate changes in STI the estimated global HSV-2 prevalence of 11.3% management. These guidelines provide updated translates into an estimated 417 million people with treatment recommendations for genital HSV infection the infection in 2012. based on the most recent evidence; they form one HSV type 1 (HSV-1) typically causes non-sexually- of several modules of guidelines for specific STIs. transmitted oral herpes infection. However, HSV-1 can Other modules will focus on treatments for Neisseria also be transmitted to the genitals through oral sex and gonorrhoeae (gonorrhoea), C. trachomatis (chlamydial is increasingly noted as a cause of genital HSV, especially infection) and Treponema pallidum (syphilis). In in high-income countries. Globally, an estimated 140 addition, future work will provide guidance for syphilis million people had genital HSV-1 infection in 2012. screening and treatment of pregnant women, STI HSV-2 infection is of particular concern due to its prevention, and treatments of other STIs. It is strongly epidemiological synergy with HIV infection and recommended that countries take updated global transmission. People who are infected with HSV-2 guidance into account as they establish standardized are approximately three times more likely to become national protocols, adapting this guidance to the infected with HIV, and people with both HIV and local epidemiological situation and antimicrobial genital HSV are more likely to transmit HIV to others. susceptibility data. Symptomatic genital HSV is a lifelong condition that can be characterized by frequent symptomatic OBJECTIVES recurrences. Most initial infections are asymptomatic or atypical, therefore the majority of people with The objectives of these guidelines are: HSV-2 infection have not
