WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


be characterized by frequent symptomatic OBJECTIVES recurrences. Most initial infections are asymptomatic or atypical, therefore the majority of people with The objectives of these guidelines are: HSV-2 infection have not been diagnosed. The classical • to provide evidence-based guidance on treatment clinical presentation of the first episode of symptoms of genital HSV infection; and of primary genital HSV infection is characterized by bilateral clusters of erythematous papules, vesicles • to support countries to update their national or ulcerations on the external genitalia, in the perianal guidelines for treatment of genital HSV infection. region or on the buttocks, occurring 4–7 days after sexual exposure. This classical syndrome occurs only METHODS in 10–25% of primary infections. Although HSV-1 and These guidelines were developed following the methods HSV-2 are usually transmitted by different routes outlined in the 2014 WHO handbook for guideline and affect different areas of the body, the signs and development. The Guideline Development Group symptoms overlap. The first episode of symptoms (GDG) included international STI experts, clinicians, of genital HSV-1 infection cannot be clinically researchers and programme managers. The GDG differentiated from genital HSV-2 infection; it is only prioritized questions and outcomes related to treatment through laboratory tests that these infections can of genital HSV infections to include in this update, and a be differentiated. When vesicles are not present, methodologist and a team of systematic reviewers from laboratory confirmation may be needed to rule out other causes of genital ulcers. Evidence-Informed Policy, independently conducted Most people will experience one or more symptomatic systematic reviews of the effectiveness of different recurrences within one year after the first symptomatic treatments for genital HSV infections. The evidence episode of HSV-2 infection. With genital HSV-1 was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations infection, symptomatic episodes are much less likely Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) to recur. Symptomatic recurrences are generally approach and presented to the GDG. Conflicts of less severe than the first episode. Established HSV-2 interest were managed according to WHO guidelines infection typically leads to intermittent viral shedding and declared before the recommendations were from the genital mucosa, even in the absence of discussed and finalized. Research implications were symptoms. As a result, HSV-2 is often transmitted by also developed by the GDG. people who are unaware of their infection or who are asymptomatic at the time of sexual contact. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 3 RECOMMENDATIONS The current guidelines provide six treatment recommendations
