WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


the GDG. people who are unaware of their infection or who are asymptomatic at the time of sexual contact. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 3 RECOMMENDATIONS The current guidelines provide six treatment recommendations for genital HSV infections. Recommendations were not updated for rare conditions including HSV meningo-encephalitis and other conditions for which no new information became available since the 2003 WHO STI guidelines. Treatment recommendation for neonatal HSV and treatment of pregnant women to prevent neonatal HSV infection will be made in a separate module. The recommendations summarized in Table 1 apply to all adults, adolescents (10–19 years of age), pregnant women, people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised and key populations, including sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender persons. Table 1. Summary of recommendations for treatment of chlamydial infections Recommendations Strength of recommendation and quality of evidence First clinical episode of genital HSV infection the WHO STI guideline recommends treatment over no treatment. moderate quality evidence Remarks: This recommendation also applies to people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised, people with a severe episode and pregnant women. the WHO STI guideline suggests a standard dose of aciclovir over valaciclovir recommendation, or famciclovir. moderate quality evidence Dosages: • aciclovir 400 mg orally thrice daily for 10 days (standard dose) • aciclovir 200 mg orally five times daily for 10 days • valaciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily for 10 days • famciclovir 250 mg orally thrice daily for 10 days Remarks: Given that follow-up visits may not be possible during the course of provided for 10 days. Although the benefits of the medicines are probably similar, the costs of valaciclovir and famciclovir are higher than aciclovir, and therefore aciclovir is preferred. The choice of medicine may also depend on compliance considerations. This recommendation also applies to people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised, people with a severe episode and pregnant women. Recurrent clinical episode of genital HSV infection (episodic therapy) the WHO STI guideline suggests treatment over no treatment. recommendation, moderate quality Remarks: Treatment should be given within the first 24 hours of the onset of evidence symptoms or during the prodromal phase. That recommendation also applies to people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised and pregnant women. 4 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF GENITAL HERPES SIMPLEX VIRUS the WHO STI guideline suggests the use of aciclovir over valaciclovir or famciclovir. recommendation, moderate
