WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


immunocompromised and pregnant women. 4 WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT OF GENITAL HERPES SIMPLEX VIRUS the WHO STI guideline suggests the use of aciclovir over valaciclovir or famciclovir. recommendation, moderate quality Dosages for adults, adolescents and pregnant women: evidence • aciclovir 400 mg orally thrice daily for 5 days, 800 mg twice daily for 5 days, or 800 mg thrice daily for 2 days • valaciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily for 3 days • famciclovir 250 mg orally twice daily for 5 days Dosages for people living with HIV and people who are immunocompromised: • aciclovir 400 mg orally thrice daily for 5 days • valaciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily for 5 days • famciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily for 5 days Remarks: Although the benefits of the medicines are probably similar, the costs of valaciclovir and famciclovir are higher than aciclovir, and therefore aciclovir is preferred. The choice of dosage may depend on compliance considerations. Treatment should be given within the first 24 hours of the onset of symptoms or during the prodromal phase. cause distress (suppressive therapy) For adults and adolescents with recurrent clinical episodes of genital HSV infection Conditional that are frequent, severe or cause distress, the WHO STI guideline suggests recommendation, suppressive therapy over episodic therapy, and reassessment after one year. moderate quality evidence Remarks: Individuals who have frequent recurrences (e.g. 4–6 times a year or more), severe symptoms or episodes which cause distress will likely choose suppressive therapy over episodic therapy. To determine frequency or severity, episodes can be monitored for the first few months. This recommendation also applies to people living with HIV, people who are immunocompromised and pregnant women. For adults and adolescents with recurrent clinical episodes of genital HSV infection Conditional that are frequent, severe or cause distress, the WHO STI guideline suggests aciclovir recommendation, low over valaciclovir or famciclovir for suppressive therapy. quality evidence Dosages for adults, adolescents and pregnant women: • aciclovir 400 mg orally twice daily • valaciclovir 500 mg orally once daily • famciclovir 250 mg orally twice daily Dosages for people living with HIV and people who are immunocompromised: • aciclovir 400 mg orally twice daily • valaciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily • famciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily Remarks: Individuals who have frequent recurrences (e.g. 4–6 times a year or more), severe symptoms or episodes which cause distress will likely choose suppressive
