WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


famciclovir 500 mg orally twice daily Remarks: Individuals who have frequent recurrences (e.g. 4–6 times a year or more), severe symptoms or episodes which cause distress will likely choose suppressive therapy over episodic therapy. To determine frequency or severity, episodes can be monitored for the first few months. Although the benefits of the medicines may be similar, the costs of valaciclovir and famciclovir are higher than aciclovir, and therefore aciclovir is preferred. The choice of medicine may also depend on compliance considerations. OVERVIEW OF THE GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs 5 OVERVIEW OF THE GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs STI EPIDEMIOLOGY AND BURDEN Both ulcerative and non-ulcerative STIs are associated with a several-fold increased risk of transmitting or Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are a major acquiring HIV (7, 8). Infections causing genital ulcers are associated with the highest HIV transmission risk; of life and causing serious morbidity and mortality. in addition to curable ulcer-causing STIs (e.g. syphilis STIs have a direct impact on reproductive and child and chancroid), highly prevalent HSV-2 infections substantially increase that risk (9). Non-ulcerative STIs, complications, and they have an indirect impact through such as gonorrhoea, chlamydia and trichomoniasis, their role in facilitating sexual transmission of human have been shown to increase HIV transmission through immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and thus they also have genital shedding of HIV (10). Treating STIs with the right an impact on national and individual economies. The medicines at the right time is necessary to reduce HIV prevention and control of STIs is an integral component transmission and improve sexual and reproductive of comprehensive sexual and reproductive health health (11). Efforts should therefore be taken to services that are needed to attain the related targets strengthen STI diagnosis and treatment. under Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) No. 3 (Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages), including: target 3.2 – to end preventable deaths WHY NEW GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, of newborns and children under 5 years of age; target 3.3 TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIS? – to end the epidemics of AIDS and other communicable Since the publication of the World Health Organization diseases; target 3.4 – to reduce premature mortality (WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually from noncommunicable diseases and promote mental transmitted infections in 2003 (12), changes in the health and well-being; target 3.7 – to ensure universal
