WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


(WHO) Guidelines for the management of sexually from noncommunicable diseases and promote mental transmitted infections in 2003 (12), changes in the health and well-being; target 3.7 – to ensure universal epidemiology of STIs and advancements in prevention, access to sexual and reproductive health-care services; diagnosis and treatment necessitate changes in STI and target 3.8 – to achieve universal health coverage. management. Indeed, 88% of countries have updated Worldwide, more than a million curable STIs are acquired their national STI guidelines or recommendations since every day. In 2012, there were an estimated 357 million 2006 (13). Updated global guidance reflecting the most new cases of curable STIs among adults aged 15–49 recent evidence and expert opinion is therefore needed years worldwide: 131 million cases of chlamydia, 78 to assist countries to incorporate new developments million cases of gonorrhoea, 6 million cases of syphilis into an effective national approach to the prevention and 142 million cases of trichomoniasis (1). The and treatment of STIs. prevalence of some viral STIs is similarly high, with There is an urgent need to update global treatment an estimated 417 million people infected with herpes recommendations to effectively respond to the simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) (2), and approximately changing antimicrobial resistance (AMR) patterns 291 million women harbouring human papillomavirus of STIs, especially for Neisseria gonorrhoeae. (HPV) at any point in time (3). The burden of STIs Effective treatment protocols that take into account varies by region and gender, and is greatest in global and local resistance patterns are essential to resource-poor countries. reduce the risk of further development of AMR. When left undiagnosed and untreated, curable STIs High-level gonococcal resistance to quinolones, can result in serious complications and sequelae, a previously recommended first-line treatment, such as pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility, is widespread and decreased susceptibility to the ectopic pregnancy, miscarriage, fetal loss and extended-spectrum (third-generation) cephalosporins, congenital infections. In 2012, an estimated 930 000 another first-line treatment for gonorrhoea, is on the maternal syphilis infections resulted in 350 000 adverse rise (14). Low-level resistance to Trichomonas vaginalis pregnancy outcomes, including stillbirths, neonatal has also been reported for nitroimidazoles, the only deaths, preterm births and infected infants (4). available treatment. Resistance to azithromycin Curable STIs accounted for the loss of nearly 11 million has been reported in some strains of Treponema disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2010 (5). pallidum and treatment failures have been reported The psychological
