WHO GUIDELINES FOR THE
KEYWORDS: treatment, guidelines, genital, sti, stis, hsv-, infections, infection, people, recommendation, development, hiv, virus, guideline, hsv


with high HIV STIs be developed in close consultation with local STI, infections also requires that renewed attention be paid to developing effective prevention strategies, including APPROACH TO THE REVISION OF expanding accessibility to available vaccines for HPV STI GUIDELINES and development of new vaccines for HSV-2. To ensure effective treatment for all STIs, WHO plans In the 2003 WHO STI guidelines, WHO recommended a phased approach to updating the STI guidelines to a syndromic approach for the management of STIs. address a range of infections and issues. Four phases The approach guides the diagnosis of STIs based on have been proposed by the WHO STI Secretariat and identification of consistent groups of symptoms and agreed upon by the STI Guideline Development Group easily recognized signs and indicates treatment for (GDG) members (see Annex A for members of these the majority of organisms that may be responsible groups). Table 2 summarizes the proposed phases for producing the syndrome. The syndromic and timeline. management algorithms need to be updated in response to the changing situation. In addition to changes to the GUD algorithm, other syndromes need to be re-evaluated, particularly vaginal discharge. The approach to syndromes for key populations also needs to be updated. For example, addition of a syndromic management algorithm for anorectal infections in men who have sex with men (MSM) and sex workers is urgently needed since a substantial number of these infections go unrecognized and untreated in the absence of guidelines (17). New rapid, point-of-care diagnostic tests (POCTs) are changing STI management. Rapid syphilis diagnostic tests are now widely available, making syphilis screening more widely accessible and allowing for earlier initiation of treatment for those who test positive. Efforts are under way to develop POCTs for other STIs that will augment syndromic management of symptomatic cases and increase the ability to identify asymptomatic infections (13). Updated guidelines are needed that incorporate rapid tests into syndromic management of STIs and provide algorithms for testing and screening (17). OVERVIEW OF THE GUIDELINES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF STIs 7 Table 2: Phases for development of the STI guidelines Phases Topics Timeframe Phase 1 Treatment of specific STIs: Chlamydia trachomatis November 2013 – April (chlamydia), Neisseria gonorrhoeae (gonorrhoea), 2016 HSV-2 (genital HSV) and Treponema pallidum (syphilis) Syphilis screening and treatment of pregnant women STI syndromic approach May 2016 – December Clinical management package 2017 Phase 2 STI prevention:
