RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: coli, infections, tract, infection, urinary, urinary tract, sensitivity, community, tract infections, study, acquired, community acquired, antibiotics, rate, esbl


information files. Urinary tract infections caused by E. coli are predominantly community acquired, Funding: The study was funded by the Scientific Research Project(Award Therefore, third-generation cephalosporins remain the preferred choice for empirical Number:AHWJ2022c054). treatment, while quinolones and second-generation cephalosporins are not recom- Competing interests: The authors have mended. Subsequently, the treatment regimen can be de-escalated based on con- declared that no competing interests exist. firmed infection type and patient condition, an approach that has been associated with reduced hospitalization. Introduction Escherichia coli (E. coli) is a common clinical Gram-negative bacillus and is also a normal intestinal bacterium. This pathogen can cause bloodstream infections and urinary tract infections in certain circumstances, such as window infections caused by diarrhea or dysentery, immunosuppression or catheterization . E. coli have been common in hospital-acquired and community acquired infections over the past few decades and are almost the main pathogen [2–4]. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) occur when pathogens can enter the urinary tract system and exceed 105 cfu/mL in the urine. UTIs was considered the second com- mon cause of infectious diseases, following respiratory tract infections, and account for more than seven million office visits and more than one million visits to emer- gency departments in the United States, necessitating 100,000 hospitalizations . According to previous studies , urinary tract infection accounts for about 40% of urinary tract infections. UTIs that occur 3 or more times a year and UTIs that occur 2 or more times in less than 6 months are considered complex UTIs , which are the main challenges in the treatment of UTI patients. Most urinary tract infections are caused by bacteria. The most common gram-negative bacteria are Enterobacteria- ceae, mainly E. coli, and Staphylococcus are mainly among Gram-positive bacteria. Uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) is a group of extra intestinal pathogenic E. coli. It is a common pathogenic E. coli originating from the intestine and can be transmitted cases of urinary culture E. coli who were treated with duplicate strains at Xuancheng City People’s Hospital from January 2023 to December 2023 (repeated strains have been removed) were retrospectively analyzed to inform optimal antibacterial treat- ment strategies and public health interventions. PLOS One | November 11, 2025 2 / 9 Methods Ethics This study included E. coli isolates cultured from urine samples of hospitalized patients form [DATE]–[DATE]. Ethical approval was obtained from the Ethics Committee of Xuancheng City People’s Hospital (approval number: 2022-
