RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: coli, infections, tract, infection, urinary, urinary tract, sensitivity, community, tract infections, study, acquired, community acquired, antibiotics, rate, esbl


study included E. coli isolates cultured from urine samples of hospitalized patients form [DATE]–[DATE]. Ethical approval was obtained from the Ethics Committee of Xuancheng City People’s Hospital (approval number: 2022- pjky005–01). Written informed consent was not required as the study used bacterial isolates collected as part of routine Sample culture and antibiotic sensitivity testing of isolates When the specimens were collected, the patient was hospitalized, the specimens sent for examination were urine and E. coli were cultured. Specimens that met all the above conditions were included in this study. This study found E. coli which caused urinary tract infection, by culturing urine in hospitalized patients from [DATE]–[DATE]. All collected E. coli were tested for drug sensitivity (using VITEK 2; Merrier). Collected basic information (including gender, age, etc.) of the patient based on the information of the specimen in which E. coli has been cultured. According to whether E. coli has an Extended-Spectrum β-Lactamases (ESBL), it is divided into ESBL-positive and ESBL-negative groups. The differences in age, gender, and hospitalization time of hospitalization between the two groups were analyzed. At the same time, based were collected and analyzed in the whole year of 2023. The drug sensitivity characteristics of E. coli in different infection types were explored. Under the direction of nursing personnel, the patient collected urine samples in sterile containers and promptly sub- mitted them to the laboratory for analysis within a 2-hour timeframe. Subsequently, 10 µL of the urine specimens were aseptically inoculated onto blood agar plates and then subjected to an incubation period at 35–37°C in an atmosphere containing 5% carbon dioxide for 48–72 hours. Following incubation, observation of colony morphology, Gram staining, and colony quantification were performed. Bacterial species identification and antimicrobial susceptibility testing were conducted using the VITEK 2; bioMérieux Compact system. All operation processes comply with operation norms and procedures. The quality control strains used for VITEK 2 were E. coli ATCC 25922, P. aeruginosa ATCC 27853, and S. aureus ATCC 29213. Statistical analysis We expressed continuous variables as mean ± SD, and the results of categorical data as numbers with percentages. We compared continuous variables using the Mann-Whitney U test and the Wilcoxon W test, and compared categorical vari- ables using the chi-square test. The results were considered statistically significant when p < 0.05. All statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS 23.0 software. Results General situation of research subjects A total of 401 subjects
