RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: coli, infections, tract, infection, urinary, urinary tract, sensitivity, community, tract infections, study, acquired, community acquired, antibiotics, rate, esbl


The results were considered statistically significant when p < 0.05. All statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS 23.0 software. Results General situation of research subjects A total of 401 subjects to the patients that met the inclusion criteria were included in this study, including 135 cases in the ESBL-producing group and 266 cases in the ESBL-negative group. The mean age of the ESBL-positive group was 63.74 ± 17.54 years, and the mean age of the ESBL-negative group was 61.54 ± 18.43 years. After statistical test, there was no significant difference in age between the two groups (p = 0.252). The hospital stay in the two groups was further the ESBL-negative group was 10.48 ± 10.22 days. It was found that there was a significant difference in hospital stays PLOS One | November 11, 2025 3 / 9 between the two groups, which is statistically significant (p < 0.001). Checkout time which is the number of days between the start of the patient’s hospitalization and the laboratory culture of E. coli in the patient’s urine, Statistical significance is also found between the two groups. Table 1 for details. Hospital-acquired infection and community acquired infection Hospital-acquired infections are mostly exogenous infections. Indirect transmission is the most common mechanism of hospital-acquired infection pathogens. They are mechanically transferred through the hands and clothes of health work- ers, whose hands or clothes are infected by themselves or other patients . Community acquired infection, also known as community infection, refers to infections obtained by an individual in a community environment, rather than in a spe- cific medical institution (such as hospitals, clinics, long-term care institutions, etc.). Pathogens are obtained by exposure to daily activities of the community (such as work, study, etc.). The occurrence of infection has no clear connection with diagnosis and treatment activities, hospitalization, visits, etc. in medical institutions. An infection that is already present at the time of admission or an infection that is obtained in the community but is in the latent period after admission, and subsequently onset . A total of 401 patient samples were included in this study. According to the location of the infection, it can be divided into 62 hospital-acquired infection group and 339 community acquired infection group. Hospital-acquired infections in the urinary tract, E. coli mainly produces Extended-Spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-positive strains, accounting for 67.74% (42/62). In contrast, ESBL-negative strains were mainly among community acquired infections, accounting for
