RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: coli, infections, tract, infection, urinary, urinary tract, sensitivity, community, tract infections, study, acquired, community acquired, antibiotics, rate, esbl


to nearly all β-lactams, including carbapenems. Often medi- ated by carbapenemases (KPC, NDM, OXA-48, VIM, IMP). In this study, several CRE strains appeared, and the presence of these strains also indicates that this multi-drug-resistant pattern of E. coli is also distributed in urine, even if the proba- bility is very low, it should not be ignored. This study revealed the sensitivity of E. coli to antibiotics in urinary tract infection by classifying the infection status of patients. The results of the study showed that there was no significant statistical difference in the sensitivity of six anti- biotics, ETP, cefoxitin (FOX), IPM, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (SXT), piperacillin/tazobactam (TZP), and amoxicillin/ as cephalosporin antibiotics, AMK, LEV, CLS, TGC, etc. Statistics showed that there were differences among different infection groups, and the differences were statistically significant. (p < 0.05). See Table 4 for detailed data. Discussion This study found that E. coli cultured in urine was categorized into ESBL-positive and ESBL-negative groups based on the production of Extended-Spectrum β-lactamase. There were statistical differences between the groups in hospitalization time and time to detection (p < 0.001). The ESBL-positive group had longer hospitalization and detection times, which was similar to the conclusions drawn by Marc J M Bonten in 2018 ; However, there was no significant differences between the groups in terms of gender composition ratio and age factors (p = 0.17, p = 0.353). Upon combining the patient’s basic information with their infection status, it was observed that E. coli infections in urine were predominantly community acquired, accounting for 84.5% (339/401), The majority of the community acquired infections involved ESBL-negative bacteria. In contrast, E. coli infected in hospitals were primarily caused by ESBL-positive bacteria, accounting for 67.74% (42/62). A statistically significant difference was noted between the two groups (p < 0.001); Addition- Table 3. Susceptibility of 401 E. coli isolates to antimicrobial agents. antibiotic Sensitivity (%) antibiotic Sensitivity (%) AMK 98.3 CXMA 56.6 CRO 65.8 CLS 95.8 ETP 99.3 SXT 64.1 CAZ 76.3 FEP 76.3 FOX 87.0 TGC 99.8 IPM 99.3 TZP 92.3 LEV 21.9 AMC 76.6 CXM 56.6 Legend: AMK: amikacin; CRO: ceftriaxone; ETP: ertapenem; CAZ: ceftazidime; FOX: cefoxitin; IPM: imipenem; LEV: levofloxacin; CXM: cefuroxime so- dium; CXMA: cefuroxime axetil; CLS: cefoperidone/sulbactam; SXT: trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole; FEP:cefepime; TGC: tigecycline; TZP: piperacillin/ tazobactam; AMC: amoxicillin/clavulanic acid. PLOS One | November 11, 2025 5 / 9 Table 4. Antimicrobial susceptibility and differences in each antibiotic under different infection
