Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


levels of 25(OH)D that are optimal and safe for skeletal health and the non-skeletal actions remain controversial but are likely between an intake of 800-2000IU vitamin D in the diet and 20-50ng/ml 25(OH)D in the blood. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . OVERVIEW Rickets became a public health problem with the movement of the population from the farms to the cities during the Industrial Revolution. Various foods such as cod liver oil and irradiation of other foods including plants were found to prevent or cure this disease, leading eventually to the discovery of the active principle—vitamin D. Vitamin D comes in two forms (D 2 and D 3 ) which differ chemically in their side chains. These structural differences alter their binding to the carrier protein vitamin D binding protein (DBP) and their metabolism, but in general the biologic activity of their active metabolites is comparable. Vitamin D 3 is produced in the skin from 7-dehydrocholesterol by UV irradiation, which breaks the B ring to form pre-D 3 . Pre-D 3 isomerizes to D 3 but with continued UV irradiation to tachysterol and lumisterol. D 3 is preferentially removed from the skin, bound to DBP. The liver and other tissues metabolize vitamin D, whether from the skin or oral ingestion, to 25OHD, the principal circulating form of vitamin D. Several enzymes have 25-hydroxylase activity, but CYP2R1 is the most important. 25OHD is then further metabolized to 1,25(OH) 2 D principally in the kidney, by the enzyme CYP27B1, although other tissues including various epithelial cells, cells of the immune system, and the parathyroid gland contain this enzyme. 1,25(OH) 2 D is the principal hormonal form of vitamin D, responsible for most of its biologic actions. The production of 1,25(OH) 2 D in the kidney is tightly controlled, being stimulated by parathyroid hormone (PTH), and inhibited by calcium, phosphate, and FGF23. Extrarenal production of 1,25(OH) 2 D as in keratinocytes and macrophages is under different control, being stimulated primarily by cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alfa (TNFα) and interferon gamma (IFNγ). 1,25(OH) 2 D reduces 1,25(OH) 2 D levels in cells primarily by stimulating its catabolism through the induction of CYP24A1, the 24-hydroxylase. 25OHD and 1,25(OH) 2 D are hydroxylated in the 24 position by this enzyme to form 24,25(OH) 2 D and 1,24,25(OH) 3 D, respectively. This 24-hydroxylation is
