Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


CYP24A1, the 24-hydroxylase. 25OHD and 1,25(OH) 2 D are hydroxylated in the 24 position by this enzyme to form 24,25(OH) 2 D and 1,24,25(OH) 3 D, respectively. This 24-hydroxylation is generally the first step in the catabolism of these active metabolites to the final end product of calcitroic acid, although 24,25(OH) 2 D and 1,24,25(OH) 3 D have their own biologic activities. CYP24A1 also has 23-hydroxylase activity that leads to a different end product. Different species differ in their ratio of 23-hydroxylase/24-hydroxyase activity in their CYP24A1 enzyme, but in humans the 24-hydroxyase activity predominates. Like CYP27B1, CYP24A1 is widely expressed. CYP24A1 is induced by 1,25(OH) 2 D in most tissues, which serves as an important feedback mechanism to avoid vitamin D toxicity. In the kidney, PTH inhibits CYP24A1, whereas FGF23, calcium, and phosphate stimulates it, just the opposite of the actions of these hormones and minerals on CYP27B1. However, such regulation is not seen in other tissues. In macrophages, CYP24A1 is either missing or defective, so in situations such as granulomatous diseases like sarcoidosis in which macrophage production of 1,25(OH) 2 D is increased, hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria due to elevated 1,25(OH) 2 D can occur without the counter regulation by CYP24A1. The vitamin D metabolites are transported in blood bound to DBP and albumin. Very little circulates as the free form. The liver produces DBP and albumin, production that is decreased in liver disease, and these proteins may be lost in protein losing enteropathies or the nephrotic syndrome. Thus, individuals with liver, intestinal, or renal diseases which result in low levels of these transport proteins may have low total levels of the vitamin D metabolites without necessarily being vitamin D deficient as their free concentrations may be normal. The receptor for 1,25(OH) 2 D (VDR) is a transcription factor regulating the expression of genes which mediate its biologic activity. VDR is a member of a rather large family of nuclear hormone receptors which includes the receptors for glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, sex hormones, thyroid hormone, and vitamin A metabolites or retinoids. The VDR is widely distributed, and is not restricted to those tissues considered the classic target tissues of vitamin D. The VDR upon binding to 1,25(OH) 2 D heterodimerizes with other nuclear hormone receptors, in particular the family of retinoid X receptors. This complex then binds to special DNA sequences called vitamin D response elements (VDRE) generally within the genes it
