Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


nuclear hormone receptors, in particular the family of retinoid X receptors. This complex then binds to special DNA sequences called vitamin D response elements (VDRE) generally within the genes it regulates, although these VDREs can be thousands of base pairs from the transcription start site. There are thousands of the VDREs in hundreds of genes, and the profile of active VDREs (and regulated genes) varies from cell to cell. A variety of additional proteins called coregulators complex with the VDR to activate (coactivators) or inhibit (corepressors) VDR transcriptional activity. Coactivator factors involved in VDR mediated transcription include factors with histone acetylase activity, including steroid receptor coactivator (SRC) 1, SRC 2 and SRC 3, and CREB-binding protein p300, in addition to the SWI–SNF ATP dependent chromatin remodeling complex, methyltransferases and the Mediator complex (aka DRIP), which functions to recruit RNA polymerases. Mediator can extend over large stretches of chromatin marking what is referred to as superenhancers that contain binding sites for multiple transcription factors including that for VDR. In particular, VDR binding sites are associated with sites for other transcription factors such as p63, b-catenin, C–EBPα, C–EBPβ, Runx2, and PU.1, which can cooperate with VDR and VDR coregulators to influence 1,25(OH) 2 D responses in target cells. Among other functions these coregulators reconfigure the chromatin structure to bring the VDR/VDRE to the transcription start site, explaining how such distant VDR/VDREs can regulate gene transcription. In addition to coactivators there are a number of corepressors. One such corepressor of VDR action in the skin is called hairless, in that its loss or mutation, like that of the VDR, leads to altered hair follicle cycling resulting in baldness. Corepressors typically work by recruiting histone deacetylases (HDAC) or methyl transferases (MT) to the gene which reverses the actions of HAT, leading to a reduction in access to the gene by the transcription machinery. These coregulators can be specific for different genes, and different cells differentially express these coregulators, providing some specificity for the actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D and VDR. In addition to regulating gene expression, 1,25(OH) 2 D has a number of non-genomic actions including the ability to stimulate calcium transport across the plasma membrane. The mechanisms mediating these non-genomic actions and their physiologic significance remain unclear. Similarly, it is not clear that all actions of the VDR require the ligand 1,25(OH) 2 D. The best example of this is the hair loss
