Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


physiologic significance remain unclear. Similarly, it is not clear that all actions of the VDR require the ligand 1,25(OH) 2 D. The best example of this is the hair loss in animals and subjects with VDR mutations but not in animals and subjects with mutations in CYP27B1, the enzyme producing 1,25(OH) 2 D. As mentioned, the VDR is widely distributed, and the actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D are quite varied. The classic target tissues—bone, gut, and kidney—are involved with calcium homeostasis. The mechanisms by which 1,25(OH) 2 D regulates transcellular calcium transport are best understood in the intestine. Here 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulates calcium entry across the brush border membrane into the cell, transport of calcium through the cell, and removal of calcium from the cell at the basolateral membrane. Calcium entry at the brush border membrane occurs down a steep electrochemical gradient. It is controlled in large measure by a specific calcium channel called TRPV6 and in humans also by a homologous calcium channel TRPV5. Transport of calcium through the cell is regulated by a class of calcium binding proteins called calbindins. Much of the transport occurs within vesicles that form in the terminal web. Removal of calcium from the cell at the basolateral membrane requires energy and is mediated by the ATP requiring calcium pump or CaATPase (PMCA1b) as well as the sodium/calcium exchange protein (NCX1). 1,25(OH) 2 D induces TRPV6 and TRPV5, the calbindins, and the CaATPase, but not all aspects of transcellular calcium transport are a function of new protein synthesis. Animals null for calbindin 9k (the major calbindin in mammalian intestine) have little impairment of intestinal calcium transport. Animals null for TRPV6, on the other hand, have a reduction in intestinal calcium transport, but the deficit is not profound. Thus, it is likely that compensatory mechanisms for intestinal calcium transport exist that have yet to be discovered. Similar mechanisms mediate 1,25(OH) 2 D regulated calcium reabsorption in the distal tubule of the kidney. The proteins involved are homologous but not identical (TRPV5 and Calbindin 28k, for example). The situation in bone, however, is less clear. VDR are found in osteoblasts, the bone forming cells. 1,25(OH) 2 D promotes the differentiation of osteoblasts and regulates the production of proteins such as collagen, alkaline phosphatase, and osteocalcin thought to be important in bone formation. 1,25(OH) 2 D also induces RANKL, a membrane bound protein in osteoblasts and
