Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


production of proteins such as collagen, alkaline phosphatase, and osteocalcin thought to be important in bone formation. 1,25(OH) 2 D also induces RANKL, a membrane bound protein in osteoblasts and osteocytes that enables these cells to stimulate the formation and activity of osteoclasts. Thus, 1,25(OH) 2 D regulates both bone formation and bone resorption. Some evidence suggests that the major effect of 1,25(OH) 2 D on bone is to provide adequate levels of calcium and phosphate from the intestine. The rickets of patients with a mutated VDR or of mice in which the VDR has been deleted can be prevented/corrected by normalizing serum calcium and phosphate levels by dietary means. On the other hand, normal bone formation is not restored, and with time the VDR null mice become osteoporotic despite the high calcium/phosphate diet. Moreover, the VDR in osteoblasts/osteocytes appears to control bone resorption especially when dietary calcium is limited. Whether subjects with VDR mutations in whom calcium and phosphate levels are normalized by diet also develop osteoporosis prematurely or fail to maintain serum calcium in times of calcium deficiency has not been reported. Randomized controlled clinical trials of vitamin D supplementation in ambulatory subjects with adequate vitamin D levels have not shown fracture prevention, although in combination with calcium a reduction in falls has been observed in some studies. The non classic actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D include regulation of cellular proliferation and differentiation, regulation of hormone secretion, and regulation of immune function. The ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D to inhibit proliferation and stimulate differentiation has led to the development of a number of analogs in the hopes of treating hyperproliferative disorders such as psoriasis and cancer without raising serum calcium. Psoriasis is now successfully treated with several vitamin D analogs. Observational studies are promising with respect to adequate vitamin D nutrition and cancer prevention. However, randomized controlled clinical trials evaluating supplementation with vitamin D of subjects with adequate vitamin D levels to start with have not been shown to decrease cancer incidence but may be beneficial for cancer mortality. 1,25(OH) 2 D inhibits parathyroid hormone secretion and stimulates insulin secretion. A number of analogs and 1,25(OH) 2 D itself are currently available for use in the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism accompanying renal failure. Epidemiologic evidence indicates that vitamin D deficiency is associated with increased risk of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Moreover, randomized controlled clinical
