Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


secondary hyperparathyroidism accompanying renal failure. Epidemiologic evidence indicates that vitamin D deficiency is associated with increased risk of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Moreover, randomized controlled clinical trials have demonstrated a role for vitamin D supplementation in reducing the conversion of prediabetes to diabetes even in vitamin D replete individuals with even greater benefit in vitamin D deficient patients. The ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D to regulate immune function is likely part of its efficacy in the treatment of psoriasis. A number of other autoimmune diseases have been found in animal studies to respond favorably to vitamin D and 1,25(OH) 2 D or its analogs. Epidemiologic evidence linking vitamin D deficiency to increased incidence of these diseases has been reported, with at least one randomized controlled clinical trial supporting a reduction in such diseases with vitamin D supplementation. Similarly epidemiologic evidence linking vitamin D deficiency to a number of respiratory illnesses is substantial, including increased risk of COVID-19 infections. DISCOVERY The first clear description of rickets was by Whistler ( 1 ) in 1645. However, it was not until the Industrial Revolution with the mass movement of the population from the farms to the smoke filled cities that rickets became a public health problem, most notably in England where sunlight intensity was already marginal for much of the year. Mellanby ( 2 ) in Great Britain and McCollum ( 3 ) in the United States developed animal models for rickets and showed that rickets could be cured with cod liver oil. McCollum heated the cod liver oil to destroy its vitamin A content and found that it still had antirachitic properties; he named the antirachitic factor vitamin D. Steenbock and Black ( 4 ) then demonstrated that UV irradiation of food, in particular non saponifiable lipids, could treat rickets. Meanwhile, clinical investigations revealed that rickets could be prevented or cured in children with sunlight or artificial UV exposure ( 5 , 6 ) suggesting that what subsequently became known as vitamin D could be produced by irradiation of precursors in vivo. Ultimately, Askew et al. ( 7 ) isolated and determined the structure of vitamin D 2 (ergocalciferol) from irradiated plant sterols (ergosterol), and Windaus et al. ( 8 ) determined the structures and pathway by which 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) in the skin is converted to vitamin D 3 (cholecalciferol). The name vitamin D 1 refers to what
