Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


metabolites, 25OHD and 1,25(OH) 2 D, can also be hydroxylated in the 24 position. This may serve to activate the metabolite or analog as 1,25(OH) 2 D and 1,24(OH) 2 D have similar biologic potency, and 1,24,25(OH) 3 D has activity approximately 1/10 that of 1,25(OH) 2 D. However, 24-hydroxylation of metabolites with an existing 25OH group leads to further catabolism. The details of these reactions are described below. Cutaneous Production of Vitamin D3 The precursor of vitamin D, 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) is on the Kandutsch-Russell cholesterol pathway. The final enzymatic reaction mediated by 7-dehyrocholesterol reductase converting 7-DHC to cholesterol is regulated by a number of factors including vitamin D and cholesterol which enhance its degradation thus enabling increased levels of 7-DHC for conversion to vitamin D ( 9 ). Although irradiation of 7-DHC was known to produce pre-D 3 (which subsequently undergoes a temperature rearrangement of the triene structure to form D 3 ), lumisterol, and tachysterol ( figure 1 ), the physiologic regulation of this pathway was not well understood until the studies of Holick and his colleagues ( 10 - 12 ). They demonstrated that the formation of pre-D 3 under the influence of solar or UV irradiation (maximal effective wavelength between 290-310) is relatively rapid and reaches a maximum within hours. UV irradiation further converts pre-D 3 to lumisterol and tachysterol. Both the degree of epidermal pigmentation and the intensity of exposure correlate with the time required to achieve this maximal concentration of pre-D 3 , but do not alter the maximal level achieved. Although pre-D 3 levels reach a maximum level, the biologically inactive lumisterol continues to accumulate with continued UV exposure. Tachysterol is also formed, but like pre-D 3 , does not accumulate with extended UV exposure. The formation of lumisterol is reversible and can be converted back to pre-D 3 as pre-D 3 levels fall. At 0 o C, no D 3 is formed; however, at 37 o C pre-D 3 is slowly converted to D 3 . Thus, short exposure to sunlight would be expected to lead to a prolonged production of D 3 in the exposed skin because of the slow thermal conversion of pre-D 3 to D 3 and the conversion of lumisterol to pre-D 3 . Prolonged exposure to sunlight would not produce toxic amounts of D 3 because of the photoconversion of pre-D 3 to lumisterol and tachysterol as
