Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


of lumisterol to pre-D 3 . Prolonged exposure to sunlight would not produce toxic amounts of D 3 because of the photoconversion of pre-D 3 to lumisterol and tachysterol as well as the photoconversion of D 3 itself to suprasterols I and II and 5,6 transvitamin D 3 ( 13 ). Melanin in the epidermis, by absorbing UV irradiation, can reduce the effectiveness of sunlight in producing D 3 in the skin. This may be one important reason for the lower 25OHD levels (a well-documented surrogate measure for vitamin D levels in the body) in Blacks and Hispanics living in temperate latitudes ( 14 ). Sunlight exposure increases melanin production and so provides another mechanism by which excess D 3 production can be prevented. The intensity of UV irradiation is also important for effective D 3 production. The seasonal variation of 25OHD levels can be quite pronounced with higher levels during the summer months and lower levels during the winter. The extent of this seasonal variation depends on the latitude, and thus the intensity of the sunlight striking the exposed skin. In Edmonton, Canada (52 o N) very little D 3 is produced in exposed skin from mid-October to mid-April; Boston (42 o N) has a somewhat longer period for effective D 3 production; whereas in Los Angeles (34 o N) and San Juan (18 o N) the skin is able to produce D 3 all year long ( 15 ). These findings apply to sea level. At higher elevations there is less atmospheric absorption of UVB, so that skiers can make vitamin D even in winter on sunny days. Peak D 3 production occurs around noon, with a larger portion of the day being capable of producing D 3 in the skin during the summer than other times of the year. Clothing ( 16 ) and sunscreens ( 17 ) effectively prevent D 3 production in the covered areas, although at least for many sunscreens this block is not total ( 18 ). This is one likely explanation for the observation that the Bedouins in the Middle East, who totally cover their bodies with clothing, are more prone to develop rickets and osteomalacia than the Israeli Jews with comparable sunlight exposure. Hepatic Production of 25OHD The next step in the bioactivation of D 2 and D 3 , hydroxylation to 25OHD, takes place primarily in the liver although a
