Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


the total concentrations ( 104 ). The vitamin D metabolites bound to DBP are in general not available to most cells. Thus, the free or unbound concentration is that which is critical for cellular uptake as postulated by the free hormone hypothesis. Support for the concept that the role of DBP is to provide a reservoir for the vitamin D metabolites but that it is the free concentration that enters cells and exerts biologic function comes from studies in mice in which DBP has been deleted and in humans in which the gene is mutated. In DBP knockout mice the vitamin D metabolites are presumably all free and/or bioavailable. These mice do not show evidence of vitamin D deficiency unless placed on a vitamin D deficient diet despite having very low levels of serum 25OHD and 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 105 ). Tissue levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D were found to be normal in the DBP knockout mice as were markers of vitamin D action such as expression of intestinal TRPV6, calbindin 9k, PMCA1b, and renal TRPV5 ( 106 ). Recently a family in which a large deletion of the coding portion of the DBP gene (and adjacent NPFFR2 gene) has been reported ( 107 ). The proband had normal calcium, phosphate, and PTH levels with vitamin D supplementation despite very low levels of 25OHD, 24,25(OH) 2 D, and 1,25(OH) 2 D that were not responsive to massive doses of vitamin D (oral or parenteral). The free 25OHD was nearly normal. The carrier sibling had vitamin D metabolite levels between those of the proband and the normal sibling. Thus, both the studies in DBP null mice and humans support the free hormone hypothesis while also supporting the role of DBP as a circulating reservoir for the vitamin D metabolites. Therefore, there is currently a debate as to whether the free concentration of 25OHD, for example, is a better indicator of vitamin D nutritional status than total 25OHD, given that DBP levels, and hence total 25OHD levels, can be influenced by liver disease, nephrotic syndrome, pregnancy, acute trauma, and inflammatory states ( 108 , 109 ). However, certain tissues such as the kidney, placenta, and parathyroid gland express the megalin/cubilin complex which is able to transport vitamin D metabolites bound to DBP into the cell. This is critical for preventing renal losses of the vitamin metabolites ( 110 ) and may
