Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


which is able to transport vitamin D metabolites bound to DBP into the cell. This is critical for preventing renal losses of the vitamin metabolites ( 110 ) and may be important for vitamin D metabolite transport into the fetus and regulation of PTH secretion. Indeed, mice lacking the megalin/cubilin complex have poor survival with evidence of osteomalacia indicating its role in vitamin D transport into critical cells involved with vitamin D signaling. Figure 3. Correlation of total 25OHD (A) and 1,25(OH)2D (C) levels to DBP; lack of correlation of free 25OHD (B) and 1,25(OH)2D (D) levels to DBP. Data from normal subjects (open triangles), subjects with liver disease (closed triangles, open circles), subjects on oral contraceptives (open triangles*), and pregnant women (open squares) are included. These data demonstrate the dependence of total 25OHD and 1,25(OH)2D concentrations on DBP levels which are reduced by liver disease. However, the free concentrations of 25OHD and 1,25(OH)2D are normal in most patients with liver disease. Reprinted with permission from the American Society for Clinical Investigation. DBP was originally known as group specific component (Gc-globulin) before its properties as a vitamin D transport protein became known. It has three common polymorphisms which are useful in population genetics. These alleles have somewhat different affinities for the vitamin D metabolites ( 111 ), but which do not appear to alter its function. DBP is a 58kDa protein with 458 amino acids that is homologous to albumin and α-fetoprotein (αFP) (40% homology at the nucleotide level, 23% at the amino acid level) ( 112 ). These three genes cluster on chromosome 4q11-13 ( 113 ). DBP, like albumin and αFP, is made primarily but not exclusively in the liver-other sites include the kidney, testes, and fat. DBP like other steroid hormone binding proteins is increased by oral (not transdermal) estrogens and pregnancy ( 98 ). In vitro, glucocorticoids and cytokines such as EGF, and IL-6 have been shown to increase whereas TGFb decreases DBP production ( 114 ). Although transport of the vitamin D metabolites may be the major function for DBP, it has other properties. DBP has high affinity for actin, and may serve as a scavenger for actin released into the blood during cell death ( 115 ). DBP has also been shown to activate macrophages ( 116 ) and osteoclasts ( 117 ). However, in a mouse rendered deficient in DBP by homologous recombination
