Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


( 115 ). DBP has also been shown to activate macrophages ( 116 ) and osteoclasts ( 117 ). However, in a mouse rendered deficient in DBP by homologous recombination (knock out) no obvious abnormality was observed except for increased turnover in vitamin D and increased susceptibility to osteomalacia on a vitamin D deficient diet ( 118 ). Evidence for osteopetrosis (indicating failure of osteoclast function) was not found. MECHANISM OF ACTION The hormonal form of vitamin D, 1,25(OH) 2 D, is the ligand for a transcription factor, the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Most if not all effects of 1,25(OH) 2 D are mediated by VDR acting primarily by regulating the expression of genes whose promoters contain specific DNA sequences known as vitamin D response elements (VDREs). There are thousands of VDREs throughout the genes, often thousands of base pairs away from the coding portion of the gene regulated. However, some actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D are more immediate, and may be mediated by a membrane bound vitamin D receptor that has been less well characterized than the nuclear VDR. On the other hand, some actions of VDR do not require its ligand 1,25(OH) 2 D. Our understanding of the mechanism by which VDR regulates gene expression has increased enormously over the past few years. VDR and Transcriptional Regulation The VDR was discovered in 1969 ( 119 ) (although only as a binding protein for an as yet unknown vitamin D metabolite subsequently identified as 1,25(OH) 2 D), and was eventually cloned and sequenced in 1987 ( 120 , 121 ). Inactivating mutations in the VDR result in hereditary vitamin D resistant rickets (HVDRR) ( 122 ). Animal models in which the VDR has been knocked out ( 123 ) ( 124 ) have the full phenotype of severe vitamin D deficiency indicating that the VDR is the major mediator of vitamin D action. The one major difference is the alopecia seen in HVDRR and VDR knockout animals, a feature not associated with vitamin D deficiency, suggesting that the VDR may have functions independent of 1,25(OH) 2 D at least in hair follicle cycling. The VDR is a member of a large family of proteins (over 150 members) that includes the receptors for the steroid hormones, thyroid hormone, vitamin A family of metabolites (retinoids), and a variety of cholesterol metabolites, bile acids, isoprenoids, fatty acids, and eicosanoids. A large number
