Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


the receptors for the steroid hormones, thyroid hormone, vitamin A family of metabolites (retinoids), and a variety of cholesterol metabolites, bile acids, isoprenoids, fatty acids, and eicosanoids. A large number of family members have no known ligands and are called orphan receptors. VDR is widely, although not universally, distributed throughout the different tissues of the body ( 125 ). Many of these tissues were not originally considered target tissues for 1,25(OH) 2 D. The discovery of VDR in these tissues along with the demonstration that 1,25(OH) 2 D altered function of these tissues has markedly increased our appreciation of the protean effects of 1,25(OH) 2 D. The VDR is a molecule of approximately 50-60kDa depending on species. The basic structure is shown in figure 4 . The VDR is unusual in that it has a very short N-terminal domain before the DNA binding domain when compared to other nuclear hormone receptors. The human VDR has two potential start sites. A common polymorphism (Fok 1) alters the first ATG start site to ACG. Individuals with this polymorphism begin translation three codons downstream such that in these individuals the VDR is three amino acids shorter (424 aas vs 427 aas). This polymorphism has been correlated with reduced bone density suggesting it is of functional importance ( 126 ). The most conserved domain in VDR from different species and among the nuclear hormone receptors in general is the DNA binding domain. This domain is comprised of two zinc fingers. The name derives from the cysteines within this stretch of amino acids that form tetrahedral complexes with zinc in a manner which creates a loop or finger of amino acids with the zinc complex at its base. The proximal (N-terminal) zinc finger confers specificity for DNA binding to the VDREs while the second zinc finger and the region following provide at least one of the sites for heterodimerization of the VDR to the retinoid X receptor (RXR). The second half of the molecule is the ligand binding domain, the region responsible for binding 1,25(OH) 2 D, but also contains regions necessary for heterodimerization to RXR. At the C-terminal end is the major activation domain, AF-2, which is critical for the binding to coactivators such as those in the steroid receptor coactivator (SRC) and vitamin D receptor interacting protein (DRIP) or Mediator families ( 127 ). In mutation studies of the homologous thyroid receptor, corepressors
