Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


as those in the steroid receptor coactivator (SRC) and vitamin D receptor interacting protein (DRIP) or Mediator families ( 127 ). In mutation studies of the homologous thyroid receptor, corepressors were found to bind in overlapping regions with coactivators in helices 3 and 5, a region blocked by helix 12 (the terminal portion of the AF2 domain) in the presence of ligand ( 128 ). Deletion of helix 12 promoted corepressor binding while preventing that of coactivators ( 128 ). Figure 4. Model of the vitamin D receptor (VDR). The N terminal region is short relative to other steroid hormone receptors. This region is followed by two zinc fingers which constitute the principal DNA binding domain. Nuclear localization signals (NLS) are found within and just C-terminal to the DNA binding domain. The ligand binding domain makes up the bulk of the C-terminal half of the molecule, with the AF2 domain comprising the most C-terminal region. The AF2 domain is largely responsible for binding to co-activators such as the SRC family and DRIP (Mediator) in the presence of ligand. Regions on the second zinc finger and within the ligand binding domain facilitate heterodimerization with RXR. Corepressor binding is less well characterized but appears to overlap that of coactivators in helices 3 and 5, a region blocked by helix 12 in the presence of ligand. The ligand binding domain (LBD) for VDR has been crystallized and its structure solved ( 129 ). More recently the structure of the VDR/RXR heterodimer has been analyzed by high resolution cryo electron microscopy ( 130 ). These studies show that the VDR has a high degree of structural homology to other nuclear hormone receptors. It is comprised of 12 helices joined primarily by beta sheets. The 1,25(OH) 2 D is buried deep in the ligand binding pocket and covered by helix 12 (the terminal portion of the AF-2 domain). Assuming analogy with the unliganded LBD of RXRα and the ligand bound LBD of RARγ ( 131 ), the binding of 1,25(OH) 2 D to the VDR triggers a substantial movement of helix 12 from an open position to a closed position, covering the ligand binding pocket and putting helix 12 in position with critical residues from helices 3, 4, and 5 to bind coactivators. Coactivator complexes bridge the gap from the VDRE to the transcription machinery at the transcription start site ( figure 5 ) (
