Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


helices 3, 4, and 5 to bind coactivators. Coactivator complexes bridge the gap from the VDRE to the transcription machinery at the transcription start site ( figure 5 ) ( 132 ). Figure 5. 1,25(OH)2D-initiated gene transcription. 1,25(OH)2D enters the target cell and binds to its receptor, VDR. The VDR then heterodimerizes with the retinoid X receptor (RXR). This increases the affinity of the VDR/RXR complex for the vitamin D response element (VDRE), a specific sequence of nucleotides in the promoter region of the vitamin D responsive gene. Binding of the VDR/RXR complex to the VDRE attracts a complex of proteins termed coactivators to the VDR/RXR complex. The DRIP (Mediator) coactivator complex spans the gap between the VDRE and RNA polymerase II and other proteins in the initiation complex centered at or around the TATA box (or other transcription regulatory elements). SRC coactivators recruit histone acetyl transferases (HAT) to the gene promoting the opening up of its structure to enable the transcription machinery to work. Transcription of the gene is initiated to produce the corresponding mRNA, which leaves the nucleus to be translated to the corresponding protein. Nuclear hormone receptors including the VDR are further regulated by protein complexes that can be activators or repressors ( 133 ). The role of corepressors in VDR function has been demonstrated ( 134 ) but is less well studied than the role of coactivators. One such corepressor, hairless, is found in the skin and may regulate 1,25(OH) 2 D mediated epidermal proliferation and differentiation as well as ligand independent VDR regulation of hair follicle cycling ( 135 - 137 ). The coactivators, which are essential for VDR function, form two distinct complexes, the interaction of which remains unclear ( 127 ). The SRC family has three members, SRC 1-3, all of which can bind to the VDR in the presence of ligand (1,25(OH) 2 D) ( 138 ). These coactivators recruit additional coactivators such as CBP/p300 and p/CAF that have histone acetyl transferase activity (HAT), an enzyme that by acetylation of lysines within specific histones appears to help unravel the chromatin allowing the transcriptional machinery to do its job. The domain in these molecules critical for binding to the VDR and other nuclear hormone receptors is called the NR box and has as its central motif LxxLL where L stands for leucine and x for any amino acid. Each SRC family member contains
