Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


hormone receptors is called the NR box and has as its central motif LxxLL where L stands for leucine and x for any amino acid. Each SRC family member contains three well conserved NR boxes in the region critical for nuclear hormone receptor binding. The Mediator (aka DRIP complex is comprised of 15 or so proteins several of which contain LxxLL motifs ( 139 ). However, Mediator 1 (aka DRIP205) is the protein critical for binding the complex to VDR. It contains 2 NR boxes. Different NR boxes in these coactivators show specificity for different nuclear hormone receptors ( 140 ). Unlike the SRC complex, the Mediator complex does not have HAT activity ( 127 ). Rather the Mediator complex spans the gene from the VDRE to the transcription start site linking directly with RNA polymerase II and its associated transcription factors. Mediator and SRC appear to compete for binding to the VDR. In keratinocytes Mediator binds preferentially to the VDR in undifferentiated cells, whereas SRC 2 and 3 bind in the more differentiated cells in which Mediator levels have declined ( 141 ). Thus, in these cells Mediator appears to regulate the early stages of 1,25(OH) 2 D induced differentiation, whereas SRC may be more important in the later stages, although overlap in gene specificity is also observed ( 142 , 143 ) ( 144 ). These coregulators are not specific for VDR but interact with a large number of other transcription factors. The Mediator complex can mark regions in the genome containing large numbers of sites for transcription factors including VDREs. These sites are known as super-enhancers often regulating genes involved with cell fate determination ( 145 ). Recently, SMAD 3, a transcription factor in the TGF-β pathway, has been found to complex with the SRC family members and the VDR, enhancing the coactivation process ( 146 ). Phosphorylation of the VDR may also control VDR function ( 147 ). Furthermore, VDR has been shown to suppress β-catenin transcriptional activity ( 148 ), whereas β-catenin enhances that of VDR ( 149 ). Thus, control of VDR activity may involve crosstalk between signaling pathways originating in receptors at the plasma membrane as well as within the nucleus. VDR acts in concert with other nuclear hormone receptors, in particular RXR ( 150 ). Unlike VDR, there are three forms of RXR—α, β, γ—and all three are capable of binding to
