Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


in concert with other nuclear hormone receptors, in particular RXR ( 150 ). Unlike VDR, there are three forms of RXR—α, β, γ—and all three are capable of binding to VDR with no obvious differences in terms of functional effect. RXR and VDR form heterodimers that optimize their affinity for the vitamin D response elements (VDREs) in the genes being regulated. RXR appears to be responsible for keeping VDR in the nucleus in the absence of ligand ( 151 ). VDR may also partner with other receptors including the thyroid receptor (TR) and the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) ( 152 , 153 ), but these are the exceptions, whereas RXR is the rule. The VDR/RXR heterodimers bind to VDREs, which typically are comprised of two half sites each with six nucleotides separated by three nucleotides of nonspecific type; this type of VDRE is known as a DR3 (direct repeats with three nucleotide spacing). RXR binds to the upstream half site, while VDR binds to the downstream site ( 154 ). However, a wide range of VDRE configurations have been found at nearly any location within a gene (5’, 3’, introns) ( 155 ). Moreover, different tissues differ as to which VDREs actively bind VDR ( 156 ). 1,25(OH) 2 D is required for high affinity binding and activation, but the RXR ligand, 9-cis retinoic acid, may either inhibit ( 157 ) or activate ( 158 ) 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulation of gene transcription. A DR6 has been identified in the phospholipase C-γ1 gene that recognizes VDR/RAR heterodimers ( 152 ), and a DR4 has been found in the mouse calbindin 28k gene ( 159 ). Inverted palinodromes with 7 to 12 bases between half sites have also been found ( 149 ). Furthermore, the half sites of the various known VDREs show remarkable degeneracy ( figure 6 ). The G in the second position of each site appears to be the only nearly invariant nucleotide. 1,25(OH) 2 D can also inhibit gene transcription through its VDR. This may occur by direct binding of the VDR to negative VDREs that in the PTH and PTHrP genes are remarkably similar in sequence to positive VDREs of other genes ( 160 , 161 ). However, inhibition may also be indirect. For example, 1,25(OH) 2 D inhibits IL-2 production by blocking the NFATp/AP-1 complex of transcription factors from activating this gene ( 162 )
