Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


transcaltachia similar to 1,25(OH) 2 D. Figure 7. Model for the non-genomic actions of 1,25(OH)2D. 1,25(OH)2D binds to a putative membrane receptor. This leads to activation of a G protein (GTP displacement of GDP and dissociation of the β and γ subunits from the now active α subunit). Gα -GTP activates phospholipase C (PLC) (β or γ) to hydrolyze phosphatidyl inositol bis phosphate (PIP2) to inositol tris phosphate (IP3) and diacyl glycerol (DG). IP3 releases calcium from intracellular stores via the IP3 receptor in the endoplasmic reticulum; DG activates protein kinase C (PKC). Both calcium and PKC may regulate the influx of calcium across the plasma membrane through various calcium channels including L-type calcium channels. A putative membrane receptor for 1,25(OH) 2 D (1,25(OH) 2 D membrane associated rapid response steroid binding protein (1,25D-MARRSBP) also known as ERp57) has been purified from the intestine ( 178 ) and subsequently cloned and sequenced ( 179 ). Its size is approximately 66kDa. Antibodies have been made against this putative receptor ( 180 ). These antibodies block the ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D to stimulate calcium uptake by isolated chick intestinal cells ( 181 ) and to stimulate protein kinase C activity in resting zone chondrocytes while inhibiting proliferation of both resting zone and proliferating zone chondrocytes ( 180 ). Analog studies also support the existence of a separate membrane receptor for 1,25(OH) 2 D. Because of the breaking of the B ring during vitamin D 3 production from 7-dehydrocholesterol, the A ring can assume a conformation similar to the parent cholesterol molecule (6-s-cis) (shown as previtamin D 3 in figure 1 ) or the more commonly depicted 6-s-trans form in which the A ring rotates away from the rest of the molecule (shown as vitamin D 3 in figure 1 ). Analogs of 1,25(OH) 2 D can be produced which favor the 6-s-cis conformation or the 6-s-trans conformation. 1,25(OH) 2 -d5-previtamin D 3 is one such analog locked into the 6-s-cis conformation. This analog has only weak activity with respect to VDR binding or transcriptional activation but is fully effective in terms of stimulating transcaltachia and calcium uptake by osteosarcoma cells when compared to 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 182 ). 6-s-trans analogs are not effective. However, some of these rapid actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D are not found in cells from VDR null mice suggesting that the VDR may be required for
