Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


are not effective. However, some of these rapid actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D are not found in cells from VDR null mice suggesting that the VDR may be required for the expression and/or function of the membrane receptor or be the membrane receptor. In other cells both 1,25D-MARRSBP and VDR appear to be required for these rapid effects of 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 183 , 184 ). The model ( figure 7 ) emerging from these studies is that 1,25(OH) 2 D interacts with a membrane receptor to activate phospholipase C possibly through a G protein coupled process. Phospholipase C then hydrolyzes phosphatidyl inositol bis phosphate (PIP 2 ) in the membrane releasing inositol tris phosphate (IP 3 ) and diacyl glycerol (DG). These second messengers may then activate both the intracellular release of calcium from intracellular stores via the IP 3 receptor and protein kinase C, either one or both of which could stimulate calcium channel activity leading to a further rise in intracellular calcium levels. In the intestine and kidney the increased flux of calcium across the brush border membrane is then transported out of the cell at the basolateral membrane, completing transcellular transport. In other cells the increased calcium would need to be removed by other mechanisms after the signal conveyed by the rise in calcium is no longer required. Much work remains to prove this model including the physiological requirement for a unique membrane receptor. TARGET TISSUE RESPONSES: CALCIUM REGULATING ORGANS Intestine Intestinal calcium absorption, in particular the active component of transcellular calcium absorption, is one of the oldest and best known actions of vitamin D having been first described in vitro by Schachter and Rosen ( 185 ) in 1959 and in vivo by Wasserman et al. ( 186 ) in 1961. Absorption of calcium from the luminal contents of the intestine involves both transcellular and paracellular pathways. The transcellular pathway dominates in the duodenum and cecum, and this is the pathway primarily regulated by 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH) 2 D) ( 187 ), although elements of the paracellular pathway such as the claudins 2 and 12 are likewise regulated by 1,25(OH) 2 D (reviews in ( 188 , 189 ). Figure 8 shows a model of our current understanding of how this process is regulated by 1,25(OH) 2 D. Calcium entry across the brush border membrane (BBM) occurs down a steep electrical-chemical gradient and
