Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


model of our current understanding of how this process is regulated by 1,25(OH) 2 D. Calcium entry across the brush border membrane (BBM) occurs down a steep electrical-chemical gradient and requires no input of energy. Removal of calcium at the basolateral membrane must work against this gradient, and energy is required. This is achieved by the CaATPase (PMCA1b), an enzyme induced by 1,25(OH) 2 D in the intestine. Calcium movement through the cell occurs with minimal elevation of the intracellular free calcium concentration ( 190 ) by packaging the calcium in calbindin containing vesicles ( 191 - 193 ) that form in the terminal web following 1,25(OH) 2 D administration. Figure 8. Model of intestinal calcium transport. Calcium enters the microvillus of the intestinal epithelial cell through TRPV6 (previously known as CaT1) calcium channel. Within the microvillus calcium is bound to calmodulin (CaM) which is itself bound to brush border myosin I (BBMI) (aka myosin 1A). BBMI may facilitate the movement of the calcium/CaM complex into the terminal web where the calcium is picked up by calbindin (CaBP) and transported through the cytoplasm in endocytic vesicles. At the basolateral membrane the calcium is pumped out of the cell by the Ca-ATPase (PMCA1b). 1,25(OH)2D enhances intestinal calcium transport by inducing TRPV6, CaBP, and PMCAb as well as increasing the amount of CaM bound to BBMI in the brush border. 1,25(OH) 2 D regulates transcellular calcium transport using a combination of genomic and nongenomic actions. The first step, calcium entry across the BBM, is accompanied by changes in the lipid composition of the membrane including an increase in linoleic and arachidonic acid ( 194 , 195 ) and an increase in the phosphatidylcholine:phosphatidylethanolamine ratio ( 196 ). These changes are associated with increased membrane fluidity ( 195 ), which we have shown results in increased calcium flux ( 197 ). The changes in lipid composition occur within hours after 1,25(OH) 2 D administration and are not blocked by pretreatment with cycloheximide ( 196 ). In addition an epithelial specific calcium channel, TRPV6, is expressed in the intestinal epithelium ( 198 ). This channel has a high degree of homology to TRPV5, a channel originally identified in the kidney ( 199 , 200 ). The tissue distributions of these channels are overlapping and can be found in other tissues, but TRPV6 appears to be the main form in the intestine ( 201 ,
