Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


calbindin and prevents the normal vesicular transport of calcium through the cytosol ( 191 , 209 ). Thus, nongenomic actions underlie at least some of these first steps in 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulated intestinal calcium transport within the microvillus, although the changes take hours, not minutes, to observe. The exact role for these non-genomic effects on calcium influx relative to the role of TRPV6 remains to be elucidated. Calmodulin is the major calcium binding protein in the microvillus ( 210 ). Its concentration in the microvillus is increased by 1,25(OH) 2 D; no new calmodulin synthesis is required or observed after 1,25(OH) 2 D administration ( 211 ). Calmodulin is likely to play a major role in calcium transport within the microvillus, and inhibitors of calmodulin block 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulated calcium uptake by BBMV ( 212 ). Within the microvillus calmodulin is bound to a 110kD protein, myosin 1A (myo1A)) (previously referred to as brush border myosin 1). 1,25(OH) 2 D increases the binding of calmodulin to myo1A in brush border membrane preparations ( 211 ), although binding of calmodulin to the myo1A attached to the actin core following detergent extraction of the membrane appears to be reduced ( 213 ). The calmodulin/myo1A complex appears late in the development of the brush border, and is found in highest concentration in the same cells of the villus which have the highest capacity for calcium transport ( 214 ). Myo1A is located primarily in the microvillus of the mature intestinal epithelial cell, although small amounts have been detected associated with vesicles in the terminal web ( 215 ). Thus, the calmodulin/myo1A complex may be responsible for moving calcium out of the microvillus. Its exact role in calcium transport is unclear in that mice null for myo1A do not show reduced intestinal calcium transport( 216 ). Calbindin is the dominant calcium binding protein in the cytoplasm ( 210 , 217 ), where it appears to play the major role in calcium transport from the terminal web to the basolateral membrane ( 188 ). The increase in calbindin levels in the cytosol following 1,25(OH) 2 D administration is blocked by protein synthesis inhibitors ( 208 ). Indeed, calbindin was the first protein discovered to be induced by vitamin D ( 217 ). Glenney and Glenney ( 210 ) observed that calbindin has a higher affinity for calcium than does calmodulin. The differential distribution
