Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


to be induced by vitamin D ( 217 ). Glenney and Glenney ( 210 ) observed that calbindin has a higher affinity for calcium than does calmodulin. The differential distribution of calmodulin and calbindin between microvillus and cytosol combined with the differences in affinity for calcium led Glenney and Glenney ( 210 ) to propose that in the course of calcium transport calcium flowed from calmodulin in the microvillus to calbindin in the cytosol with minimal change in the free calcium concentration in either location. However, the role of calbindin in intestinal calcium transport does not appear to be critical in that mice null for calbindin9k grow normally, have normal intestinal calcium transport, and their serum calcium levels and bone mineral content are equivalent to wildtype mice regardless of the calcium content of the diet ( 218 ). The CaATPase (PMCA1b) at the basolateral membrane and the sodium/calcium exchanger (NCX1) are responsible for removing calcium from the cell against the same steep electrochemical gradient as favored calcium entry at the brush border membrane ( 219 ). Related proteins are found in the renal distal tubule. As its name implies, the extrusion of calcium from the cell by the calcium pump requires ATP. This pump is a member of the PMCA family, and in the intestine the isoform PMCA1b is the major isoform found. This pump is induced by 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 220 ). Calmodulin activates the pump, but calbindin may do likewise ( 221 ). Deletion of Pmca1b reduces calcium absorption and blocks 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulation of such resulting in reduction in growth and bone mineralization ( 222 )., Moreover, the deletion of protein 4.1R, which regulates PMCA1b expression in the intestine, results in decreased intestinal calcium transport ( 223 ). The role of NCX is not considered to be as important as PMCA1b for intestinal calcium transport ( 224 ). The paracellular pathway has received less study, but accounts for the bulk of intestinal calcium transport in that the ileum accounts for around 80% of total calcium absorption essentially all by the paracellular pathway. Paracellular calcium absorption depends to a considerable extent on the gradient between the luminal calcium concentrations and the interstitial calcium concentrations. Thus, it is faster in the duodenum and upper jejunum than the ileum, but because the transit time in the ileum is so much longer than that of the upper GI tract,
