Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


is faster in the duodenum and upper jejunum than the ileum, but because the transit time in the ileum is so much longer than that of the upper GI tract, the ileum is where most of the calcium absorption takes place. Solvent drag plays a large part in moving calcium across the tight junctions between the epithelial cells ( 225 ) . Solvent flow follows the osmotic gradient which is maintained distal to the tight junction by the Na/K ATPase and sodium glucose cotransporter of the basolateral membrane which may be stimulated by 1,25(OH)2D ( 224 , 225 ). The tight junction itself provides both charge and size selectivity. The actomyosin ring around the tight junction contributes to the size selectivity ( 226 ). The claudins and occludins contribute to charge selectivity. Claudin 2, 12, 15 are negatively charged proteins enabling cations such as sodium and calcium to pass ( 227 , 228 ). 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulates the expression of claudins 2 and 12 ( 229 ). Prolactin stimulates claudin 15 expression, thought to contribute to the increased calcium absorption during pregnancy ( 230 ). Although less studied, intestinal phosphate transport is also under the control of vitamin D. This was first demonstrated by Harrison and Harrison ( 231 ) in 1961. Active phosphate transport is greatest in the jejunum, in contrast to active calcium transport that is greatest in the duodenum. Cycloheximide blocks 1,25(OH) 2 D stimulated phosphate transport ( 232 ), indicating that protein synthesis is involved. Phosphate transport at both the brush border and basolateral membranes requires sodium. A sodium-phosphate transporter in the small intestine (NaP i -IIb), homologous to the type IIa sodium phosphate transporter in kidney, has been cloned and sequenced ( 233 ). Expression of NaP i -IIb is increased by 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 234 ). Transport of phosphate through the cytosol from one membrane to the other is poorly understood. However, cytochalasin B, a disrupter of microfilaments, has been shown to disrupt this process ( 235 ) suggesting that as for calcium, intracellular phosphate transport occurs in vesicles. Bone Nutritional vitamin D deficiency, altered vitamin D responsiveness such as vitamin D receptor mutations (hereditary vitamin D resistant rickets), and deficient production of 1,25(OH) 2 D such as mutations in the CYP27B1 gene (pseudo vitamin D deficiency) all have rickets as their main phenotype. This would suggest that vitamin D, and in
