Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


of 1,25(OH) 2 D such as mutations in the CYP27B1 gene (pseudo vitamin D deficiency) all have rickets as their main phenotype. This would suggest that vitamin D, and in particular 1,25(OH) 2 D, is of critical importance to bone. Furthermore, VDR are found in bone cells ( 236 , 237 ), and vitamin D metabolites have been shown to regulate many processes in bone. However, the rickets resulting from vitamin D deficiency or VDR mutations (or knockouts) can be corrected by supplying adequate amounts of calcium and phosphate either by infusions or orally [214-217]. Moreover, deletion of VDR from osteoblasts does not result in rickets ( 238 ). This would suggest either that vitamin D metabolites do not directly impact bone or that substantial redundancy has been built into the system. However, arguing for a physiologically non redundant direct action of vitamin D on bone is the development of osteoporosis and decreased bone formation in these VDR or CYP27B1 null mice not corrected by the high calcium/phosphate diet ( 239 ). A further complicating factor in determining the role of vitamin D metabolites in bone is the multitude of effects these metabolites have on systemic calcium homeostatic mechanisms which themselves impact on bone. The lack of vitamin D results in hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia that as implied above is sufficient to cause rickets. Moreover, part of the skeletal phenotype in vitamin D deficiency is also due to the hyperparathyroidism that develops in the vitamin D deficient state as PTH has its own actions on bone and cartilage. Furthermore, within bone the vitamin D metabolites can alter the expression and/or secretion of a large number of skeletally derived factors including insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-I) ( 240 ), its receptor ( 241 ), and binding proteins ( 242 , 243 ), transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) ( 244 ), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) ( 245 ), interleukin-6 (IL-6) ( 246 ), IL-4 ( 247 ), and endothelin receptors ( 248 ) all of which can exert effects on bone on their own as well as modulate the actions of the vitamin D metabolites on bone. Understanding the impact of vitamin D metabolites on bone is additionally complicated by species differences, differences in responsiveness of bone and cartilage cells according to their states of differentiation, and differences in responsiveness in terms of the vitamin D metabolite being examined. Thus, the study
