Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


differences in responsiveness of bone and cartilage cells according to their states of differentiation, and differences in responsiveness in terms of the vitamin D metabolite being examined. Thus, the study of vitamin D on bone has had a complex history, and uncertainty remains as to how critical the direct actions of the vitamin D metabolites on bone are for bone formation and resorption. Bone develops intramembranously (e.g. skull) or from cartilage (endochondral bone formation, e.g. long bones with growth plates). Intramembranous bone formation occurs when osteoprogenitor cells proliferate and produce osteoid, a type I collagen rich matrix. The osteoprogenitor cells differentiate into osteoblasts which then deposit calcium phosphate crystals into the matrix to produce woven bone. This bone is remodeled into mature lamellar bone. Endochondral bone formation is initiated by the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells into chondroblasts that produce the proteoglycan rich type II collagen matrix. These cells continue to differentiate into hypertrophic chondrocytes that shift from making type II collagen to producing type X collagen. These cells also initiate the degradation and calcification of the matrix by secreting matrix vesicles filled with degradative enzymes such as metalloproteinases and phospholipases, alkaline phosphatase (thought to be critical for the mineralization process), and calcium phosphate crystals. Vascular invasion and osteoclastic resorption are stimulated by the production of VEGF and other chemotactic factors from the degraded matrix. The hypertrophic chondrocytes also begin to produce markers of osteoblasts such as osteocalcin, osteopontin, and type I collagen resulting in the initial deposition of osteoid. Moreover, at least some of these chondrocytes further differentiate (or trans differentiate) into osteoblasts ( 249 ). Terminal differentiation of the hypertrophic chondrocytes and the subsequent calcification of the matrix are markedly impaired in vitamin D deficiency leading to the flaring of the ends of the long bones and the rachitic rosary along the costochondral junctions of the ribs, classic features of rickets. Although supply of adequate amounts of calcium and phosphate may correct most of these defects in terminal differentiation and calcification, the vitamin D metabolites, 1,25(OH) 2 D and 24,25(OH) 2 D, have been shown to exert distinct roles in the process of endochondral bone formation. The VDR makes its first appearance in the fetal rat at day 13 of gestation in the condensing mesenchyme of the vertebral column then subsequently in osteoblasts and the proliferating and hypertrophic chondrocytes by day 17 ( 250 ). However, fetal development
