Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


that activates RANK on osteoclasts and their hematopoietic precursors. This cell to cell contact in combination with m-CSF also produced by osteoblasts stimulates the differentiation of precursors to osteoclasts and promotes their activity. 1,25(OH) 2 D regulates this process by inducing RANKL ( 279 ) as does PTH, PGE2, and IL-11, all of which stimulate osteoclastogenesis. 1,25(OH) 2 D requires the VDR in osteoblasts for this purpose, although the other hormones and cytokines do not. Osteoblasts from V DR knockout mice fail to support 1,25(OH) 2 D induced osteoclastogenesis, whereas osteoclast precursors from V DR knockout mice can be induced by 1,25(OH) 2 D to form osteoclasts in the presence of osteoblasts from wildtype animals ( 280 ). Kidney The regulation of calcium and phosphate transport by vitamin D metabolites in the kidney has received less study than that in the intestine, but the two tissues have similar although not identical mechanisms. Eight grams of calcium are filtered by the glomerulus each day, and 98% of that is reabsorbed. Most is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. This is a paracellular, sodium dependent process with little or no regulation by PTH and 1,25(OH) 2 D. Approximately 20% of calcium is reabsorbed in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle, 10-15% in the distal tubule, and 5% in the collecting duct ( 281 ). Regulation by vitamin D takes place in the distal tubule where calcium moves against an electrochemical gradient (presumably transcellular) in a sodium independent fashion ( 282 ). Phosphate, on the other hand, is approximately 80% reabsorbed in the proximal tubule, and this process is regulated primarily by PTH ( 283 ) and FGF23 ( 284 ). In parathyroidectomized (PTX) animals Puschett et al. ( 285 - 287 )) demonstrated acute effects of 25OHD and 1,25(OH) 2 D on calcium and phosphate reabsorption. Subsequent studies indicated that PTH could enhance or was required for the stimulation of calcium and phosphate reabsorption by vitamin D metabolites ( 288 , 289 ). The molecules critical for calcium reabsorption in the distal tubule appear to be the VDR, calbindin, TRPV5, and the BLM calcium pump (PMCA1b as in the intestine), a situation similar to the mechanism for calcium transport in the intestine. However, the calbindin in the kidney in most species is 28kDa, whereas the 9kDa form is found in the intestine in most species. The kidney has mostly TRPV5,
