Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


the intestine. However, the calbindin in the kidney in most species is 28kDa, whereas the 9kDa form is found in the intestine in most species. The kidney has mostly TRPV5, whereas the intestine is primarily TRPV6. The calcium pump is the same isoform in both tissues (PMCA1b) although other forms of PMCA are also present. Calmodulin and a brush border myosin I like protein are also found in the kidney brush border, but their role in renal calcium transport has not been explored. VDR, calbindin, TRPV5, and PMCA1b colocalize in the distal tubule, but not all distal tubules contain this collection of proteins ( 199 , 200 , 290 , 291 ) suggesting that not all distal tubules are involved in calcium transport. 1,25(OH) 2 D upregulates the VDR ( 232 ), an action opposed by PTH ( 235 ). Calbindin is also induced by 1,25(OH) 2 D in the kidney( 292 , 293 ). The activity of the calcium pump is increased by 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 294 ), but it is not clear that the protein itself is induced. The increased activity may be due to the induction of calbindin that increases its activity. The effect of 1,25(OH) 2 D on TRPV5 expression is stimulatory ( 203 ). Phosphate reabsorption in the proximal tubule is mediated at the brush border by sodium dependent phosphate transporters (NaPi-2a and NaPi-2c) that rely on the baso-lateral membrane Na,K ATPase to maintain the sodium gradient that drives the transport process ( 295 ). It is not clear whether 1,25(OH) 2 D regulates the expression or activities of these transporters as it does in the intestine, although PTH clearly does. Like PTH, FGF23 blocks phosphate reabsorption, presumably by blocking NaPi-2a activity. Unlike PTH, FGF23 also blocks the renal production of 1,25(OH) 2 D, as discussed earlier. The link between phosphate reabsorption and 1,25(OH) 2 D production remains unclear. TARGET TISSUE RESPONSES: NON-CALCIUM TRANSPORTING TISSUES In addition to its effects on tissues directly responsible for calcium homeostasis, 1,25(OH) 2 D regulates the function of a wide number of other tissues. These all contain the VDR. Regulation of differentiation and proliferation is one common theme; regulation of hormone secretion is another; regulation of immune function is the third. In most cases 1,25(OH) 2 D acts in conjunction with calcium. Selected examples follow. Regulation of Hormone Secretion PARATHYROID GLAND (PTH SECRETION) As previously mentioned, PTH stimulates
