Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


of the calcium switch cornified envelope formation is apparent ( 353 , 366 ), paralleling transglutaminase activation ( 367 ). The induction of these proteins represents a genomic action (likely indirect) of calcium as indicated by a calcium induced increase in mRNA levels and transcription rates ( 354 , 361 , 367 , 368 ). The relevance of calcium induced differentiation in vitro to the in vivo situation is indicated by the steep gradient of calcium within the epidermis, with the highest levels in the uppermost (most differentiated) nucleated layers ( 369 ). Current evidence for the importance of calcium in epidermal function is that barrier disruption, which results in increased proliferation, is associated with loss of the calcium gradient, whereas increasing the calcium concentration in the epidermis with sonophoresis stimulates lamellar body secretion important for restoration of the barrier ( 370 - 374 ). The keratinocyte senses calcium via a seven transmembrane domain, G protein coupled receptor (CaSR) ( 375 ) originally cloned from the parathyroid cell by Brown et al ( 376 , 377 ). Knocking out the Ca sr blocks calcium induced differentiation in vitro ( 378 , 379 ) and in vivo ( 380 ). However, keratinocytes also produce an alternatively spliced variant of the Ca sr as they differentiate ( 381 ). This variant CaSR lacks exon 5 and so would be missing residues 461-537 in the extracellular domain. A mouse model in which the full length Ca sr has been knocked out continues to produce the alternatively spliced form of Casr , but its epidermis contains lower levels of the terminal differentiation markers loricrin and profilaggrin, and keratinocytes from these mice fail to respond normally to calcium ( 381 ) consistent with the results when the full length calcium receptor was deleted in vitro ( 378 , 379 ). We have produced a conditional knockout of the Ca sr allowing us to delete Casr in the tissue of choice using cell specific cre recombinases that avoids the problem with the original global knockout ( 382 ). When the Ca sr is deleted specifically in the keratinocyte, this mouse has a reduction in epidermal differentiation and barrier repair ( 380 ), but unlike the global knockout does not have abnormalities in overall calcium homeostasis, and rather than showing an increased calcium gradient in the epidermis has a blunted one. The conditional knockout mouse also lacks
