Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


knockout does not have abnormalities in overall calcium homeostasis, and rather than showing an increased calcium gradient in the epidermis has a blunted one. The conditional knockout mouse also lacks the alternatively spliced CaSR. Inositol 1,4,5 tris phosphate (IP 3 ) and diacylglycerol levels increase within seconds to minutes after the calcium switch implicating activation of the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway ( 383 , 384 ). Similar to intracellular calcium levels (Cai), the levels of inositol phosphates (IPs) remain elevated for hours after the calcium switch. The prolonged increase in IPs after the calcium switch may contribute to the plateau phase of Cai elevation and a prolonged elevation of diacylglyerol (DG) that would stimulate the protein kinase C (PKC) pathway. This prolonged increase in IPs appears to be due to calcium induction and activation of PLC ( 152 , 384 , 385 ), especially PLC-γ1. Activation of PLC-γ1 by calcium involves a chain of events involving src kinase activation of phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase and phosphatidyl inositol 4 phosphate 5 kinase 1α within the context of a membrane complex with E-cadherin leading to the formation of phosphatidyl inositol tris phosphate in the membrane which activates PLC-γ1 via its PH domain ( 386 ). Phosphorylation of PLC-γ1 is not part of its activation by calcium unlike its activation by EGF ( 387 ). Knocking out P lcg1 blocks the ability of calcium to increase Cai and to induce involucrin and transglutaminase ( 385 ). Thus, like CaSR, PLC-γ1 is critical for the ability of calcium to regulate keratinocyte differentiation. Phorbol esters, which bind to and activate PKC, are well known tumor promoters in skin However, the initial effects of phorbol esters in vitro are to promote differentiation in cells grown in low calcium ( 356 , 388 , 389 ), effects which are potentiated by calcium ( 381 ). Phorbol esters stimulate PKC, and PKC inhibitors block the ability of both calcium and phorbol esters to promote differentiation ( 389 ). Phorbol esters as well as calcium stimulate the expression of both keratin 1 and involucrin gene constructs each of which contains an AP-1 site within the calcium response element (CaRE) of the promoter for these genes ( 390 , 391 ). If the AP-1 site within the CaRE is mutated, neither calcium nor phorbol esters are effective ( 390 , 391 ). These CaREs also contain VDREs (DR3), which at
