Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


been described ( 398 ), although this response is controversial ( 396 ). Our studies indicate that the ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D to increase Cai requires time and gene transcription. 1,25(OH) 2 D increases CaSR mRNA levels and prevents their fall in cells grown in 0.03mM calcium ( 399 ). This results in an enhanced Cai response to extracellular calcium (Cao). 1,25(OH) 2 D also induces the family of PLCs ( 400 ). PLC-γ1 contains a VDRE in its promoter ( 152 ), which unlike the usual VDRE is a DR6 which binds VDR/RAR rather than VDR/RXR. Knocking out PLCG1 blocks 1,25(OH) 2 D induced differentiation ( 401 ) as well as calcium induced differentiation mentioned earlier. The other PLCs have not been studied as extensively but are likely to show similar means of regulation by 1,25(OH) 2 D. Our current working model for the mechanisms by which calcium and 1,25(OH) 2 D regulate keratinocyte differentiation is shown in figure 9 . The keratinocyte expresses a CaSR that by coupling to and activating PLC controls the production of two important second messengers, IP 3 and DG. PLC-β is likely to be activated acutely by CaSR via a G protein coupled mechanism, whereas PLC-γ1 is activated acutely by calcium stimulated non receptor tyrosine kinases and subsequently by PIP3 in the membrane. Both PLCs are induced by calcium and 1,25(OH) 2 D. IP 3 stimulates the release of calcium from intracellular stores thus raising Cai. The initial release of calcium from these stores activates the Stim1/Orai1 channel in the membrane ( 402 ) that may stimulate proliferation of the basal keratinocytes and initiate their movement out of the basal layer. The increase in Cai and DG stimulates the activation of critical PKCs and their translocation to membrane receptors (RACK). PKC-α appears to be the most critical PKC for the subsequent events triggered by calcium in the keratinocyte, although PKCδ has also been implicated. Activated PKC leads to the induction and activation of AP-1 transcription factors which regulate the transcription of a number of genes including keratin 1, transglutaminase, involucrin, loricrin, and profilaggrin required for the differentiation process. Activation of the CaSR also activates the RhoA kinase leading to activation of src kinases which by phosphorylating various catenins leads to the formation of the Ecadherin/catenin complex in the membrane ( 403 ). This complex recruits both PI3K and PIP5K1α required to maintain
