Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


kinases which by phosphorylating various catenins leads to the formation of the Ecadherin/catenin complex in the membrane ( 403 ). This complex recruits both PI3K and PIP5K1α required to maintain the PIP2 and PIP3 levels in the membrane ( 355 ). PIP3 activates PLC-γ, that is in turn activates the TRPC channels in the membrane to enable the prolonged increase in Cai required for differentiation ( 404 ). 1,25(OH) 2 D, which is produced by the keratinocyte in a highly regulated fashion, modulates calcium regulated differentiation at several steps. First, 1,25(OH) 2 D increases CaSR expression, thus making the cell more responsive to calcium. Secondly, 1,25(OH) 2 D induces all the PLCs again increasing the responsiveness of the cell to calcium. Finally, 1,25(OH) 2 D has a direct effect on the transcription of the genes such as involucrin. The net result is that both calcium and 1,25(OH) 2 D promote keratinocyte differentiation through interactive mechanisms. Figure 9. A model of 1,25(OH)2D and calcium regulated keratinocyte differentiation. The G-protein coupled calcium receptor (CaSR) when activated by extracellular calcium activates Gα as described in the legend to figure 7 . Gα stimulates PLC mediated hydrolysis of PIP2 to IP3 and DG. IP3 releases Cai from intracellular stores, and DG activates PKC. Depletion of intracellular calcium stores leads to influx of calcium across store operated calcium channels. PKC stimulation leads to activation of AP-1 transcription factors which along with calcium and 1,25(OH)2D activated transcription factors stimulate the expression of genes essential for the differentiation process. 1,25(OH)2D regulates this process by inducing CaSR and PLC as well as genes essential for cornified envelope formation such as involucrin and transglutaminase. The VDR is also critical for hair follicle (HF) cycling. Unlike epidermal differentiation, hair follicle cycling is not dependent on 1,25(OH) 2 D. Alopecia is a well described characteristic of mice and humans lacking VDR ( 123 , 124 , 405 ) due to failure to regenerate the cycling lower portion of the HF after the initial developmental cycle is completed. Deletion of CYP27B1 ( 406 ) and CaSR ( 380 ) do not result in alopecia. Cianferotti et al. ( 407 ) attributed the loss of HF cycling in VDR null mice to a gradual loss of the proliferative potential in the stem cells of the HF bulge region. However, this conclusion has been challenged by Palmer et al. ( 408 ), who attributed
