Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


gradual loss of the proliferative potential in the stem cells of the HF bulge region. However, this conclusion has been challenged by Palmer et al. ( 408 ), who attributed the failure of HF cycling in the VDR null mouse in part to a failure of the progeny of these stem cells to migrate out of the bulge rather than their loss of proliferative potential suggesting a loss of activation. The role of VDR in the stem cells that regulate both HF cycling and epidermal regeneration is also important in the skin wound healing process. When the skin is wounded the progeny of stem cells from all regions of the HF and interfollicular epidermis (IFE) contribute at least initially ( 409 , 410 ), although the stem cells in the IFE make the most lasting contribution. Tian et al. ( 411 ) observed that topical 1,25(OH) 2 D enhanced wound healing, an observation that we have confirmed. Tay et al ( 412 ) in human skin showed that 1,25(OH) 2 D via the VDR promoted re-epithelialization by stimulating keratinocyte migration but reduced the fibroblast response during wound healing. On the other hand Luderer et al. ( 413 ) observed that in the global VDRKO, there was a reduction in TGFβ signaling in the dermis, but effects on re-epithelialization were not observed. Our studies have focused on the VDR and its interaction with calcium in keratinocytes. We have observed that re-epithelialization is impaired when the deletion of Vdr from keratinocytes is accompanied by either a low calcium diet ( 414 ) or a deletion of the Casr . Moreover, 1,25(OH) 2 D, the agonist of VDR, and NPS-R528, the agonist of CaSR, stimulate wound healing ( 415 , 416 ) Thus like the role of calcium and CaSR in vitamin D regulated keratinocyte differentiation so a similar synergism is seen in wound healing. These results are consistent with the loss of E-cadherin/catenin complex formation in the VDRKO keratinocyte, a complex that maintains stem cells in their niches ( 417 ), regulates when stem cell division is symmetric (to maintain stem cell numbers) or asymmetric (initiating differentiation)( 418 ), and is essential for the ability of keratinocytes to migrate as a sheet to re-epithelialize the wound ( 419 ). As noted previously calcium and the CaSR along with 1,25(OH) 2 D and VDR are required for E-cadherin/catenin complex formation during the differentiation
