Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


to re-epithelialize the wound ( 419 ). As noted previously calcium and the CaSR along with 1,25(OH) 2 D and VDR are required for E-cadherin/catenin complex formation during the differentiation process and so are involved in enabling its role in wound healing ( 420 ). Immune System The potential role for vitamin D and its active metabolite 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 in modulating the immune response has long been recognized since the discovery of vitamin D receptors (VDR) in macrophages, dendritic cells (DC) and activated T and B lymphocytes, the ability of macrophages and DC as well as activated T and B cells to express CYP27B1, and the ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 to regulate the proliferation and function of these cells. While these are the key cells mediating the adaptive immune response, 1,25(OH) 2 D, VDR, and CYP27B1 are also expressed in a large number of epithelial cells which along with the aforementioned members of the adaptive immune response contribute to host defense by their innate immune response. The totality of the immune response involves both types of responses in complex interactions involving numerous cytokines. The regulation of these different responses and their interactions by 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 is nuanced. In general 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 enhances the innate immune response primarily via its ability to stimulate cathelicidin, an antimicrobial peptide important in defense against invading organisms, whereas it inhibits the adaptive immune response primarily by inhibiting the maturation of dendritic cells (DC) important for antigen presentation, reducing T cell proliferation, and shifting the balance of T cell differentiation from the Th1 and Th17 pathways to Th2 and Treg pathways. Inflammatory autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriasis involve Th17 activation, a cell that expresses RANKL, and so can drive osteoclastogenesis leading to bone loss. ADAPTIVE IMMUNE RESPONSE The adaptive immune response is initiated by cells specialized in antigen presentation, DC and macrophages in particular, activating the cells responsible for subsequent antigen recognition, T and B lymphocytes. These cells are capable of a wide repertoire of responses that ultimately determine the nature and duration of the immune response. Activation of T and B cells occurs after a priming period in tissues of the body, e.g. lymph nodes, distant from the site of the initial exposure to the antigenic substance and is marked by proliferation of the activated T and B cells accompanied by
