Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


426 ). 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 has both direct and indirect effects on regulation of a number of cytokines involved with the immune response (review in ( 427 )). TNF has a VDRE in its promoter to which the VDR/RXR complex binds. 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 both blocks the activation of NFκB via an increase in IκBα expression and impedes its binding to its response elements in the genes such as IL-8 and IL-12 that it regulates. 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 has also been shown to bring an inhibitor complex containing histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) to the promoter of rel B, one of the members of the NFB family, thus suppressing gene expression. Thus, TNF/NFkB activity is markedly impaired by 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 at multiple levels. In VDR null fibroblasts, NFκB activity is enhanced. Furthermore, 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 suppresses IFNγ, and a negative VDRE has been found in the IFNγ promoter. GM-CSF is regulated by VDR monomers binding to a repressive complex in the promoter of this gene, competing with nuclear factor of T cells 1(NFAT1) for binding to the promoter. The ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 to suppress the adaptive immune system appears to be beneficial for a number of conditions in which the immune system is directed at self—i.e.. autoimmunity (review in ( 428 )). In a number of experimental models including inflammatory arthritis, psoriasis, autoimmune diabetes (e.g. NOD mice), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), experimental allergic encephalitis (EAE) (a model for multiple sclerosis), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), prostatitis, and thyroiditis VDR agonist administration has prevented and/or treated the disease process. As will be discussed later, a number of these conditions are associated with bone loss either directly (e.g. inflammatory arthritis) or indirectly presumably via increased serum levels of inflammatory cytokines. These actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 were originally ascribed to inhibition of Th1 function, but Th17 cells have also been shown to play important roles in a number of these conditions including psoriasis ( 321 ), experimental colitis ( 422 ), and rheumatoid arthritis ( 429 ), conditions that respond to 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 and its analogs. Although few prospective, randomized, placebo controlled trials in humans have been performed, an ancillary study to the large VITAL study indicated that vitamin D and omega 3 fatty acid supplementation were protective for the development of auto immune diseases ( 430 ). Moreover, a number of
