Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


the large VITAL study indicated that vitamin D and omega 3 fatty acid supplementation were protective for the development of auto immune diseases ( 430 ). Moreover, a number of epidemiologic and case control studies indicate that a number of these diseases in humans are favorably impacted by adequate vitamin D levels. For example, the incidence of multiple sclerosis correlates inversely with 25OHD levels and vitamin D intake, and early studies suggested benefit in the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis with VDR agonists ( 427 , 428 ). Similarly, IBD is associated with low vitamin D levels ( 431 ). Children who are vitamin D deficient have a higher risk of developing type 1 diabetes mellitus, and supplementation with vitamin D during early childhood reduces the risk of developing type 1 diabetes (review in ( 421 )). In VDR null mice myelopoiesis and the composition of lymphoid organs are normal, although a number of abnormalities in the immune response have been found. Some of the abnormalities in macrophage function and T cell proliferation in response to anti-CD3 stimulation in these animals could be reversed by placing the animals on a high calcium diet to normalize serum calcium ( 432 ), indicating the important role of calcium in vitamin D regulated immune function as in skeletal development and maintenance, hormone regulation, and keratinocyte differentiation. Other studies have noted an increased number of mature DCs in the lymph nodes of VDR null mice, which would be expected to promote the adaptive immune response ( 433 ). Somewhat surprisingly, RANKL also increases the number and retention of DCs in lymph nodes ( 434 ) suggesting that at least this mechanism is not mediated via the RANKL/RANK system in VDR null mice, which I will discuss at length subsequently. In contrast to these inhibitory actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 , Th2 function as indicated by increased IgE stimulated histamine from mast cells is increased in VDR null mice ( 435 ). The IL-10 null mouse model of IBD shows an accelerated disease profile when bred with the VDR null mouse with increased expression of Th1 cytokines ( 436 ). Surprisingly, despite a reduction in natural killer T cells and Treg cells and a decreased number of mature DCs, VDR null mice bred with NOD mice do not show accelerated development of diabetes ( 437 ). Part of the difference
