Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


Treg cells and a decreased number of mature DCs, VDR null mice bred with NOD mice do not show accelerated development of diabetes ( 437 ). Part of the difference in tissue response in VDR null mice may relate to differences in the ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 to alter the homing of T cells to the different tissues ( 425 ). In allergic airway disease (asthma) Th2 cells, not Th1 cells, dominate the inflammatory response. 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 administration to normal mice protected these mice from experimentally induced asthma in one study, blocking eosinophil infiltration, IL-4 production, and limiting histologic evidence of inflammation ( 438 ). However, a study with VDR null mice using a comparable method of inducing asthma showed that lack of VDR also protected the mice from an inflammatory response in their lungs ( 439 ). In an extension of this study the investigators showed that wildtype (WT) splenocytes were only minimally successful at restoring experimental airway inflammation to VDR null mice, whereas splenocytes from these mice were able to transfer experimental airway inflammation to the unprimed WT host ( 440 ). Thus, the impact of vitamin D signaling on adaptive immunity depends on the specifics of the immune response being evaluated. Inhibition of the adaptive immune response may also have benefit in transplantation procedures ( 441 ). In experimental allograft models of the aorta, bone, bone marrow, heart, kidney, liver, pancreatic islets, skin, and small bowel VDR agonists have shown benefit generally in combination with other immunosuppressive agents such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and glucocorticoids ( 441 ). Much of the effect could be attributed to a reduction in infiltration of Th1 cells, macrophages and DC into the grafted tissue associated with a reduction in chemokines such as CXCL10, CXCL9, CCL2, and CCL5. CXCL10, the ligand for CXCR3, may be of particular importance for acute rejection in a number of tissues, whereas CXCL9 as well as CXCL10 (both CXCR3 ligands) may be more important for chronic rejection at least in the heart and kidney, respectively. Although there are no prospective trials of the use of VDR agonists in transplant patients, several retrospective studies in patients with renal transplants treated with 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 have suggested benefit with respect to prolonged graft survival and reduced numbers of acute rejection episodes. Suppression of the adaptive immune system may not be without a price. Several
