Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


3 have suggested benefit with respect to prolonged graft survival and reduced numbers of acute rejection episodes. Suppression of the adaptive immune system may not be without a price. Several publications have demonstrated that for some infections including Leishmania major ( 442 ) and toxoplasmosis ( 443 ), 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 promotes the infection ( 443 ), while the mouse null for VDR is protected ( 442 ). This may be due at least in part to loss of IFNγ stimulation of ROS and NO production required for macrophage antimicrobial activity ( 442 ). Furthermore, atopic dermatitis, a disease associated with increased Th2 activity ( 444 ), and allergic airway disease, likewise associated with increased Th2 activity, ( 438 - 440 ), may be aggravated by 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 and are less severe in animals null for VDR. THE INNATE IMMUNE RESPONSE The innate immune response involves the activation of toll-like receptors (TLRs) in polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs), monocytes, and macrophages as well as in a number of epithelial cells including those of the epidermis, gingiva, intestine, vagina, bladder, and lungs (review in ( 445 )). There are 10 functional TLRs in human cells (of 11 known mammalian TLRs). TLRs are an extended family of host noncatalytic transmembrane pathogen-recognition receptors that interact with specific membrane patterns (PAMP) shed by infectious agents that trigger the innate immune response in the host. A number of these TLRs signal through adapter molecules such as myeloid differentiation factor-88 (MyD88) and the TIR-domain containing adapter inducing IFN-β (TRIF). MyD88 signaling includes translocation of NFkB to the nucleus, leading to the production and secretion of a number of inflammatory cytokines. TRIF signaling leads to the activation of interferon regulatory factor-3 (IRF-3) and the induction of type 1 interferons such as IFN-β. MyD88 mediates signaling from TLRs 2, 4, 5, 7 and 9, whereas TRIF mediates signaling from TLR 3 and 4. TLR1/2, TLR4, TLR5, TLR2/6 respond to bacterial ligands, whereas, TLR3, TLR7, and TLR 8 respond to viral ligands. The TLR response to fungi is less well defined. CD14 serves as a coreceptor for a number of these TLRs. Activation of TLRs leads to the induction of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) and reactive oxygen species, which kill the organism. Among these AMPs is cathelicidin. Cathelicidin plays a number of roles in the innate immune response. The precursor protein, hCAP18, must be cleaved to its major peptide
