Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanism of Action
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, pubmed, vdr, cells, levels, free, bone, receptor, production, protein, journal, gene, activity, expression


focused on the macrophage and the keratinocyte. Vitamin D regulation of the innate immune response in these two cell types is comparable, but differences exist. Macrophages The importance of adequate vitamin D nutrition for resistance to infection has long been appreciated but poorly understood. This has been especially true for tuberculosis. Indeed, prior to the development of specific drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis, getting out of the city into fresh air and sunlight was the treatment of choice. In a recent survey of patients with tuberculosis in London ( 455 ) 56% had undetectable 25OHD levels, and an additional 20% had detectable levels but below 9 ng/ml (22 nM). In 1986 Rook et al. ( 456 ) demonstrated that 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 could inhibit the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The mechanism for this remained unclear until the publication by Liu et al. ( 450 ) of their results in macrophages. They observed that activation of the Toll-like receptor TLR2/1 by a lipoprotein extracted from M. tuberculosis reduced the viability of intracellular M. tuberculosis in human monocytes and macrophages concomitant with increased expression of the VDR and of CYP27B1 in these cells. Killing of M. tuberculosis occurred only when the serum in which the cells were cultured contained adequate levels of 25OHD, the substrate for CYP27B1. This provided clear evidence for the importance of vitamin D nutrition (as manifested by adequate serum levels of 25OHD) in preventing and treating this disease and demonstrated the critical role for endogenous production of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 by the macrophage to enable its antimycobacterial capacity. Activation of TLR2/1 or directly treating these cells with 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 induced the antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin, which is toxic for M. tuberculosis . If induction of cathelicidin is blocked as with siRNA, the ability of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 to enhance the killing of M. tuberculosis is prevented ( 457 ). Furthermore, 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 also induces the production of reactive oxygen species which if blocked likewise prevents the anti-myobacterial activity of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 treated macrophages ( 458 ). The murine cathelicidin gene lacks a known VDR response element in its promoter and so might not be expected to be induced by 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 in mouse cells, yet 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 stimulates antimycobacterial activity in murine macrophages. Murine macrophages, unlike human macrophages, utilize inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) for
