Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


NLM Citation: Blau N, Pearson TS, Kurian MA, et al. Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency. 2023 Oct 12 [Updated 2025 Jan 23]. In: ® Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Bookshelf URL: Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency Synonym: AADC Deficiency 1 2 3 Created: October 12, 2023; Revised: January 23, 2025. Summary Clinical characteristics Individuals with aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) deficiency typically have complex symptoms, including motor, behavioral, cognitive, and autonomic findings. Symptom onset is in early infancy, typically within the first six months of life. The most common initial symptoms are often nonspecific, and include feeding difficulties, hypotonia, and developmental delay. More specific symptoms include oculogyric crises (which occur in the vast majority of affected individuals, typically starting in infancy), movement disorders (especially dystonia), and autonomic dysfunction (excessive sweating, temperature instability, ptosis, nasal congestion, hypoglycemic episodes). Sleep disturbance is present in a majority of affected individuals and can include insomnia, hypersomnia, or both. Mood disturbance, including irritability and anxiety, are also common. Brain MRI is typically either normal or may demonstrate nonspecific abnormalities, such as mild diffuse cerebral atrophy or delayed myelination. Seizures are an uncommon finding, occurring in fewer than 5% of affected individuals. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of AADC deficiency is established in a proband who has the following core diagnostic testing results: biallelic pathogenic variants in DDC identified by molecular genetic testing OR cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or plasma neurotransmitter profile consistent with AADC deficiency AND significantly reduced AADC enzyme activity in plasma. 2 GeneReviews ® Management Targeted therapies: Treatments can include the use of dopamine agonists (pramipexole, ropinirole, rotigotine patch, or bromocriptine), MAO inhibitors (selegiline or tranylcypromine), vitamin B (pyridoxine, pyridoxal phosphate), folinic acid, and (in rare cases) levodopa in a preparation without carbidopa. Putaminal delivery of eladocagene exuparvovec was approved in the European Union and United Kingdom for the treatment of deficiency with a severe phenotype (i.e., individuals who cannot sit, stand, or walk). This treatment was also approved by the FDA for use in the United States to treat individuals of any disease severity with sufficient skull maturity to safely tolerate the neurosurgical procedure. Supportive care: Feeding therapy with consideration of gastrostomy tube placement or jejunal feeding; anticholinergic drugs and/or sleep induction for movement disorders / oculogyric crisis; xylometazoline or oxymetazoline nasal drops for autonomic dysfunction; melatonin or clonidine for sleep disturbance; and standard therapies for epilepsy, developmental delay
