Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


and/or sleep induction for movement disorders / oculogyric crisis; xylometazoline or oxymetazoline nasal drops for autonomic dysfunction; melatonin or clonidine for sleep disturbance; and standard therapies for epilepsy, developmental delay / intellectual disability, musculoskeletal issues, bowel dysfunction (constipation, diarrhea, or gastroesophageal reflux disease), strabismus, visual impairment, obstructive sleep apnea, and hypoglycemia. Surveillance: At each visit: measurement of growth parameters; evaluation of nutritional status and safety of oral intake; monitor frequency and severity of oculogyric crises and movement disorders; assess for new manifestations, such as seizures, changes in tone, and movement disorders; monitor developmental progress and educational needs; monitor for behavioral issues and symptoms of anxiety, ADHD, ASD, aggression, & self- gastroesophageal reflux, and abdominal discomfort or pain; and monitor for evidence of aspiration, respiratory insufficiency, sleep disturbance, and frequency of respiratory infections. Annually: obtain hip and spinal radiographs (until skeletal maturity); consider cardiology evaluation; consider continuous glucose monitoring, especially in younger affected individuals. Per treating clinicians: ophthalmology evaluation; monitor for cardiac function and rhythm defects; monitor for symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea and nasal congestion. In those on levodopa treatment: monitor CSF neurotransmitters, including 5-methyltetrahydrofolate levels, as clinically indicated to assess for secondary folate deficiency, particularly if neurologic symptoms worsen. In those on bromocriptine therapy: echocardiogram and EKG every 6-12 months to monitor for vavlulopathy caused by valve fibrosis (the risk is lower than with other ergot-derived dopamine agonists such as pergolide, but not absent). Agents/circumstances to avoid: Ergot-derived dopamine agonists with strong serotonergic (5-HT2B) agonist action (pergolide and cabergoline) due to risk of cardiac valvulopathy and other fibrotic complications; levodopa in most affected individuals who do not have ligand binding site pathogenic variants; dopamine receptor antagonists (e.g., metoclopramide, antipsychotic medications), which may worsen primary disease symptoms. Evaluation of relatives at risk: Testing of all at-risk sibs of any age is warranted to allow for early diagnosis and treatment of AADC deficiency. Molecular genetic testing is recommended if the pathogenic variants in the family are known; measurement of CSF neurotransmitters (to evaluate for the characteristic profile) and plasma AADC enzyme activity is recommended if the pathogenic variants in the family are not known. Pregnancy management: Successful pregnancy has been documented in an affected woman with a mild phenotype who took low-dose pramipexole and selegiline during pregnancy. Genetic counseling AADC deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a DDC pathogenic variant,
