Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


low-dose pramipexole and selegiline during pregnancy. Genetic counseling AADC deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a DDC pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 3 Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic. If both DDC pathogenic variants have been identified in an affecte d family member, molecular genetic carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis Consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) deficiency have been published [Wassenberg et al 2017]. Suggestive Findings AADC deficiency should be considered in individuals with the following clinical and supportive laboratory findings and family history. Clinical findings • Infantile hypotonia • Ptosis • Oculogyric crises (an involuntary and prolonged upward deviation of the eyes, often precipitated by such factors as fatigue, diurnal variation, intercurrent illness, or metabolic stress) • Dystonia and other hyperkinetic movement disorders • Hypokinesia and other features of parkinsonism • Excessive sweating • Stridor and nasal congestion • Sleep disorder (hypersomnolence or insomnia) • Autonomic dysfunction • Developmental delay / intellectual disability, most often in the severe to profound range Supportive laboratory findings • Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) neurotransmitter profile typically demonstrates: ⚬ Low levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 3-methoxy-4- hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG); ⚬ Normal concentrations of pterins (neopterin and biopterin); ⚬ High concentrations of levodopa, 3-O-methyldopa (3-methoxytyrosine; 3-OMD), and 5- hydroxytryptophan (5-HT). • Plasma neurotransmitter (untargeted metabolomics) profile typically demonstrates: ⚬ High level of 3-OMD; ⚬ Low levels of 5-HIAA, vanillylmandelate (VMA), HVA, and dopamine-3-O-sulfate (D3OS); ⚬ Low to normal level of 3-methoxytyramine sulfate (3-MTS). • Increased urinary concentration of vanillactic acid (VLA) • Low whole-blood serotonin concentration • Increased serum prolactin concentration, which is nonspecific Note: Because elevations of these metabolites individually are not entirely specific to AADC deficiency, more specific testing is required to establish or rule out the diagnosis of AADC deficiency (see Establishing the Diagnosis). Family history is consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance (e.g., affected sibs and/or parental consanguinity). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the diagnosis. 4 GeneReviews ® Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of AADC deficiency is established in a proband who has the following core diagnostic testing
