Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


family history does not preclude the diagnosis. 4 GeneReviews ® Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of AADC deficiency is established in a proband who has the following core diagnostic testing results (see Figure 1): • Biallelic pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in DDC identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1) OR • CSF or plasma neurotransmitter profile consistent with AADC deficiency (see above) AND • Significantly reduced activity of the enzyme AADC in plasma Because of its relatively high sensitivity, DDC molecular genetic testing demonstrating biallelic pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants can obviate the need for enzymatic testing or even neurotransmitter profilin g; therefore, DDC molecular genetic testing is increasingly the first-line diagnostic test for AADC deficiency. Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of biallelic DDC variants of uncertain significance (or of one known DDC pathogenic variant and one DDC variant of uncertain significance) does not establish or rule out the diagnosis (see Figure 1). (3) If genetic testing reveals a variant of unknown clinical significance (or biallelic variants of diagnosis. (4) A trial for detecting 3-OMD in dried blood spots (DBS) has been suggested for newborn screening (NBS) of AADC deficiency [Reischl-Hajiabadi et al 2024]. However, this method has not yet been implemented in NBS programs globally. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (single-gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing) depending on the phenotype. Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved, whereas genomic testing does not. Individuals with the distinctive findings described in Suggestive Findings are likely to be diagnosed using gene-targeted testing (see Option 1), whereas those in whom the diagnosis of AADC deficiency has not been considered are more likely to be diagnosed using genomic testing (see Option 2). Option 1 genetic testing approaches can include single-gene testing or use of a multigene panel. • Single-gene testing ⚬ Sequence analysis of DDC is performed first to detect missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions. Note: Depending on the sequencing method used, single- exon, multiexon, or whole-gene deletions/duplications may not be detected. ⚬ If only one or
