Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions. Note: Depending on the sequencing method used, single- exon, multiexon, or whole-gene deletions/duplications may not be detected. ⚬ If only one or no variant is detected by the sequencing method used, the next step is to perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect exon and whole-gene deletions or duplications. Note: Targeted analysis for the c.714+4A>T pathogenic founder variant may be performed first in individuals of Asian (particularly Chinese, Taiwanese, or Japanese) ancestry (see Molecular Genetics). Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 5 Figure 1. Diagnostic flowchart to establish a diagnosis of AADC deficiency 6 GeneReviews ® • A multigene panel (e.g., a seizure/epilepsy panel, a dystonia / movement disorder / juvenile parkinsonism panel, a neuromuscular panel) that includes DDC and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. Option 2 When the diagnosis of AADC deficiency has not been considered, comprehensive genomic testing (which does not require the clinician to determine which gene[s] are likely involved) is an option. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be found here. Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Detectable by Method Sequence analysis 3 >99% 4, 5, 6 DDC Gene-targeted deletion/duplication Rare 8 analysis 7 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 4.
