Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 4. Data derived from the subscription-based professional view of Human Gene Mutation Database [Stenson et al 2020] 5. The spectrum of variants identified in DDC and reported by Himmelreich et al include about 51% pathogenic missense variants, 15% pathogenic splice site variants, 3% pathogenic frameshift variants, 2% pathogenic nonsense variants, 1% pathogenic in- 6. A pathogenic founder variant, c.714+4A>T, has been observed in individuals of Asian (particularly Chinese, Taiwanese, or Japanese) ancestry [Hwu et al 2018, Dai et al 2020, Wen et al 2020]. 7. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and a gene-targeted microarray designed to detect single-exon deletions or duplications. 8. One single large deletion has been reported [Himmelreich et al 2022]. Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description The aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) enzyme catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of the monoamine neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin. Dopamine itself is a precursor for the synthesis of Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 7 combined deficiency of dopamine, serotonin, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. Individuals with AADC deficiency typically have complex symptoms, including motor, behavioral, cognitive, and autonomic findings. Symptom onset is in early infancy, typically within the first six months of life [Wassenberg et al 2017, Pearson et al 2020, Rizzi et al 2022]. The most common initial symptoms are o ften lies in the subsequent recognition of a constellation of symptoms that suggest a monoamine neurotransmitter disorder: oculogyric crises (which occur in the vast majority of affected individuals, typically starting in infancy), movement disorders (especially dystonia), and autonomic dysfunction (excessive sweating, temperature instability, ptosis, nasal congestion, hypoglycemic episodes) [Wassenberg et al 2017, Pearson et al 2020, Rizzi et al 2022]. To date, about 350 individuals have been reported with AADC deficiency [Himmelreich et al 2022, Himmelreich et al 2023]. The following description of the phenotypic features associated with this condition is based on these reports. Table 2. Select Features of Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency % of Persons w/ Feature Comment Feature Hypotonia >90% Most common initial symptom; onset in infancy Oculogyric crises >90 Onset in infancy Developmental delay / Often in severe-to-profound range, although some affected persons are only
