Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


Comment Feature Hypotonia >90% Most common initial symptom; onset in infancy Oculogyric crises >90 Onset in infancy Developmental delay / Often in severe-to-profound range, although some affected persons are only >90% intellectual disability mildly affected Hypokinesia & dystonia are common. Dyskinesia (chorea, athetosis) may Movement disorders >90% occur. May incl impaired oral feeding, gastroesophageal reflux, vomiting, &/or Feeding difficulties 70%-80% feeding intolerance Dysautonomia 70%-80% May incl excessive sweating, ptosis, &/or nasal congestion Sleep disturbance 50%-75% Insomnia & hypersomnia both occur. Mood disturbance 50%-75% May incl irritability, anxiety Developmental delay (DD) and intellectual disability (ID). Delay in acquisition of motor milestones during infancy (e.g., head control, independent sitting) is a common early symptom. Motor and speech delay ranges from mild to severe. Affected individuals with severe disease (approximately 80% of reported affected individuals) typically have very limited development of motor skills; those with milder disease (approximately 5%-10% of reported affected individuals) may walk independently, typically by age eight years, in those who achieve ambulation. The degree of intellectual disability also tends to correlate with the severity of motor disability and the number and severity of other symptoms. Neurologic features. AADC deficiency is a developmental rather than a neurodegenerative disorder, but neurologic symptoms commonly evolve over time. For example, oculogyric crises tend to peak in severity during infancy and early childhood and become less frequent during late adolescence, even in those with severe disease. • Hypotonia is the most common initial symptom and is often noticed in early infancy. Low tone is prominent in the neck and trunk muscles; tone in the limbs may fluctuate from low to high due to the variable presence of dystonia (see below). • Oculogyric crises are episodes characterized by intermittent or sustained eye deviation, usually upward or to the side, which may be accompanied by involuntary movements of the face, trunk, and/or limbs. Mild episodes may last for several minutes and involve the eyes only. Severe episodes last for many hours, and 8 GeneReviews ® symptoms may include whole-body dystonic posturing, difficulty breathing, and sweating. Oculogyric crises occur in more than 90% of people with AADC deficiency and typically begin within the first six months of life. Episodes may initially be mistaken for seizures. Clinical features that distinguish an oculogyric crisis from a seizure are the long duration (an oculogyric crisis can last for many hours) and intact alertness (during an oculogyric crisis, a person remains
