Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


that distinguish an oculogyric crisis from a seizure are the long duration (an oculogyric crisis can last for many hours) and intact alertness (during an oculogyric crisis, a person remains awake and alert). • Movement disorders ⚬ Hypokinesia is common. The combination of hypotonia, hypokinesia, and ptosis (see below) in infancy may be mistaken for a neuromuscular condition. Differentiating features of AADC deficiency on neurologic examination are the presence of normal or brisk deep tendon reflexes and recognition of dystonia in the limbs, if present. ⚬ Dystonia (involuntary movements or postures) is the most common hyperkinetic movement disorder experienced by affected individuals. Dystonia typically fluctuates with activity and state, worsening in the context of action, stress, discomfort, and fatigue. Older children may experience a pattern of diurnal variation, with worsening at the end of the day and improvement following sleep. ⚬ Other hyperkinetic movement disorders including chorea, athetosis, myoclonus, and tremor may occur, usually intermittently. • Dysautonomia. Autonomic dysfunction may manifest with a variety of symptoms: ⚬ Excessive sweating ⚬ Temperature instability ⚬ Ptosis, miosis ⚬ Cardiovascular abnormalities, including hypotension, bradycardia, and other heart rhythm disturbances ⚬ Upper airway obstruction (see below) ⚬ Hypoglycemic episodes (see below) ⚬ Gastrointestinal symptoms (see below) • Epilepsy. Seizures are uncommon (<5% of reported individuals) [Rizzi et al 2022]. Oculogyric crises can be mistaken for seizures (see above). Behavioral problems. Mood symptoms, including irritability and anxiety, occur in 50%-60% of affected individuals [Pearson et al 2020]. Behavioral features consistent with autism spectrum disorder have been reported in some individuals. Neuroimaging. Brain MRI is typically either normal or may demonstrate nonspecific abnormalities, such as mild diffuse cerebral atrophy or delayed myelination [Wassenberg et al 2017]. Growth. Many affected individuals experience growth impairment, including short stature and poor weight gain. Other associated features • Respiratory abnormalities ⚬ Upper airway obstruction. Nasal congestion and stridor are common (due to a combination of airway hypotonia and catecholamine deficiency). This symptom is most pronounced in infants and young children, who can have audible breathing. ⚬ Acute worsening of upper airway obstruction may occur during an oculogyric crisis, leading to a need for airway support in some affected individuals. • Sleep disorder. Hypersomnia is common in infancy. Children and adolescents may experience a range of sleep difficulties, including problems with sleep induction and insomnia with frequent nocturnal waking. Sleep apnea is also reported, which can result in premature mortality [Wassenberg
