Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


may experience a range of sleep difficulties, including problems with sleep induction and insomnia with frequent nocturnal waking. Sleep apnea is also reported, which can result in premature mortality [Wassenberg et al 2017]. Sleep difficulties may be treated with melatonin (to aid induction) and clonidine (see Management). Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 9 • Gastrointestinal problems may include gastrointestinal dysmotility leading to gastroesophageal re flux disease, feeding intolerance, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or constipation. More severely affected individuals may have issues with aspiration, which can lead to aspiration pneumonia. Many affected individuals benefit from placement of a gastrostomy tube (see Management). • Endocrinologic. Episodic hypoglycemia occurs in about one third of affected individuals and presents with typical symptoms such as lethargy, unresponsiveness, pallor, and sweating. Common triggers are concurrent illness, stress, and prolonged fasting. • Other ophthalmologic involvement. Many individuals with AADC deficiency have bilateral ptosis as an autonomic manifestation of catecholamine deficiency. Ptosis may be present in infancy and can persist into adulthood. In some it may fluctuate (e.g., it may be worse in the context of fatigue, illness, or individuals experience strabismus, for which ophthalmology evaluation and consideration of treatment is recommended (see Management). Prognosis. There is an increased risk of early death due to medical complications such as pneumonia and aspiration. Sudden unexplained death may occur at any age, presumed to be due to an acute cardiorespiratory event. Current survival data is derived from retrospective cohorts. Hwu et al described 20 living affecte d individuals and ten deceased affected individuals who died between the ages of one and seven years, all of whom had a severe phenotype, suggesting about a one third childhood mortality risk in a population from Taiwan. However, the risk of death also depends upon choices about supportive medical interventions, such as tracheostomy/gastrostomy tube placement. Survival into the third decade of life has been reported in several individuals with mild-to-moderate phenotypes, and at least one affected individual was known to be living at age 36.8 years [Pearson et al 2020]. Successful pregnancy has been documented in a female age 26 years with a mild phenotype [Mastrangelo et al 2018] (see Pregnancy Management). Genotype-Phenotype Correlations No clinically relevant genotype-phenotype correlations for DDC have been identified. However, one individual has been reported with a c.304G>A (p.Gly102Ser) pathogenic variant who was responsive to levodopa therapy (see Targeted Therapies) [Chang et al 2004]. This specific pathogenic variant is located very
