Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


individual has been reported with a c.304G>A (p.Gly102Ser) pathogenic variant who was responsive to levodopa therapy (see Targeted Therapies) [Chang et al 2004]. This specific pathogenic variant is located very close to the levodopa substrate binding pocket between Ile101 and Phe103. It is possible that other pathogenic variants in and around the levodopa substrate binding pocket may affect access to the active site and may confer levodopa responsiveness, but this has not yet been proven. Nomenclature AADC deficiency has also been referred to as dopa decarboxylase deficiency. Prevalence The worldwide incidence of AADC deficiency is not known. The condition is thought to be more prevalent in certain populations that originate from Asia, particularly Taiwan, Japan, and China, due to a founder pathogenic variant (c.714+4A>T) [Lee et al 2009, Hwu et al 2018, Dai et al 2020, Wen et al 2020, Himmelreich et al 2022]. A recent gnomAD-based study estimated worldwide incidence of AADC deficiency to be about 1:1,300,000 [Park et al 2023]. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in DDC. 10 GeneReviews ® Differential Diagnosis Monoamine neurotransmitter deficiencies associated with defects in the synthesis of dopamine (tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency) or dopamine and serotonin deficiency (sepiapterin reductase deficiency and other tetrahydrobiopterin [BH4] deficiencies) may present with similar clinical features to aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) deficiency. These disorders can be biochemically distinguished from AADC deficiency by the absence of elevated 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) on a cerebrospinal fluid neurotransmitter profile. Broad categories of disorders with clinical features that may resemble those of AADC deficiency are summarized in Table 3. Table 3. Clinical Differential Diagnosis of Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency Clinical Features of AADC Deficiency Differential Diagnosis Category That may resemble other disorders in this Distinguishing from other disorders in this category category • Dystonia • Oculogyric crises • Hypotonia Infantile-onset neuromuscular • Autonomic features (ptosis, nasal • Hypokinesia disorders congestion, excessive sweating) • Ptosis • Presence of normal or brisk deep tendon reflexes • Hypotonia Infantile-onset complex • Hypokinesia Autonomic features (ptosis, nasal congestion, dystonia or parkinson- • Dystonia excessive sweating) dystonia syndromes • Oculogyric crises Symptoms of an oculogyric crisis, such as eye Oculogyric crises often last for hours & awareness Early-onset epilepsy deviation & body stiffening, may be mistaken is intact during episodes, unlike seizures. for focal seizures. AADC = aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase
