Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


analysis • 1-2 mg/kg/day • Generally well tolerated For prevention & • Usual dose 15 mg 1x/ • Anecdotally, some affected treatment of Folinic acid Calcium folinate day, but can be titrated persons are given prophylactic cerebral folate upward according to calcium folinate, as it is deficiency CSF 5-MTHF levels postulated that the raised 3- OMD levels seen in AADC deficiency can deplete cerebral folate levels. Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 15 Table 5. continued from previous page. Mechanism of Treatment Class Specific Drugs 1 Dose Comments Action • Start 0.5-1 mg/kg/day • Substrate for AADC to form in 3 divided doses dopamine; effective in certain Conversion to • Increase fortnightly by persons w/substrate binding site dopamine for Levodopa in 1 mg/kg to 5 variants. Levodopa 7 direct activation preparation w/o mg/kg/day only if • Start as first-line treatment only of dopamine carbidopa clinical effective. if known binding site variant. receptors • Further increase to • Monitor CSF neurotransmitters, max 15 mg/kg/day incl 5-MTHF levels, during may be considered. treatment (see Table 7). 3-OMD = 3-O-methyldopa; AADC = aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase; CSF = cerebrospinal fluid; MAO = monoamine oxidase; MTHF = methylenetetrahydrofolate; vg = vector genome 1. Note that medications often have limited benefit, especially in individuals who have severe symptoms. 2. Approval of the treatment in Europe and the UK followed reported improvements in symptoms and motor function in 22 affected individuals (ages 1.7-8.5 years) who were enrolled in three clinical studies [Tai et al 2022]. Approval of the treatment in the US followed an open-label, single-arm study (NCT04903288) of 13 individuals (ages 16 months to 10.8 years) with a severe disease phenotype. Of the 12 children who completed follow up through Week 48, three of 12 had gained full head control and one individual could sit independently [Tai et al 2022] (see also eladoceagene exuparvovec-tneq production information insert). 3. Pergolide and cabergoline should be avoided because of the risk of fibrotic complications (see Agents/Circumstances to Avoid). 4. Considered a first-line treatment 5. Leuzzi et al 6. Wassenberg et al 7. Individuals who have a specific pathogenic variant affecting the levodopa binding site may be levodopa responsive. Most individuals with AADC deficiency do not respond to levodopa treatment. Levodopa in combination with carbidopa is avoided because carbidopa inhibits the AADC enzyme (see Agents/Circumstances to Avoid). Supportive Care Supportive care to improve quality of life, maximize function, and reduce
