Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


blood pressure monitoring) before bed up to max Clonidine of 0.3 mg/day • May have some benefit in also treating irritability Standard treatment per endocrinologist, Emergency plan for mgmt of acute hypoglycemia, & Hypoglycemia which usually incl feeding plan to prevent feeding regimen for periods of intercurrent illness or low blood glucose levels metabolic stress • Ensure appropriate social work involvement to connect families w/ • Ongoing assessment of need for palliative care local resources, respite, & support. involvement &/or home nursing Family/Community • Coordinate care to manage multiple • Consider involvement in adaptive sports or subspecialty appointments, Special Olympics. equipment, medications, & supplies. AADC = aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase; ASM = anti-seizure medication; BiPAP = bilevel positive airway pressure; CPAP = continuous positive airway pressure; GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disease; MAO = monoamine oxidase; OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy 1. Education of parents/caregivers regarding common seizure presentations is appropriate. For information on non-medical interventions and coping strategies for children diagnosed with epilepsy, see Epilepsy Foundation Toolbox. Developmental Delay / Intellectual Disability Management Considerations The following information represents typical management recommendations for individuals with developmental delay / intellectual disability in the United States; standard recommendations may vary from country to country. Ages 0-3 years. Referral to an early intervention program is recommended for access to occupational, physical, Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 17 specialists. In the US, early intervention is a federally funded program available in all states that provides in- home services to target individual therapy needs. Ages 3-5 years. In the US, developmental preschool through the local public school district is recommended. Before placement, an evaluation is made to determine needed services and therapies and an individualized education plan (IEP) is developed for those who qualify based on established motor, language, social, or cognitive delay. The early intervention program typically assists with this transition. Developmental preschool is center based; for children too medically unstable to attend, home-based services are provided. All ages. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician is recommended to ensure the involvement of appropriate community, state, and educational agencies (US) and to support parents in maximizing quality of life. Some issues to consider: • IEP services: ⚬ An IEP provides specially designed instruction and related services to children who qualify. ⚬ IEP services will be reviewed annually to determine whether any changes are needed. ⚬ Special education law requires that children participating in an
