Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Pregnancy Management Successful pregnancy has been documented in a 26-year-old female with a mild phenotype [Mastrangelo et al 2018]. This individual was being treated with escitalopram, pyridoxine, pramipexole (0.78 mg/day), and selegiline (up to 7.5 mg/day) around the time of conception. Both escitalopram and pyridoxine were discontinued and the doses of pramipexole and selegiline were decreased to 0.26 mg/day and 5 mg/day, respectively, without worsening of her neurologic symptoms. While this pregnant woman did develop preeclampsia at 31 weeks' gestation, she ultimately was able to deliver a small birth weight (small for gestational age) male infant at 38 weeks' gestation (term) who experienced transient hypoglycemia and tachypnea in the first few days of life. The infant was noted to be healthy with typical growth in the following months of life; long- term outcome information for the infant was not reported. The authors concluded that low dosages of pramipexole and selegiline during pregnancy could have good efficacy for the affected pregnant woman and may have a good safety profile [Mastrangelo et al 2018]. In general, selegiline use during pregnancy is often avoided due to concerns about potential vasoconstrictive effects. One infant in a set of twins exposed to this medication and to levodopa/carbidopa and entacapone for the treatment of Parkinson disease during pregnancy was found to have a ventricular septal defect [Seier & Hiller 2017]. In general, pramipexole is not anticipated to increase the rate of malformations in exposed human pregnancies, and there have been limited reports of normal birth outcomes in exposed infants [Seier & Hiller 2017]. See MotherToBaby for further information on medication use during pregnancy. Therapies Under Investigation Gene therapy using one-time targeted delivery of a gene vector (AAV2-AADC) directly to the brain has been developed. Two different brain target sites have been studied for AADC deficiency: the putamen [Hwu et al 2012, Chien et al 2017, Tai et al 2022] and the midbrain [Pearson et al 2021]. Studies are ongoing to determine the optimal target site and dose. Midbrain gene delivery is being studied in an ongoing Phase I/II trial (NCT02852213). In an initial study of seven affected individuals (ages 4-9 years) with severe motor impairment, midbrain gene delivery resulted in complete resolution of oculogyric crises in 6/7 individuals, attainment of independent sitting within 12 months in 4/7, walking with two-hand support by 18
