Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


motor impairment, midbrain gene delivery resulted in complete resolution of oculogyric crises in 6/7 individuals, attainment of independent sitting within 12 months in 4/7, walking with two-hand support by 18 months in 2/7, and improved mood and sleep [Pearson et al 2021]. Both delivery approaches to gene therapy lead to detectable increases in the concentration of the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid in cerebrospinal fluid. Greater increases are observed following midbrain gene delivery, which directly targets dopaminergic neurons. Neither approach addresses the serotonin deficiency that is also part of AADC deficiency. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency 21 Genetic Counseling Mode of Inheritance Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • The parents of an affected child are presumed to be heterozygous for a DDC pathogenic variant. • If a molecular diagnosis has been established in the proband, molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of a proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for a DDC pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. If a pathogenic variant is detected in only one parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ One of the pathogenic variants identified in the proband occurred as a de novo event in the proband or as a postzygotic de novo event in a mosaic parent [Jónsson et al 2017]. ⚬ Uniparental isodisomy for the parental chromosome with the pathogenic variant resulted in homozygosity for the pathogenic variant in the proband. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Sibs of a proband • If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a DDC pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. (e.g., mild and moderate phenotypes described in the same family) [Pearson et al 2020]. Differences in response and tolerance to medications may influence the clinical course. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Offspring of a proband. The offspring
