Bookshelf_NBK595821
KEYWORDS: deficiency, aadc, pathogenic, aadc deficiency, testing, acid, day, individuals, decarboxylase, aromatic, aromatic l-amino, l-amino, variants, acid decarboxylase, l-amino acid


response and tolerance to medications may influence the clinical course. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Offspring of a proband. The offspring of an individual with AADC deficiency are obligate heterozygotes (carriers) for a pathogenic variant in DDC. Other family members. Each sib of the proband's parents is at a 50% risk of being a carrier of a DDC pathogenic variant. Carrier Detection Molecular genetic carrier testing for at-risk relatives requires prior identification of the DDC pathogenic variants in the family. Related Genetic Counseling Issues See Management, Evaluation of Relatives at Risk for information on evaluating at-risk relatives for the purpose of early diagnosis and treatment. Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are carriers or are at risk of being carriers. 22 GeneReviews ® • Carrier testing should be considered for the reproductive partners of individuals known to be carriers of AADC deficiency, particularly if both partners are of the same ancestral background. A pathogenic founder variant has been observed in individuals of Asian (particularly Chinese, Taiwanese, or Japanese) ancestry (see Table 9). DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Molecular genetic testing. If both DDC pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Biochemical genetic testing. Prenatal enzyme testing of amniocytes, amniotic fluid, or chorionic villi has not been reported to date. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care centers would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources • AADC Family Network www.aadcfamilynetwork.org • AADC Research Trust United Kingdom www.aadcresearch.org • MedlinePlus Aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency • National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) Aromatic L-Amino
