Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


Hyperthyroidism is characterized by hypermetabolism and elevated serum levels of free thyroid hormones. Symptoms include palpitations, fatigue, weight loss, heat intolerance, anxiety, and tremor. Diagnosis is clinical and with thyroid function tests. Treatment depends on cause. (See also Overview of Thyroid Function.) Hyperthyroidism affects about 1% of people in the United States. It can occur at any age but is more common in females between the ages of 20 and 50 years (1). Hyperthyroidism can be classified on the basis of thyroid radioactive iodine uptake and the level of circulating thyroid hormones (see table Results of Thyroid Function Tests in Various Clinical Situations). Etiology of Hyperthyroidism Hyperthyroidism may result from increased synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormones (thyroxine [T4] and triiodothyronine [T3]) from the thyroid, caused by thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI) or by autonomous thyroid hyperfunction. It can also result from excessive release of thyroid hormone from the thyroid without increased synthesis. Such release is commonly caused by the destructive changes of various types of thyroiditis. The most common causes of hyperthyroidism include Graves disease Multinodular goiter Single, autonomous, hyperfunctioning "hot" nodule 1/15 Thyroiditis Graves disease (toxic diffuse goiter), the most common cause of hyperthyroidism, is characterized by hyperthyroidism and one or more of the following: Goiter Exophthalmos Infiltrative dermopathy Graves disease is caused by an autoantibody (TSI) against the thyroid receptor for thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH); unlike most autoantibodies, which are inhibitory, this autoantibody is stimulatory, thus causing continuous synthesis and secretion of excess T4 and T3. Graves disease (like Hashimoto thyroiditis) sometimes occurs with other autoimmune disorders, including type 1 diabetes mellitus, vitiligo, premature graying of hair, pernicious anemia, connective tissue disorders, and polyglandular deficiency syndrome. Heredity increases the risk of Graves disease, although the genes involved are unknown. The pathogenesis of infiltrative ophthalmopathy (responsible for the exophthalmos in Graves disease) is poorly understood but may result from immunoglobulins directed to the TSH receptors in the orbital fibroblasts and fat that result in release of proinflammatory cytokines, inflammation, and accumulation of glycosaminoglycans. Ophthalmopathy may also occur before the onset of hyperthyroidism or as late as 20 years afterward and frequently worsens or abates independently of the clinical course of hyperthyroidism. Typical ophthalmopathy in the presence of normal thyroid function is called euthyroid Graves disease (see photo Eye Manifestations of Graves Disease—Exophthalmos). Toxic solitary or multinodular goiter (Plummer disease) sometimes results from TSH receptor gene mutations causing continuous thyroid activation. Patients
