Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


called euthyroid Graves disease (see photo Eye Manifestations of Graves Disease—Exophthalmos). Toxic solitary or multinodular goiter (Plummer disease) sometimes results from TSH receptor gene mutations causing continuous thyroid activation. Patients with toxic nodular goiter have none of the autoimmune manifestations or circulating antibodies observed in patients with Graves disease. Also, in contrast to Graves disease, toxic solitary and multinodular goiters usually do not remit. Inflammatory thyroid disease (thyroiditis) includes subacute granulomatous thyroiditis, Hashimoto thyroiditis, and silent lymphocytic thyroiditis, a variant of Hashimoto thyroiditis. Hyperthyroidism is more common in subacute granulomatous thyroiditis and results from destructive changes in the gland and release of stored hormone, not from increased synthesis. Hypothyroidism may follow. Inappropriate TSH secretion is a rare cause. Patients with primary hyperthyroidism have undetectable TSH levels. However, TSH levels are detectable in patients with a TSH-secreting anterior pituitary adenoma or with pituitary resistance to thyroid hormone, in whom TSH levels are high. The TSH produced in both of these pituitary disorders is biologically more active than normal TSH. An increase in the alpha-subunit of TSH in the blood (helpful in differential diagnosis) occurs in patients with a TSH- secreting pituitary adenoma. Medication-induced hyperthyroidism can result from amiodarone, checkpoint inhibitors used in cancer therapy, alemtuzumab used in treatment of multiple sclerosis, or interferon-alfa, which may induce thyroiditis with hyperthyroidism and other thyroid disorders. Although more commonly causing hypothyroidism, lithium can rarely cause hyperthyroidism. Patients receiving these medications should be closely monitored. 2/15 Thyrotoxicosis factitia is hyperthyroidism resulting from intentional or accidental overingestion of thyroid hormone. Excess iodine ingestion causes hyperthyroidism with a low thyroid radioactive iodine uptake. It most often occurs in patients with underlying nontoxic nodular goiter (especially older patients) who are given medications that contain iodine (eg, amiodarone) or who undergo radiologic studies using iodine- rich contrast agents. The etiology may be that the excess iodine provides substrate for functionally autonomous (ie, not under TSH regulation) areas of the thyroid to produce hormone. Hyperthyroidism usually persists as long as excess iodine remains in the circulation. Hydatidiform mole (molar pregnancy) and choriocarcinoma produce high levels of serum human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a weak thyroid stimulator. Levels of hCG are highest during the first trimester of pregnancy and result in the decrease in serum TSH and mild increase in serum free T4 sometimes observed at that time. The increased thyroid stimulation may be caused by increased levels of partially desialated hCG,
