Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


decrease in serum TSH and mild increase in serum free T4 sometimes observed at that time. The increased thyroid stimulation may be caused by increased levels of partially desialated hCG, an hCG variant that appears to be a more potent thyroid stimulator than more sialated hCG. Hyperthyroidism in molar pregnancy, choriocarcinoma, and hyperemesis gravidarum is transient; normal thyroid function resumes when the molar pregnancy is evacuated, the choriocarcinoma is appropriately treated, or the hyperemesis gravidarum abates. Nonautoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism manifests during infancy. It results from mutations in the TSH receptor gene that produce continuous thyroid stimulation. Metastatic thyroid cancer is a possible cause. Overproduction of thyroid hormone occurs rarely from functioning metastatic follicular carcinoma, especially in pulmonary metastases. Struma ovarii develops when ovarian teratomas contain enough thyroid tissue to cause true hyperthyroidism. Radioactive iodine uptake occurs in the pelvis, and uptake by the thyroid is usually suppressed. Pathophysiology of Hyperthyroidism In hyperthyroidism, serum T3 usually increases more than does T4, probably because of increased secretion of T3 as well as conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues. In some patients, only T3 is elevated (T3 toxicosis). T3 toxicosis may occur in any of the common disorders that cause hyperthyroidism, including Graves disease, multinodular goiter, and the autonomously functioning solitary thyroid nodule. If T3 toxicosis is untreated, the patient usually also develops laboratory abnormalities typical of hyperthyroidism (ie, elevated T4 and increased iodine-123 uptake). The various forms of thyroiditis commonly have a hyperthyroid phase followed by a hypothyroid phase. Symptoms and Signs of Hyperthyroidism 3/15 Most symptoms and signs are the same regardless of the cause. Exceptions include infiltrative ophthalmopathy and infiltrative dermopathy, which occur only in Graves disease. Pearls & Pitfalls Older adults with hyperthyroidism may have symptoms similar to depression or dementia. The clinical presentation may be dramatic or subtle. A goiter or nodule may be present. Many common symptoms of hyperthyroidism are due to enhanced sensitivity to adrenergic hormones, such as nervousness, palpitations, hyperactivity, increased sweating, heat hypersensitivity, fatigue, increased appetite, weight loss, insomnia, weakness, and frequent bowel movements (occasionally diarrhea). Hypomenorrhea may be present. Signs may include warm, moist skin, tremor, tachycardia, widened pulse pressure, and atrial fibrillation. Graves Disease (Enlarged Thyroid Gland) Older patients, particularly those with toxic nodular goiter, may present atypically (apathetic or masked hyperthyroidism) with symptoms more akin to depression or dementia. Most do not have exophthalmos or tremor. Atrial fibrillation,
