Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


particularly those with toxic nodular goiter, may present atypically (apathetic or masked hyperthyroidism) with symptoms more akin to depression or dementia. Most do not have exophthalmos or tremor. Atrial fibrillation, syncope, altered sensorium, heart failure, and weakness are more likely. Symptoms and signs may involve only a single organ system. Eye signs Eye signs of hyperthyroidism include stare, eyelid lag, eyelid retraction, and mild conjunctival injection and are largely due to excessive adrenergic stimulation. They usually remit with successful treatment to normalize thyroid hormone levels. 4/15 Infiltrative ophthalmopathy, also called thyroid eye disease, is a more serious development and is specific to Graves disease. It can occur years before or after hyperthyroidism. It is characterized by orbital pain, lacrimation, irritation, photophobia, increased retro-orbital tissue, exophthalmos, and lymphocytic infiltration of the extraocular muscles, causing ocular muscle weakness that frequently leads to double vision. Eye Manifestations of Graves Disease Infiltrative Ophthalmopathy in Graves Disease A patient with Graves disease manifests ocular signs, including widened palpebral fissures, lid retraction, strabismus, and exophthalmos. By permission of the publisher. From Mulligan M, Cousins M. In Atlas of Anesthesia: Preoperative Preparation and Intraoperative Monitoring. Edited by R Miller (series editor) and JL Lichtor. Philadelphia, Current Medicine, 1998. Eye Manifestations of Graves Disease—Exophthalmos Close-up View of Exophthalmos © Springer Science+Business Media Eye Manifestations of Graves Disease—Inability to Close the Eyes © Springer Science+Business Media Eye Manifestations of Graves Disease—Infraorbital Bags © Springer Science+Business Media Infiltrative dermopathy Infiltrative dermopathy, also called pretibial myxedema (a confusing term, because myxedema suggests hypothyroidism), is characterized by nonpitting infiltration by proteinaceous ground substance, usually in the pretibial area. It rarely occurs in the absence of Graves ophthalmopathy. The lesion is often pruritic and erythematous in its early stages and subsequently becomes brawny. Infiltrative dermopathy may appear years before or after hyperthyroidism. 6/15 Manifestations of Pretibial Myxedema Pretibial Myxedema This photo shows a patient with pretibial myxedema characterized by non-pitting edema, thickened scaly skin, and hyperpigmentation. Photo courtesy of Karen McKoy, MD. Pretibial Myxedema (Mild) © Springer Science+Business Media Pretibial Myxedema in a Patient With Graves Disease 7/15 By permission of the publisher. From Burman K, Becker K, Cytryn A, et al. In Atlas of Clinical Endocrinology: Thyroid Diseases . Edited by SG Korenman (series editor) and MI Surks. Philadelphia, Current Medicine, 1999. Thyroid storm Thyroid storm is an acute form of hyperthyroidism that results from untreated or inadequately treated severe hyperthyroidism. It
