Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


Korenman (series editor) and MI Surks. Philadelphia, Current Medicine, 1999. Thyroid storm Thyroid storm is an acute form of hyperthyroidism that results from untreated or inadequately treated severe hyperthyroidism. It is rare, occurring in patients with Graves disease or toxic multinodular goiter (a solitary toxic nodule is a less common cause and generally causes less severe manifestations). It may be precipitated by infection, trauma, surgery, embolism, diabetic ketoacidosis, or preeclampsia. Thyroid storm causes abrupt florid symptoms of hyperthyroidism with one or more of the following: fever, marked weakness and muscle wasting, extreme restlessness with wide emotional swings, confusion, psychosis, coma, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and hepatomegaly with mild jaundice. The patient may present with tachycardia or cardiovascular collapse and shock. Thyroid storm is a life- threatening emergency requiring prompt treatment. Diagnosis of Hyperthyroidism TSH measurement Free T4, plus either free T3 or total T3 measurement Sometimes radioactive iodine uptake Diagnosis of hyperthyroidism is based on history, physical examination, and thyroid function tests. Serum TSH measurement is the best test because TSH is suppressed in patients with hyperthyroidism except in the rare instance when the etiology is a TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma or pituitary resistance to the normal inhibition by thyroid hormone. Free T4 is increased in hyperthyroidism. However, T4 can be falsely normal in true hyperthyroidism in patients with a severe systemic illness (similar to the falsely low levels that occur in euthyroid sick syndrome) and in T3 toxicosis. If free T4 level is normal and TSH is low in a patient with subtle symptoms and signs of hyperthyroidism, then serum T3 should be measured to detect T3 toxicosis; an elevated level confirms that diagnosis. The cause can often be diagnosed clinically (eg, the presence of signs specific to Graves disease). If not, radioactive iodine uptake by the thyroid may be measured by using iodine-123. When hyperthyroidism is due to hormone overproduction, radioactive iodine uptake by the thyroid is usually elevated (diffusely in Graves disease, focally in uninodular or multinodular goiter). When hyperthyroidism is due to thyroiditis, iodine ingestion, or overtreatment with thyroid hormones, radioactive iodine uptake is low. TSH receptor antibodies can be measured to evaluate for Graves disease. Measurement is done in pregnant women with a history of Graves disease during the third trimester of pregnancy to assess the risk of neonatal Graves disease; TSH receptor antibodies readily cross the placenta to stimulate the fetal thyroid. Most patients with Graves
