Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


during the third trimester of pregnancy to assess the risk of neonatal Graves disease; TSH receptor antibodies readily cross the placenta to stimulate the fetal thyroid. Most patients with Graves disease have circulating antithyroid peroxidase antibodies, and fewer have antithyroglobulin antibodies. 8/15 Inappropriate TSH secretion is uncommon. The diagnosis is confirmed when hyperthyroidism occurs with elevated circulating free T4 and T3 concentrations and normal or elevated serum TSH. If thyrotoxicosis factitia is suspected, serum thyroglobulin can be measured; it is usually low or low- normal—unlike in all other causes of hyperthyroidism. Subclinical hyperthyroidism Subclinical hyperthyroidism is low serum TSH in patients with normal serum free T4 and T3 and absent or minimal symptoms of hyperthyroidism. Subclinical hyperthyroidism is far less common than subclinical hypothyroidism. Many patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism are taking levothyroxine. The other causes of subclinical hyperthyroidism are the same as those for clinically apparent hyperthyroidism. Patients with serum TSH < 0.1 microU/mL (0.1 mU/L) have an increased incidence of atrial fibrillation (particularly older patients), reduced bone mineral density, increased fractures, and increased mortality. Patients with serum TSH that is only slightly below normal are less likely to have these complications. Treatment of Hyperthyroidism Treatment of hyperthyroidism depends on the cause (1) but may include Radioactive iodine Methimazole or propylthiouracil Beta-blockers Iodine Surgery Radioactive sodium iodine (iodine-131, radioiodine) In the United States, iodine-131 is the most common treatment for hyperthyroidism. Radioiodine is often recommended as the treatment of choice for Graves disease and toxic nodular goiter in all patients, including children. Epidemiologic studies report a very small increased risk of secondary malignancies with I-131 treatment, depending on the type of cancer and length of follow-up (2), so some clinicians use antithyroid medications instead. Dosage of iodine-131 is difficult to adjust because the response of the gland cannot be predicted; some clinicians give a standard dose of 8 to 15 millicurie. Others adjust the dose based on estimated thyroid size and the 24-hour uptake to provide a dose of 80 to 120 microcurie/g thyroid tissue. When sufficient iodine-131 is given to cause euthyroidism, approximately 25 to 50% of patients become hypothyroid 1 year later, and the incidence continues to increase yearly. Thus, most patients eventually become hypothyroid and require thyroid hormone replacement. However, if smaller doses are used, incidence of recurrence is higher. Larger doses, such as 10 to 20 millicurie, often cause hypothyroidism within 6 months. 9/15 Radioactive iodine
