Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


hormone replacement. However, if smaller doses are used, incidence of recurrence is higher. Larger doses, such as 10 to 20 millicurie, often cause hypothyroidism within 6 months. 9/15 Radioactive iodine is not used during lactation because it can enter breast milk and cause hypothyroidism in the infant. It is not used during pregnancy because it crosses the placenta and can cause severe fetal hypothyroidism. There is no proof that radioiodine increases the incidence of tumors, leukemia, thyroid cancer, or birth defects in children born to previously hyperthyroid women who become pregnant after treatment was completed. Methimazole and propylthiouracil These antithyroid medications block thyroid peroxidase, decreasing the organification of iodide, and impair the coupling reaction. Propylthiouracil in high doses also inhibits the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3. Methimazole is the preferred medication. The usual starting dose of methimazole is 5 to 20 mg orally 1 to 3 times a day. Normalization of TSH lags normalization of T4 and T3 levels by weeks. Therefore, when T4 and T3 levels normalize, the dosage is decreased to the lowest effective amount, usually methimazole 2.5 to 10 mg once a day in order to avoid inducing hypothyroidism. Control generally is achieved in 2 to 3 months. Maintenance doses of methimazole may be continued for ≥ 1 years depending on the clinical circumstances. Carbimazole, which is used widely in Europe but is unavailable in the United States, is rapidly converted to methimazole. The usual starting dose is similar to that of methimazole; maintenance dosage is 2.5 to 10 mg orally once a day or 2.5 to 5 mg twice a day. Because of severe liver failure in some patients < 40 years old, especially children, propylthiouracil is recommended only in special situations (eg, during the first trimester of pregnancy, in thyroid storm). The usual starting dose of propylthiouracil is 100 to 150 mg orally every 8 hours. Rapid control can be achieved by increasing the dosage of propylthiouracil to 150 to 200 mg every 8 hours. Such dosages or higher ones (up to 400 mg every 8 hours) are generally reserved for severely ill patients, including those with thyroid storm, to block the conversion of T4 to T3. Maintenance dosing with propylthiouracil is 50 mg twice a day or 3 times a day Approximately 20 to 50% of patients with Graves disease remain in remission after a 1- to 2-year course of either methimazole or
