Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


twice a day or 3 times a day Approximately 20 to 50% of patients with Graves disease remain in remission after a 1- to 2-year course of either methimazole or propylthiouracil. The return to normal or a marked decrease in gland size, the restoration of a normal serum TSH level, and resolution of hyperthyroid symptoms are good prognostic signs of long-term remission. The concomitant use of antithyroid medications and levothyroxine does not improve the remission rate in patients with Graves disease. Because toxic nodular goiter rarely goes into remission, antithyroid medication is given only in preparation for surgical treatment or iodine-131 therapy. Adverse effects include rash, allergic reactions, abnormal liver function (including hepatic failure with propylthiouracil), and, in approximately 0.1% of patients, reversible agranulocytosis. Patients allergic to one medication can be switched to the other, but cross-sensitivity may occur. If agranulocytosis occurs, the patient cannot be switched to the other medication; other therapy (eg, radioiodine, surgery) should be used. 10/15 Pearls & Pitfalls If agranulocytosis occurs with one of the antithyroid peroxidase medications (methimazole or propylthiouracil), avoid using another medication in the same class; use another therapy (eg, radioiodine, surgery) instead. Potential adverse effects or other characteristics vary between the 2 medications and guide the indications for each. Methimazole need only be given once a day, which improves adherence. Furthermore, when methimazole is used in dosages of < 20 mg a day, agranulocytosis is less common; with propylthiouracil, agranulocytosis may occur at any dosage. Methimazole has been used successfully in pregnant and nursing women without fetal or infant complications, but rarely methimazole has been associated with scalp and gastrointestinal defects in neonates and with a rare embryopathy. Because of these complications, propylthiouracil is used in the first trimester of pregnancy. Propylthiouracil is preferred for the treatment of thyroid storm, because the high dosages used (over 800 mg a day) partially block the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 in addition to decreasing production in the thyroid. The combination of high-dose propylthiouracil and dexamethasone, also a potent inhibitor of T4 to T3 conversion, can relieve symptoms of severe hyperthyroidism in patients with thyroid storm and restore the serum T3 level to normal within a week. Beta-blockers Symptoms and signs of hyperthyroidism due to adrenergic stimulation may respond to beta-blockers; propranolol has had the greatest use, but atenolol or metoprolol may be preferable. Manifestations that typically respond to beta-blockers include Tachycardia Tremor
