Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


due to adrenergic stimulation may respond to beta-blockers; propranolol has had the greatest use, but atenolol or metoprolol may be preferable. Manifestations that typically respond to beta-blockers include Tachycardia Tremor Some mental symptoms (eg, anxiety) Eyelid lag Occasionally heat intolerance and sweating, diarrhea, and proximal myopathy also respond to beta- blockers. Manifestations that typically do not respond to beta-blockers include Goiter Exophthalmos Weight loss Bruit 11/15 Increased oxygen consumption Increased circulating thyroxine levels Propranolol is indicated in thyroid storm (see table Treatment of Thyroid Storm). It rapidly decreases heart rate, usually within 2 to 3 hours when given orally and within minutes when given intravenously. Esmolol should be used only in the intensive care unit because it requires careful titration and monitoring. Beta-blockers are also indicated for tachycardia with hyperthyroidism, especially in older patients, because antithyroid medications usually take several weeks to become fully effective. Calcium channel blockers may control tachyarrhythmias in patients in whom beta-blockers are contraindicated. Iodine Iodine in pharmacologic doses inhibits the release of T3 and T4 within hours and inhibits the organification of iodine, a transitory effect lasting from a few days to a week, after which inhibition usually ceases. Iodine is used for emergency management of thyroid storm, for hyperthyroid patients undergoing emergency nonthyroid surgery, and (because it also decreases the vascularity of the thyroid) for preoperative preparation of patients with hyperthyroidism undergoing thyroidectomy. Iodine generally is not used for routine treatment of hyperthyroidism. The usual dosage is 2 to 3 drops (100 to 150 mg) of a saturated potassium iodide solution orally 3 times a day or 4 times a day or sodium iodide in 1 L 0.9% saline solution 0.5 to 1 g IV given slowly once a day. Complications of iodine therapy include inflammation of the salivary glands, conjunctivitis, and rash. Surgery Surgery is indicated for patients with Graves disease whose hyperthyroidism has recurred after courses of antithyroid medications and who refuse iodine-131 therapy, patients who cannot tolerate antithyroid medications, patients with very large goiters, and in some younger patients with toxic adenoma and multinodular goiter. Surgery may be done in older patients with giant nodular goiters. Surgery usually restores normal function. Postoperative recurrences vary between 2 and 16%; risk of hypothyroidism is directly related to the extent of surgery. Vocal cord paralysis and hypoparathyroidism are uncommon complications. Saturated solution of potassium iodide 3 drops (about 100 to 150 mg) orally 3
