Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


is directly related to the extent of surgery. Vocal cord paralysis and hypoparathyroidism are uncommon complications. Saturated solution of potassium iodide 3 drops (about 100 to 150 mg) orally 3 times a day should be given for 10 days before surgery to reduce the vascularity of the gland. Methimazole must be given first because the patient should be euthyroid before iodide is given. Dexamethasone can be added to rapidly restore euthyroidism. Surgical procedures on the anterior neck are more difficult in patients who previously underwent thyroidectomy or radioiodine therapy because of scar tissue. Treatment of thyroid storm A treatment regimen for thyroid storm is shown in the table Treatment of Thyroid Storm. The precipitating cause should also be addressed. TABLE 12/15 Treatment of Thyroid Storm Propylthiouracil: 600 mg orally given before iodine, then 200–400 mg every 6–8 hours Iodine: 5 drops (0.25 mL) saturated solution of potassium iodide orally every 6 hours or 4–8 drops Lugol's solution 2% orally every 6–8 hours or 1g sodium iodide slowly by intravenous drip over 24 hours Propranolol: 60–80 mg orally every 4–6 hours with appropriate adjustment for heart rate and blood pressure or Propranolol: 0.5–1 mg intravenously over 10–15 minutes every 4 hours (not to exceed 1 mg/minute) under close monitoring A repeat 1-mg dose given after 2 minutes, if needed, or esmolol Intravenous dextrose solutions Correction of dehydration and electrolyte imbalance Cooling blanket for hyperthermia Antiarrhythmics (eg, calcium channel blockers, adenosine, beta-blockers) if necessary for atrial fibrillation Treatment of underlying disorder, such as infection Corticosteroids: Hydrocortisone 100 mg intravenously every 8 hours or Dexamethasone 2 mg intravenously every 6 hours Definitive therapy after control of the crisis via ablation of the thyroid with iodine- 131 or surgical treatment Treatment of infiltrative dermopathy In infiltrative dermopathy (in Graves disease), topical corticosteroids or corticosteroid injections into the lesions may decrease the dermopathy. Dermopathy sometimes remits spontaneously after months or years. Treatment of infiltrative ophthalmopathy 13/15 Ophthalmopathy should be treated jointly by the endocrinologist and ophthalmologist and may require selenium, corticosteroids, orbital radiation, and surgery. Surgical thyroidectomy may help resolve or prevent progression of ophthalmopathy. Teprotumumab, an insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) receptor inhibitor, is very effective therapy for moderately severe ophthalmopathy (3). Radioiodine therapy may accelerate progression of ophthalmopathy when ophthalmopathy is active, and is thus contraindicated in this active phase. Management of subclinical hyperthyroidism In patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism who are taking levothyroxine,
