Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hyperthyroidism, patients, disease, graves, graves disease, tsh, iodine, treatment, increased, storm, methimazole, symptoms, goiter, serum


may accelerate progression of ophthalmopathy when ophthalmopathy is active, and is thus contraindicated in this active phase. Management of subclinical hyperthyroidism In patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism who are taking levothyroxine, reduction of the dose is the most appropriate management unless therapy is aimed at maintaining suppressed TSH levels in patients with thyroid cancer. Therapy is indicated for patients with endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism (serum TSH < 0.1 mIU/L [ < 0.1 microIU/mL ]), especially those with atrial fibrillation or reduced bone mineral density. The usual treatment is iodine-131, but low doses of methimazole are also effective. Key Points The most common etiology of hyperthyroidism is Graves disease, caused by autoimmune-stimulated excessive hormone synthesis by the thyroid gland. Other causes of hyperthyroidism include excessive stimulation of a normal thyroid gland (eg, by thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH], human chorionic gonadotropin [hCG], ingestion of iodine or iodine-containing drugs), excessive hormone synthesis by an abnormal thyroid (eg, toxic nodular goiter), excessive release of thyroid hormones (eg, due to thyroiditis), or ingestion of excessive quantities of thyroid hormone. Symptoms and signs include tachycardia, fatigue, weight loss, nervousness, and tremor; patients with Graves disease may also have exophthalmos and infiltrative dermopathy. Free thyroxine (T4), and/or free or total triiodothyronine (T3) are elevated, and TSH is suppressed (except in rarer cases of pituitary causes of hyperthyroidism). Hormone synthesis can be suppressed with methimazole (or in certain cases, propylthiouracil) and adrenergic symptoms relieved with beta-blockers; long-term 14/15 treatment may require thyroid ablation with radioactive iodine or surgery. Thyroid storm—resulting from untreated or inadequately treated severe hyperthyroidism—is a life-threatening emergency that presents with severe symptoms of hyperthyroidism and may result in cardiovascular collapse or shock; it is treated with a regimen of antithyroid medications, iodine, beta-blockers, corticosteroids, and hemodynamic support.
