Unstable Angina
KEYWORDS: angina, unstable, patients, unstable angina, coronary, angiography, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, myocardial infarction, acute, pain, therapy, symptoms, hours


(Acute Coronary Insufficiency; Preinfarction Angina; Intermediate Syndrome) Unstable angina results from acute obstruction of a coronary artery without myocardial infarction. Symptoms include chest discomfort with or without dyspnea, nausea, and diaphoresis. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography (ECG) and the presence or absence of biomarkers. Treatment is with antiplatelets, anticoagulants, nitrates, statins, and beta-blockers. Coronary angiography with percutaneous intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery is often necessary. Unstable angina is a type of acute coronary syndrome that is defined as one or more of the following in patients whose cardiac biomarker levels do not meet criteria for acute myocardial infarction (MI): Rest angina that is prolonged (usually > 20 minutes) New-onset angina of at least class 3 severity in the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) classification (see table Canadian Cardiovascular Society Classification System for Angina Pectoris) Increasing angina, ie, previously diagnosed angina that has become distinctly more frequent, more severe, longer in duration, or lower in threshold (eg, increased by ≥ 1 CCS class or to at least CCS class 3) Unstable angina is clinically unstable and often a prelude to myocardial infarction or arrhythmias or, less commonly, to sudden death. Symptoms and Signs of Unstable Angina Patients have symptoms of angina pectoris (typically chest pain or discomfort) except that the pain or discomfort of unstable angina usually is more intense, lasts longer, is precipitated by less exertion, occurs spontaneously at rest, is progressive (crescendo) in nature, or involves any combination of these features. Unstable angina is classified based on severity and clinical situation (see table Canadian Cardiovascular Classification System for Angina Pectoris). Also considered are whether unstable angina occurs during treatment for chronic stable angina and whether transient changes in ST-T waves occur during angina. If angina has occurred within 48 hours and no contributory extracardiac condition is present, troponin levels may be measured to help estimate prognosis; troponin-negative results indicate a better prognosis than troponin-positive. Diagnosis of Unstable Angina Serial ECGs Serial cardiac biomarkers Immediate coronary angiography for patients with complications (eg, persistent chest pain, hypotension, unstable arrhythmias) Delayed angiography (24 to 48 hours) for stable patients (See figure Approach to Unstable Angina.) Evaluation begins with initial and serial ECG and serial measurements of cardiac biomarkers to help distinguish between unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction (MI)—either non–ST-segment elevation MI (NSTEMI) or ST-segment elevation MI (STEMI). This distinction is the center of the decision pathway because fibrinolytics benefit patients with STEMI
