Unstable Angina
KEYWORDS: angina, unstable, patients, unstable angina, coronary, angiography, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, myocardial infarction, acute, pain, therapy, symptoms, hours


angina and acute myocardial infarction (MI)—either non–ST-segment elevation MI (NSTEMI) or ST-segment elevation MI (STEMI). This distinction is the center of the decision pathway because fibrinolytics benefit patients with STEMI but not those with NSTEMI and unstable angina. Also, urgent cardiac catheterization is indicated for patients with acute STEMI but not generally for those with NSTEMI or unstable angina. ECG ECG is the most important test and should be done as soon as possible (eg, within 10 minutes of presentation) ECG changes such as ST-segment depression, ST-segment elevation, or T-wave inversion may occur during unstable angina but are transient. CLINICAL CALCULATORS M.I. Prediction Decision TreeCalc Cardiac biomarkers Patients suspected of having unstable angina should have a highly sensitive assay of cardiac troponin (hs-cTn) done on presentation and 2 to 3 hours later. If a standard Tn assay is used, measurements are done at presentation and 6 hours later. Creatine kinase MB fraction (CK-MB) is not elevated in unstable angina. Cardiac troponin, particularly when measured using high-sensitivity troponin tests, may be slightly increased but does not meet the criteria for myocardial infarction (above the 99th percentile of the upper reference limit or URL). Coronary angiography Patients with unstable angina whose symptoms have resolved typically undergo angiography within the first 24 to 48 hours of hospitalization to detect lesions that may require treatment. Coronary angiography most often combines diagnosis with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI—ie, angioplasty, stent placement). After initial evaluation and therapy, coronary angiography may be used in patients with evidence of ongoing ischemia (ECG findings or symptoms), hemodynamic instability, recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and other abnormalities that suggest recurrence of ischemic events. Treatment of Unstable Angina Prehospital care: Oxygen, aspirin, nitrates, and triage to an appropriate medical center Pharmacologic therapy: Antiplatelet agents, antianginal drugs, anticoagulants, and in some cases other medications Angiography to assess coronary artery anatomy Reperfusion therapy: Percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery Post-discharge rehabilitation and chronic medical management of coronary artery disease Prehospital care Oxygen Aspirin Nitrates Triage to appropriate medical center A reliable IV route must be established, oxygen given (typically 2 L by nasal cannula) if patients are hypoxemic, and continuous single-lead ECG monitoring started. Prehospital interventions by emergency medical personnel (including ECG, chewed aspirin [160 to 325 mg], pain management with nitrates) can reduce risk of mortality and complications (1). Early diagnostic data and response to treatment can help determine the need for and
