Unstable Angina
KEYWORDS: angina, unstable, patients, unstable angina, coronary, angiography, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, myocardial infarction, acute, pain, therapy, symptoms, hours


[160 to 325 mg], pain management with nitrates) can reduce risk of mortality and complications (1). Early diagnostic data and response to treatment can help determine the need for and timing of revascularization. Hospital admission Risk-stratify patient and choose timing of reperfusion strategy Pharmacologic therapy with antiplatelets, anticoagulants, and other medications based on reperfusion strategy On arrival to the emergency department, the patient's diagnosis is confirmed. Pharmacologic therapy and timing of revascularization depend on the clinical picture. In clinically unstable patients (patients with ongoing symptoms, hypotension or sustained arrhythmias), urgent angiography with revascularization is indicated. In clinically stable patients, angiography with revascularization may be deferred for 24 to 48 hours (see figure Approach to Unstable Angina). Approach to Unstable Angina * Morphine should be used judiciously (eg, if nitroglycerin is contraindicated or if the patient has symptoms despite nitroglycerin therapy). Data suggest that morphine attenuates activity of some P2Y12 receptor inhibitors and may contribute to worse patient outcomes. † Complicated means that the hospital course was complicated by recurrent angina or infarction, heart failure, or sustained recurrent ventricular arrhythmias. Absence of any of these events is termed uncomplicated. ‡ CABG is still generally preferred to PCI for patients with the following: Left main or left main equivalent disease Left ventricular dysfunction Diabetes Also, lesions that are long or near bifurcation points are often not amenable to PCI. CABG = coronary artery bypass grafting; GP = glycoprotein; NSTEMI = non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; PCI = percutaneous coronary intervention; STEMI = ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Pharmacologic treatment of unstable angina All patients should be given antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, and if chest pain is present, antianginals. The specific medications used depend on the reperfusion strategy and other factors; their selection and use is discussed in Medications for Acute Coronary Syndrome. Other medications, such as beta- blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and statins, should be initiated during admission (see table Medications for Coronary Artery Disease). Patients with unstable angina should be given the following (unless contraindicated) Antiplatelet agents: Aspirin, clopidogrel, or both (prasugrel or ticagrelor are alternatives to clopidogrel) Anticoagulants: A heparin (unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin) or bivalirudin Sometimes a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor when PCI is done Antianginal therapy, usually nitroglycerin Beta-blocker Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor Statin All patients are given aspirin 160 to 325 mg (not enteric-coated), if not contraindicated, at presentation and 81 mg once a day indefinitely thereafter. Chewing
