Unstable Angina
KEYWORDS: angina, unstable, patients, unstable angina, coronary, angiography, myocardial, infarction, cardiac, myocardial infarction, acute, pain, therapy, symptoms, hours


(eg, by bradycardia, heart block, hypotension, or asthma), especially for high-risk patients. Beta-blockers reduce heart rate, arterial pressure, and contractility, thereby reducing cardiac workload and oxygen demand. ACE inhibitors may provide long-term cardioprotection by improving endothelial function. If an ACE inhibitor is not tolerated because of cough or rash (but not angioedema or renal dysfunction), an angiotensin II receptor blocker may be substituted. Statins are also standard therapy regardless of lipid levels and should be continued indefinitely. Reperfusion therapy in unstable angina Fibrinolytic drugs, which can be helpful in patients with STEMI, do not benefit patients with unstable angina. Angiography is typically done during admission—within 24 to 48 hours of admission if the patient is stable or immediately in unstable patients (eg, with ongoing symptoms, hypotension, sustained arrhythmias). Angiographic findings help determine whether PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is indicated. Choice of reperfusion strategy is further discussed in Revascularization for Acute Coronary Syndromes. Pearls & Pitfalls Although fibrinolytic drugs can help patients with STEMI, they are not beneficial in unstable angina. Rehabilitation and post-discharge treatment Functional evaluation Changes in lifestyle: Regular exercise, diet modification, weight loss, smoking cessation Medications: Continuation of antiplatelets, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, and statins Patients who did not have coronary angiography during admission, have no high-risk features (eg, heart failure, recurrent angina, ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation after 24 hours, mechanical complications such as new murmurs, shock), and have an ejection fraction > 40% usually should have stress testing of some sort before or shortly after discharge. The acute illness and treatment of unstable angina should be used to strongly motivate the patient to modify risk factors. Evaluating the patient’s physical and emotional status and discussing them with the patient, advising about lifestyle (eg, smoking, diet, work and play habits, exercise), and aggressively managing risk factors may improve prognosis. On discharge, all patients should be continued on appropriate antiplatelets, statins, antianginals, and other medications based on comorbidities. Prognosis for Unstable Angina Prognosis after an episode of unstable angina depends upon how many coronary arteries are diseased, which arteries are affected, and how severely they are affected. For example, stenosis of the proximal left main artery or equivalent (proximal left arterial descending and circumflex artery stenosis) has a worse prognosis than does distal stenosis or stenosis in a smaller arterial branch. Left ventricular function also greatly influences prognosis; the presence of significant left ventricular dysfunction (even
