Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


INTRODUCTION Thyroid hormones are essential for normal development and growth of many target tissues, including the brain and the skeleton. Thyroid hormone (TH) action on critical genes for neurodevelopment is limited to a specific time window, and even a short period of deficiency of TH can cause irreversible brain damage . During the first trimester of pregnancy fetal brain development is totally dependent on maternal thyroid function. Congenital hypothyroidism (CH) is one of the most preventable causes of mental retardation, but early diagnosis is needed in order to prevent irreversible damage. Today more than 70% of the babies worldwide are born in areas without an organized screening program. Screening for CH has enabled the virtual eradication of the devastating effects of mental retardation due to sporadic CH in most developed countries of the world. The survival of increasingly small and premature fetuses has resulted in a growing number of neonates with abnormalities in thyroid function and a continuing controversy as to which of these infants require therapy. Non endemic CH is one of the commonest treatable causes of mental retardation. The importance of early treatment in diminishing the neuro-psychological abnormalities of CH was demonstrated convincingly in the 1970’s. The development of a sensitive and specific radioimmunoassay for the measurement of T4 in dried whole blood and later tests for T4 and TSH using 1/8″ discs provided the technical means to screen all newborns for CH prior to the development of clinical manifestations. Thus, CH includes all the characteristics of a disease for which screening is justified: 1) it is common (4-5 times more common than phenylketonuria for which screening programs were initially developed); 2) to prevent mental retardation, the diagnosis must be made early, preferably within the first few days of life; 3) at that age, clinical recognition is difficult if not impossible; 4) sensitive, specific screening tests are available; 5) simple, cheap effective treatment is available; and 6) the cost-benefit ratio is highly favorable. Newborn screening programs have been introduced throughout the industrialized nations and are under development in many other parts of the world. Although there continues to be some disagreement as to whether minor neuro-intellectual sequelae remain in the most severely affected infants, accumulating evidence suggests that a normal outcome is possible even in the latter group of babies as long as treatment is started sufficiently early and is adequate. National screening programs are well organized in
