Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


precursors) or it may be partial (hypoplasia); the latter often is accompanied by a failure to descend into the neck (ectopy) mostly located in a sublingual position as a result of a premature arrest of its migratory process. Lowering of cut off TSH values for newborn screening increases the percentage of CH with thyroid in situ. Females are affected twice as often as males. In the United States, thyroid dysgenesis, is less frequent among African Americans and more common among Hispanics and Asians. Babies with CH have an increased incidence of cardiac anomalies, particularly atrial and ventricular septal defects. An increased prevalence of renal and urinary tract anomalies has also been reported. Most cases of thyroid dysgenesis are sporadic. Familial cases represent approximately 2% of cases. Genetic causes of congenital hypothyroidism are described in table 1 . Thyroid transcription factors (TTF) such as NKX2-1 (or formerly TTF1/TITF1), FOXE1 (Forkhread Box E1, formerly TTF2/TITF2), PAX8 (Paired box gene 8), and NKX2-5, are expressed during early phases of thyroid organogenesis (budding and migration), and thyroid stimulating hormone receptor gene (TSHR) is expressed during the later phases of thyroid development. All these genes are involved in normal thyroid development and in thyroid dysgenesis, however, abnormalities in these genes have been found in only a small proportion of affected patients, usually in association with other developmental abnormalities. Alternately, epigenetic modifications, early somatic mutations, or stochastic developmental events may play a role. Five monogenic forms due to mutations in TSHR, NXK2-1, PAX8, FOXE-1. NXK2-5 have been reported. Monogenic forms represent less than 10% in thyroid dysgenesis. Inactivating TSHR mutations are the most frequent cause of monogenic thyroid dysgenesis and non-syndromic CH, with prevalence in CH cohorts around 4%. Inborn Errors of Thyroid Hormonogenesis Inborn errors of thyroid hormonogenesis (thyroid dyshormonogenesis) are responsible for most of the remaining cases (15%) of neonatal thyroidal hypothyroidism. Unlike thyroid dysgenesis, most are sporadic condition. These inborn errors of thyroid hormonogenesis are commonly associated with an autosomal recessive form of inheritance, consistent with a single gene abnormality. DUOX2 mutations can be transmitted in autosomal dominant way. Thyroid dyshormonogenesis is caused by genetic defects in proteins involved in all steps of thyroid hormone synthesis and often associated with goiter formation. Goiter can be present in utero or at birth. .A number of different defects have been characterized based on radioiodine uptake and perchlorate test and include: 1) Iodide transport defect that
