Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


can be present in utero or at birth. .A number of different defects have been characterized based on radioiodine uptake and perchlorate test and include: 1) Iodide transport defect that shows failure to concentrate iodide, with low or absent radioiodine uptake; 2) Iodide organification defects due to thyroid peroxidase mutations (TPO), Dual Oxidase 2 (DUOX2), Dual Oxidase Maturation Factor 2 mutations (DUOX2A), SLC26A4, and pendrin defects that have normal radioiodine uptake and altered perchlorate discharge test; and 3 ) Forms with normal radioiodine uptake and a normal perchlorate test due to thyroglobulin TG mutations, iodide recycling defects, and iodothyrosine deiodinase mutations. Pendred Syndrome Pendred syndrome is defined by the association of familial profound deafness with multinodular goiter. It is caused by biallelic mutation in the pendrin gene. Pendred syndrome is the only form of thyroid dyshormonogenesis associated with a malformation. The inner ear presents a characteristic malformation of the cochlea. Congenital hypothyroidism is present in only 30% of cases, goiter occurs often in childhood. Perchlorate test shows a partial organification defect. Pendred syndrome is the most frequent etiology of familial deafness. Central Congenital Hypothyroidism (CCH) CCH is caused by an insufficient thyroid hormone biosynthesis due to a defective stimulation by TSH, in the presence of an otherwise normal thyroid. This condition includes all causes of CH due to a pituitary or hypothalamic pathology (secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism). CCH was previously considered a very rare disease with a prevalence initially estimated to be 1:100,000 in newborns. In more recent data, CCH had an incidence that could reach 1:16,000, as shown from results from screening for CH in the Netherlands. CCH is sometime not identified at birth, because the limiting step is “how low is a low T4”, low enough to be considered an effective cutoff value and allow the determination of TSH and TBG. Many cases are diagnosed in infancy or childhood, if not later in adulthood. The majority of screening programs are based on TSH determination and a high index of suspicion is needed to identify CCH in the preclinical phase. Delayed diagnosis may result in neurodevelopment delay. More than 50% of children with CCH have moderate or severe hypothyroidism, so, if not treated, the risk of neurodevelopmental delay should not be underestimated. In the majority of cases identified early, TSH deficiency is a part of combined pituitary hormone deficiency. A timely correction of ACTH and cortisol deficiency, and/or GH
