Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


not be underestimated. In the majority of cases identified early, TSH deficiency is a part of combined pituitary hormone deficiency. A timely correction of ACTH and cortisol deficiency, and/or GH deficiency may avoid life threatening emergencies. CCH can be transient (mostly due to drugs or maternal hyperthyroidism), or permanent. Genetic causes are listed in Table 1 . Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum For complete coverage of this and related areas visit the chapter entitled “Defects of thyroid hormone transport in serum” in the thyroid section of Endotext by Samuel Refetoff. Inherited abnormalities of the iodothyronine-binding serum proteins include TBG deficiency (partial or complete), TBG excess, transrethyretin (TTR) (prealbumin) variants, and familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH). In these conditions the concentration of free hormones is unaltered, but the abnormal total thyroxine concentrations can be misleading during neonatal screening and in the evaluation of thyroid function. Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone For complete coverage of this and related areas visit the chapter entitled: “Impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormone: defects of transpor t, metabolism and action” in the thyroid section of Endotext by Alexandra M. Dumitrescu and Samuel Refetoff. Impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormone includes defects in thyroid hormone action, transport, and metabolism. They are classified as a) thyroid hormone cell membrane transport defects, b) thyroid hormone metabolism defect, and c) thyroid hormone action defect that include resistance to thyroid hormone. Causes of Transient Neonatal Hypothyroidism Transient neonatal hypothyroidism should be distinguished from a ‘false positive’ result in which the screening result is abnormal but the confirmatory serum sample is normal. Causes of transient abnormalities of thyroid function in the newborn period are listed in Table 2 . While iodine deficiency, iodine excess, drugs and maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies are the most common causes of transient hypothyroidism, in some cases the cause is unknown. TABLE 2. CAUSES OF TRANSIENT HYPOTHYROIDISM IN THE NEWBORN View in own window PRIMARY HYPOTHYROIDISM Prenatal or postnatal iodine deficiency or excess Maternal antithyroid medication Maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies Mild gene mutations (i.e. DUOX2, TSH-R) Maternal hypothyroidism Prematurity, VLBW Drugs, (i.e. Dopamine, steroids) Hypothyroxinemia (low T4, normal TSH) CENTRAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Prenatal exposure to maternal hyperthyroidism Prematurity (particularly <27 weeks gestation) Drugs Iodine Deficiency or Excess In addition to iodine deficiency, both the fetus and newborn infant are sensitive to the thyroid- suppressive effects of excess iodine, whether administered to the mother during pregnancy, lactation, or directly
