Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


addition to iodine deficiency, both the fetus and newborn infant are sensitive to the thyroid- suppressive effects of excess iodine, whether administered to the mother during pregnancy, lactation, or directly to the baby. This occurs because recovery from the thyroid-suppressive effect of iodine does not mature before 36 weeks gestation. Reported sources of iodine include drugs (e.g., potassium iodide, amiodarone), radiocontrast agents, and antiseptic solutions (e.g., povidone-iodine) used for skin cleansing or vaginal douches. In contrast to Europe, iodine-induced transient hypothyroidism has not been documented frequently in North America. Maternal Antithyroid Medication Transient neonatal hypothyroidism may develop in babies whose mothers are being treated with antithyroid medication (either propylthiouracil, PTU or methimazole) for the treatment of Graves’ disease. Even maternal PTU doses of 200 mg or less have been associated with an effect on neonatal thyroid function, illustrating the increased fetal sensitivity to these drugs. Babies with PTU- or methimazole-induced hypothyroidism characteristically develop an enlarged thyroid gland and if the dose is sufficiently large, respiratory embarrassment may occur. Both the hypothyroidism and goiter resolve spontaneously with clearance of the drug from the baby’s circulation. Usually replacement therapy is not required. Maternal TSH Receptor Antibodies Maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies, a population of antibodies closely related to the TSH receptor stimulating antibodies in Graves’ disease, may be transmitted to the fetus in sufficient titer to cause transient neonatal hypothyroidism. The incidence of this disorder has been estimated to be 1 in 180,000. TSH receptor blocking antibodies most often are found in mothers who have been treated previously for Graves’ disease or who have the non-goitrous form of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (primary myxedema). Occasionally these mothers are not aware that they are hypothyroid and the diagnosis is made in them only after CH has been recognized in their infants. Unlike TSH receptor stimulating antibodies that mimic the action of TSH, TSH receptor blocking antibodies inhibit both the binding and action of TSH. Because TSH-induced growth is blocked, these babies do not have a goiter. Similarly, inhibition of TSH-induced radioactive iodine uptake may result in a misdiagnosis of thyroid agenesis. Usually the hypothyroidism resolves in 3 or 4 months. Babies with TSH receptor blocking-antibody induced hypothyroidism are difficult to distinguish at birth from the more common thyroid dysgenesis but they differ from the latter in a number of important ways ( Table 3 ). They do not require lifelong therapy, and there is
