Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


the more common thyroid dysgenesis but they differ from the latter in a number of important ways ( Table 3 ). They do not require lifelong therapy, and there is a high recurrence rate in subsequent offspring due to the tendency of these antibodies to persist for many years in the maternal circulation. Unlike babies with thyroid dysgenesis in whom a normal cognitive outcome is found if postnatal therapy is early and adequate, babies with maternal blocking-antibody induced hypothyroidism may have a permanent deficit in intellectual development if feto-maternal hypothyroidism was present in utero. TABLE 3. CLINICAL FEATURES OF THYROID DYSGENESIS VERSUS TSH RECEPTOR BLOCKING ANTIBODY INDUCED CONGENITAL HYPOTHYROIDISM View in own window Dysgenesis Blocking Ab Severity of CH + to ++++ + to ++++ Palpable thyroid No No 123I uptake None to low None to normal Clinical Course Permanent Transient Familial risk No Yes TPO Abs Variable Variable TSH Receptor Abs Absent Potent Transient Central Hypothyroidism Due to Maternal Hyperthyroidism Occasionally, babies born to mothers who were hyperthyroid during pregnancy develop transient hypothalamic-pituitary suppression. This hypothyroxinemia is usually self-limited, but in some cases, it may last for years and require replacement therapy. In general, the titer of TSH receptor stimulating antibodies in this population of infants is lower than in those who develop transient neonatal hyperthyroidism. Prematurity Hypothyroxinemia in the presence of a ‘normal’ TSH occurs most commonly in premature infants in whom it is found in 50% of babies of less than 30 weeks gestation. Often the free T4 when measured by equilibrium dialysis is less affected than the total T4. The reasons for the hypothyroxinemia of prematurity are complex. As well as hypothalamic-pituitary immaturity, premature infants frequently have TBG deficiency due to both immature liver function and undernutrition, and they may have “sick euthyroid syndrome”. They may also be treated with drugs that suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. Hypothyroxinemia of prematurity may be associated with adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes. L-T4 treatment overall has no proven benefit and can be harmful. Long term outcome evaluation in young adults did not find an association between transient hypothyroxinemia of prematurity and neurodevelopmental outcome. Whether or not premature infants with hypothyroxinemia should be treated remains controversial at the present time. Although several retrospective, cohort studies have documented a relationship between severe hypothyroxinemia and both developmental delay and disabling cerebral palsy in preterm infants <32 weeks gestation a causal relationship could not be determined
