Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


cohort studies have documented a relationship between severe hypothyroxinemia and both developmental delay and disabling cerebral palsy in preterm infants <32 weeks gestation a causal relationship could not be determined since the serum T4 in premature infants, as in adults, has been shown to reflect the severity of illness and risk of death. Drugs Drugs that suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary axis include known agents such as steroids and dopamine, but also aminophylline, caffeine and diamorphine, which are commonly used in sick premature infants. Other Causes of Hypothyroidism in Infancy Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) is a rare disease in infancy, but if not recognized and treated, can cause severe hypothyroidism with permanent brain damage. CLT can be associated with other autoimmune disease such as type 1 diabetes or as a manifestation of the IPEX syndrome. Clinical manifestations and biochemical hypothyroidism (TSH ranged from >42 to 928 mU/L) were severe and very high levels of antibodies were detectable. IPEX related disorders Lymphocytic thyroiditis has also been described in newborns with severe defects in tolerance and autoimmunity with immunodysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked (IPEX) syndrome, a polyglandular disorder characterized by early-onset diabetes and colitis. IPEX disorders are an expanding spectrum of disease with mutations in FOXP3, CD25 deficiency, STAT5 deficiency, and others. Hepatic hemangiomas: consumptive hypothyroidism Hepatic hemangioendothelioma is a rare tumor typically presenting in infancy. Hypothyroidism is caused by a production of type 3 deiodinase by the vascular tumor. D3 deiodinase increases inactivation of T4 and T3 to reverse T3 and T2 and a large amount of LT4 (up to 94/ µg/kg/day) is needed to compensate for this inactivation. Frequent monitoring is required, adapting the LT4 treatment to the growing proliferative phase of the tumor. Today hemangioendotheliomas in infancy may successfully being treated with steroids and propranolol and may undergo spontaneous regression. Some babies underwent liver transplantation. SCREENING STRATEGIES The aim of neonatal screening is the earliest identification of any form of CH, but particularly those patients with severe hypothyroidism in whom disability is greatest if not treated. The identification of Central CH by screening programs is under debate. Two screening strategies for the detection of CH have evolved. In the primary T4/backup TSH method, still favored in much of North America and the Netherlands, T4 is measured initially while TSH is checked on the same blood spot in those specimens in which the T4 concentration is low. In the primary
