Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


America and the Netherlands, T4 is measured initially while TSH is checked on the same blood spot in those specimens in which the T4 concentration is low. In the primary TSH approach, favored in most parts of Europe and Japan, blood TSH is measured initially. A primary T4/backup TSH program will detect overt primary hypothyroidism, secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, babies with a low serum T4 level but delayed rise in the TSH concentration, TBG deficiency and hypothyroxinemia; this approach may, however, miss subclinical hypothyroidism. A primary TSH strategy, on the other hand, will detect both overt and subclinical hypothyroidism, but will miss secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, a delayed TSH rise, TBG deficiency and hypothyroxinemia. There are fewer false positives with a primary TSH strategy. Both programs will miss the rare infant whose T4 level on initial screening is normal but who later develops low T4 and elevated TSH concentrations. This pattern has been termed “atypical” CH or “delayed TSH” and is observed most commonly in premature babies with transient hypothyroidism or infants with less severe forms of permanent disease. According to the European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology (ESPE) guidelines, the most sensitive test for detecting primary CH is the determination of TSH concentration that detects primary CH more effectively than primary T4 screening Primary T4 screening with confirmatory TSH testing can detect some cases of central CH, but some cases of mild CH can be missed, depending on the cutoff T4 value used. Measurement of T4 and/or TSH is performed on an eluate of dried whole blood (DBS) collected on filter paper by skin puncture on day 1-4 of life. Primary CH screening has been shown to be effective for the testing of cord blood or the blood collected on filter paper after the age of 24 hours. Blood is applied directly to the filter paper and after drying the card is sent to the laboratory. The best time to collect blood for TSH screening is 48 to 72 hours of age. The practice of early discharge from the hospital of otherwise healthy full-term infants has resulted in a greater proportion of babies being tested before this time. For example, it has been estimated that in North America 25% or more of newborns are now discharged within 24 hours of delivery and 40% in the second 24 hours of life. Because of the neonatal TSH surge and the dynamic changes
