Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


more of newborns are now discharged within 24 hours of delivery and 40% in the second 24 hours of life. Because of the neonatal TSH surge and the dynamic changes in serum T4 and T3 concentrations that occur within the first few days of life, early discharge increases the number of false positive results. It is important that in the screening laboratory the results of TSH are interpreted in relation to time of sampling. Physicians caring for infants need to appreciate that there is always the possibility for human error in failing to identify affected infants, whichever screening program is utilized. This can occur due to poor communication, lack of receipt of requested specimens, or the failure to test an infant who is transferred between hospitals during the neonatal period. Therefore, if the diagnosis of hypothyroidism is suspected clinically, the infant should always be tested. Adult normative values, provided by many general hospital laboratories, differ from those in the newborn period and should never be employed. Special categories of neonates with CH can be missed at screening performed at the usual time, particularly preterm babies and neonates with serious illnesses and multiple births. Drugs used in neonatal intensive care (i.e., dopamine, glucocorticoids that suppresses TSH), immaturity of hypothalamic-pituitary thyroid axis, decreased hepatic production of thyroid binding globulin, reduced transfer of maternal T4, reduced intake of iodine or excess iodine exposure, fetal blood mixing in multiple births can affect the first sample, and in many centers a second specimen is required to rule out CH. Preterm babies have a higher incidence of a unique form of hypothyroidism, characterized by a delayed elevation of TSH. These babies can later develop low T4 and elevated TSH concentrations. This pattern has been termed “atypical” CH or “delayed TSH”. Preterm babies with a birth weight of less than 1500 gr. have an incidence of CH of 1:300. Survival of even extremely premature babies (<28 weeks of gestation) is around 90% in developed countries, and the incidence of prematurity is around 11.5% in US and 11.8% worldwide. So, an increasing subpopulation of preterm babies and high-risk newborns deserves a special screening and follow up for CH. In these categories a second specimen 2-6 weeks from the first (ESPE guidelines suggested at about 15 days, or after 15 days from the first) may be indicated in a) preterm neonates with a gestational age of less than 37
