Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


first (ESPE guidelines suggested at about 15 days, or after 15 days from the first) may be indicated in a) preterm neonates with a gestational age of less than 37 weeks, b) Low Birth Weight and Very Low Birth Weight neonates, c) ill and preterm neonates admitted to neonatal intensive care unit, d) if specimen collection was within the first 24 hours of life, and e) multiple births, particularly in the case of same sex twins. The interpretation of the screening results should consider the results of a multiple sampling strategy, the age of sampling, and the maturity (GA/birth weight) of the neonate. A second screen (using a lower TSH cutoff) is able to detect the delayed elevation of TSH that occurs in these babies. CH is defined on the basis of serum FT4 levels as severe when FT4 is <5 pmol/l, moderate when FT4 is 5 to 10 pmol/l, and mild when FT4 is 10 to 15 pmol/l, respectively. Determination of serum thyroglobulin (Tg) is useful, if below the detection threshold, to suggest athyreosis or a complete thyroglobulin synthesis defect. Measurement of Tg is most helpful when a defect in Tg synthesis or secretion is being considered. In the latter condition the serum Tg concentration is low or undetectable despite the presence of a normal or enlarged, eutopic thyroid gland. Serum Tg concentration also reflects the amount of thyroid tissue present and the degree of stimulation. For example, Tg is undetectable in most patients with thyroid agenesis, intermediate in babies with an ectopic thyroid gland, and may be elevated in patients with abnormalities of thyroid hormonogenesis not involving Tg synthesis and secretion. Considerable overlap exists, and so, the Tg value needs to be considered in association with the findings on imaging. In patients with inactivating mutations of the TSH receptor discordance between findings on thyroid imaging and the serum Tg concentration has been described in some but not all studies. IMAGING TECHNIQUES IN CH Imaging studies are helpful to determine the specific etiology of CH . Both scintigraphy and ultrasound (US) should be considered in neonates with high TSH concentrations. Ideally, the association of US and scintigraphy gives the best information in a child with primary hypothyroidism. Scintigraphy shows the presence/absence (athyreosis), position (ectopic gland, in any point from the foramen caecum at the base of the tongue to the anterior mediastinum) and rough anatomic structure of the thyroid
