Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


the presence/absence (athyreosis), position (ectopic gland, in any point from the foramen caecum at the base of the tongue to the anterior mediastinum) and rough anatomic structure of the thyroid gland. US, is a useful tool in defining size and morphology of a eutopic thyroid gland, however, US alone is less effective in detecting ectopic glands. Color Doppler US improves the effectiveness of US. It is important to remember that an attempt to obtain imaging in a newborn should never delay the initiation of treatment. Scintigraphy should be carried out within 7 days of starting LT4 treatment. Scintigraphy may be carried out with either 10-20 MBq of technetium 99 m ( 99 mTc) or 1-2 MBq of iodine 123 (I 123 ). Tc is more widely available, less expensive, and quicker to use than I 123 . Scintigraphy with I 123 , if available, is usually preferred because of the greater sensitivity and because, I 123 , unlike of technetium 99 , is organified. Therefore, imaging with this isotope allows quantitative uptake measurements and tests for both iodine transport defects and abnormalities in thyroid oxidation. An enrichment of the tracer within the salivary gland can lead to misinterpretation, especially on lateral views, but this can be avoided by allowing the infant to feed before scintigraphy, thus empting the salivary glands and keeping the child calm under the camera. The perchlorate discharge test is considered indicative of an organification defect when a discharge of > 10% of the administered I 123 dose occurs in a thyroid in normal position (when perchlorate is given at 2 hours). Excess iodine intake through exposure, maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies, inactivating mutation in the TSH receptor and in the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS), and TSH suppression from LT4 treatment can interfere with the I 123 uptake, showing no uptake in the presence of a thyroid in situ (apparent athyreosis). Thyroid ultrasonography is performed with a high frequency linear array transducer (10-15 MHz) and allows a resolution of 0.7 to 1mm. Thyroid tissue is more echogenic than muscle and less echogenic than fat. In the case of absence of the thyroid, fat tissue can be misdiagnosed as dysplastic thyroid gland in situ. Distinguishing between thyroid hypoplasia and dysplastic non-thyroidal tissue in a newborn requires an experience and reevaluation at a later age can result in a different diagnosis. Combining scintigraphy and thyroid ultrasound improves diagnostic accuracy and
