Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


dysplastic non-thyroidal tissue in a newborn requires an experience and reevaluation at a later age can result in a different diagnosis. Combining scintigraphy and thyroid ultrasound improves diagnostic accuracy and helps to address further investigations, including molecular genetic studies. Infants found to have a normal sized gland in situ in the absence of a clear diagnosis should undergo further reassessment of the thyroid axis and imaging at a later age. THERAPY Timing of normalization of thyroid hormones is critical for brain development and therefore replacement therapy with L-thyroxine (L-T4) should be begun as soon as the diagnosis of CH is confirmed. Treatment should be started immediately if DBS TSH concentration is >40 mUI/l because this value strongly suggests decompensated hypothyroidism. If TSH is < 40 mUI/l the clinician may postpone treatment, pending the serum results, for 1-2 days. ESPE guidelines suggest treatment should be started if venous TSH concentration is persistently >20 mUI/l, even if serum FT4 is normal. Severe hypothyroidism is defined by T4 <5 mcg/dL (64 nmol/L) and/or TSH >40 mU. According to ESPE guidelines, CH is defined on the basis of serum FT4 levels as severe when FT4 is <5 pmol/l, moderate when FT4 is 5 to 10 pmol/l, and mild when FT4 is 10 to 15 pmol/l. As noted above, treatment need not be delayed in anticipation of performing thyroid imaging studies as long as the latter are done within 5-7 days of initiating treatment (before suppression of the serum TSH). Parents should be counseled regarding the causes of CH, the importance of compliance, and the excellent prognosis in most babies if therapy is initiated sufficiently early and is adequate. Educational materials should be provided. An initial dosage of 10-15 mcg/kg/day of L-T4 is generally recommended to normalize the T4 as soon as possible. The highest dose is indicated in infants with severe disease, and the lower dose in those with a mild to moderate CH. L-T4 tablets can be crushed and given via a small spoon, with suspension, if necessary in a few milliliters of water or breast milk or formula or juice, but care should be taken that all of the medicine has been swallowed. Thyroid hormone should not be given with substances that interfere with its absorption, such as iron, calcium, soy, or fiber. Drugs such as antacids (aluminum hydroxide) or infantile colic drops (simethicone) can interfere with L-thyroxine absorption. Many babies will
