Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


interfere with its absorption, such as iron, calcium, soy, or fiber. Drugs such as antacids (aluminum hydroxide) or infantile colic drops (simethicone) can interfere with L-thyroxine absorption. Many babies will swallow the pills whole or will chew the tablets with their gums even before they have teeth. Reliable liquid preparations are not available commercially in the US, although they have been used successfully in Europe. A brand name rather a generic formulation of L-T4 is recommended because they are not bioequivalent. It is still a matter of debate if treatment can be beneficial in otherwise healthy babies with venous TSH concentration between 6-20 mUI/l and FT4 concentration within the normal limits for age. In these cases, diagnostic imaging is recommended to try to establish a definitive diagnosis. If TSH concentration remains high for more than 3 or 4 weeks, it is possible (in discussion with the family) to either start LT4 supplementation immediately and then retest off treatment at a later stage or retest two weeks later without treatment. Given the irreversibility of possible harm, treating during early childhood and revaluating thyroid function after myelination of the central nervous system is completed (by 36 to 40 months of age) can be a prudent approach. LT4 treatment must be started immediately if FT4 or TT4 levels are low, given the known adverse effect of untreated decompensated CH on neurodevelopment and somatic growth. The aims of therapy are to normalize the T4 as soon as possible, to avoid hyperthyroidism where possible, and to promote normal growth and development. When an initial dosage of 10-15 mcg/kg is used, the T4 will normalize in most infants within 1 week and the TSH will normalize within 1-month. Subsequent adjustments in the dosage of medication are made according to the results of thyroid function tests and the clinical picture. Often small increments or decrements of L-thyroxine (12.5 mcg) are needed. This can be accomplished by 1/2 tablet changes, by giving an alternating dosage on subsequent days, or by giving an extra tablet once a week. As stated in ESPE guidelines: “L-T4 alone is recommended as the medication of choice and should be started as soon as possible, no later than two weeks of life or immediately after confirmatory test results in infants identified in a second routine screening test. L-T4 should be given orally. If intravenous administration is necessary, the dose should be no more than
