Congenital Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, hypothyroidism, babies, screening, hormone, infants, treatment, deficiency, thyroid hormone, normal, primary, serum, defects, weeks


the presence of primary hypothyroidism, without defining the cause, L-T4 dose may be decreased by 20-30% for 2 to 3 weeks. If TSH serum levels rise to > 10 mU/L during this period, the hypothyroidism can be confirmed. PROGNOSIS Although all agree that the mental retardation associated with untreated CH has been largely eradicated by newborn screening, controversy persists as to whether subtle cognitive and behavioral deficits remain, particularly in the most severely affected infants. Both the initial treatment dose and early onset of treatment (before 2 weeks) are important. Time to normalization of circulating thyroid hormone levels, the initial free T4 concentration, maternal IQ, socioeconomic status, and ethnic status have also been related to outcome. The long-term problems for these babies appear to be in the areas of memory, language, fine motor, attention, and visual spatial. Inattentiveness can occur both in patients who are overtreated and those in whom treatment was initiated late or was inadequate. In addition to adequate dosage, assurance of compliance and careful long-term monitoring are essential for an optimal developmental outcome. More details about long term follow up are reported in ESPE guidelines. Progressive hearing loss in CH should be recognized and corrected, because they strongly influenced the outcome. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This chapter is, in part, based on the previous version written by Prof. Rosalind Brown. GUIDELINES Lazarus JH, Mandel SJ, Peeters RP, Sullivan S. 2017 Guidelines of the American Thyroid Association for the Diagnosis and Management of Thyroid Disease During Pregnancy and the Postpartum. Thyroid. 2017 Mar; 27 (3):315–389. [ PubMed : 28056690 ] Leger J, Olivieri A, Donaldson M, Torresani T, Krude H, van Vliet G, Polak M. Butler G on behalf of ESPE-PES-SLEP-JSPE-APEG-APPE-ISPAE, and the Congenital Hypothyroidism Consensus Conference Group. European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology Consensus Guidelines on Screening, Diagnosis, and management of congenital hypothyroidism. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014; 99 :363–384. [ PMC free article : PMC4207909 ] [ PubMed : 24446653 ] REFERENCES Segni M. Disorders of the Thyroid Gland in Infancy, Childhood and Adolescence. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Dungan K, Grossman A, Hershman JM, Kaltsas G, Koch C, Kopp P, Korbonits M, McLachlan R, Morley JE, New M, Perreault L, Purnell J, Rebar R, Singer F, Trence DL, Vinik A, Wilson DP, editors. Endotext [Internet]. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc.; 2000- 2017 Mar 18. Dumitrescu AM, Refetoff S. Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of
