Rare disease
KEYWORDS: normal, ketoacidosis, mmol, ketones, lactation, mmol normal, lactation ketoacidosis, diet, serum, case, anion gap, carbohydrate, high, gap, anion


breastfed both of them because they relied completely on hepatic gluconeogenesis for without any issue indicating that lactation ketoacidosis might their glucose supply needed for milk production. In humans, be a conditional problem related to the nutritional status rather lactation ketoacidosis is a very rare phenomenon and until there than a problem related to genetic predisposition or enzyme defi- are only 11 cases reported in literature (table 1).2 6 8 9 11–17 ciency as in the case of an inborn error of metabolism disorder. Patients in these studies presented with non-specific symptoms inal pain and dyspnoea. Similar to our patient, weight loss was and wrote the first draft of the case report including creating table and figure. HF: helped with literature review, reviewed manuscript and provided expert opinion reported in some of the previously reported cases.6 11 15 16 Reduced regarding inclusion of appropriate differentials and investigations. He reviewed the carbohydrate or calorie intake diet was the most common iden- manuscript and added comments and suggestions. tified precipitating factor. Other causes included intercurrent funding the authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any illness and fasting. Almost all patients were euglycaemic on funding agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors. presentation with high anion gap metabolic acidosis. Intrave- Competing interests None declared. nous dextrose therapy was the main treatment that led to a rapid patient consent obtained. resolution of acidosis. Insulin and bicarbonate have been used as additional treatments in a minority of patients probably unneces- provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. sary. The majority of patients were able to resume breastfeeding. © BMJ publishing Group Ltd (unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) Treating the underlying cause and having a balanced diet were 2018. all rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless otherwise expressly granted. associated with good outcomes. To date, there is no reported mortality because of lactation ketoacidosis. Majority of women
