NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amoxicillin. [Updated 2026 Jan 24]. In:
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, amoxicillin, liver injury, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, drug, cases, drug-induced, drug-induced liver, induced, acute, induced liver, drug induced


LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Bookshelf URL: Amoxicillin Updated: January 24, 2026. OVERVIEW Amoxicillin is considered a third generation or aminopenicillin and is one of the most commonly prescribed antibiotics. Amoxicillin and other aminopenicillins have been linked with idiosyncratic liver injury, but only rarely and in isolated case reports. Background Amoxicillin (a mox' i sil' in) is an orally available aminopenicillin antibiotic that has been available in the United States since 1980, for which currently more than 20 million prescriptions are filled yearly. Amoxicillin is used to treat mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible agents, such as (but not limited to) Escherichia coli, Hemophilus influenzae, Listeria monocytogenesis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Proteus mirabilis, Salmonella, Shigella, Staphylococcus aureus (non-penicillinase producing), Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Amoxicillin is available in multiple generic formulations as tablets or capsules of 250, 500 and 875 mg and is usually given in doses of 250 to 850 mg every 8 hours for 7 to 14 days. Pediatric formulations in liquid suspension and chewable tablets are also available. Side effects are generally mild and self-limited and can include diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, headache, local reactions and rash. Rare but potentially serious adverse events include hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylaxis, severe skin rash, Stevens Johnson syndrome, C. difficile diarrhea, neutropenia, aplastic anemia and thrombocytopenic purpura. Hepatotoxicity Rare instances of idiosyncratic liver injury have been reported in persons receiving the aminopenicillins including amoxicillin. Cases are characterized by a short latency period of a few days to as long as two weeks. The onset of liver injury can occur after the antibiotic is stopped. The serum enzyme pattern associated with aminopenicillin liver injury has included a hepatocellular pattern with marked elevations in ALT and AST, and minimal elevations in alkaline phosphatase and rapid recovery after withdrawal. In addition, cholestatic forms of hepatic injury with marked alkaline phosphatase elevations (as also seen with penicillin-induced liver injury) have also been described, some of which have been associated with prolonged cholestasis (Case 1). The onset of hepatic injury may be accompanied by signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity such as eosinophilia, rash and arthralgias, and in some cases is accompanied by toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens Johnson syndrome. Much more common than liver injury from amoxicillin alone is the typically cholestatic hepatitis that occurs after treatment with the combination
