NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amoxicillin. [Updated 2026 Jan 24]. In:
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, amoxicillin, liver injury, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, drug, cases, drug-induced, drug-induced liver, induced, acute, induced liver, drug induced


accompanied by toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens Johnson syndrome. Much more common than liver injury from amoxicillin alone is the typically cholestatic hepatitis that occurs after treatment with the combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate. Indeed, this combination is currently the most common cause of idiosyncratic acute liver injury in the United States, Europe and Australia. The injury, Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2 LiverTox perhaps not completely the same. In cases of liver injury seeming due to amoxicillin, an extra effort should be made to make sure that it was not amoxicillin-clavulanate [Augmentin] that was taken. Likelihood score: B (highly likely but rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of the liver injury associated with amoxicillin use is probably hypersensitivity or allergy. Recurrence with reexposure has been described as well as cross sensitivity to hepatic injury with other penicillins and cephalosporins. Outcome and Management In the few cases that have been described, the majority of patients have recovered, although recovery has been slow in some cholestatic instances (2 to 6 months). Rare instances of acute liver failure and several cases of vanishing bile duct syndrome have been reported with aminopenicillin induced liver injury. Corticosteroids have often been used to treat the allergic manifestations of penicillin related immunoallergic hepatitis; while corticosteroid therapy may improve fever and rash promptly, their efficacy in ameliorating the accompanying liver disease has not been shown. Instances of recurrence of liver injury with unintentional reexposure to aminopenicillins and recurrence with exposure to cephalosporins have been reported. Patients with aminopenicillin induced hepatitis should avoid reexposure to other penicillins and should take cephalosporins with caution. Drug Class: Antiinfective Agents, Aminopenicillins Other Drugs in the Subclass, Aminopenicillins: Amoxicillin-Clavulanate, Ampicillin, Ampicillin-Sulbactam, Bacampicillin, Pivampicillin CASE REPORT Case 1. Cholestatic hepatitis due to amoxicillin therapy.(1) A 24 year old woman developed anorexia and weakness followed by dark urine and itching 5 days into a 10 day course of amoxicillin for pharyngitis and fever. Within days of finishing the 10 day course, a friend told her that she looked jaundiced. Ten days after stopping the antibiotic, she sought medical care for continuing jaundice and pruritus. Serum ALT, AST and alkaline phosphatase were only modestly elevated, but total serum bilirubin was 10.5 mg/dL with a direct fraction of 8.0 mg/dL. There was no eosinophilia, rash or fever. Tests for viral hepatitis and autoantibodies were negative.
