AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


2024, Vol. 56, no. 1, 2403724 ReseaRch aRticle A systematic review of efficacy and safety of newer drugs approved from 2016 to 2023 for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections Palanisamy sivanandya , Priya Manirajana , Ooi Wen Qib, Ong teng Khaib, Ong chun Weib, Nye Wei Yingb, Nurul ain Najihah Wadingasafib, Nur aina azharb and Nornaim asraf Nor Rohaizanb ABSTRACT ARTICLE HISTORY Background: complicated urinary tract infections are a significant cause of morbidity, Received 4 april 2024 of complicated urinary tract infections is very challenging, due to varying severities of infection accepted 8 July 2024 and lower cure rates. the available drug options for treating these infections are limited, each KEYWORDS with different mechanisms of action, efficacy, and safety profiles, making drug selection more Urinary tract infections; difficult for healthcare professionals. Objectives: a systematic review was conducted to evaluate drugs; safety; efficacy; the safety and efficacy of drugs approved by the United states Food and Drug administration for treatment the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections between 2016 and 2023. the primary endpoint for all drugs used in treating complicated urinary tract infections was the cure rate. the highest cure rate at 91.4%, followed by plazomicin at 88% and cefiderocol at 73% when used as monotherapy. in combination therapy, meropenem-vaborbactam had the highest cure rate at 98.4%, followed by piperacillin-tazobactam at 94%, and ceftazidime-avibactam at 87.5%. the safety profiles of the drugs indicated that almost all drugs caused gastrointestinal symptoms, with imipenem-relebactam and colistin-imipenem combinations having the most serious adverse events. cefiderocol had a low magnitude of adverse events, with most side effects being mild gastrointestinal symptoms. Conclusion: the study concludes that appropriate drug selection and treatment adherence are crucial for preventing complicated urinary tract infections and improving health outcomes. Abbreviations: aes: adverse events; aMes: aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes; aUc: area under the curve; Bat: Best available treatment; Bsi: Blood stream infections; cRe: carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae; cDaD: Clostridium difficile–associated diarrhea; cmax: Maximum concentration; ciai: complicated intra-abdominal infections; cUtis: complicated Utis; DhP: Dehydropeptidase; DBOs: Diazabicyclooctanes; eOt: end of treatment; esBls: extended-spectrum β-lactamases; FU: Follow-up; hcaP: healthcare-associated pneumonia; haP: hospital-acquired pneumonia; KPc: Klebsielle pneumoniae carbapenemase; MRsa: Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; Mics: Minimum inhibitory concentrations; MDR: Multidrug resistance; NDM: New Delhi MBl; PBP: Penicillin-binding protein; PRisMa: Preferred Reporting items for systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis; Rcts: Randomised controlled trials; sBls: serine β-lactamases; sae: serious adverse events; tOc: test of cure; Us FDa: United states Food and
