AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


the United states centers for and Drug administration for the treatment of compli- Disease control has stated that the most concerning cated urinary tract infections between 2016 and 2023. issues regarding microorganisms that cause antibiotic resistance include carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (cRe), extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing 2. Methods Enterobacteriaceae, and multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa a systematic review provides healthcare professionals [5, 7, 10–14]. these gram-negative organisms are respon- with the most current and thorough information to sible for cUtis. Resistance in enterobacteriaceae species analyze and evaluate the reliability and clinical signifi- and P. aeruginosa is primarily caused by the production cance of a topic or intervention. it presents essential of esBls and Klebsielle Pneumoniae Carbapenemase information in a concise format, incorporating compre- (KPc) enzymes. the production of these enzymes ren- hensive data and a methodical literature search while ders current beta-lactamase inhibitors ineffective against minimizing selection bias that may occur in other types gram-negative pathogens [15–18]. the dissemination of of reviews. this type of review also involves synthesiz- ing previous research findings, often accompanied by a ization, and previous use of carbapenems have been meta-analysis to combine and analyze data for an aver- associated with a greater probability of developing these age result. Ultimately, the synthesized information is infections, and higher mortality in transplanted patients used to draw conclusions and make recommendations. [22–25]. Gram-negative bacteria are often involved in cUti [26–28] and frequently possess MDR mechanisms that 2.1. Outcome assessment reduce the effectiveness of antibiotics that were once considered first-line treatments . the increasing the primary outcomes of this review are the efficacy risks of first-line antimicrobial therapy failure, which and safety of newer drugs commonly used to treat can lead to higher mortality rates, are leading to a cUtis. to evaluate the efficacy of these drugs, a com- growing reliance on carbapenems. the global rise of bination of clinical and microbiological responses at cRe and P. aeruginosa is diminishing the effectiveness the test of cure (tOc) assessment (seven days after the of carbapenems and emphasizing the urgent need for completion of antibiotic treatment) was considered. new antimicrobial treatments [4, 31–33]. Nowadays, Drug safety is determined by a reduction in adverse carbapenems are the last choice drugs for the treat- drug effects/adverse events (aes) compared to previ- ment of MDR bacterial infections [1, 14, 34–36]. ously approved drugs on the market by the United the pharmacotherapy of cRe infections is challeng- states Food and Drug
