AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


to previ- ment of MDR bacterial infections [1, 14, 34–36]. ously approved drugs on the market by the United the pharmacotherapy of cRe infections is challeng- states Food and Drug administration (Us FDa). ing and has typically involved the use of multiple anti- biotics [14, 17–19]. Before ceftazidime/avibactam, the 2.2. Data extraction primary drug of choice for KPc infection was poly- myxin, which is known for its severe side effects [15– the information gathered for this review primarily 18]. ceftazidime, which includes ceftazidime-avibactam, focuses on the most recent treatments for cUtis. aNNals OF MeDiciNe 3 Preferred Reporting items for systematic Reviews and screened for inclusion by two independent investiga- Meta-analysis (PRisMa) guideline was used to select tors (Ps, PM) and any disagreements were resolved by articles and report reviews that evaluated randomized a third reviewer (OW). the extracted data included the controlled trials (Rcts). the primary data sources used trial phase, region, subject conditions (mean age, sex, were PubMed, Nvivo, Mendeley, evernote, citeUlike, duration of cUtis, and comorbidities), and outcome Biohunter, Delvehealth, scicurve, MeDliNe, the measures. this information was gathered and summa- cochrane library, scopus, Web of science, and Google rized in paragraphs that comprehensively introduced scholar. articles on uncomplicated Utis and animal each drug. the protocol of the review is currently reg- studies were excluded. the drugs included in our study istered in PROsPeRO with the reference number were approved by the Us FDa from 2016 to 2023, cRD42024565126 and made available. the PRisMa according to center Watch. Nine drugs were approved flow diagram for the selection of articles for the review during the search period, three of which were in com- is presented in Figure 1. bination form and reviewed, resulting in the collection of 149 articles. Finally, 72 articles were selected for the 2.3. Search strategy review. all authors independently extracted relevant information from the articles, including 22 Rcts that the following search strategy was used to collect the met our inclusion criteria. any disagreements were articles for this review (((((((((("urinary tract infec- resolved through consensus. all identified studies were tions"[Mesh terms] OR ("urinary"[all Fields] aND Figure 1. PRisMA flow diagram for the selection of articles for the review. 4 P. siVaNaNDY et al. "tract"[all Fields] aND "infections"[all Fields]) OR "uri- (PBP) by inhibiting it to prevent cell wall synthesis. nary tract infections"[all Fields]) OR Uti[all Fields]) Others act on the β-lactamase enzyme to inhibit vari- aND
