AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


were excluded from acts as a DhP-i inhibitor to increase the half-life and this review. ability of imipenem to penetrate tissue . imipenem/cilastatin functions by binding to bacterial 2.5. Data analysis penicillin-binding proteins, thereby interfering with bacterial cell wall synthesis and integrity . the primary analyses focused on the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUtis), using the 3.1.3. Relebactam tOc of drugs as the main measure of effectiveness for Relebactam is classified as a novel β-lactam, a small binary endpoints. We calculated the incidence of initial molecule β-lactamase inhibitor (Blis) that halts the cUtis and recurrence rates, as well as the safety pro- action of class a carbapenemases, such as Klebsiella files of the drugs in terms of side effects and adverse pneumonia carbapenemase (KPc) family, and class c events by analyzing the frequency of recorded events. cephalosporinases, such as the ampc . heterogeneity was measured in terms of the standard Relebactam contains a bicyclic diazabicyclooctanes deviation between studies. in a sensitivity analysis, we (DBOs) core with a structure similar to that of avibac- further examined the results by subgrouping trials that tam, but with different side chains. DBOs inhibit serine evaluated similar treatments, provided there were a β-lactamases (sBls) by forming a covalent carbamyl sufficient number of trials available. ester on the compound’s active site . When com- bined with another compound like carbapenem, rele- 3. Results and discussion bactam can effectively inhibit microorganisms such as carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa. this is because 3.1. Mechanism relebactam can restore carbapenem activity and effec- the drugs used to treat Utis have different mecha- tively inhibit various imipenem-resistant gram-negative nisms of action. some act on penicillin-binding protein bacteria . aNNals OF MeDiciNe 5 3.1.4. Meropenem and vaborbactam membrane penetration in gram-negative cells, and sol- Meropenem alone has broad-spectrum gram-negative ubility . it works by binding to penicillin-binding activity, including against MDR organisms, and it proteins (PBPs) and inhibiting cell wall synthesis, pre- remains stable in the presence of various beta-lactamases, venting cross-linking of peptidoglycan chains catalyzed such as esBls and ampc beta-lactamases . by PBPs . as a result, cell wall division is disrupted, Meropenem is a carbapenem antibiotic that inhibits the interfering with cell lysis. cell wall synthesis in most Gram-positive and in a nutshell, ceftazidime hinders bacterial cell wall Gram-negative bacteria by binding to penicillin-binding formation by binding to PBPs. however, bacteria can proteins. this inhibits the cross-linking of peptidoglycan
