AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


and in a nutshell, ceftazidime hinders bacterial cell wall Gram-negative bacteria by binding to penicillin-binding formation by binding to PBPs. however, bacteria can proteins. this inhibits the cross-linking of peptidoglycan fight back with enzymes called beta-lactamases that chains, leading to cell lysis and ultimately cell death . deactivate ceftazidime. this is where avibactam steps Vaborbactam is a novel cyclic boronic acid-based in, it disarms these enzymes, allowing ceftazidime to beta-lactamase inhibitor that potentiates the action of work its magic on the cell wall, ultimately killing the meropenem . Vaborbactam, which has no anti- bacteria. microbial activity, is a potent inhibitor of class a car- bapenemases, including KPc . Vaborbactam works 3.1.6. Plazomicin by inhibiting serine beta-lactamases, including many Plazomicin is derived from sisomicin, an older aminogly- ambler class a and c enzymes, most notably KPc. the coside, making it a semisynthetic aminoglycoside [58, boron atom of vaborbactam forms a covalent bond 59]. structural modifications allow plazomicin to be sta- with the catalytic serine side chain of enzymes, mim- bilized in the presence of aminoglycoside-modifying icking the tetrahedral transition state of the acylation enzymes (aMes). similar to other aminoglycosides, iso- or diacylation reaction pathway observed in β-lactam lates with 16s rRNa methyltransferase have high Mic hydrolysis . values for plazomicin . Plazomicin binds to the 30s portion of the bacterial ribosome, inhibiting bacterial protein synthesis and 3.1.5. Ceftazidime-avibactam imparting bactericidal properties . although plazo- avibactam inhibits β-lactamases from some entero- micin possesses some chemical structures similar to bacteriaceae species and P. aeruginosa that are resis- those of sisomicin, it is still novel in its structure. like tant to β-lactam antibiotics, such as carbapenem . sisomicin, plazomicin does not have a 30- or 40-hydroxyl For example, KPc from ambler class a lactamases, group; hence, protection against bacterial enzyme inac- ampc from ambler class c, and OXa-48-like carbap- tivation inactivates the broadest spectrum aminoglyco- enemases from ambler class D enzymes. however, it side available, amikacin . however, plazomicin is fails to inhibit metallo-β-lactamases like Verona distinguishable from a hydroxyl-aminobutyric acid integron-encoded MBl (ViM) or New Delhi MBl (NDM) group at position 1 and a hydroxyethyl group at the [51–55]. avibactam, a DBO, is a class of beta-lactamase 60-position of sisomicin, enhancing its spectrum of inhibitors that is more potent than other beta-lactam activity against organisms possessing aminog lycoside- drugs, such as tazobactam and clavulanic acid . modifying enzymes (aMes) . as a broad-spectrum
