AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


of inhibitors that is more potent than other beta-lactam activity against organisms possessing aminog lycoside- drugs, such as tazobactam and clavulanic acid . modifying enzymes (aMes) . as a broad-spectrum the covalent binding of DBOs to the active site stabi- antibiotic, plazomicin has in vitro activity against lizes the enzyme-substrate complex by interacting Staphylococcus including Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus with active site residues, allowing for recycling back to aureus (MRsa), P. aeruginosa, and enterobacteriaceae. in the 5-membered ring structure through deacylation. in addition, plazomicin has activity against aMe gene- contrast, the traditional 4-membered ring structure of containing bacteria and esBl-producing enterob acteriaceae β-lactamase inhibitors binds irreversibly to the active . In vitro data showed that plazomicin possesses site and is subsequently hydrolyzed by enzymes . activity against some metallo-β-lactamase (NDM)- additionally, avibactam has a smaller molecular size producing organisms with 80–92% susceptibility, partic- than other β-lactamase inhibitors . its ability to ularly when isolates are not equipped with the 16s regenerate is beneficial for restoring the activity of cef- rRNa methylase gene . tazidime against resistant organisms and increasing the anti-pseudomonal activity of ceftazidime by 10% . 3.2. Efficacy ceftazidime has a cephalosporin-like structure, with a pyridium substituent at position 3, while ceftolozane the efficacy of drugs used in the treatment of Utis has a heavier pyrazole substituent . the pyridine plays a crucial role in determining the duration of side chain provides greater antipseudomonal activity, infection and the severity of the disease. additionally, 6 P. siVaNaNDY et al. drugs with higher efficacy can help reduce both the bacterial eradication rates, and lower microbiologic duration of infection and treatment, which in turn is failure rates than patients in the Bat group at associated with the quality of life of the patient. Drugs three-time points: end of treatment (eOt), treatment used in Utis have different efficacy profiles, which of cure, and follow-up (FU). For patients with cUti, the have been discussed comprehensively. a summary of clinical cure rate and microbiological eradication rate these efficacy profiles is presented in table 1. for cefiderocol compared with Bat during tOc assess- ment were 70.6 vs. 60.0% and 52.9 vs. 20.0%, respec- tively . 3.2.1. Cefiderocol mine the clinical efficacy and safety of cefiderocol 3.2.2. Imipenem/cilastatin against cUti using the standard antibiotics imipenem/ the efficacy of monotherapy treatment with imipe- cilastatin as a control. the subjects were randomized nem/cilastatin, imipenem/cilastatin + relebactam in a 2:1 ratio to
