AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


group. additionally, more patients in the plazomicin 3.2.5. Ceftazidime-avibactam group achieved microbiological eradication of the clinical susceptibility of Enterobacteriaceae and P. entero bacteriaceae that were not susceptible to aeruginosa to ceftazidime-avibactam has been stan- other aminoglycosides compared to the meropenem dardized with an Mic of ≤8 mg/l for susceptible group (78.8 vs. 68.6%) . strains and >8 mg/l for resistant strains. the suscepti- the rate of composite cure remained higher in the bility rates for P. aeruginosa and Enterobacteriaceae iso- plazomicin group than in the meropenem group at lates were 92.0 and 99.5%, respectively . the the late follow-up. Only 1.6% of patients in the plazo- combination also demonstrated good activity against micin group experienced clinical relapse during this all Enterobacteriaceae isolates with an Mic ranging period, compared to 7.1% in the meropenem group. from 0.5 to 4 mg/l compared to single drug ceftazi- Microbiological recurrence occurred in 3.7% of patients dime with Mcis ranging from 128 mg/l to above in the plazomicin and 8.1% in patients in the mero- 128 mg/l . clinical cure rates were noted at penem group. Most clinical relapses in the meropenem 90.5 − 92.5% for patients with Enterobacteriaceae and group were cases of asymptomatic bacteriuria (micro- at 75% for those with resistant subsets . in esBl biologic persistence and clinical cure) at the tOc isolates, the susceptibility of ceftazidime-avibactam visit . was compared to ceftolozane-tazobactam with differ- ent values of Mic (0.125 and 0.12 μg/ml . 50 3.3. Safety ceftazidime-avibactam inhibited 100% of the esBl iso- lates with an Mic of 0.125 μg/ml, ceftolozane-tazobactam Drug safety is crucial for treatment adherence and inhibited 97% of the isolates. studies have also shown patient quality of life. Drugs with higher safety profiles that ceftazidime-avibactam has 45% activity against cRe are typically preferred over those with lower safety aNNals OF MeDiciNe 11 profiles. Drugs used in the treatment of cUtis have most common aes observed were headache, nausea, varying safety profiles and frequencies of adverse reac- and diarrhea . the safety of imipenem/cilastatin and tions. this section will discuss the safety profiles and ceftazidime/avibactam was compared. in patients adverse reactions associated with drugs commonly treated with ceftazidime/avibactam and imipenem/cilas- used in cUtis in detail. a summary of drug safety pro- tatin, 35.3 and 50.7% experienced aes, respectively. files is presented in table 1. among patients treated with imipenem/cilastatin, 3.0% experienced saes, including increased blood creatinine and urosepsis.
