AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


drug safety pro- tatin, 35.3 and 50.7% experienced aes, respectively. files is presented in table 1. among patients treated with imipenem/cilastatin, 3.0% experienced saes, including increased blood creatinine and urosepsis. a total of 8.8% of patients treated with 3.3.1. Cefiderocol ceftazidime/avibactam experienced saes such as atrial the safety profile of cefiderocol was studied in cUti, fibrillation, intervertebral disc protrusion, renal impair- and the results showed that cefiderocol is generally ment, and acute renal failure . well tolerated compared to other cephalosporins [60, 61]. an earlier study reported that 34 out of 101 patients (34%) receiving cefiderocol and nine out of 49 3.3.3. Relebactam patients (18%) receiving the best available therapy a total of 298 patients involved in the study showed died by the end of the study. One of these deaths, at least one adverse effect (ae) that occurred when which occurred in the best available therapy group, any of the patients received imipenem/cilastatin with was considered to be related to the study drug . in relebactam, regardless of the dosing regimen (250 mg comparison to the imipenem/cilastatin group, cefidero- or 125 mg). Patients who received imipenem/cilastatin col had fewer adverse effects reported by subjects with a placebo had a higher chance of experiencing at (40.7 vs. 51.4%) . Most adverse events (aes) in the least one side effect compared to the group that cefiderocol group were mild to moderate, with a received relebactam. Most of the aes experienced by higher proportion of severe adverse drug-related patients are nausea, diarrhea, and headache, and most issues occurring in the imipenem/cilastatin group. of them are not lethal . Gastrointestinal disorders like diarrhea and constipa- Patients who took imipenem-relebactam (10% tion were the most common adverse effects in both chance) experienced fewer nephrotoxic side effects groups. a smaller percentage of patients in the cefid- than those who took imipenem-colistin (56% chance). erocol group reported diarrhea (4.3 vs. 6.1%) and con- in addition, patients who took imipenem-relebactam stipation (3.3 vs. 4.1%) compared to the imipenem/ (0 out of 31 patients) did not experience an increase cilastatin group . additionally, patients in the in aspartate aminotransferase compared to cefiderocol group had a lower incidence of serious imipenem-colistin (2 out of 16 patients). in terms of adverse events (sae) than those in the imipenem/cilas- mortality due to infection, fewer deaths are found in tatin group (4.7 vs. 8.1%). the most frequent sae patients who take imipenem-relebactam
