AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


impairment . Furthermore, vaborbactam is not increased serum creatinine levels after intravenous metabolised by the liver; therefore, systemic clearance therapy completion, nine had moderate renal impair- of meropenem-vaborbactam is not expected to be ment at baseline. in general, increases of less than affected by hepatic impairment. consequently, dose 1.0 mg per deciliter (<80 μmol per liter) were recorded adjustments are not required in the presence of from baseline and returned to less than 0.5 mg per hepatic dysfunction . additionally, there is insuffi- deciliter from the baseline value in the last follow-up. cient information to establish the safety of mero- For patients in the plazomicin group, risk factors asso- penem–vaborbactam in pregnant and breastfeeding ciated with a serum creatinine level increase of 0.5 mg women. Moreover, the drug has not been studied in or more per deciliter were moderate renal impairment pediatric patients aged 18 years and younger . (14 out of 21 patients) and having received plazomicin therapy for more than 5 days (12 out of 21 patients); 8 out of 21 patients were found to have both risk fac- 3.3.5. Ceftazidime-Avibactam tors . in Phase iii clinical trials evaluating ceftazidime/avibac- in the study, 12 patients discontinued treatment due tam for the treatment of cUtis, aes were reported in to the occurrence of aes (6 patients [2%] in each group). 185 out of 511 (36.2%) patients. Despite a high num- aes were mostly associated with renal function in both ber of events, saes leading to discontinuation groups. according to the protocol, patients with creati- accounted for only 1.4% of ceftazidime-avibactam nine clearance of 30 ml or less per minute discontinued patients. headache was the most common complica- their participation with the trial drug. No deaths related tion, occurring in 7.4% of patients, followed by gastro- to the trial drugs were observed. One patient who intestinal disorders. Clostridium difficile colitis occurred received a single dose of plazomicin died on day 18 due in two cases due to ceftazidime-avibactam, whereas to metastatic uterine cancer and was diagnosed 48 h none occurred in the control drugs using doripenem after the patient underwent randomization. No deaths . in Phase ii trials of cUti, ceftazidime-avibactam, occurred in the meropenem group . and comparator patients reported similar adverse effects. the incidence of saes due to ceftazidime-avibactam 3.4. Limitations is uncommon. Diarrhea, acute renal failure, elevated liver enzyme levels, and accidental overdose were recorded in the
