AnnAls of Medicine
KEYWORDS: patients, infections, doi, group, imipenem, tract, treatment, urinary, cilastatin, urinary tract, cefiderocol, drugs, safety, plazomicin, meropenem


reported similar adverse effects. the incidence of saes due to ceftazidime-avibactam 3.4. Limitations is uncommon. Diarrhea, acute renal failure, elevated liver enzyme levels, and accidental overdose were recorded in the current systematic reviews offer valuable insights one case, while one case reported diarrhea and acute on drugs used for the treatment of cUtis, but there renal failure in a separate phase ii trial . No cases are some limitations exist. included studies might be of Clostridium difficile–associated diarrhea (cDaD) were small or short-term studies conducted in small popula- recorded . Pregnancy safety is classified as category B, tion groups, hindering the findings’ generalizability. which is relatively safe based on animal studies, but no additionally, the review process itself can be limited human-controlled studies are available . by the quality of available research and potential pub- lication bias towards positive results. these factors can 3.3.6. Plazomicin influence the certainty of a drug’s effectiveness and the most common adverse effects of plazomicin are safety profile. hypotension, hypertension, nausea, vomiting, and headaches. a decrease in renal function aes was 4. Conclusion reported in 11 out of 303 patients (3.6%) in the plazo- micin group and 4 out of 301 patients (1.3%) in the the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections meropenem group. the ototoxic potential was identi- is very challenging due to the varying severity of fied in 2 patients (1 in each group). ses were reported infection and lower cure rates. While cUtis are com- in 1.7% of patients in each treatment group . mon and most people experience this infection at During the trial, 21 out of 300 patients (7.0%) in the least once in their lifetime, the available drug options plazomicin group and 12 out of 297 patients (4.0%) in for treatment are limited. these drugs also have differ- the meropenem group had a serum creatinine level ent mechanisms of action, efficacy, and safety profiles, increase of 0.5 mg or more per deciliter above the making the selection of drugs more difficult for health- baseline level. the increase occurred after the comple- care providers. the primary endpoint for all cUti drugs tion of intravenous therapy in 10 out of 300 patients was cure. among the drugs used to treat cUtis, aNNals OF MeDiciNe 13 meropenem had the highest test-of-cure (tOc) rate at transplantation. Nefrologia (english edition). 2015;35 91.4%, followed by plazomicin at 88% and cefiderocol (4):412–413. doi: . Ganesh R,
