Chapter
KEYWORDS: treatment, disorder, drug, disorders, psychosocial, psychosocial treatment, newer, older, plus, antidepressant, anxiety, countries, mental, depression, antipsychotic


to improved quality oflife and improved treatment adher- unipolar depressive disorders from bipolar disorder (defined ence. Second-generation drugs are not without side effects, by the occurrence of mania). This distinction is based on however; for example, some are associated with substantial symptoms,course of illness,patterns of familial transmission, weight gain and increased risk ofdiabetes.One drug,clozapine, and treatment response. has greater efficacy than other antipsychotic drugs,but because of a 1 percent risk of agranulocytosis,its use requires weekly Bipolar Disorder blood counts and is cumbersome and expensive. Psychosocial interventions also play an important role in Bipolar disorder is characterized by episodes of mania and managing schizophrenia (Bustillo and others 2001).Cognitive- depression,oftenfollowedbyrelativeperiodsofhealthymood 608 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Steven Hyman, Dan Chisholm, Ronald Kessler, and others (euthymia). Mixed states with symptoms of both mania and disorder also exhibit chronic psychotic symptoms superim- depression also occur. Mania is typically characterized by posed on their mood syndrome.These individuals are said to euphoria or irritability, a marked increase in energy, and a have schizoaffective disorder.Their prognosis tends to be less decreasedneedforsleep.Individualswithmaniaoftenexhibit favorablethanfortheusualbipolarpatient,althoughsomewhat intrusive,impulsive,and disinhibited behaviors.They may be betterthanforindividualswithschizophrenia.Schizoaffective excessively involved in goal-directed behaviors characterized disordermayalsobediagnosedwhenchronicpsychoticsymp- by poor judgment; for example, a person might spend all toms are superimposed on unipolar depression. Individuals funds to which he or she has access and more.Self-esteem is withthiscombinationof symptomshaveoutcomessimilarto typically inflated, frequently reaching delusional proportions. patientswithschizophrenia(TsuangandCoryell1993). Speech is often rapid and difficult to interrupt. Individuals withmaniaalsomayexhibitcognitivesymptoms;patientscan- Epidemiology and Burden. Lifetime and 12-month preva- not stick to a topic and may jump rapidly from idea to idea, lence estimates of bipolar disorder have been reported from a making comprehension of their train of thought difficult. number of community psychiatric epidemiological surveys. Psychoticsymptomsarecommonduringmanicepisodes.The Lifetime prevalence estimates are in the range 0.1 to 2.0 percent depressiveepisodesof peoplewithbipolardisorderaresymp- (Vega and others 1998; Vicente and others 2002), with a tomatically indistinguishable from those who have unipolar weighted mean across surveys of 0.7 percent.Prevalence esti- depressions alone. Unlike anxiety and unipolar mood disor- mates for past-year episodes have a similarly wide range (0.1 to ders,whicharemorecommoninwomen,bipolardisorderhas 1.3 percent) (Vega and others 1998) and a weighted mean of anequalgenderratiooflifetimeprevalence,althoughtheratio 0.5 percent. It is important to note that good evidence exists of depressive-to-manic episodes is higher among bipolar suggesting that bipolar disorder has a wide subthreshold spec- womenthanmen. trum that includes people who are often seriously impaired even though they do not meet full DSM or ICD
