Chapter
KEYWORDS: treatment, disorder, drug, disorders, psychosocial, psychosocial treatment, newer, older, plus, antidepressant, anxiety, countries, mental, depression, antipsychotic


bipolar suggesting that bipolar disorder has a wide subthreshold spec- womenthanmen. trum that includes people who are often seriously impaired even though they do not meet full DSM or ICD criteria for the NaturalHistoryandCourse. Retrospectivereportsfromcom- disorder (Perugi and Akiskal 2002). This spectrum might munityepidemiologicalsurveysconsistentlyshowthatbipolar include as much as 5 percent of the general population. The disorderhasanearlyageofonset(inthelateteensthroughmid- ratio of recent-to-lifetime prevalence of bipolar disorder in 20s).Onset in childhood is increasingly recognized,although community surveys is quite high (0.71),indicating that bipolar it remains controversial.Late onset is less common.The vast disorder is persistent. majority of patients with bipolar disorder have recurrent Epidemiological data show that bipolar disorder is associ- episodesofillness,bothmaniaanddepression.Classicdescrip- ated with substantial impairments in both productive and tionsofbipolardisordersuggestrecoverytobaselinefunction- social roles (Das Gupta and Guest 2002).Epidemiological evi- ing between episodes,but many patients have residual symp- dence documents consistent delays in patients initially seeking tomsthatmaycausesignificantimpairment(AngstandSellaro professional treatment (Olfson and others 1998), especially 2000).Thesestatesofmania,depression,andlesser(orabsent) among early-onset cases,as well as substantial undertreatment symptomsareusedintheinterventionanalysisbelow. ofcurrent cases.Each ofthese characteristics—chronic,recur- The rate of cycling between mania and depression varies rent course; significant impairments to functioning; modest widely among individuals. One common pattern of illness is treatment rates—contributes to estimates of aggregate disease for episodes initially to be separated by a relatively long period, burden that approach those for schizophrenia (1,200 to 1,800 perhaps a year,and then to become more frequent with age.A DALYs lost per 1 million population, making up more than minority ofpatients with four or more cycles per year,termed 5percent ofthe burden attributable to neuropsychiatric disor- rapid cyclers, tend to be more disabled and less responsive to ders as a whole—see table 31.1). existing treatments. Once cycles are established, most acute episodes start without an identifiable precipitant;the best doc- umented exception is that manic episodes may be initiated by Interventions. Analyses ofthe primary treatment approaches avoidance of shift work important in management (Frank, characterize the disorder—mania, depression, and euthymia. Swartz,and Kupfer 2000). Robust evidencefrom controlled trials shows that antipsychot- Bipolar disorder has consistently been found in epidemio- ic drugs and some benzodiazepines produce a relatively rapid logical surveys to be highly comorbid with other psychiatric reduction in symptoms of a manic phase. Mood-stabilizing disorders, especially anxiety and substance use disorders drugs act more slowly,but they reduce the severity and dura- (tenHave and others 2002).The extent ofcomorbidity is much tion ofacute manic episodes.Maintenance treatment with two greater than for unipolar depressive disorders or anxiety mood-stabilizing drugs—lithium and valproic acid
