Chapter
KEYWORDS: treatment, disorder, drug, disorders, psychosocial, psychosocial treatment, newer, older, plus, antidepressant, anxiety, countries, mental, depression, antipsychotic


fear of losing control or of dying.Panic disorder is diagnosed chosocial treatments speed recovery from acute episodes. when panic attacks are recurrent and give rise to anticipatory Maintenance treatment with drugs decreases relapse risk anxiety about additional attacks. People with panic disorder (Geddes and others 2003). Some evidence suggests that a may progressively restrict their lives to avoid situations in course of psychotherapy may also delay relapses. Although which panic attacks occur or situations from which it might be most of the clinical trials have been carried out in industrial difficult to escape should a panic attack occur.They common- countries,at least three high-quality trials have demonstrated ly avoid crowds,traveling,bridges,and elevators,and ultimate- the efficacy ofantidepressants,group therapy,or both in devel- ly some individuals may stop leaving home altogether. oping countries (Araya and others 2003; Bolton and others Pervasive phobic avoidance is described as agoraphobia. 2003;Patel and others 2003). Generalized anxiety disorder is characterized by chronic Forthecost-effectivenessanalyses,depressionwasmodeled unrealistic and excessive worry.These symptoms are accompa- as an episodic disorder with a high rate of remission and nied by specific anxiety-related symptoms such as sympathetic subsequentrecurrence,andwithexcessmortalityfromsuicide nervous system arousal,excessive vigilance,and motor tension. (Chisholm and others 2004).None of the selected depression Posttraumatic stress disorder follows serious trauma. It is interventionswasaccordedareductionincasefatality,however, characterized by emotional numbness,punctuated by intrusive owingtothelackofrobustclinicalevidencethatantidepressants reliving of the traumatic episode, generally initiated by envi- orpsychotherapyinthemselvesaltertherelativeriskofdeathby ronmental cues that act as reminders of the trauma; by dis- suicide(Storosumandothers2001).Themainmodeledimpact turbed sleep;and by hyperarousal,such as exaggerated startle of intervention targeted toward episodic treatment of a new responses. Mental Disorders | 611 Social anxiety disorder (social phobia) is characterized by a disorder typically also have a second anxiety disorder, while persistentfearofsocialsituationsorperformancesituationsthat more than half the people with a history of either anxiety or expose a person to potential scrutiny by others. The affected mood disorder typically have both types of disorder. person has intense fear that he or she will act in a way that will Retrospective reports from community surveys consistently be humiliating. Separating social anxiety disorder from show that anxiety disorders have early average ages of onset. extremes ofnormal temperament,such as shyness,is difficult. An impressive cross-national consistency can be seen in these Nonetheless, social anxiety disorder can be quite disabling. patterns,with an estimated median age of onset of anxiety at Simple phobiasare extreme fear in the presence ofdiscrete stim- approximately 15. uli or cues,such as fear ofheights. Epidemiological surveys have also looked at the treatment The
