Chapter
KEYWORDS: treatment, disorder, drug, disorders, psychosocial, psychosocial treatment, newer, older, plus, antidepressant, anxiety, countries, mental, depression, antipsychotic


PTSD, accounts 1994), with a weighted mean of 9.4 percent. Despite wide for about one-third ofall seriously impairing anxiety disorders, variationinoverallprevalence,severalclearrelativeprevalence is one of the most common anxiety disorders presenting for patternscanbeseenacrosssurveys.Specificphobiaisgenerally treatment, and imposes an estimated burden of 600 to 800 the most prevalent lifetime anxiety disorder,with social phobia DALYs per 1 million population. generally the second most prevalent lifetime anxiety disorder. Good evidence exists that both drug and psychosocial Panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder are generally treatments are effective for managing anxiety disorders. the least prevalent. Antidepressant drugs (both older TCAs and SSRIs) have been These surveys also provide evidence about the persistence of shown to be effective for the treatment ofseveral anxiety disor- anxiety disorders,indirectly defined as the ratio of6-month or ders, including panic disorder, reducing the duration and 12-month to lifetime prevalence.This ratio averages approxi- intensity of the disorder. Although high-potency benzodi- mately 60 percent for overall anxiety disorders, indicating a azepines are efficacious for panic disorder,these drugs carry a high rate of persistence across the life course. The highest risk of dependence and are not considered the first line of persistence is generally found for social phobia,and the lowest treatment. Psychosocial treatments, especially cognitive- for agoraphobia.These estimates of high persistence are con- behavioral therapy,are also effective in diminishing both panic sistent with results obtained from longitudinal studies of attacks and phobic avoidance. patients (Yonkers and others 2003). Anxiety disorders have consistently been found in epidemio- Interventions for Panic Disorder logical surveys to be highly comorbid both among themselves and with mood disorders (for example, de Graaf and others Although evidence-based interventions for panic disorder have 2003).The vast majority ofpeople with a history ofone anxiety yet to be evaluated or made widely available in developing 612 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Steven Hyman, Dan Chisholm, Ronald Kessler, and others interventions—including older and newer antidepressants, sooner),but no age-weighting was used. anxiolytic drugs (benzodiazepines), and psychosocial Estimation of the baseline epidemiological situation that treatments—was examined. Interventions reduce the severity would prevail without treatment used incidence and preva- of panic attacks and improve the probability of making a full lence estimates from the Global Burden ofDisease 2000 study recovery. Effect sizes for symptom improvement were drawn of the World Health Organization (WHO) (see online Global from a meta-analysis ofthe long-term effects ofintervention of Burden of Disease documentation for the four disorders at panic disorder (Bakker and
