Chapter
KEYWORDS: treatment, disorder, drug, disorders, psychosocial, psychosocial treatment, newer, older, plus, antidepressant, anxiety, countries, mental, depression, antipsychotic


to US$5.00). By contrast, some of the newer antidepressant treatment with antidepressant drugs,represents a cost-effective drugs (SSRIs) are now off patent, and their use in treating way ofsignificantly reducing the enormous burden ofdepres- depression and panic disorder was accordingly costed at their sion that exists in developing regions now (400 to 1,300 DALYs generic,nonbranded price.The patient-level cost of treating a averted per US$1 million expenditure). 6-month episode of depression ranged from as little as US$30 (older antidepressants in Sub-Saharan Africa or South Asia) to US$150 (newer antidepressants in combination with briefpsy- POLICY AND SERVICE IMPLICATIONS chotherapy in Latin America and the Caribbean).Total annual costs for all incidents of depressive episodes receiving treat- Many attempts have been made during the past 50 years to much as US$2 to US$5 per capita for a maintenance treatment tional agendas. In 1974, a WHO Expert Committee on the Mental Disorders | 619 Organization of Mental Health Services in Developing work closely (and apparently effectively) with conventional Countries(WHO1975)madethefollowingrecommendations: mentalhealthservices(Thara,Padmavati,andSrinivasan2004). Alternatively,animosityandcompetitioncanexist,andrecent • Develop a national mental health policy and create a unit examples of human rights violations by traditional healers within the Health Ministry to implement it. demonstratetheheterogeneityofthisgroupofproviders. • Budget for workforce development,essential drug procure- The formal diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders research. in nearly a dozen countries now show it is feasible and practi- • Decentralize service provision and integrate mental health cable to treat common mental disorders in primary health care • Train and supervise primary health care providers in mental 1996;Mohit and others 1999).The challenge is to enhance sys- health using specialist mental health staff. tems ofcare by taking effective local models and disseminating them throughout a country. Thirty years later,international agencies,nongovernmental Concern has been expressed that the more sophisticated exact recommendations.One reason for the lack of action in human resources ofdeveloping countries.However,basic psy- the necessary science can readily be ignored in countries with more cost-effective than psychological therapies (Patel and massive health problems and meager resources. This chapter others 2003).Psychoeducational family intervention has been aims to address this deficiency. shown to be suitable for rehabilitation in schizophrenia in rural Symptoms ofmental disorders are often attributed to other China (Ran and others 2003) and to be cost-effective compared problems . Many nonscientific explanations for Evidence also shows that nurses can replace physicians as pri- where (Weiss and others 2001) with widespread delays or fail- loss of effectiveness (Climent and others 1978).Primary care
