DiseasesoftheEsophagus(2024),37,1–8
KEYWORDS: fundoplication, symptoms, investigation, surgery, consensus, panel, agreement, methodology, management, heartburn, investigation methodology, conceptualization, dysphagia, revisional, statements


and 1 while others look toward improvement in standard- psychologist,withmembersfromEurope,USA,Asia, ized quality of life scores, either global or specific to andOceania. thepatient’spresentingsymptom. Itwasimmediatelyevidentthattherewasnoagree- Withnoendorseddefinitionofsuccess,definition mentoneventhedefinitionofa‘failedfundoplication’. of failure is even more complex. While resolution of Multipleroundsoffocusgroupdiscussion,performed theindexsymptomsmightbeaprerequisiteofsuccess, in 2020–2021, had poor agreement on symptoms itisnothelpfulifthisisreplacedbyotherdebilitating of failure (Table1), relevant investigation findings symptoms. Failure may be determined by identifica- (Table2), assessment protocols, and subsequent tionofpostoperativeanatomicabnormalities,physio- management. logicderangement,orbysymptoms. Symptoms may Attempting a different approach, a short list of bepersisting,recurrent,ornew. very targeted PICO questions was developed by the With varying definitions of failure, the creation group relating to general principles of management ofguidelinesforappropriateinvestigationsandman- offailedfundoplications,andaliteraturereviewwas agement of postfundoplication patients is a major performed by a librarian (Appendix A). This was challenge. performed by medical students associated with the ItiswiththiscomplexbackgroundthattheGuide- project. However, the extracted data were of very lines committee of the International Society of Dis- low quality, with only two comparative studies10,11 easesoftheEsophagus(ISDE)undertooktoprovide beingfoundoutofthe4272studiesinitiallyscreened consensus recommendations on the management of with no randomized controlled trials amongst them the failed fundoplication, with the target audience (AppendixB).Subsequentreviewbyamethodologist being all those involved in the management of this determined that any finding would have such a wide condition. confidenceintervalastobemeaningless. The project’s attention was again shifted, now towardobtainingconsensusregardingdefinitionand METHODS generalizable management recommendations. It was clear that any recommendations would be of expert To determine the scope and direction of the project, opinionlevel. preliminary Key Questions were proposed and dis- A Delphi process was commenced, using three cussedamongstamultidisciplinaryfocusgroupnom- roundsofvideoconference-baseddiscussionfollowed inatedbytheISDEGuidelinesCommitteeandcom- by anonymized online voting. A working group of prisedofISDEmemberswithexpertiseinthesubject five ISDE Guidelines Committee members drafted InternationalConsensusonmanagementofthefailedfundoplication 3 aninitiallistof41statementscoveringseveralaspects operativesymptomswhendeterminingamanagement of failed fundoplication. These statements were strategyforanindividualpatient. presented to a multidisciplinary panel of experts However, the focus on symptoms introduced nominatedbytheCommittee.Allexpertswereinvited further difficulties. For some patients, symptoms to each round, but not all attended each round, nor persisted from the preoperative period while others werevotessubmittedtoallitemsbyallpanelists.The develop de novo postoperatively. Of these new results of the previous systematic literature search, symptoms,somecouldbeconsideredasside-effectsof though with minimal data, were provided prior to theoperation,includingbloatingandincreasedrectal voting. An online voting round occurred in August flatulence.Othernewlydevelopedsymptomscanbea 2023, and each of the 27 members participating resultofcomplications,suchasnewonsetdysphagia indicated the degree of agreement for the statement after hiatal hernia recurrence, and there are some using a 5-point Likert scale (strongly agree, agree, symptoms, which could fall into multiple groups, neutral,disagree,andstronglydisagree).Participants adding further complexity. Nonetheless, the expert were blinded to the votes of other participants both panel recognized that even postoperative symptoms within the
