DiseasesoftheEsophagus(2024),37,1–8
KEYWORDS: fundoplication, symptoms, investigation, surgery, consensus, panel, agreement, methodology, management, heartburn, investigation methodology, conceptualization, dysphagia, revisional, statements


which could fall into multiple groups, neutral,disagree,andstronglydisagree).Participants adding further complexity. Nonetheless, the expert were blinded to the votes of other participants both panel recognized that even postoperative symptoms within the round as well as to previous rounds. typicalforgastroesophagealrefluxdisease(GERD), Consensus was determined to have been achieved thatisheartburnand/orregurgitation,maynotalways if ≥80% are either (strongly agree or agree) or resultfromanatomicorstructuralproblems.Indeed, (neutral) or (disagree or strongly disagree). Once the panel did not achieve consensus as to whether endorsed, statements were endorsed as finalized. If anatomical complications are even the usual cause not endorsed, the statements were re-drafted and of these typical symptoms postoperatively. Perhaps re-presented for the next round of voting. A second unsurprisingly,surgeonsweremorelikelytoattribute roundofvotingwasheldinDecember2023forwhich typical postoperative symptoms to anatomic failure an additional 37 statements were drafted for review thanweregastroenterologists(71%vs.44%). by23participantsattending.Afinalroundofvoting The panel recognized that many atypical symp- on35additionalstatementswasheldMarch2024for toms exist before the index fundoplication opera- reviewby33participants. tion,withdisordersofgut-braininteractionplayinga After the final voting round, the manuscript was role.15 Therefore,therewasanexpectationthatmany drafted and circulated for final approval first by the of these functional symptoms may persist postoper- coregroupandthenthepanelparticipants. atively as unrelated to the surgery itself.16 With the overlapbetweenfunctionaldisordersandpsycholog- ical pathologies,17 the role of formal psychological RESULTS testing before revisional surgery was explored, with most experts deeming this unnecessary despite the Endorsed statements (that is, statements receiving roleofmentalhealthassessmentinmetabolicsurgery ≥80% agreement) are listed below in Table3. All beingconsideredimportant. nonendorsedstatementsareincludedinAppendixC. Diagnosis DISCUSSION Giventhecomplexityofdeterminingthecauseofthe postfundoplicationsymptomsandunderstandingthe Definitions multifactorialnatureofsomeofthesesymptoms,the It was evident immediately upon commencement of panel unanimously recognized that investigation of this project that there was significant disagreement suchpatientsshouldbeundertakenatcenterswitha aboutthedefinitionofasuccessfuloutcomeafterfun- fullrangeofdiagnosticmodalities.Thiswasthought doplicationandbycorollary,agreementaboutdefini- tobeofmoreimportancethanrequiringtheinvestiga- tionoffailure.Forexample,thestatement‘Thegoalof tionstosimplybeundertakeninhighfundoplication treatmentisanexcellentanatomicresultandnormal- volumesurgicalcenters(59%agreement). izationofphysiologicparameters’didnotachieve80% While acknowledging the wide range of problem- consensus, with only 56% of respondents agreeing. atic symptoms which may occur postoperatively, it A similar number of responding gastroenterologists was nonetheless agreed that there are certain inves- (50%) and surgeons (56%) supported this statement. tigations which should always be performed in the Through repeated rounds of Delphi, it emerged that assessment of postfundoplication patients and these the most useful outcome measure was thought to be include endoscopy and contrast study, either con- theresolutionofsymptoms.Additionally,itwasclear trast esophagram or CT with oral contrast. Further thatsimplyusingtheterm‘failedfundoplication’(as investigations are targeted towards the symptoms of isfrequentlyfoundinthesurgicalliterature),12–14was concern. less helpful than expanding upon the definition by The timing of initiation of investigations was provisionofmoreinformationaboutspecificsofpost- controversial due to nonconsensus about when 4 DiseasesoftheEsophagus stnemetatsdesrodnE 3elbaT ylgnortS eergasiD evitagenllA lartueN evitisopllA eergA ylgnortS sesnopseR )D(eergasid )C( )D+C( )B+A( )B( )A(eergA snoitinifeD %0 %4 %4 %0 %69
