Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


ABSTRACT The chromosomal sex of the embryo is established at fertilization. However, 6 weeks elapse in humans before the first signs of sex differentiation are noticed. Sex differentiation involves a series of events whereby the sexually indifferent gonads and genitalia progressively acquire male or female characteristics. Believed initially to be governed entirely by the presence or absence of the SRY gene on the Y chromosome, gonadal differentiation has proven to rely on a complex networks of genes, whose balanced expression levels either activate the testis pathway and simultaneously repress the ovarian pathway or vice versa. The presence or absence of primordial germ cells, of extragonadal origin, also has a sexually dimorphic relevance. Subsequently, internal and external genitalia will follow the male pathway in the presence of androgens and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), or the female pathway in their absence. Here we review the sexually undifferentiated stage of embryonic development, and the anatomic, histologic, physiologic, and molecular aspects of the fetal sexual differentiation of the gonads, the internal reproductive tract and the external genitalia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Sex differentiation involves a series of sequential events whereby the sexually indifferent embryo progressively acquires male or female characteristics in the gonads, genital tract and external genitalia. Genetic sex, as determined by the chromosome constitution, drives the primitive gonad to differentiate into a testis or an ovary. Subsequently, internal and external genitalia will follow the male pathway in the presence of specific testicular hormones, or the female pathway in their absence. Since the presence of the fetal testis plays a determining role in the differentiation of the reproductive tract, the term “sex determination” has been coined to designate the differentiation of the gonad during early fetal development. THE BIPOTENTIAL GONAD No sexual difference can be observed in the gonads until the 6 th week of embryonic life in humans and 11.5 days post-coitum (dpc) in mice. Undifferentiated gonads of XX or XY individuals are apparently identical and can form either ovaries or testes. This period is therefore called indifferent or bipotential stage of gonadal development. The Gonadal Ridge The urogenital ridges are the common precursors of the urinary and genital systems and of the adrenal cortex ( 1 ). In the human, they develop during the 4 th week post-fertilization at the ventral surface of the cranial mesonephroi ( 2
