Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


systems and of the adrenal cortex ( 1 ). In the human, they develop during the 4 th week post-fertilization at the ventral surface of the cranial mesonephroi ( 2 ), and are formed by intermediate and lateral mesoderm covered by coelomic epithelium. Each urogenital ridge divides into a urinary and an adreno-gonadal ridge in the 5 th week ( Table 1 ). The adreno-gonadal ridge is the common precursor of the gonads and adrenal cortex ( 3 ). Recent data obtained from single-cell transcriptomic profiling in the mouse ( 4 ) suggest that gonadal and adrenal progenitors derive from the lateral mesoderm and are specified before SF1 expression (see below). The Wnt signaling pathway is repressed in uncommitted cells of the adrenogonadal primordium. The repression is maintained in cells progressing through the adrenal lineage, in which Rho signaling triggers rearrangement of actin filament and cytoskeleton, as well as their interaction with extracellular matrix components. Conversely, the canonical Wnt pathway is activated in the gonadal lineage where it is required for cell proliferation. The gonadal ridge is bipotential and can develop into an ovary or a testis. Gonads are subsequently colonized by the primordial germ cells, of extra-gonadal origin ( 2 ). The mesonephroi also give rise to components of the internal reproductive tract and of the urinary system. The molecular mechanisms underlying the specific location of the gonads on the surface of the mesonephroi begin to be unveiled in chicken embryos, where Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling mediated by the bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) establishes the dorsoventral patterning of the mesoderm and induces coelomic epithelium cell ingression, thus probably initiating gonadal development ( 5 ). However, since there are significant differences in gonadal development between birds and mammals, these mechanisms need to be explored to establish whether they are conserved amongst vertebrates. * . TABLE 1. Chronology of Human Sex Differentiation View in own window Age from conception CR length (mm) Event 22 days 2-3 Intermediate mesoderm becomes visible Primordial germ cells in the yolk sac 24 days 2.5-4.5 Formation of solid Wolffian ducts Primordial germ cells migrate to the hindgut 26 days 3-5 Wolffian ducts develop a lumen Primordial germ cells in the hindgut 28 days 4-6 Primordial germ cells migrate to the urogenital ridges 32 days 5-7 Gonadal primordia develop Growth of Wolffian ducts 33-37 days 7-11 Primordial germ cells reach gonadal ridge Urogenital sinus is distinguishable
