Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


for the proliferation of somatic cells of the gonadal ridge ( 16 ) by interacting with WT1 to regulate Sf1 ( 17 ). LHX9 expression increases in both XX and XY undifferentiated gonads, and then decreases as Sertoli and granulosa cells differentiate ( 18 , 19 ). Several other factors are involved in cell proliferation in the gonadal primordium both in XX and XY embryos. For instance, impairment of the signaling pathway of the insulin/insulin-like growth factor family in mouse knockout models with disrupted Insr , Igf1r and Insrr leads to a significant reduction of the size of adreno-gonadal ridges in both XX and XY embryos ( 20 ). Also in mice with a knockout of Tcf21 , gonads are severely hypoplastic in both XX and XY fetuses ( 21 ). GATA4 ( 22 ) and the homeoproteins SIX1 and SIX4 are also essential for early proliferation of gonadal precursor cells and for FOG2- and SF1-regulated SRY expression ( 23 ). The Notch signaling pathway is also involved in somatic cell lineage commitment during early gonadogenesis in mice. Conditional knockout of Numb and Numbl (antagonists of Notch signaling) in the undifferentiated gonad results in disruption of the coelomic epithelium and reduction of somatic cell numbers in the gonads ( 24 ). Finally, NRG1 is also required in a dose-dependent manner in order to induce somatic cell proliferation in the gonads ( 25 ). Since cell proliferation is more important in the male than in the female early developing gonad ( 26 , 27 ), sex-reversal is often observed in XY embryos with an alteration of gonadal cell proliferation ( 20 ). It has been suggested that this is due to a reduction in the number of SRY-expressing pre-Sertoli cells, resulting in very low levels of SRY expression that are insufficient to trigger testicular differentiation (discussed in ref. ( 28 ). TABLE 2. Factors Involved in Early Gonadal Ridge Development View in own window Gene Chromosomal localization Expression Function ATRX (Alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome, Helicase 2, X-Linked) Xq21.1 Widespread Nucleotide excision repair and initiation of transcription CITED2 (CBP/p300-interacting transactivator, with glu/asp-rich c-terminal domain, 2) 6q24.1 Widespread WT1 cofactor, regulating SF1 expression in the adrenogonadal primordium CBX2 (Chromobox homolog 2) 17q25.3 Widespread Regulates chromatin structure EMX2 (homolog of empty spiracles homeobox gene 2) 10q26.11 Telencephalon and epithelial components of the urogenital system Arealization of the neocortex and induction of the mesenchyme GATA4 (GATA-binding
