Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


Wilms’ tumor, an embryonic kidney tumor arising from the metanephric blastema. By alternative splicing and alternative translation initiation, WT1 encodes more than 20 isoforms of a zinc-finger protein acting as transcriptional and/or post-transcriptional regulator ( 28 ). The -KTS splicing variant of WT1 , lacking the three amino acids lysine (K), threonine (T) and serine (S) at the end of the third zinc finger, is required for cell survival and proliferation in the indifferent gonad, whereas the +KTS variant is involved in the regulation of SRY expression ( 29 ). The first indication of a role for WT1 in gonadal and renal development was its expression pattern in the urogenital ridges ( 30 ). During gonadal differentiation, WT1 is expressed in the coelomic epithelium and later in Sertoli and granulosa cells ( 31 ). In mice with a knockout of WT1 , neither the kidneys nor the gonads develop ( 32 ). In humans, mutations in the WT1 gene do not completely prevent urogenital ridge development but may result in gonadal dysgenesis associated with nephroblastoma (Wilms’ tumor) and/or nephrotic syndrome owing to glomerular diffuse mesangial sclerosis ( 33 - 35 ). SF1, also known as Ad4BP or FTZF1 ( HGNC approved gene symbol: NR5A1), initially described as a regulator of steroid hydroxylases, is an orphan nuclear receptor expressed in the hypothalamus, the pituitary, the gonads and the adrenal glands (reviewed in refs. ( 36 - 38 ). In mice with a knockout of the SF1 gene, the intermediate mesoderm is not stabilized and the gonadal and adrenal primordia soon degenerate ( 39 ). SF1 also plays an important role in spermatogenesis, Leydig cell function, ovarian follicle development and ovulation, as demonstrated by a gonad-specific disruption of SF1 ( 40 ). A recurrent heterozygous p.Arg92Trp variant of the gene is associated with testicular development in XX subjects ( 41 , 42 ). WT1, through interaction with CITED2 ( 43 , 44 ), and LHX9 ( 16 ) regulate the expression of SF1/NR5A1 upstream of the gonadal development cascade. GATA4 and SOX-family factors also regulate SF1/NR5A1 expression in the gonad ( 36 ). In humans, the phenotype resulting from SF1/NR5A1 mutations does not exactly match that of Sf1/Nr5a1 knockout mice: the clinical spectrum includes severe and partial forms of testicular dysgenesis, anorchidism, and even male infertility in normally virilized individuals; adrenal insufficiency is not always present. In 46,XX females, SF1/NR5A1 mutations have
