Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


spectrum includes severe and partial forms of testicular dysgenesis, anorchidism, and even male infertility in normally virilized individuals; adrenal insufficiency is not always present. In 46,XX females, SF1/NR5A1 mutations have been described in patients with primary ovarian insufficiency ( 37 , 38 ). SF1 is one of the increasing number of examples of dosage-sensitive mechanisms in human sex differentiation, since mutations at the heterozygous state are sufficient to induce sex reversal in XY individuals (reviewed in refs. ( 37 , 38 ). Studies using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) have shed light on the initial steps of lineage trajectories and cell fate in the developing gonads ( 1 , 45 ). A subset of cells of the coelomic epithelium expressing GATA4 , SF1 and WT1 are likely to be the precursors of the somatic lineages of the undifferentiated gonads: both the supporting (Sertoli and granulosa) and the steroidogenic (Leydig and theca) cell populations of the differentiating gonads seem to derive from SF1 and WT1 -expressing cells present in the genital ridge ( 1 , 45 , 46 ). The Germ Cells Initially formed exclusively by somatic cells, the gonads are subsequently colonized by the primordial germ cells (PGCs). PGCs derive from pluripotent cells of the posterior proximal epiblast, which move, at a very early stage of embryonic life, through the primitive streak into the extra-embryonic region at the base of the allantois ( 47 , 48 ). Not all of these cells are committed to a germ cell lineage since they also give rise to extra-embryonic mesoderm cells ( 49 ). The mechanisms responsible for specification of epiblast cells to become PGCs vary between species ( 50 - 52 ). In mice, PCG specification involves several extraembryonic ectoderm-derived factors, including bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) ( 53 ), BMP4 ( 54 - 56 ), BMP8B ( 55 ) and WNT3 ( 57 ). Cells of the adjacent epiblast become determined to develop through the germline as they start expressing PRDM1, also known as BLIMP1 ( 53 ). PRDM1 represses somatic fate in the epiblast cells, and together with PRDM14 and TFAP2C (also known as AP2G), constitute a tripartite genetic network necessary and sufficient for mouse PGC specification ( 58 ). PRDM14 regulates the restoration of pluripotency and epigenetic reprogramming in PGCs, reestablishing the expression of the pluripotency factors POU5F1 (also known as OCT3/4), SOX2, ALPL and NANOG, as well as inducing
