Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


regulates the restoration of pluripotency and epigenetic reprogramming in PGCs, reestablishing the expression of the pluripotency factors POU5F1 (also known as OCT3/4), SOX2, ALPL and NANOG, as well as inducing some specific markers of human PGCs, such as PDPN and NANOS3 ( 48 , 50 , 59 ). Instead, embryos of other mammals do not form a structure equivalent to the extraembryonic ectoderm, and the origin of the signals that initiate PGC specification remain largely unknown. Notably, in the human embryo, PGC-like cells express very low or no PRDM14, maintain NANOG expression, and do not express SOX2. Furthermore, the expression of SOX17 is detected before that of PRDM1 and could be involved in the regulation of PGC specification and maintenance of their pluripotency in humans ( 58 , 60 ). Widespread chromatin modifications are observed: PGCs undergo genome-wide demethylation including erasure of genomic imprints ( 53 ), thus reaching a ‘ground state’ in terms of epigenetic marks. Remethylation of germ cell genome occurs later during fetal life: in XY germ cells when they have committed to the spermatogenic fate, and in XX germ cells just before ovulation ( 54 ). The timing of PGC specification in the human embryo has been difficult to establish due to ethical issues; however, PGCs have been detected in a human embryo of 16–19 days post fertilization and may even form before the embryo reaches 14 days ( 48 ). In the 4 th week, PGCs have migrated and are present in the yolk sac near the base of the allantois. They can be identified by their expression of ALPL, SOX17, POU5F1, PDPN and the tyrosine kinase receptor KIT ( Fig. 1A ) ( 48 , 49 ). Subsequently, PGCs become embedded in the wall of the hind gut, gain motility and migrate through the dorsal mesentery to reach the gonadal ridges in the 5 th week ( Fig. 1B ). Early migration of PGCs is dependent on the expression of interferon-induced transmembrane proteins 1 and 3 (IFITM1 and IFITM3) in the surrounding mesoderm ( 61 ). During migration, PGCs proliferate actively but do not differentiate ( 49 ). Germ cell migration through the dorsal mesentery to the gonadal ridges and survival/proliferation in both XX and XY embryos is driven by signaling between kit ligand (KITLG, previously known as Stem cell factor [SCF], Steel factor or mast cell growth factor [MGF]), which is expressed in
