Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


and XY embryos is driven by signaling between kit ligand (KITLG, previously known as Stem cell factor [SCF], Steel factor or mast cell growth factor [MGF]), which is expressed in somatic cells of the gonadal ridge and the hind gut along the pathway of PGC migration, and its receptor present in germ cells, KIT ( Fig. 1 ) ( 62 ). PGC migration and genital ridge colonization is also dependent on the chemokine CXC-motif ligand 12 (CXCL12, previously known as SDF1) and its receptor CXCR4 ( 63 ) and on interactions with extracellular matrix proteins, like fibronectin and laminin, while proliferation and/or survival involve many other factors ( 47 , 49 , 62 , 64 ). PGCs are in a bipotential state when they colonize the gonadal ridges, i.e. they still have the capacity to enter either spermatogenesis or oogenesis. Shortly afterwards, induced by the gonadal environment, they turn off their pluripotency genes ( POU5F1, NANOG, SOX17 ) and become gametogenesis- competent cells, This transition, called germ cell licensing, is necessary for PGCs to develop through spermatogenesis or oogenesis. PGCs begin to express DAZL, DDX4 (previously known as MVH) and low levels of SYCP3 ( 52 ), probably owing to promoter demethylation ( 65 ). DAZL, an RNA-binding protein, is critical for germ cell licensing and is followed by DDX4 expression ( 59 , 66 , 67 ). FIGURE 1. Regulation of germ cell migration. A: 4-week embryo. Differentiation of primordial germ cells (PGC) occurs from epiblast-derived cells present in the yolk sac near the base of the allantois. PGCs express the receptors KIT and CXCR4, as well as PRDM1, POU5F1 and ALPL. Fibronectin and laminin, together with KITLG, CXCL12 and IFITM 1 and 3 are expressed in the mesoderm along the PGC pathway. B: 5-week embryo. PGCs migrate along the dorsal mesentery of the hind gut to the gonadal ridges. SEX DETERMINATION The Determining Role of Testicular Differentiation The pioneering experiments of fetal sexual differentiation carried out by Alfred Jost in the 1940’s clearly established that the existence of the testes determines the sexually dimorphic fate of the internal and external genitalia ( Fig. 2 ) ( 68 , 69 ). Irrespective of their chromosomal constitution, when the gonadal primordia differentiate into testes, all internal and external genitalia develop following the male pathway. When no testes are present, the genitalia develop along the female pathway. The existence of ovaries
