Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


primordia differentiate into testes, all internal and external genitalia develop following the male pathway. When no testes are present, the genitalia develop along the female pathway. The existence of ovaries has no effect on fetal differentiation of the genitalia. The paramount importance of testicular differentiation for fetal sex development has prompted the use of the expression “sex determination” to refer to the differentiation of the bipotential or primitive gonads into testes. In the next section, we describe the morphological aspects of fetal testicular and ovarian differentiation and the underlying molecular mechanisms, involving genes mapping to sex-chromosomes ( Fig. 3 ) and autosomes ( Table 3 ). FIGURE 2. Determining role of the testes in fetal sex differentiation. In normal females, Müllerian ducts are maintained, Wolffian ducts regress. In males, the opposite occurs. In castrated fetuses, irrespective of genetic or gonadal sex, the reproductive tract differentiates according to the female pattern. The Fate of the Undifferentiated Gonadal Ridge As already mentioned, the gonadal ridges are bipotential until the 6 th week after conception in humans, i.e. they have the capacity to follow the testicular and the ovarian pathways. The discovery of the testis-determining factor SRY in 1990 was followed by the progressive unveiling of robust networks of genes, whose balanced expression levels either activate the testis pathway and simultaneously repress the ovarian pathway or vice versa ( Fig. 4 ). During the formation of the undifferentiated gonadal ridges, a common genetic program is established in the supporting-cell lineage deriving from the multipotent somatic progenitor cells in both XX and XY embryos, characterized by a balanced expression of pro-Sertoli ( SOX9 , FGF9 , PGD2 ) and pregranulosa ( WNT4 , RSPO1 , FST and CTNNB1 ) genes ( 45 , 70 ). Under physiological conditions in the XY gonad, the upregulation of SRY induces a destabilization of that balance, initiating the testis cascade. THE MALE DETERMINING PATHWAY Sex-Determining Region on the Y Chromosome (SRY) Compelling evidence for the importance of the Y chromosome for the development of the testes, irrespective of the number of X chromosomes present, has existed since 1959 ( 71 , 72 ). However, the identification of the testis-determining factor (TDF) on the Y chromosome did not prove easy and several candidates (e.g. HY antigen, ZFY) were successively proposed and rejected until the SRY (Sex-determining region on the Y) gene was cloned in 1990 in man ( 73
