Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


easy and several candidates (e.g. HY antigen, ZFY) were successively proposed and rejected until the SRY (Sex-determining region on the Y) gene was cloned in 1990 in man ( 73 ) and mouse ( 74 ). Experimental ( 75 , 76 ) and clinical ( 77 , 78 ) evidence clearly established that SRY was the testis-determining factor. Considerable progress has been made since SRY was identified, and it has become clear that sex determination is a far more complex process, regulated by competing molecular pathways in the supporting cell lineage of the bipotential gonad. SRY has lost much of its prestige because it has a very weak transactivation potential, is expressed very transiently in the mouse, weakly at best in other mammals and not at all in sub-mammalian species (reviewed in ref. ( 28 ). Instead, its target gene encoding the transcription factor SOX9 has emerged as the master regulator of testis differentiation, the main role of SRY consisting in upregulating the expression of SOX9 during a very narrow critical time window ( 79 ). Once time is up, either SOX9 is able to maintain its own expression with the help of feed-forward enhancing mechanisms succeeding in triggering Sertoli cell differentiation or it is silenced by an opposing set of genes which impose ovarian differentiation. Timing and expression level determine which team wins ( 28 , 80 , 81 ) but the battle is never over, even after birth, at least in mice ( 82 ). SRY is a member of a family of DNA-binding proteins bearing a high mobility group (HMG) box; its gene maps to the short arm of the Y chromosome ( Table 3 ), very close to the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) ( Fig. 3 ). PAR1 on Yp and PAR2 on Yq are the only regions of the Y chromosome that undergo meiotic recombination with homologous sequences of the X chromosome during male spermatogenesis. The proximity of SRY to PAR1 makes it susceptible to translocation to the X chromosome following aberrant recombination and provides an explanation for 80% of XX males ( 83 ) and for a low proportion of XY females. Indeed, mutations and deletions of the SRY locus only account for 15% of XY females ( 84 , 85 ). While SRY gene exists in almost all mammals as a single copy gene, the rat carries 6 copies and the mouse Sry
