Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


of XY females ( 84 , 85 ). While SRY gene exists in almost all mammals as a single copy gene, the rat carries 6 copies and the mouse Sry gene has a distinct structure from other mammalian SRY genes because of the presence of a long-inverted repeat. Also, SRY expression varies between species: in mice a functional transcript is present only in pre-Sertoli cells for a very short period during early gonadogenesis, in goats SRY is expressed in all somatic and germ cells of the gonad during fetal life and restricted to Sertoli cells and spermatogonia in the adult testis. Human SRY is expressed in both Sertoli cells and germ cells at fetal and adult stages (reviewed in ref. ( 28 ). Proteins that interact with SRY and could have a relevant function in gonadal differentiation include SIP-1/NHERF2 ( 86 ) and KRAB-O ( 87 ). FIGURE 3. X and Y chromosome genes involved in sex determination and differentiation. SRY: Sex-determining region Y chromosome; DAX1: DSS-AHC critical region X chromosome gene 1; AR: Androgen receptor; and ATRX: Alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked are involved in in sex determination and differentiation. Other genes present in the X and Y chromosomes are: AZF: azoospermia factor; CSF2RA: Colony-stimulating factor 2 receptor alpha; DAZ: Deleted in azoospermia; FRA-X: Fragile X syndrome; DMD: Duchenne muscular dystrophy; GK: Glycerol kinase; HY: Histocompatibility antigen Y; IL3RA: Interleukin 3 receptor alpha; IL9R: Interleukin 9 receptor; Kal1: Kallmann syndrome 1; PAR: Pseudo-autosomal regions; POLA: DNA polymerase alpha; RBMY: RNA-binding motif protein Y chromosome; SHOX: Short stature homeo box; USP9Y: Ubiquitin-specific protease 9 Y chromosome; XIST: X inactivation-specific transcript; ZFX: Zinc finger protein X-linked; ZFY: Zinc finger protein Y-linked. Owing to its Y-chromosome localization, SRY can only be expressed in the XY gonadal ridge, thus playing a paramount role in tilting the balance between testicular and ovarian promoting genes towards the male pathway. A tight regulation of SRY expression is essential for fetal gonadogenesis: both timing and level of expression are determinant, as revealed by experiments in mouse showing that Sry levels must reach a certain threshold at a certain stage of fetal development to induce testis differentiation ( 79 ). SRY expression commences between days 41 and 44 post-fertilization in humans ( 88 ). The mechanisms underlying the initiation of SRY expression begin to be unraveled ( Fig. 4 ). The +KTS splice variant of WT1 ( 29 ,
