Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


in humans ( 88 ). The mechanisms underlying the initiation of SRY expression begin to be unraveled ( Fig. 4 ). The +KTS splice variant of WT1 ( 29 , 89 , 90 ), SF1 ( 28 , 91 ) and SP1 ( 92 , 93 ) are able to activate SRY transcription. The transcriptional co-factor CITED2 acts in the gonad with WT1 and SF1 to increase SRY levels to attain a critical threshold to efficiently initiate testis development ( 43 ). The +KTS isoform of WT1 might also act as a posttranscriptional stabilizer of SRY mRNA ( 80 ). The implication of GATA4 on SRY expression is less straightforward. The interaction between GATA4 and its cofactor FOG2 in the gonadal primordium is required for normal Sry expression and testicular differentiation in mice ( 94 ). However, whether the effect is specific on Sry transcription or more general on gonadal somatic cell development was not evaluated. Functional GATA-binding sites are present in the mouse and pig Sry promoter but not in the human SRY ( 95 , 96 ). One possibility is that GATA4 interacts with WT1 ( Fig. 4 ), mainly the +KTS isoform, which binds to the SRY promoter and increases its transcriptional activity ( 95 ). Alternatively, it has been proposed that GATA4 directly acts on the Sry promoter, based on the experimental observation that GADD45G binds and activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase MAP3K4 (also known as MEKK4) to promote phosphorylation and activation of the p38 kinase ( Table 3 ), which in turn phosphorylates GATA4 thus enhancing its binding to the Sry promoter ( 96 , 97 ) ( Fig. 4 ). These results are in line with those indicating that MAP3K4 is essential for testicular differentiation in mice ( 98 ). SRY expression is also epigenetically regulated ( 99 ): the demethylase KDM3A, previously known as JMJD1A, positively regulates the expression of Sry in mice, as shown by the absence of testicular development and consequent sex reversal in Jmjd1a -deficient XY mice ( 100 ). Histone methylation is an important mechanism of epigenetic regulation: methylation of lysine 9 of histone H3 (H3K9) is a hallmark of transcriptionally suppressed chromatin. JMJD1A demethylates H3K9, thus allowing transcriptional activation of Y chromosome genes, amongst which is SRY . ATRX, also known as XH2, is an X-encoded DNA-helicase whose mutation results in mental retardation, α-thalassemia and gonadal dysgenesis
