Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


transcriptional activation of Y chromosome genes, amongst which is SRY . ATRX, also known as XH2, is an X-encoded DNA-helicase whose mutation results in mental retardation, α-thalassemia and gonadal dysgenesis in XY individuals ( 101 - 103 ). ATRX has a more general effect on chromatin remodeling, which seems to play an important role in the epigenetic regulation of sex determination ( 104 ). Several other experimental models impairing the expression of signaling molecules, which are expressed in the early gonadal ridge in normal conditions, show reduced or absent SRY expression, develop gonadal agenesis and a female phenotype of the internal and external genitalia. LHX9 ( 16 ) is a potential regulator of SRY expression. A direct effect of LHX9 on the Sry gene has not been demonstrated but an indirect effect through SF1 upregulation has been postulated ( 28 ). Loss-of-function mutations of the mouse genes encoding the insulin receptor ( Insr ), the IGF1 receptor ( Igf1r ) and the insulin related receptor ( Insrr ) also result in decreased or absent Sry expression ( 20 ). Similarly, loss of Kdm6b leads to a delay in Sry activation and defects in testicular differentiation in mice ( 105 ). However, these factors and signaling pathways affect cell proliferation, and decreased SRY expression might only reflect the reduced number of cells in the gonadal primordium. Indeed, many of these potential regulators have not yet been proven to affect SRY expression directly. TABLE 3. Factors Involved in Gonadal Differentiation View in own window Gene Chromosomal localization Expression Function ATRX (Alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome, Helicase 2, X-Linked) Xq21.1 Widespread Nucleotide excision repair and initiation of transcription CBX2 (Chromobox homolog gene 2; or M33 mouse homolog of) 17q25.3 Widespread Regulation of homeotic genes. Represses WNT4 signaling CDY L (Chromodomain Y-like protein) 6p25.1 Widespread Reader protein for repressive histone H3 methylation marks CITED2 (CBP/p300-interacting transactivator, with glu/asp-rich c-terminal domain, 2) 6q24.1 Widespread WT1 and SF1 cofactor, regulating SRY expression in the gonad NR2F2 (Nuclear receptor subfamily 2, group F, member 2), or COUP-TFII (Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor 2) 15q26.2 Widespread Transcription factor (orphan nuclear receptor) likely involved in mesenchymal-epithelial interactions CTNNB1 (β-catenin) 3p22.1 Widespread Upregulates WNT4, FST and FOXL2 DAX1 : DSS-AHC critical region on the X chromosome 1, or NR0B1 (Nuclear receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 1). Xp21.2 Gonads, pituitary, adrenals Antagonizes SRY, SOX9. Essential for normal testicular and ovarian development
