Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


147 ). In the mouse, FGF9 and WNT4 are expressed in the undifferentiated XX and XY gonads at the same levels: FGF9 near the coelomic surface and WNT4 near the mesonephric border ( 146 ). When SRY expression is initiated and upregulates SOX9 in the XY gonadal ridge, the balance between FGF9 and WNT4 is disrupted: SOX9 enhances FGF9 expression which in turn maintains high SOX9 levels thus resulting in a feed-forward loop that accelerates commitment to the male pathway. WNT4 expression is downregulated when a threshold level of FGF9 is reached ( 146 ). FGF9 controls the proliferation of a cell population that gives rise to Sertoli progenitors ( 27 ). In Fgf9 knockout mice, initial Sertoli cell differentiation is not hindered: SRY and SOX9 expression is observed but soon weakens resulting in an aborted differentiation of Sertoli cell precursors ( 146 ). Although in experimental conditions, FGF9 is capable of inducing proliferation of coelomic epithelium cells in XX gonadal ridges, this does not result in Sertoli cell differentiation, clearly indicating that increasing cell proliferation is not sufficient to induce testicular differentiation, and that other pro-testicular signals are also required ( 147 ). FGF9 and SOX9 also upregulate AXIN1 and GSK3β, which promote the destabilization of β-catenin and, thus, serve to block ovarian development ( 148 ). DMRT1, DAX1 and Other Factors Modulating Testis Versus Ovary Antagonism DMRT1 is a member of the DM domain transcription factor family which appears to play a conserved role in vertebrate male gonad development. In mice, DMRT1 –but not DMRT2 or DMRT3– is expressed and required in both germ cells and Sertoli cells of the testis ( 149 ). Overexpression of DMRT1 in XX mice inhibits WNT4 and FOXL2 expression and results in partial testicular differentiation and male genital development ( 150 ), while loss of DMRT1 expression activates FOXL2 and reprograms Sertoli cells into granulosa cells, even in postnatal life, suggesting that DMRT1 is essential to maintain mammalian testis differentiation life-long in mice ( 151 , 152 ). In rabbits, testicular formation is impaired in DMRT1 knock-out XY fetuses ( 153 ). In humans, deletions of chromosome 9p involving DMRT1 , DMRT2 and DMRT3 genes are associated with XY male-to-female sex reversal due to gonadal dysgenesis. Patients also present with mental retardation and typical craniofacial dysmorphia, including trigonocephaly, upward-slanting palpebral fissures, and less frequently hypertelorism, epicanthus, flat nasal bridge, low-set ears, microstomia,
