Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


mutations in the MAP3K1 gene have been associated with testicular dysgenesis ( 169 , 170 ). Similarly, inactivating variants that disrupt ZNRF3 function result in 46,XY DSD in humans and to sex reversal in mice, likely due to gonadal dysgenesis ( 171 ).ZNRF3 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that promotes the degradation by ubiquitination and the turnover of Frizzled, a WNT receptor ( Fig. 5 ) ( 172 , 173 ). FIGURE 5. WNT and RSPO actions. Under steady state conditions (red dotted arrows), ZNRF3 provokes the ubiquitination and degradation of Frizzled, receptor of WNT family factors. GSK3 phosphorylates β-catenin, which is then degraded. R-spondin (RSPO) family members binding to their receptors LGR4/5/6 results in complex formation with ZNRF3. Consequently, more Frizzled molecules become available for WNT signaling. Under these conditions (blue full arrows), the complex formed by GSK3, Axin, CKIα and APC is recruited to the WNT–receptor complex and inactivated, allowing β‑catenin to translocate to the nucleus and regulate target genes. NR2F2, also known as COUP-TFII, is a transcription factor likely involved in mesenchymal-epithelial interactions required for organogenesis. In the fetal gonads, NR2F2 expression increases as the ovaries develop, and loss-of-function mutations in NR2F2 have been described in 46,XX ovotesticular SRY -negative DSD ( 174 ), indicating that NR2F2 may be involved in driving the balance towards ovarian differentiation. MAMLD1 is expressed in fetal Sertoli and Leydig cells, under the control of SF1 ( 175 , 176 ), and gene variants have been associated with a broad phenotypic spectrum of DSD ( 177 ). However, Mamld1 knockout mice depict a very mild reproductive phenotype ( 178 ). The precise role of MAMLD1 still needs to be established. NEDD4 is an ubiquitin-protein ligase involved in testis versus ovary differentiation. Nedd4 -/- mice show gonadal sex reversal as a consequence of ectopic upregulation of Foxl2 expression and insufficient Sox9 upregulation at the time of gonadal differentiation ( 179 ). Stabilization of Testis Differentiation: Vascular, Cellular and Molecular Pathways In the XY fetus, the initially amorphous cluster of gonadal cells becomes segregated in two compartments, testicular cords and interstitial tissue, during the 7 th week of gestation ( 6 ). These architectural changes are heralded by gonadal ridge vascularization, a highly dynamic and sexually dimorphic process. At variance with the differentiating ovary that recruits vasculature by typical angiogenesis, the XY gonad recruits and patterns vasculature by a remodeling mechanism: pre-existing mesonephric vessels
