Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


and sexually dimorphic process. At variance with the differentiating ovary that recruits vasculature by typical angiogenesis, the XY gonad recruits and patterns vasculature by a remodeling mechanism: pre-existing mesonephric vessels disassemble and generate a population of endothelial cells that migrate to the gonad, below the coelomic epithelium, where they reaggregate to form the coelomic vessel, an arterial vessel that runs the length of the testis at its antimesonephric margin ( 180 , 181 ). The formation of this vessel is one of the earliest hallmarks of testis development that distinguishes it morphologically from the developing ovary ( 180 , 182 ). Evidence now exists for a close spatial relationship between testis vascularization and cord formation ( 181 , 183 ). Furthermore, all of the cells migrating from the mesonephros to the coelomic zone of the differentiating testis express endothelial markers such as VE-cadherin, an indication that incoming endothelial, rather than peritubular myoid cells, are required for testicular cord formation ( 183 ). Subsequently, Sertoli cells aggregate and enclose germ cells. The interaction between differentiating peritubular myoid cells and Sertoli cells results in the formation of basement membrane of the testicular cords. Mesenchymal cells and matrix and blood vessels fill the interstitial space, in which Leydig cells will soon appear. Beyond vascularization, which is necessary to allow efficient export of testosterone, cell migration from the mesonephros largely contributes to testicular organogenesis ( 184 , 185 ) and is antagonized by the initiation of meiosis in germ cells ( 186 ). The molecular mechanisms underlying sex-specific gonadal vascularization are being progressively unraveled. A vascular-mesenchymal cross-talk between VEGFs and PDGFs drives gonadal patterning during early fetal life ( Fig. 4 ). VEGF-A, expressed in interstitial mesenchymal cells of the undifferentiated gonadal ridge, induces vascular endothelial cell migration to the gonad. In turn, PDGF-B expressed by the endothelial cells is responsible for an increase in cell proliferation in the gonadal interstitium, upon binding to its receptor PDGFRα. Disruption of vascular development blocks formation of testis cords ( 187 , 188 ) while not affecting Sertoli and Leydig cell specification( 188 ). In the XX gonadal ridge, WNT4 and its downstream target follistatin (FST) repress endothelial cell migration, probably by antagonizing Activin B ( Fig. 4 ). In the XY gonad, the SRY/SOX9 pathway downregulates WNT4/FST thus allowing Activin B, VEGF and other potential as yet unidentified factors to induce male-specifc gonadal vascularization ( 189
