Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


4 ). In the XY gonad, the SRY/SOX9 pathway downregulates WNT4/FST thus allowing Activin B, VEGF and other potential as yet unidentified factors to induce male-specifc gonadal vascularization ( 189 ). Genes involved in male sex determination are shown in Fig. 6 . FIGURE 6. Sex determination and differentiation. Reprinted with permission from ref. ( 190 ): Grinspon RP, Rey RA Molecular Characterization of XX Maleness. International Journal of Molecular Sciences (2019) 20:6089, © 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Differentiation of Sertoli and Leydig Cells As already mentioned, both the supporting and the steroidogenic cell lineages derive from WT1-positive somatic progenitors present in the undifferentiated gonadal ridges. Wt1-positive cells can express HES1, a Notch effector, or not ( 46 ). In the subset of WT1-positive and HES1-negative cells, having delaminated from the coelomic epithelium in the central part of the indifferent gonad, SRY expression is induced giving rise to the supporting cell lineage (pre-Sertoli cells) ( 46 , 191 - 193 ). SRY-expressing pre-Sertoli cells lying beneath the coelomic epithelium play a central role in the migration of cells from the mesonephric mesenchyme into the differentiating gonad ( 194 ). Experimental work using XX-XY chimeras has shown that not 100% of Sertoli cell precursors need to express SRY to differentiate along the male pathway: in fact up to 10% of Sertoli cells were XX. However, a threshold number of SRY expressing –i.e. XY– cells seems to be essential in order for Sertoli cell differentiation, and thus testicular development, to be guaranteed ( 195 ). Along with SRY, FGF9 might have a role in inducing mesonephric cell migration into the developing fetal testis and Sertoli cell differentiation. FGF9 is expressed in Sertoli cells of the fetal testis and Fgf9 -null mice have dysgenetic gonads ( 147 , 196 ) (see below). Vanin-1, a cell-surface molecule involved in the regulation of cell migration, might also be responsible for differentiating Sertoli cell association with, and adhesion to, migrating peritubular cells ( 197 ). Nexin-1, expressed by early Sertoli cells, could act to maintain the integrity of the basal lamina ( 197 ). Desert hedgehog (DHH) and its receptor PATCHED2 might also play a role in Sertoli-peritubular cell interaction and basal lamina deposition ( 198 , 199 ). DHH is a protein secreted by fetal Sertoli cells, but not by somatic components of the fetal ovary, immediately after testicular differentiation (
