Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


lamina deposition ( 198 , 199 ). DHH is a protein secreted by fetal Sertoli cells, but not by somatic components of the fetal ovary, immediately after testicular differentiation ( 200 ). Patched2 is expressed in germ, peritubular and interstitial cells of the testis ( 201 ). Testes develop abnormally during fetal life in Dhh null mice, resulting in XY sex-reversal. Seminiferous cords are disorganized owing to defects in the basal lamina and peritubular cells, with germ cells occasionally lying in the interstitial tissue, and Leydig cells are hypoplastic ( 198 , 199 ). Homozygous mutations of DHH in 46,XY patients are associated with gonadal dysgenesis ( 202 , 203 ). DHH, like other members of the hedgehog family, undergoes post-translational modifications including N-terminal palmitoylation by HHAT (hedgehog acyl-transferase), which is essential for efficient signaling. A mutation leading to defective HHAT function was found to cause complete gonadal dysgenesis and female phenotype in two 46,XY patients ( 204 ). Testicular cord formation can be detected in human fetuses 13-20 mm crown-rump length (43-50 days) beginning in the central part of the gonad ( 2 , 205 ). Cord formation is heralded by the development of a new type of cell, the primitive Sertoli cell, characterized by a polarized, large and clear cytoplasm with abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and complex membrane interdigitations ( 206 ), a downregulation of desmin and an upregulation of cytokeratins ( 207 ), and the expression of SOX9 ( 110 ), AMH ( 208 , 209 ) and DHH ( 203 , 210 , 211 ). Differentiating Sertoli cells also express growth factors, like nerve growth factors (NGFs), which can induce cell migration from the mesonephros acting through their receptors TRKA (NTRK1) and TRKC (NTRK3) ( 212 , 213 ). Sertoli cells aggregate around large, spherical germ cells, with a large nucleus and pale cytoplasm, called gonocytes at this stage, which can be observed in the center of testicular cord cross-sections ( 205 ). The structural basis of cord formation seems to be dependent on basal lamina deposition between Sertoli and peritubular cells with myofibroblastic characteristics ( 185 ). In the interstitial compartment, connective tissue, blood vessels and Leydig cells can be observed. As described above, one particular feature of testicular vasculature is the formation of the coelomic vessel, a large vessel that appears below the coelomic epithelium very early in testicular differentiation ( 180 , 214
