Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


particular feature of testicular vasculature is the formation of the coelomic vessel, a large vessel that appears below the coelomic epithelium very early in testicular differentiation ( 180 , 214 ). Surrounding the gonad, the basement membrane layer underlying the coelomic epithelium thickens to form the tunica albuginea. Sertoli and germ cell numbers increase exponentially in the human fetal testis throughout the second trimester ( 215 ) in response to FSH acting through its receptor in Sertoli cells ( 216 - 218 ), and androgens acting indirectly through the peritubular myoid cells ( 219 ). This probably explains why newborns with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism have small testes and low serum levels of Sertoli cell markers, such as AMH and inhibin B ( 220 , 221 ). Sertoli cells do not reach a mature state, and meiosis is not initiated in the human testis until pubertal age, when all Sertoli cells reach a high expression level of the androgen receptor ( 222 - 225 ). In mice, NRG1 and its receptors ERBB2/3 are also essential for Sertoli cell proliferation, and Nrg1 gene invalidation leads to Sertoli cell hypoplasia and micro-orchidism ( 25 ). Morphologically and functionally distinct from testicular cords, the interstitial compartment contains developing Leydig cells ( Fig. 7 ), the main androgen producing cells in the male. The origin of Leydig cells has recently been clearly elucidated: the precursors of fetal Leydig cells migrate from the coelomic epithelium and the mesonephros ( 226 - 229 ) A subset of SF1-expressing cells gives rise to all steroidogenic lineages of the gonads and adrenal cortex. This is supported by the finding of adrenal markers ( 230 ) and adrenal-like cells in the fetal testis ( 231 , 232 ) and of adrenal rests in the testes of male patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia ( 233 ). In mice, mesonephric cells expressing nestin (NES), a cytoskeletal filament initially characterized in neural stem cells ( 226 ), and NR2F2 (also known as COUP-TFII), an orphan nuclear receptor ( 234 ), are a multipotent progenitor population that gives rise to Leydig cells, pericytes and smooth muscle cells. However, the first cohort of Leydig cells derive from nestin-negative cells, confirming the multiple origins of fetal Leydig cells ( 226 ). Another particular feature of the mouse testis is that Leydig cell populations can be divided into fetal and adult Leydig cells according to the time
