Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


Leydig cells ( 226 ). Another particular feature of the mouse testis is that Leydig cell populations can be divided into fetal and adult Leydig cells according to the time they arise. Fetal Leydig cells disappear after birth and are replaced by adult Leydig cells at puberty ( 235 ). Despite their similar functions, fetal and adult Leydig cells show morphologic and gene expression differences: some progenitor cells that lose Wt1 expression and are HES1-negative/GLI1-negative become located to the interstitial tissue, do not express SOX9 and differentiate into fetal Leydig cells, under the effect of the Notch signaling pathway. Another subset of cells that expresses HES1 and GLI1, under the Hedgehog signaling pathway, are not initially steroidogenic, but give rise to adult Leydig cells in postnatal life ( 46 ). In the human fetus, Leydig cells can be identified in the interstitial tissue by the beginning of the 8 th week ( 228 , 236 ) —after testicular cords have completely formed— and soon begin to produce testosterone, which plays an essential role in the stabilization of Wolffian ducts and the masculinization of external genitalia. Leydig cells also produce insulin-like growth factor 3 (INSL3), a growth factor responsible for the transabdominal phase of testicular descent ( 237 - 239 ). Although the initial differentiation of fetal Leydig cells depends, at least partially, on Sertoli cell-secreted PDGFs binding to PDGFRα ( 240 ) independently of gonadotropin action ( 241 ), further Leydig cell differentiation and proliferation depends on placental hCG in the first and second trimesters of fetal life and on fetal pituitary LH thereafter acting on the LH/CG receptor ( 242 ). At mid-gestation, interstitial tissue is literally packed with Leydig cells; afterwards their number decreases ( 215 , 236 ). SF1 action, is suppressed by WNT4-activated DAX1 expression ( 243 ). By counteracting WNT4, and thus downregulating DAX1 in interstitial cells of XY gonads, SRY might indirectly enhance SF1 action ( 244 , 245 ). Finally, ARX is an X-chromosome gene identified in patients with X-linked lissencephaly and genital abnormalities probably associated with a block in Leydig cell differentiation ( 246 ). FGF9 ( 147 , 196 ) and DHH ( 199 ) are Sertoli cell-secreted signals involved in Leydig cell differentiation. Several other transcription factors important to Leydig cells have been identified, including basic leucine zipper factors (BZIP), such as AP1 factors, CREB-related factors and C/EBP-related factors, and
