Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


Leydig cell differentiation. Several other transcription factors important to Leydig cells have been identified, including basic leucine zipper factors (BZIP), such as AP1 factors, CREB-related factors and C/EBP-related factors, and factors of the superclasses of zinc-coordinating DNA-binding domains (i.e. nuclear receptors), helix-turn-helix domains and immunoglobulin fold, among others ( 247 ), FIGURE 7. Leydig cells accumulate in the testicular interstitial tissue of a 90-mm male human fetus (11 th week). Large eosinophilic Leydig cells with a prominent nucleus are interspersed with mesenchymal cells. Timing of Testicular Differentiation In order for the fetal testis to adequately differentiate and secrete masculinizing hormones, not only do all these factors need to be present at sufficient levels in the right cell lineage, but their expression must also be initiated within a narrow time window. In mice, the ability of SRY to induce testis development is limited to a time window of only 6 hours after the normal onset of expression in XY gonads. If SRY is expressed later, Sox9 gene activation is not maintained due to failure of FGF9/WNT4 signaling to switch to a male pattern ( 79 ). Germ Cell Interaction with Somatic Cells in the Developing Testis: Repression of Meiosis Upon arriving in the undifferentiated genital ridge, by the end of the 5 th week, germ cells continue to proliferate by mitosis and maintain bipotentiality for approximately one week. Then germ cells in the male gonad become enclosed in the seminiferous cords and differentiate into the spermatogonial lineage, which does not enter meiosis until the onset of puberty. Gonocyte proliferation in the fetal testis is inhibited by androgens ( 248 ). Prevention of entry into meiosis was first thought to be a specific effect of male somatic cells since germ cells entering a prospective ovary or those which have failed to enter gonads of either sex enter meiosis at approximately the same time and develop into oocytes, irrespective of their chromosomal pattern ( 249 ). Subsequent studies shed light on the sexually dimorphic evolution of gametogenesis in the fetal gonads. The mesonephros from the indifferent gonad, as well as the lung and adrenal gland, synthesize retinoic acid that acts as a meiosis inducer ( 250 , 251 ). Germ cells embedded in the seminiferous cords do not enter meiosis because they are protected from retinoic acid action: mouse Sertoli cells express two factors that prevent meiosis onset: FGF9 ( 252 ) and
