Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


the seminiferous cords do not enter meiosis because they are protected from retinoic acid action: mouse Sertoli cells express two factors that prevent meiosis onset: FGF9 ( 252 ) and CYP26B1, an enzyme that catabolizes retinoic acid ( 253 , 254 ). NANOS2, expressed in germ cells, is also a meiosis-preventing protein, since in the fetal testis it represses the expression of STRA8 ( 255 ) (for details on STRA8, see “Genetic control of oogenesis and folliculogenesis“. In human fetal testis, CYP26B1 does not seem to be expressed, and the mechanism underlying the inhibition of germ cell entry into meiosis needs to be elucidated ( 256 , 257 ). Chromosomal constitution does not influence sex differentiation of germ cells: XX germ cells surrounded by Sertoli cells differentiate into spermatogonia, whereas XY germ cells in an ovarian context differentiate into oogonia and then enter meiosis ( 258 ). However, germ cells whose karyotype is discordant with the somatic lineages fail to progress through gametogenesis and enter apoptosis later in life. The influence of germ cells on the developing gonad is sexually dimorphic: Germ cell progression through meiosis is essential for the maintenance of the fetal ovary, otherwise prospective follicular cells degenerate and streak gonads result. In contrast, the development of the testes is not hindered by the lack of germ cells ( 214 ). STABILIZATION OF OVARIAN DIFFERENTIATION: CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR PATHWAYS Genetic Pathways of Ovarian Differentiation The pathway leading to ovarian differentiation and stabilization is far more complex than what was originally hypothesized. In humans, the absence of an active SRY gene –e.g. SRY mutations or deletions of the Y chromosome involving the SRY locus– results in gonadal dysgenesis of variable degrees but is not sufficient to allow ovarian differentiation: no oocyte meiotic progression or follicle development has been described, even during fetal life. Recent findings suggest that most probably the coordinated action of several factors is needed for the differentiation and stabilization of the ovaries ( 259 - 261 ) ( Table 3 , Figs. 4 , 6 and 8 ). WNT4 is a secreted protein that functions as a paracrine factor to regulate several developmental mechanisms. WNT proteins bind to the frizzled (FZ) family of membrane receptors and LRP5/6 co-receptors, leading to the activation of the phosphoprotein disheveled (DVL) and a subsequent increase in cytoplasmic β-catenin levels owing to an inhibition of its degradation rate ( 262 ).
