Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


and PGD2: maintaining SOX9 expression levels”), SOX9 and FGF9 upregulate AXIN1 and GSK3β, which promote the destabilization of β-catenin, thus blocking ovarian development. MAP3K1 sequestrates AXIN1; consequently, there is a stabilization of β-catenin, which favors the ovarian pathway ( 148 ). In XY patients with mutations of MAP3K1 that result in increased binding to AXIN1, there is an increase of β-catenin leading to defective testicular differentiation and finally resulting in gonadal dysgenesis ( 169 ). FIGURE 8. Female sex determination. As in the male, general transcription factors, as LHX1, EMX2 and PAX2, are necessary for intermediate mesoderm development. The gonadal ridge differentiates from the intermediate mesoderm following the action of SF1, LHX9 and WT1. WNT4, FST, RSPO1 and β-Catenin should be expressed to antagonize testis differentiation and promote early ovarian differentiation. Germ cell development (dependent on BMP family members, KIT ligand and its receptor C-KIT, WNT4, FST, retinoic acid and its receptors, the existence of two X chromosomes as well as several factors like DAZLA, MSH5, STRA8 and DMC1) are essential for fetal ovary stabilization. A number of other factors are involved in early folliculogenesis (FOXL2, neurotrophins and neurotrophin tyrosine kinase receptors, FIGα, NOBOX, SOHLH and members of the TGFβ family like GDF9, AMH and BMP15). Ovarian Morphogenesis In the XX fetus, the gonad remains histologically undifferentiated after the 7 th week from a histological standpoint, but a functional differentiation is already detectable: XX gonads become capable of estradiol production at the same time as XY gonads begin to synthesize testosterone ( 283 ). PGCs proliferate by mitosis and differentiate to oogonia. Ovarian maturation proceeds from the center to the periphery. The distinct cortical and medullary zones of the are the first ovary-specific features to appear at 8 weeks ( 284 ). At week 10, oogonia in the deepest layers of the ovary enter meiotic prophase, the first unequivocal sign of morphological ovarian differentiation. Subsequently, oogonia become surrounded by a single layer of follicular (granulosa) cells, they enter meiosis, become oocytes and form primordial follicles ( Fig. 9 ). Initiation of meiosis in the fetal ovary is heralded by the increase in retinoic acid levels synthesized by retinaldehyde dehydrogenase isoform 1 (encoded by ALDH1A1 ), expressed in the developing female gonad ( 285 ). The earliest primary follicles appear at 15-16 weeks and the first secondary follicles at 23-25 weeks ( 284 , 286 , 287 ). By the end
