Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


gonad ( 285 ). The earliest primary follicles appear at 15-16 weeks and the first secondary follicles at 23-25 weeks ( 284 , 286 , 287 ). By the end of the 7 th month of gestation, mitotic activity has ceased and almost all germ cells have entered meiotic prophase. Oocytes proceed to the diplotene stage, where they remain until meiosis is completed at the time of ovulation in adult life. However, not all oocytes undergo meiosis: from 6-7 million ovarian follicles at 25 weeks, only 2 million persist at term ( 288 ). Most oocytes undergo apoptosis and follicles become atretic. AMH is produced, albeit in low amounts, after the 23 th week of development ( 289 ) by granulosa cells from primary to antral follicles, but not by primordial follicles ( 290 - 292 ). The dynamics of follicle development and entry of germ cells into meiosis is notably different in rodents, in whom meiosis and folliculogenesis only progress after birth ( 189 ). FIGURE 9. Developing human fetal ovaries. At 45 days, the ovary is recognizable only because it has not yet undergone testicular differentiation. In the cortex of the 14-week-old gonad, germ cells are aligned in rows, some of them have entered the meiotic prophase (arrows). In the medulla, primordial (small arrowhead) and primary (large arrowhead) follicles are visible. The involvement of germ cells in the stabilization of the gonadal structure is one major difference between the ovary and the testis, with germ cells being critical only in the ovaries in terms of maintenance of the somatic component of the gonad. In fact, while fetal testis development progresses normally in the absence of germ cells ( 293 ), ovarian follicles do not develop when germ cells are absent ( 287 , 294 ). Furthermore, if germ cells are lost after formation of follicles, these rapidly degenerate ( 287 , 295 , 296 ). In XX gonads, very few endothelial cells migrate from the mesonephros to the gonad, which suggests that cortical and medullary domains of the ovary are already established in early gonadogenesis, although no morphological boundaries are evident, consistently with molecular evidence of discrete gene expression domains specified by 12.5 dpc in the mouse ovary ( 277 ). The coelomic vessel formation, characteristic of the differentiating testis, does not occur in the normal XX gonadal ridge. Granulosa cells, the equivalent of the Sertoli cells of
