Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


( 277 ). The coelomic vessel formation, characteristic of the differentiating testis, does not occur in the normal XX gonadal ridge. Granulosa cells, the equivalent of the Sertoli cells of the testes, originate from 3 possible sources: the ovarian surface epithelium, mesonephric cells from the adjacent rete ovarii, and the existing mesenchymal cells of the genital ridge ( 189 , 297 ). Recent evidence in mice shows that many coelomic epithelial cells ingress to ovarian cortex and give rise to FOXL2-positive granulosa cells ( 298 ), confirming that other potential granulosa cell precursors are present in the gonadal ridge prior to the start of coelomic cell migration ( 192 , 298 ). Theca cells, the counterpart of testicular Leydig cells, are thought to derive from fibroblast-like precursors in the ovarian stroma under the control of granulosa cells ( 299 ). The initial cortico-medullary zonation occurring during ovarian development has important implications for the reproductive lifespan ( 300 ). The medullary follicles are lost before puberty, while the cortical follicles remain quiescent until puberty, when they become the ovarian reserve for ovulation. There are three hallmarks during ovarian morphogenesis: ovary folding, specification of medullary and cortical compartments and ovary encapsulation. Ovary folding correlates with regionalization into cortex and medulla, while relocation of the oviduct to the ventral aspect of the ovary leads to ovary encapsulation, and mutual attachment of the ovary and oviduct to the cranial suspensory ligament seems to trigger ovary folding ( Fig. 10 ). FIGURE 10. Morphogenesis of the fetal ovary. The dorsal face of the ovary is the center of action for most architectural changes during ovary morphogenesis. The cranial suspensory ligament (CSL, yellow), which tethers the ovary to the dorsal body wall, originally appears on the medial ridge of the ovary (blue). Throughout ovary morphogenesis, the cranial region of the oviduct (green), the infundibulum, remains linked to the original anterior pole of the ovary through their mutual attachment to the ligament. Ovary folding is associated with relocation of the infundibulum to the medio-ventral opening of the ovary. The relocation of the oviduct and infundibulum is driven by the dorsal expansion of mesonephric tissue (gray) to form the mesosalpinx and mesovarium. This process leaves the ovary fully encapsulated, with the ovarian capsule arising from the growth and fusion of the mesovarium and the mesosalpinx (gray). The developmental dynamics of the rete ovarii (red) follow the morphogenesis of
