Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


encapsulated, with the ovarian capsule arising from the growth and fusion of the mesovarium and the mesosalpinx (gray). The developmental dynamics of the rete ovarii (red) follow the morphogenesis of the ovary, with the intraovarian and connecting regions closely associated with the ovarian domain throughout folding, and the extraovarian rete expanding within the developing ovarian capsule. Infund., infundibulum; MD, Müllerian duct; Meson., mesonephros; WD, Wolffian duct. Reprinted with permission from ref. ( 300 ): McKey J, Anbarci DN, Bunce C, Ontiveros AE, Behringer RR, Capel B (2022) Integration of mouse ovary morphogenesis with developmental dynamics of the oviduct, ovarian ligaments, and rete ovarii. Elife 11:e81088, © 2022 McKey et al. Genetic Control of Oogenesis and Folliculogenesis Two major steps mark ovarian development: germ cell migration, proliferation and meiosis onset, followed by folliculogenesis. For a long time, it has been known that two intact X chromosomes are required in the human for ovarian differentiation and development –in contrast to the mouse, in which XY oocytes can occur in experimental conditions ( 75 )– for ovarian differentiation and development. The lack of two X chromosomes, e.g. in Turner syndrome, results in germ cell loss and, subsequently, gonadal dysgenesis ( 287 , 295 ). Therefore, all the factors involved in the proliferation and migration of PGCs in early embryogenesis (see “The Germ Cells” section) are essential for ovarian formation. In the female gonad, germ cells continue to proliferate by mitosis. Meiotic entry is delayed until the 10 th week in the human fetus and the 13 th day in the mouse fetus ( Table 1 ), due to the suppressive effect of the Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1), which represses STRA8 and other factors involved in the differentiation of primordial germ cells and in early meiosis programs until retinoic acid reaches a threshold ( 301 ). Retinoic acid, synthesized by retinaldehyde dehydrogenases present in the mesonephros and the developing ovary ( 285 , 302 , 303 ), binds to the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) present in the germ cells and induces the expression of STRA8 ( 251 , 256 ), a transcription factor that upregulates DAZL and SYCP3, two proteins involved in the formation of the synaptonemal complex essential for the onset of meiosis ( 47 ). Stabilization of oocytes requires the expression of MSH5, a protein involved in DNA mismatch repair ( 304 ). In Msh5 null mice, oocytes are lost before
