Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


meiosis ( 47 ). Stabilization of oocytes requires the expression of MSH5, a protein involved in DNA mismatch repair ( 304 ). In Msh5 null mice, oocytes are lost before the diplotene stage resulting in ovarian dysgenesis. The expression of STRA8 takes place in an anterior-to-posterior wave and is followed by the upregulation of another meiotic gene Dmc1 ( 305 ). For a detailed description of other factors involved in oocyte development, see refs. ( 306 ) and ( 307 ). A number of genes are upregulated in the human ovary before and during primordial follicle formation; their functional implications still need to be elucidated ( 308 ). In mice, neurotrophins (NTs) and their NTRK tyrosine kinase receptors facilitate follicle assembly and early follicular development ( 309 ). Factors involved in germ cell meiosis are also important. Although not essential to ovarian differentiation, several factors are involved in the development of ovarian follicles. FIGα is crucial for the formation of primordial follicles ( 310 ). AMH regulates the recruitment of primordial follicles into subsequent steps of folliculogenesis ( 311 , 312 ), NOBOX, SOHLH1 and SOHLH2 are critical transcription factors during the transition from primordial to primary follicles (reviewed in ref. ( 47 ). GDF9 ( 313 , 314 ) and BMP15 ( 315 , 316 ) are important for follicle growth beyond the primary stage. An increasing number of factors are involved in later steps of folliculogenesis (for review, see ref. ( 47 ). THE INTERNAL REPRODUCTIVE TRACT The Indifferent Stage Up to 8 weeks in the human embryo, the internal reproductive tract is similar in both sexes and consists of a set of two unipotential ducts, the Wolffian and Müllerian ducts ( Fig. 11 ). FIGURE 11. Undifferentiated reproductive tract. Both Wolffian and Müllerian ducts are present. Müllerian ducts open in the urogenital sinus at the level of the Müllerian tubercle between the orifices of the Wolffian duct. Reproduced with permission from ref. ( 317 ): Rey RA, Houk CP, Witchel S, Lee PA. Disorders of sex development. In: Gardner DG, Shoback D (eds), Greenspan’s Basic & Clinical Endocrinology 10 th ed. © McGraw-Hill Education 2018. Wolffian Ducts In both the XX and the XY human embryo, Wolffian (mesonephric) ducts originate in the intermediate mesoderm, laterally to somites 8-13 in embryos 24 to 32 days old ( Table 1 ) ( 6 ). Wolffian ducts elongate caudally and
