Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


(mesonephric) ducts originate in the intermediate mesoderm, laterally to somites 8-13 in embryos 24 to 32 days old ( Table 1 ) ( 6 ). Wolffian ducts elongate caudally and induce the formation of nephric tubules through a mesenchymal‑epithelial transition process. These tubules give rise, in a cephalic-to- caudal direction, to the three kidney primordia: pronephros, mesonephros and metanephros. While the pronephros and mesonephros are transient structures that soon degenerate, the metanephros is one of the main sources of the definitive kidney. Because Wolffian ducts are crucial for kidney development, abnormal formation of the Wolffian ducts is usually associated with other malformations in the urinary or genital systems. Several factors have been identified in the induction and development of the Wolffian ducts ( 318 , 319 ): PAX2 and PAX8, acting through GATA3, induce the initial formation, and LIM1 is required for the extension of the Wolffian ducts ( 319 ). EMX2 is necessary for their maintenance, whereas FGF8 and its receptors FGFR1 and FGFR2 seem to be important in the development and maintenance of different segments (cranial or caudal) of the Wolffian ducts ( 319 ). A single ureteric bud evaginates from the Wolffian duct and grows dorsally, in response to inductive signals from metanephric mesenchyme involving GREMLIN1, BMP4 and BMP7 ( 320 ). RET signaling is involved in multiple aspects of early Wolffian duct development ( 321 ). Growing caudally, Wolffian ducts undergo extensive elongation and coiling while progressively acquiring a lumen. Factors involved in Wolffian duct stabilization, elongation and coiling include the SFRP1 and SFRP2, VANGL2, WNT5A and PKD1 ( 319 ). As the Wolffian ducts elongate towards the cloaca, they induce the formation of the mesonephric tubules, most of which finally undergo regression, except close to the testes. There is a number of factors involved in mesonephric tubule development, including PAX2, PAX3, PAX8, GATA3, OSR1, WNT9B, WT1, SIX1, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR8 and SHH ( 318 , 319 , 322 , 323 ). The mesonephric tubules give rise to the efferent ducts connecting the rete testis with the epididymis. WNT9B knockout male mice fail to develop the efferent ducts and the epididymis ( 324 ). Epididymal disjunction from the rete testis reflects a defect in these processes and can be found in approximately 40% of patients with cryptorchidism ( 325 ). The Wolffian ducts finally reach the caudal part of the hindgut, the cloaca. A spatiotemporally process
