Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


and can be found in approximately 40% of patients with cryptorchidism ( 325 ). The Wolffian ducts finally reach the caudal part of the hindgut, the cloaca. A spatiotemporally process of regulated apoptosis in both the Wolffian ducts and the cloaca is necessary for Wolffian duct insertion into the cloaca ( 326 ). The Wolffian ducts become incorporated into the male genital system when renal function is taken over by the definitive kidney, the metanephros ( 327 ). Müllerian Ducts Müllerian (paramesonephric) ducts, which give rise to most of the female reproductive tract, develop after Wolffian ducts in the urogenital ridges of both XX and XY embryos. They arise in 10-mm human embryo (5–6 weeks of gestation) as a cleft lined by the coelomic epithelium, between the gonadal and mesonephric parts of the urogenital ridge ( 6 ). This coelomic opening will later constitute the abdominal ostium of the Fallopian tube. The cleft is closed caudally by a solid bud of epithelial cells, which burrows in the mesenchyme lateral to the Wolffian ducts and then travels caudally inside their basal lamina. Initially, these cells are mesoepithelial, ie they exhibit characteristics of both the epithelium and the mesenchyme; they will become completely epithelial only in the female, at the time male ducts begin to regress ( 328 , 329 ). At 8 weeks of development, the growing solid tip of the Müllerian duct, now in the pelvis, lies medial to the Wolffian duct, having crossed it ventrally in its downward course. For a while, the two Müllerian ducts are in intimate contact, and at 10 weeks they fuse, giving rise to the uterovaginal canal ( Fig. 12 ), which makes contact with the posterior wall of the urogenital sinus, causing an elevation, the Müllerian tubercle, flanked on both sides by the opening of the Wolffian ducts ( Fig. 11 ). At week 13, the cranial portion of the Müllerian ducts differentiate into the Fallopian tubes ( 330 , 331 ). FIGURE 12. Fused Müllerian ducts flanked by Wolffian ducts in the lower reproductive tract of a 50-mm female human fetus (10 th week). Development of the Müllerian duct occurs in three phases ( Fig. 13 ) (328, 329) . First, cells of the coelomic epithelium are specified to a Müllerian duct fate. These can be identified by a placode-like thickening of the coelomic epithelium and by the expression of LHX1 (
