Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


of the coelomic epithelium are specified to a Müllerian duct fate. These can be identified by a placode-like thickening of the coelomic epithelium and by the expression of LHX1 ( 328 , 332 ) and anti-Müllerian hormone receptor type II (AMHR2) ( 333 , 334 ). Transcriptional co-factors DACH1 and DACH2 are required for the formation of Müllerian ducts, possibly by regulating the expression of LHX1 and WNT7A or other factors important for Müllerian duct formation ( 335 , 336 ). During the second phase, these primordial Müllerian cells invaginate from the coelomic epithelium to reach the Wolffian duct. WNT4 expression in the mesonephric mesenchyme is essential for the Müllerian duct progenitor cells to begin invagination ( 332 , 337 ). The third or elongation phase begins when the invaginating tip of the Müllerian duct contacts the Wolffian duct. This phase consists in the proliferation and caudal migration of a group of cells at the most caudal tip. Müllerian duct elongation continues in close proximity to the Wolffian duct, then Müllerian ducts cross Wolffian ducts ventrally and fuse centrally close to the urogenital sinus. As could be expected, integrity of protein kinase pathways is required for cell proliferation ( 338 ). Close contact with the Wolffian duct is also necessary to Müllerian growth; indeed, the lack of transcription factors required for Wolffian development, such as LIM1 or PAX2, leads to Müllerian truncation (see Table 4 ). Wolffian ducts do not contribute cells to the elongating Müllerian tip ( 328 , 339 ), but act by supplying WNT9B, secreted by Wolffian epithelium ( 324 ). Observations in different humans syndromes presenting with uterine and vaginal defects and in knockout mice indicate that membrane-associated proteins such as GREB1L, LHFPL2 and DLGH1 are also involved in the morphogenesis and development of Müllerian ducts ( 331 ). FIGURE 13. Müllerian duct (MD) development can be subdivided into three phases. A. Phase I (initiation): MD progenitor cells in the mesonephric epithelium (ME) (yellow) are specified and begin to express LHX1. Phase II (invagination): in response to WNT4 signaling from the mesenchyme, LHX1+ MD progenitor cells invaginate caudally into the mesonephros towards the WD (blue). Phase III (elongation): the tip of the MD contacts the WD and elongates caudally in close proximity to the WD requiring structure and WNT9B signaling from the WD. B. Beginning at ∼ E11.5 in mice, the MD invaginates and extends posteriorly
