Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


and elongates caudally in close proximity to the WD requiring structure and WNT9B signaling from the WD. B. Beginning at ∼ E11.5 in mice, the MD invaginates and extends posteriorly guided by the WD. During elongation, mesenchymal cells separate the WD and MD anterior to the growing tip (inset I). However, at the MD tip, the MD and WD are in contact (inset II). At ∼ E12.5, the MD crosses over the WD to be located medially. Elongation is complete by ∼ E13.5 with the MD reaching the urogenital sinus (UGS). A = anterior (rostral); D = dorsal; P = posterior (caudal); V = ventral. Reprinted with permission from ref. ( 329 ): Mullen RD, Behringer RR. Molecular Genetics of Müllerian Duct Formation, Regression and Differentiation. Sexual Development 8:281-296 (2014), Copyright 2014, Karger. Caudally each Müllerian duct contacts the urogenital sinus at the Müllerian tubercle. This is a critical step and its failure can lead to lower vaginal agenesis, as it has been observed in Lhfpl2 mutant mice ( 340 ). In weeks 7 and 8, the caudal portions of the Müllerian ducts lie between the two Wolffian ducts near the urogenital sinus. Then during the 8 th week, Müllerian ducts fuse in the midline, leaving temporarily an epithelial septum that disappears one week later giving rise to the midline uterovaginal canal. The degree of midline fusion of Müllerian ducts is extensive in humans, but it is almost inexistent in mice, exhibiting paired oviducts and large bilateral uterine horns. Defects in Müllerian duct fusion and retention of the midline septum can lead to various congenital malformations in humans, including separate hemiuteri, uterus didelphys or unicornis, double vagina or cervix, vagina with septum etc. ( 341 ). MALE DIFFERENTIATION OF INTERNAL GENITALIA Male differentiation of the internal genital tract is characterized by regression of Müllerian ducts and differentiation of the Wolffian duct into male accessory organs. Müllerian Duct Regression Müllerian regression, the first sign of male differentiation of the genital tract, occurs in 55 to 60 day-old human embryos ( Fig. 14 ), triggered by anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) at the center of a complex gene regulatory network (reviewed in ref ( 342 )). Once initiated, the regression of the Müllerian duct extends caudally as well as cranially, sparing the cranial tip which becomes the Morgagni hydatid, and the caudal end, which participates in the organogenesis of the prostatic utricle. Müllerian regression
