Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


extends caudally as well as cranially, sparing the cranial tip which becomes the Morgagni hydatid, and the caudal end, which participates in the organogenesis of the prostatic utricle. Müllerian regression of the cranial part of the Müllerian duct begins while the duct is still growing caudally towards the urogenital sinus ( 343 ) and is characterized by a wave of apoptosis spreading along the Müllerian duct ( 344 , 345 ). Extra-cellular matrix is deposited in the peri-Müllerian mesenchyme ( 346 ), which progressively strangles the Müllerian duct epithelium and finally remains the only witness of its former existence. Mesenchymal changes are preceded by the dissolution of the basement membrane, which precipitates apoptosis and allows extrusion of epithelial cells and their transformation into mesenchymal cells ( 345 , 347 ). Epithelial-mesenchymal transformation is an important factor of epithelial cell loss during Müllerian regression. Integrity of the WNT/β-catenin pathway is required for complete Müllerian duct regression in the male, perhaps through amplification of the AMH signal ( 348 ). β-catenin accumulates in the nucleus ( 345 ) upregulating Osterix ( Osx ), also called Sp7 , an AMH-induced gene that regulates the expression of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2) ( 349 ). Osx is expressed in male, but not female, Müllerian ducts before and during regression. Overexpression of human AMH in female fetuses induces Osx , and Amhr2 knockout males lose Osx expression. Additionally, conditionally invalidation of β-catenin in the Müllerian ducts leads to a reduction in Osx expression, indicating that OSX is downstream of β-catenin in the regression pathway. Wif1 (WNT inhibitory factor 1) encodes a secreted frizzled-related protein that inhibits WNT signaling. WIF1 shows many similarities to OSX: it is expressed in the male, but not the female, Müllerian duct and is not detected in Amhr2 knockout mice. However, Müllerian ducts are absent in Wif1 knockout male mice, which implies that WIF1 is not indispensable for Müllerian duct regression ( 350 ). FIGURE 14. Regressing Müllerian duct in a 35-mm male human fetus (9 th week). Note the fibroblastic ring surrounding the epithelium of the Müllerian duct (right), the Wolffian duct is visible on the left. Stabilization and Differentiation of Wolffian Ducts The second aspect of male differentiation of the internal genital tract is the stabilization and differentiation of the Wolffian ducts ( 351 ). After the loss of mesonephric functional activity, the mesonephric nephrons and caudal tubules degenerate but
