Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


internal genital tract is the stabilization and differentiation of the Wolffian ducts ( 351 ). After the loss of mesonephric functional activity, the mesonephric nephrons and caudal tubules degenerate but the cranial tubules persist to form the male efferent ducts. The connections between the mesonephric tubules and the gonadal primordium are permanently established in the sixth week; in the male, they give rise to the rete testis, while in the female, they form the rete ovarii. Between weeks 9 and 13 in the human embryo, the upper part of the Wolffian duct differentiates into the epididymis. Below, it is surrounded by a layer of smooth muscle and becomes the vas deferens, which opens into the urogenital sinus at the level of Müllerian tubercle. In sexually ambiguous individuals, in whom Wolffian and Müllerian ducts coexist, the vas deferens is embedded in the uterine and vaginal walls (reviewed in ref. ( 352 ). The seminal vesicle originates from a dilatation of the terminal portion of the vas deferens in 12-week-old fetuses. Testicular Descent During human fetal development, the testis migrates from its initial pararenal position to its terminal location in the scrotum ( Fig. 15 ). Testicular descent has been subdivided into several phases ( 353 ). Initially, the upper pole of the testis is connected to the posterior abdominal wall by the cranial suspensory ligament while a primitive gubernaculum extends from the caudal pole to the inner inguinal ring. At 12 weeks, the cranial suspensory ligament dissolves and and the gubernaculum testis swells and pulls the testis down to the inguinal ring. After 25 weeks, the gubernaculum bulges beyond the external inguinal ring and is hollowed out by a peritoneal diverticulum called the processus vaginalis. The second –inguinoscrotal– phase of testicular descent occurs between 27 and 35 weeks after conception. « Physiological » cryptorchidism is frequent in premature infants. In the female, the cranial ligament holds the ovary in a high position and the gubernaculum, now the round ligament, remains long and thin. FIGURE 15. Testicular descent. Left, Initial phase: the primitive gonad is located near the kidney, held by the cranial suspensory ligament (CSL) and the gubernaculum testis. Center, Transabdominal descent: androgen-mediated dissolution of the CSL and insulin like factor 3 (INSL3) mediated swelling of the gubernaculum bring the testis to the internal orifice of the inguinal canal. Right, Inguino-scrotal migration: the testis passes through the inguinal canal into the
