Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


3 (INSL3) mediated swelling of the gubernaculum bring the testis to the internal orifice of the inguinal canal. Right, Inguino-scrotal migration: the testis passes through the inguinal canal into the scrotum, this phase is androgen-dependent. Reprinted from ref. ( 353 ): Klonisch T, Fowler PA, Hombach-Klonisch S. Molecular and genetic regulation of testis descent and external genitalia development. Developmental Biology, 270:1-18 (2004), Copyright 2004, with permission from Elsevier. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001216060400137X . FEMALE DIFFERENTIATION OF INTERNAL GENITALIA Female differentiation of the internal genital tract is characterized by the disappearance of the Wolffian ducts, which is complete at 90 days of human fetal development, except for vestiges such as the Rosenmüller organs or Gartner canals. Traditionally, the regression of Wolffian ducts in the female fetus has been ascribed to a passive process deriving from the lack of androgen action. Recent work using a Nr2f2 (encoding COUP-TFII) deletion, conditionally targeted to the Wolffian mesenchyme, has shown that the regression of Wolffian ducts in female embryos is an active process induced by COUP-TFII through inhibition of the expression of FGFs, which otherwise activate the p-ERK pathway in the Wolffian duct epithelium for its maintenance ( 354 ). How androgens interact with this mechanism in males needs to be elucidated. Müllerian ducts persist, establish apico-basal characteristics and develop into an epithelial tube that will give rise to the endometrium ( 328 ), while the surrounding mesenchyme differentiates into the myometrium of the uterus and Fallopian tubes ( 334 ). The acquisition of true epithelial characteristics signals the end of the AMH-sensitive window of Müllerian ducts ( 328 ). Tubal differentiation involves formation of fimbriae and folds in the ampullary region ( Fig. 16 ) and acquisition of cilia and secretory activity by the high columnar epithelium. The uterotubal junction is demarcated by an abrupt increase in the diameter of the uterine segment and by the development of epithelial crypts. The early endometrium is lined by a closely packed columnar epithelium in which gland formation and vacuolated cells can be recognized as gestation advances. The cervix occupies the distal two-thirds of the fetal uterus. FIGURE 16. Müllerian ducts develop into the uterus and fallopian tubes. THE UROGENITAL SINUS AND EXTERNAL GENITALIA The Indifferent Stage Up to approximately 9 weeks, the urogenital sinus and external genitalia remain undifferentiated ( Fig. 17 ). The urogenital sinus is individualized in 7-9 mm (~5 week) human embryos, when a transverse urorectal
