Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


9 weeks, the urogenital sinus and external genitalia remain undifferentiated ( Fig. 17 ). The urogenital sinus is individualized in 7-9 mm (~5 week) human embryos, when a transverse urorectal septum divides the cloaca into the rectum dorsally and the primitive urogenital sinus ventrally. The Müllerian tubercle demarcates the cranial vesicourethral canal from the caudal urogenital sinus. FIGURE 17. Sex differentiation of urogenital sinus (left) and external genitalia (right). The cloaca is closed by the cloacal membrane, formed by ectoderm and endoderm, with no mesoderm in between. In the 5 th week, mesodermal cells spread along the cloacal membrane and give rise to pair of swellings –the cloacal folds–, which form urogenital folds flanking the urogenital sinus and anal folds posteriorly. The urogenital folds fuse anteriorly to the cloacal membrane in the midline to form the genital tubercle. The cloacal membrane is divided by the urorectal septum into the genital membrane anteriorly and the anal membrane posteriorly. The genital membrane disappears in 20-22 mm (~8 week) embryos ( 355 ). In embryos 8-15 mm long (~6 weeks), the opening of the urogenital sinus, the ostium, is surrounded by the labioscrotal swellings, which develop on each side of the urogenital folds. These are connected to the caudal poles of the genital ridges by fibrous bands which later develop into the gubernaculum testis in males and the round ligament in females. The genital tubercle, consisting of lateral plate mesoderm and surface ectoderm, emerges as a ventral medial outgrowth just cranial to the opening of the ostium ( 356 ). Endodermal epithelial cells from the urogenital sinus are thought to invade the genital tubercle to form the midline epithelial urethral plate, which lies in the roof of the primary urethral groove and extends to the tip of the phallus ( 357 , 358 ). After the corpora cavernosa and glans have differentiated, the ventral surface of the genital tubercle is depressed by a deep furrow, the urethral groove. The external genitalia remain undifferentiated up to approximately 9 weeks ( 355 ) ( Fig. 16 ). At 12 weeks in males and females alike, the vaginal primordium is formed by the caudal tips of the Müllerian ducts, and medial and lateral outgrowths of the urogenital sinus, the sinovaginal bulbs, which fuse to form the vaginal cord or plate. When the cells of the vaginal plate desquamate, the vaginal lumen is formed. MALE DIFFERENTIATION Urogenital
