Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


urogenital sinus, the sinovaginal bulbs, which fuse to form the vaginal cord or plate. When the cells of the vaginal plate desquamate, the vaginal lumen is formed. MALE DIFFERENTIATION Urogenital Sinus and Prostate Male orientation of the urogenital sinus is characterized by prostatic development and by the repression of vaginal development. Prostatic buds appear at approximately 10 weeks at the site of the Müllerian tubercle and grow into solid branching cords. Maturation of the prostatic gland is accompanied by development of the prostatic utricle. Two buds of epithelial cells, called the sino-utricular bulbs in the male, develop from the urogenital sinus close to the opening of the Wolffian ducts and grow inwards, fusing with the medial Müllerian tubercle, to form the sino-utricular cord, enclosed within the prostate gland, which canalizes at 18 weeks to form the prostatic utricle, the male equivalent of the vagina ( 359 ). External Genitalia Masculinization of the external genitalia begins in human male fetuses 35-40 mm long (~9 weeks) by lengthening of the anogenital distance ( 355 ) ( Fig. 16 ). Fusion of the labioscrotal folds, in a dorsal to ventral fashion, forms the epithelial seam ( 360 ), which closes the primary urethral groove. The literature concerning penile development is controversial. Most textbooks describe it as a two-step process, with the proximal urethra forming by fusion of the urethral folds around the urethral plate and the distal urethra arising from an invagination of the apical ectoderm. However, according to Cunha and colleagues ( 361 ), the entire human male urethra is of endodermal origin, formed by the urethral plate dorsally and the fused urethral folds ventrally. The seam is remodeled into the tubularized urethra without connection to the epidermis. The ventrally discarded excess epithelial cells migrate into the ventral skin of the penis. Abnormalities of seam formation or remodeling could explain the vast majority of cases of hypospadias in which defects of androgen synthesis or metabolism cannot be demonstrated ( 362 ). Urethral organogenesis is complete at 14 weeks, apart from a physiological ventral curvature, which can persist up to 6 months of gestation. However, surprisingly, no size difference exists between penile or clitoral size until 14 weeks ( 363 ) despite the fact that serum testosterone levels peak between 11 to 14 weeks in males ( 364 ). The insensitivity of the male genital tubercle to high levels of androgens during the
