Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


fact that serum testosterone levels peak between 11 to 14 weeks in males ( 364 ). The insensitivity of the male genital tubercle to high levels of androgens during the second trimester does not correspond to a low expression of the androgen receptor or of 5α-reductase type 2 in the corpora cavernosa ( 365 ). Maximal phallic growth occurs during the third trimester of fetal life, at a time when male testosterone levels are declining. The action of the growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor system (GH-IGFs) is partly responsible for penile growth, independently of androgens ( 366 - 368 ). FEMALE DIFFERENTIATION Female orientation of the urogenital sinus is characterized by lack of prostatic differentiation and the acquisition of a separate vaginal opening on the surface of the perineum ( Fig. 16 ). At the end of the ambisexual stage, the vaginal anlage is located just underneath the bladder neck. In females, the lower end of the vagina slides down along the urethra until the vaginal rudiment opens directly on the surface of the perineum at 22 weeks. The hymen marks the separation between the vagina and the diminutive urogenital sinus, which becomes the vestibule. The embryological origin of the vagina is still hotly debated. In the generally accepted view, the upper part of the vagina derives from the Müllerian ducts and the lower part from the sinovaginal bulbs, which by fusion form the vaginal plate, derived from the urogenital sinus ( 369 ). It is now thought that the Wolffian ducts do not contribute cells to the sinovaginal bulbs but they may have a helper function during downward movement of the vaginal bud in the female ( 370 ). Atresia of the vagina in the Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome could be explained by the failure of Wolffian and Müllerian ducts to descend caudally. Development of female external genitalia is essentially static. The anogenital distance does not increase, the rims of the urethral groove do not fuse, the urethral plate persists as an epithelial cord, and the labioscrotal swellings give rise to the labia majora. The dorsal commissure forms at their junction. The genital folds remain separate and become the labia minora. When the vagina acquires a separate perineal opening, the diminutive pars pelvina and the pars phallica of the urogenital sinus become the vestibule. CONTROL OF SEX DIFFERENTIATION Growth Factors GENITAL DUCT FORMATION Molecular genetic studies in the mouse have contributed to
