Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


pelvina and the pars phallica of the urogenital sinus become the vestibule. CONTROL OF SEX DIFFERENTIATION Growth Factors GENITAL DUCT FORMATION Molecular genetic studies in the mouse have contributed to the identification of growth factors essential for the formation of the sexual ducts ( Table 4 ) [see refs. ( 351 ) and ( 371 ) for review]. Since Wolffian ducts are required for the elongation of Müllerian ducts, absence of growth factors necessary to Wolffian development will per se induce Müllerian truncation. Many growth factors, such as LIM1, EMX2, HOXA13, PAX2 and 8 and VANGL2 are essential also for the development of other organs. In contrast the role of WNT4A and WNT7A, a subset of the Wnt family homologous to the Drosophila wingless gene, is restricted to reproductive organs. WNT4 is required in both sexes for the initial formation of Müllerian ducts ( 337 ), mutations of WNT4 have been reported in three cases of Müllerian aplasia associated with hyperandrogenism in girls (reviewed in refs. ( 372 - 375 ), but have not been detected in classical forms of the Rokitansky-Küster-Mayer syndrome ( 262 , 376 ). WNT7 is required for the expression of AMHR2; in its absence the Müllerian ducts do not regress in male fetuses ( 377 ). Members of the dachsung gene family, DACH 1 and 2 also play a role by regulating the expression of LIM1 and WNT7 ( 335 ). Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens affects 97-98%% of patients suffering from cystic fibrosis, a bronchial and pancreatic disease due to mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) ( 378 ). Whether efferent duct maldevelopment is a primary defect of cystic fibrosis or a secondary degenerative change resulting from obstruction by mucus is not known at the present time. . TABLE 4. Consequences of Null Mutations of Growth Factors on Morphogenesis of Genital Ducts View in own window Growth factors Wolffian ducts Müllerian ducts Gonads References β-catenin Normal Lack of oviduct coiling. Lack of regression Loss of germ cells in the ovary. Testes normal ( 348 , 379 , 380 ) DACH1/DACH2 Normal Hypoplasia of female reproductive tract Normal ( 335 ) DICER1 Normal Hypoplasia of female reproductive tract Reduced ovulation rate ( 381 ) EMX2 Early degeneration Do not form Absent ( 8 ) HOXA13 Rostral ureteral junction Agenesis of caudal portion Normal ( 382 ) IGF1 Agenesis of caudal
