Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


( 421 ) and female pituitary ( 422 ). TGFβ family ligands are translated as dimeric precursor proteins comprising two polypeptide chains, each containing a large N-terminal pro-region and a much smaller C-terminal mature domain. Processing involves cleavage at sites between the two domains and dissociation of the pro-region domain. The AMH molecule is initially synthesized as a biologically inactive precursor. The precursor is cleaved by proteolytic enzymes into C and N terminal fragments which remain associated by non-covalent bonds ( 423 , 424 ). Whether cleavage occurs at the time of secretion or within the target tissue is not clear at the present time. This step is required for binding of AMH to its primary receptor, at which time the AMH complex dissociates, releasing the mature ligand, the C-terminal homodimer and the N-terminal proregion ( 424 ). The homology of AMH to other members of the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) family is restricted to the C-terminus, for which a molecular model has been built, by analogy with crystallized members of the family ( 425 ) ( Fig. 20 ). Cleavage and presumably bioactivity are enhanced if the endogenous cleavage site RAQR is replaced by a furin/kex2 RARR consensus site ( 426 ). FIGURE 20. Molecular model of C-terminal AMH, also called growth factor (AMH GF). A three-dimensional model of the C-terminal dimer was generated by comparative modeling using human BMP9 ( 427 ) as a template. The wrist epitope, the putative binding site for the type I receptor, is composed of the prehelix loop and α-helix of one monomer together with the concave side of the fingers of the second monomer ( 428 ). A mutation in the prehelix loop of AMH, Q496H, causes persistent Müllerian duct syndrome ( 425 ). Residues in the knuckle epitope of AMH, the putative binding site for AMHR2, are similar to those present in BMP7 and activin at the interface with ACTR2B ( 429 , 430 ). Disulfide bonds (yellow) and Q496 residues (blue) are shown as sticks; residues in the knuckle epitopes are shown as spheres. Reprinted from ref. ( 431 ): Cate RL. Anti-Müllerian Hormone Signal Transduction involved in Müllerian Duct Regression. Front. Endocrinol. 13:905324. (2022). Copyright © 2022 Cate. The human 2.8-kb gene has been cloned ( 432 ) and mapped to chromosome 19p13.3 ( 433 ). It consists of five exons, the last one coding for the C-terminal fragment.
