Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


rise of intratesticular levels of testosterone because fetal Sertoli cells do not express the androgen receptor (AR). After birth the number of Sertoli cells expressing the AR progressively increases. At puberty, when testosterone increases again, AR is present and AMH production is inhibited. AMH is measurable in human serum by ELISA. Initially, the procedure was used by pediatric endocrinologists to measure testicular AMH in boys, hence the first commercially available kits were suited to the high level of AMH concentration of prepubertal males ( 478 ). Following the discovery that AMH serum concentration in women mirrors ovarian reserve ( 483 , 484 ), AMH assay has become a standard procedure in assisted reproduction centers and more sensitive methods, adapted to the low concentration of AMH in female serum, were developed ( 485 - 487 ). In parallel, automated assays, e.g. the electrochemiluminescence Roche Elecsys assay ( 488 ) and the Beckman Coulter Access AMH assay ( 489 ), are progressively gaining ground, due to increased reproducibility and accelerated turnaround time, only 18 minutes for the Roche Elecsys assay. There is reasonable correlation between the different manual kits after manipulation of standard curves by manufacturers but not between manual assays and automated ones, which yield 20-30% lower values ( 488 , 490 ). It follows that AMH values obtained with different methods are not interchangeable ( 491 ). Since clinicians are not usually aware of the problem, serious interpretation errors may arise during patient follow-up. An international standard of human recombinant AMH needs to be developed, particularly since the Immunotech assay upon which many normative values have been based ( 492 - 494 ) has been pulled off the market. The uncleaved AMH precursor and non-covalent cleaved AMH are both detectable by commercial ELISA kits, but attempts to discriminate between the various AMH forms have not proven clinically rewarding ( 495 - 498 ) . AMH is an exceptionally stable biomarker, variations during the menstrual cycle ( 499 , 500 ) and diurnal variations in men ( 501 ) are minimal. Measurement of AMH in serum has diagnostic applications in disorders of sex development ( 352 , 502 ) and as a marker of prepubertal testicular function in boys ( 503 - 508 ). In women, AMH levels are a reliable marker of follicular reserve ( 483 , 484 ) and may be used with relative accuracy to predict the onset
