Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


has an inhibitory effect on AMH activity ( 528 ). ALK3 is the more potent AMH type I receptor in the Müllerian duct ( 529 ), in the Leydig cell ( 530 ) and in the SMAT1 Sertoli cell line ( 528 ) but in its absence, ALK2 is capable of transducing the AMH signal ( 527 , 528 ). FIGURE 24. Model showing processing of AMH, assembly of the AMH receptor signaling complex, and intracellular signaling. Cleavage of the AMH precursor results in a conformational change in the C-terminal domain, which allows binding of the AMH non-covalent complex to AMRHII. After dissociation of the N-terminal proregion, the type I receptor is recruited into the complex and phosphorylated by the type II receptor kinase. The activated type I receptor can then phosphorylate Smads 1/5/8, which associate with Smad 4, translocate to the nucleus and regulate AMH responsive genes. Courtesy of Dr. Richard Cate. Data obtained from ref.( 431 ): Cate RL. Anti-Müllerian Hormone signal transduction involved in Müllerian duct regression. Frontiers in Endocrinology 2022; 13:905324. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2022.905324. Androgens Testosterone or dihydrotestosterone (DHT), binding to the same androgen receptor (AR), are the main factors involved in maintenance of the Wolffian duct and differentiation of male sex accessory organs and external genitalia. Testosterone Biosynthesis Beginning at 9 weeks, testosterone is produced from cholesterol by chorionic gonadotropin stimulation of fetal Leydig cells through the coordinated action of steroidogenic enzymes ( Fig. 25 and Table 6 ), most of which are also expressed in the adrenal gland, explaining why many steroidogenic disorders are common to the testis and adrenal. Most steroidogenic enzymes are either hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases or cytochromes P450, residing either on the mitochondrial membrane (type I) or in the endoplasmic reticulum (type II) ( 531 ). The initial step in steroidogenesis, conversion of cholesterol into pregnenolone, is mediated by the P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc), a type I cytochrome located at the inner mitochondrial membrane. However, the inner mitochondrial membrane contains relatively little cholesterol, so the rate-limiting step of steroidogenesis is the transfer of cholesterol from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane. This step is dependent on steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) regulated essentially by a trophic hormone stimulated cAMP/PKA pathway ( 532 ). The exact mechanism of StAR-mediated cholesterol transport into the mitochondria is not completely understood. Pregnenolone is subsequently metabolized into 17α-hydroxypregnenolone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) by P450c17. This type II
