Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


differentiation, such as the urogenital sinus and external genitalia, DHT is the active androgen ( 544 ). During embryogenesis, 5α-steroid reductase type-2 encoded by the SRD5A2 gene plays a central role in the differentiation of the male phenotype. Patients with 5α-reductase deficiency virilize very poorly at these levels ( 545 , 546 ). Another functional isoenzymes of 5α-reductase, with a different pH optimum, has been characterized ( 543 ): 5α-reductase type 1, transiently active in newborn skin and scalp and permanently expressed in liver after birth and in skin from the time of puberty, is not expressed in the fetus. Tissue distribution and ontogeny of both isoforms as well as mutation studies in humans with 46,XY DSD clearly indicate that type 2 plays the major role in sexual differentiation but the emergence of type 1 probably accounts for the pubertal virilization of the type 2-deficient patients. Testosterone, however, is not an obligatory precursor of DHT ( Fig. 25 ). Observations in a marsupial, the tammar wallaby ( 547 ), have shown that the testis itself produces biologically significant amounts of DHT through an alternate or “backdoor” pathway without using testosterone, DHEA or androstenediol as intermediates. Additional enzymes not part of the classic pathway can mediate the direct oxidation of 5α-androstanediol to DHT ( 531 , 541 ). This “backdoor” pathway contributes to virilization in the human fetus as demonstrated by the genetic studies of Flück and her colleagues ( 541 ) in two families with 46,XY DSD. After they failed to demonstrate mutations in known steroidogenic enzymes, they explored genes acting in the alternate pathway of androgen synthesis. This led to discovery of mutations in the genes AKR1C2 and AKR1C4 , alias 3α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (or reductase) type I and type III. In the alternate pathway these enzymes catalyze the reduction of dihydroprogesterone and 17OH-dihydroprogesterone to allopregnanolone and 17OH-allopregnanolone, the precursor of androsterone and androstanediol. Their role in the oxidation of the latter to testosterone is hypothetical because they have very high affinity for NADP(H), which favors reductive reactions and low affinity for NAD(H) which favors the opposite, thus they are expected to function primarily as a reductase ( 548 ). AKR1C2 is expressed in the fetal, but not the adult testis, AKR1C4 is expressed at low levels in both tissues. The deleterious effect of AKR1C2/4 mutations proves that testicular DHT synthesis through the alternate pathway is required for normal fetal
