Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


testis, AKR1C4 is expressed at low levels in both tissues. The deleterious effect of AKR1C2/4 mutations proves that testicular DHT synthesis through the alternate pathway is required for normal fetal sex differentiation. Gonadotropin Control of Testosterone Production Testosterone production by the human fetal testis is detectable at 9 weeks, peaks between 14 and 17 weeks and then falls sharply, so that in late pregnancy the serum concentrations of testosterone overlap in males and females. Gonadotropin stimulation is not required for the initiation of steroid synthesis ( 241 ) but is necessary to maintain Leydig cell function subsequently. Testicular and serum levels of testosterone are closely correlated with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) concentration; the peak of fetal testicular steroidogenic activity coincides with the acme of concentrations of hCG in the circulation. In adult Leydig cells, the capacity to respond to sustained gonadotropic stimulation by increased androgen production is curtailed by the development of a refractory state, due to receptor down-regulation ( 549 ). Fetal Leydig cells apparently escape desensitization, allowing them to maintain a high testosterone output during the several weeks necessary to male differentiation of the genital tract. The fetal pituitary takes over when chorionic gonadotropin declines in the 3 rd trimester (reviewed in ref. ( 550 ) ( Fig. 26 ). Impaired LH secretion in 46,XY fetuses does not result in DSD because the most important steps of sexual differentiation, with the exception of penile growth, occur at the time Leydig cells are controlled by hCG. In contrast, mutations in the LH/CG receptor of Leydig cells result in severe virilization defects ( 551 ). LH and hCG signal through a common seven-transmembrane domain receptor coupled to G proteins present on testicular Leydig cells. The human gene located on chromosome 2p21, contains 11 exons. The first ten encode a long N-terminal extracellular domain responsible for hormone binding, while the 11 th exon encodes the whole transmembrane domain, involved in the cAMP/PKA signal transduction pathway. A functioning LH/CG receptor is absolutely necessary to achieve a normal development of the fetal Leydig cell population and androgen production. Loss of function mutations lead to 46,XY DSD (reviewed in ref. ( 552 ), with the exception of the deletion of exon 10, which was identified in a patient with normal male phenotype but lack of pubertal development ( 553 , 554 ). This suggests that exon 10 is required for signal transduction of pituitary
