Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


identified in a patient with normal male phenotype but lack of pubertal development ( 553 , 554 ). This suggests that exon 10 is required for signal transduction of pituitary LH but not hCG. FIGURE 26. Control of testosterone production in the human fetus. Note the low testosterone concentration during the last trimester, at the time that hCG production by the placenta has abated. Data obtained from ref. ( 555 ): Winter JSD, Faiman C, Reyes F (1981). Sexual endocrinology of fetal and perinatal life. In: Austin CR, ed. Mechanisms of Sex Differentiation in Animals and Man. London: Academic Press; p.205-253. The Androgen Receptor Testosterone and DHT exert their action on androgen-dependent tissues by binding to the androgen receptor, a member of the steroid receptor family ( Fig. 27 ). Mutations of this receptor lead to the androgen insensitivity syndrome, a relatively common disorder of sex development typically characterized by a female external genital appearance in XY patients despite a normal or excessive production of testicular hormones (see ref. ( 556 ) for review). The androgen receptor is encoded by a single-copy gene located on the long arm of the X chromosome, locus Xq12 ( 557 ). It spans 75-90 kb and its open reading frame of 2.75 kb comprises 8 exons. Exon 1 is the longest and codes for the amino-terminal transactivation domain. A highly polymorphic CAG triplet containing 14-35 repeats towards the 5’-end of exon 1, is useful as a genetic marker for inheritance of X chromosomes. Interestingly, expansion of the trinucleotide repeat which encodes this long tract of glutamine residues segregates with X-linked spinal and bulbar atrophy a degenerative neuropathy characterized by the accumulation of the mutated receptor in the nucleus and cytoplasm of motor neurons (reviewed in ref. ( 558 ). Exons 2 and 3 code for sequences containing two zinc fingers implicated in DNA binding. Most mutations occur in exons 4 to 8, which encode the steroid hormone binding domain. The 5’-portion of exon 4 codes for the hinge region between the DNA- and steroid-binding domains, and plays a regulatory role ( 559 ). A complete database of AR mutations is available from McGill University in Montreal ( 560 ). In contrast to receptors for other steroid sex hormones, which reside in the nucleus even in the absence of ligand binding, the androgen receptor resides mainly in the cytoplasm, associated with heat-shock and other chaperone
