Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


other steroid sex hormones, which reside in the nucleus even in the absence of ligand binding, the androgen receptor resides mainly in the cytoplasm, associated with heat-shock and other chaperone proteins, in the absence of hormone and translocates into the nucleus in the presence of ligand ( 561 ). Nuclear localization is controlled by a nuclear localization signal spanning the second zinc finger and the hinge region competing with an androgen-regulated nuclear export signal in the ligand binding domain ( 562 ). The androgen/AR complex can also signal through non-DNA binding-dependent pathways. However, the physiological relevance of these actions remaining largely unknown ( 561 ). The androgen receptor binds to specific DNA motifs, the androgen response elements (ARE), present in the promoter regions of androgen-activated genes. The consensus or classic ARE consists of two palindromic half sites spaced by three base pairs (AGAACAnnnTGTTCT).while the so-called “selective” AREs, such as the one in intron 1 of the SRD5A2 gene ( 563 ) resemble direct repeats of the same hexamer ( 564 ). After binding to AREs on the promoters of androgen-responsive genes, the androgen receptor regulates their transcriptional activity. It is aided in this task by co-regulators, partner proteins that facilitate assembly of the preinitiation complex through chromatin remodeling. These include the p160 family of coactivators, which interact selectively with the agonist-bound form of AR ( 565 - 567 ). Attempts at blocking the androgen receptor by preventing its interaction with co-activators are part of the therapeutic strategy in prostate cancer ( 561 ). FIGURE 27. Androgen receptor protein, cDNA and gene. The Case of the Wolffian Ducts: The Role of Local Testosterone In fetal Wolffian ducts, 5α-reductase is expressed only after the ambisexual, critical, stage of male sex differentiation, thus testosterone itself, not DHT, saves them from degeneration ( 543 , 544 ). Because of its close proximity to the testis, the Wolffian duct is exposed to a very high local concentration of testosterone, a source of androgen not available to organs receiving testosterone only via the peripheral circulation ( Fig. 28 ) ( 323 ). Patients with androgen insensitivity whose androgen receptor retains very low but significant residual activity have a female phenotype but retain an epididymis or vas deferens ( 568 ). Wolffian duct differentiation is programmed during a critical time window, between 15.5 and 17.5 dpc in the rat fetus. Because the androgen receptor is expressed in
