Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


deferens ( 568 ). Wolffian duct differentiation is programmed during a critical time window, between 15.5 and 17.5 dpc in the rat fetus. Because the androgen receptor is expressed in the Wolffian duct stroma but not in the epithelium during this time, Wolffian duct differentiation is likely to be dependent on androgen-mediated signaling from the stroma to the epithelium ( 569 ). Two phase can be described in the development of the Wolffian ducts ( 323 ). In the first phase, testosterone induces the stabilization of the ducts (in rodents, this occurs between embryonic days 13 and 16). Afterwards the Wolffian ducts undergo elongation and convolution of the cranial end, where the epididymis and vas deferens differentiate, and the seminal vesicles form at the caudal end. Control of Testicular Descent Androgens are required to mediate the disappearance of the cranial suspensory ligament ( 570 , 571 ) and later for the inguinoscrotal phase of testicular descent. The mechanism of androgenic action on the gubernaculum is controversial . Androgens could act through the genitofemoral nerve and the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide ( 572 , 573 ). Thus, any condition associated with decrease of fetal testicular production or action may impair testicular descent. The first, transabdominal, phase of testicular descent is controlled by Insulin-like factor 3 (INSL3), a member of the insulin/relaxin hormone superfamily secreted by Leydig cells, signaling through its G protein-coupled receptor LGR8, now known as relaxin family peptide receptor 2 (RXFP2) ( 238 , 574 ). INSL3 acts by inducing male development of the gubernaculum testis. Mutations of INSL3 have been detected in cryptorchid patients ( 575 ), similarly deletion of Rxfp2 targeted to mesenchymal gubernacular cells leads to high cryptorchidism in mice ( 576 ). Prenatal DES treatment, which is associated with cryptorchidism, impairs Insl3 expression in mouse testis and interferes with gubernacular development ( 577 ). FIGURE 28. Respective roles of testosterone(T) and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in sex differentiation. Normal androgen physiology in mammals. Testosterone and dihydrotestosterone are assumed to work by binding to the same receptor protein and forming hormone–receptor complexes of different allosteric configurations. Abbreviations: AR, androgen receptor; 17β-HSD3, 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3; LHR, luteinizing hormone receptor; 5α-R2, steroid 5α-reductase type 2. Reprinted from ref. ( 547 ): Wilson JD, Shaw G, Leihy ML, Renfree MB. The marsupial model for male phenotypic development. Trends in Endocrinology and Metabolism, 13:78-83 (2002), Copyright 2002, with permission from Elsevier.
