Sexual Differentiation
KEYWORDS: cells, differentiation, development, expression, cell, pubmed, sry, gonadal, amh, sex, receptor, testis, germ, ducts, male


547 ): Wilson JD, Shaw G, Leihy ML, Renfree MB. The marsupial model for male phenotypic development. Trends in Endocrinology and Metabolism, 13:78-83 (2002), Copyright 2002, with permission from Elsevier. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1043276001005252 . HORMONAL CONTROL OF FEMALE DIFFERENTIATION Estrogens, Diethylstilbestrol, Xenoestrogens The conclusion that ovarian hormones are not necessary to female development of the female reproductive tract ( 68 , 69 ) is supported by the female phenotypic development of 45,X or 46,XY subjects with bilateral gonadal aplasia and of aromatase knockout mice unable to synthesize estrogens. Yet, inappropriate estrogen exposure is clearly detrimental. The most tragic illustration of estrogen toxicity is the « DES story ». Diethylstilbestrol (DES), a synthetic estrogen, was widely administered to pregnant women in the early 1940s in the hope of preventing abortion. It was later discovered that female progeny exhibited severe abnormalities of the reproductive tract: vaginal clear-cell adenocarcinoma, vaginal adenosis and squamous metaplasia, transverse vaginal ridges and structural malformations of the cervix and uterus ( 578 , 579 ). Environmental chemicals that exert deleterious effects upon the endocrine axis are called endocrine disruptors. By binding to nuclear hormone receptors they may affect sexual differentiation. Unregulated exposure to xenoestrogens such as bisphenol A is now incriminated in the occurrence of cryptorchidism and hypospadias ( 580 - 582 ). Phtalates also adversely affect male differentiation by increasing the expression of COUP-TF2, a transcription factor which represses steroidogenic enzymes ( 583 ). Evidence from animal studies show that environmental exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals is at least partially responsible (reviewed in ( 584 , 585 ). Phtalates may act as pseudo-estrogens (biphenol A, alias BPA) or as antiandrogens (diethylhexylphtalate, alias DEHP) ( 586 ); however caution is required for interpretation of animal studies because of species differences. In human testes, germ cells appear the most susceptible to damage by phthalates ( 587 ). Atrazine, a herbicide widely used in the United States, demasculinizes male gonads and reduces sperm count by interfering with phosphodiesterase enzymes and SF1 ( 588 ). CONCLUSION A bewildering number of hormones and growth factors is involved in sex determination and differentiation, making it one of the best studied developmental processes. The uncovering of an active genetic pathway towards ovarian development has overturned the dogma of a default pathway towards female gonadal differentiation. For the moment, testicular hormones retain their primacy in modeling the reproductive tract but who knows what surprises the future holds
