34 Gut2001;48:34–40
KEYWORDS: taa, egf, animals, injury, etal, mof, thioacetamide, using, taa taa, induced, administration, hepatic, necrosis, factor, mortality


denudation (fig 1A). These eVect of EGF. For all of these parameters, changesweresignificantlyreducedinbothhigh administrationofeitherthehighorlowdoseof and low dose EGF treated animals (fig 1B). EGF resulted in a significant reduction in the Quantitative assessment showed that animals amountofinjurybyabout70–80%(table3). givenTAAwithoutEGFhadmucosalnecrosis ofthejejunumandileumaVecting100%ofits FURTHERRESULTSFROMSTUDIESWHEREEGF length.Incontrast,bothdosesofEGFsignifi- WASGIVENAFTERTAA cantly reduced the length of small intestinal TAAalonecausedamarkedreductioninDNA tissue showing necrosis (both p<0.05 v TAA and protein content expressed on a per gram treated animals not given EGF;table 3).The wet weight basis (fig 4). TAA also caused a large intestine was histologically normal in all markedincreaseinluminalhaemoglobin.Asin groups. the protocol involving EGF prior to TAA, Liver. Centrolobular necrosis, occasionally plasma ALAT and creatinine increased. Ad- associatedwithhaemorrhagicfoci,wereseenin ministration of EGF after TAA reduced most allthreegroups(fig2),oftenwithsomedegree ofthechangescausedbyTAA(fig4);luminal ofinflammatoryinfiltration.Administrationof haemoglobin and plasma creatinine were significantly lower than in animals given TAA alone,andmucosalDNAandproteincontent were significantly higher. EGF did not, how- ever,reversetheriseinALATcausedbyTAA. Discussion We examined the eVect of administration of high dose thioacetamide on multiple organ systemsanddeterminedtheinfluenceofEGF onthedegreeofinjurysustained.Administra- tion of TAA (40 mg/kg intraperitoneally) was associated with 50% mortality with the major sites of injury being the small intestine, liver, andtoalesserextentthekidneys.Administra- tion of EGF either before or 30 minutes after TAA markedly reduced the mortality rate, intestinal injury, and renal damage in a dose dependent manner. However, administration ofEGFhadlittleeVectonthedegreeofhepatic injurysustained,asassessedhistologicallyand Figure2 Thioacetamide(TAA)inducedhepaticinjury.TAAtreatedanimalsshowed biochemically. markedhepaticinjury,mainlycentrilobularnecrosiswithoccasionalhaemorrhagicfoci.The Administration of TAA is a well established histologicalappearancewassimilarinalltreatmentgroups.Tissueswerestainedwith haematoxylinandeosin.Originalmagnification· 20.Bar=50µm. methodofinducinghepaticinjury.34Itstoxic- www.gutjnl.com 38 Caballero,Berlanga,Ramirez,etal showntobeinjured,includingthosepresentin the endoplasmic reticulum, those involved in mitochondrial respiration,and stress response proteins such as the heat shock protein family.61213TAAmayalsoinjurecellsbyacting as a generator of free radicals,14 resulting in lipid peroxidation. Whatever the molecular mechanisms involved, administration of TAA results in increased apoptosis and necrosis, with necrosis being predominant when high dosesofTAAareused.15Inthepresentseriesof studies, histological examination of intestinal tissue showed that necrotic changes were prominent throughout the small intestine. Necrosis was therefore likely to be the major final pathway of intestinal injury under these particular circumstances. Some degree of apoptosis does take place in this model, however,asshownbythepresenceoflowlev- elsofDNAladderingwhencollectedintestinal residual DNA is run on agarose gels (CIGB, personal communication). Further examina- tion of this process could potentially follow changes in apoptosis related enzymes such as caspasesbutwouldbecomplicatedbythefact thatlittleviablemucosaltissueisleftinafield containinghighlevelsofnecrotictissue. The hepatic changes seen in the present study (centrilobular necrosis and raised transaminase levels) have been described previously.34 It has also been noted that TAA can injure other organ systems, including the intestineandkidneys.78Ortegaetalfoundthat chronic oral administration of TAA to rats in their drinking water caused enlargement of intercellular spaces of the jejunum and
