Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


ABSTRACT The liver plays a central role in lipid metabolism, serving as the center for lipoprotein uptake, formation, and export to the circulation. Alterations in hepatic lipid metabolism can contribute to the development of chronic liver disease, such as metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and accelerate the progression of other chronic liver diseases, as occurs in hepatitis C. Moreover, chronic liver disease can impact hepatic lipid metabolism, thereby contributing to dyslipidemia. This chapter discusses the interplay between lipid metabolism and common chronic liver diseases, as well as cirrhosis. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . METABOLIC-DYSFUNCTION ASSOCIATED STEATOTIC LIVER DISEASE Case Presentation A 60-year-old woman with a past medical history significant for hypertension, dyslipidemia, and diabetes mellitus presents for management of newly diagnosed metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). She has a strong family history of coronary artery disease and a personal history of dyslipidemia characterized by a serum triglyceride level of 220 mg/dL, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol of 180 mg/dL, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol of 50 mg/dL and total cholesterol of 274 mg/dL. Based on these values, her primary physician has recommended she start a lipid-lowering medication. However, with her history of liver disease she is uncertain whether she can safely take lipid-lowering medications. Introduction Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), formerly called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( 1 , 2 ), is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in the United States, affecting up to a third of adults ( 3 - 5 ). MASH is the inflammatory and fibrotic form of MASLD and can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. In addition to significant morbidity and mortality from end-stage liver disease, MASLD confers an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) ( 6 ). CVD is the leading cause of mortality among individuals with MASLD ( 7 ). The dyslipidemia attributable to MASLD may be one of several important and modifiable CVD risk factors. Changes in Lipoprotein Metabolism and Clinical Manifestations DEVELOPMENT OF STEATOSIS MASLD is characterized in part by steatosis, or excess lipid deposition as lipid droplets within hepatocytes. These lipid droplets consist largely of triglycerides and are the result of an imbalance of hepatic lipid processing ( 8 ). Steatosis can occur when one or more of the following conditions are present: 1) excess delivery of free fatty acids (FFA) to the liver from adipose
