Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


processing ( 8 ). Steatosis can occur when one or more of the following conditions are present: 1) excess delivery of free fatty acids (FFA) to the liver from adipose tissue through the plasma, 2) increased de novo lipogenesis (DNL) within the liver, 3) decreased oxidation of fatty acids within hepatocytes and 4) impaired export of triglycerides from the liver in the form of very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL). Excess FFA Delivery to the Liver In the setting of excess adiposity and insulin resistance, FFA release from adipocytes is increased ( 9 ). Upon release, FFA are then delivered via the circulation to the liver and may exceed the liver’s capacity to oxidize or export lipids, contributing to the development of steatosis. The fatty acid translocase FAT/CD36 mediates uptake of FFA into the liver and is upregulated in human and experimental MASLD, which may contribute to steatosis ( 10 - 12 ). Increased DNL Hyperinsulinemia, often observed in the setting of obesity and the metabolic syndrome, can also contribute to excess DNL as the result of increased transcriptional activities of sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) 1c- and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ ( 9 , 13 , 14 ). Increased circulating glucose levels also mediate lipogenesis by activating cholesterol regulatory element binding protein (ChREBP) ( 15 ). The increased synthesis of lipids within the liver can lead to accumulation within hepatocytes and can promote the development of steatosis. Insufficient Export of Hepatic Triglycerides Export of triglycerides from the liver requires the formation of VLDL particles. Steatosis can occur when VLDL formation is insufficient or is impaired. VLDL are formed when triglycerides are complexed to apolipoprotein B100 (apoB100) via the action of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP). Genetic or pharmacologic alteration of MTP or the truncation or absence of ApoB100 can lead to steatosis ( 16 - 20 ). In addition, ApoB100 levels can be decreased as a result of FFA accumulation. FFA accumulation within the liver can lead to chronic stress of the hepatocyte endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Increased ER stress results in increased ApoB100 degradation, decreasing the ability of the liver to export triglycerides and potentially worsen steatosis. VLDL assembly and secretion rely on several additional steps. Following the formation of nascent VLDL particles, additional lipidation is needed to create mature VLDL particles. The process of lipidation is not well understood but may rely on fusion with lipid droplets ( 21 ).
