Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


VLDL particles, additional lipidation is needed to create mature VLDL particles. The process of lipidation is not well understood but may rely on fusion with lipid droplets ( 21 ). Interruption of lipid mobilization from lipid droplets to VLDL may also contribute to the development of steatosis ( 22 ). Genetic studies have demonstrated a strong link between a polymorphism in the gene patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3) and MASLD. This coding region polymorphism (I148M) reduces hepatic VLDL secretion, possibly by interfering with triglyceride mobilization, and results in hepatic steatosis ( 23 - 25 ). However, conflicting data suggest that some patients with MASLD exhibit a compensatory increase in VLDL export, although this response remains insufficient to offset the elevated hepatic triglyceride burden ( 26 ). The transmembrane 6 superfamily 2 (TM6SF2) E167K variant results in decreased hepatic VLDL secretion and is associated with MASLD, fibrosis, and cirrhosis in the setting of decreased plasma LDL and triglyceride levels. This variant is associated with progressive liver disease but decreased risk of cardiovascular disease ( 27 , 28 ). As for TM6SF2 variants, PNPLA3 I148M and ApoB polymorphisms that promote MASLD have been associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, presumably owing to decreased hepatic secretion of ApoB-containing lipoproteins ( 29 , 30 ). Familial hypobetalipoproteinemia (FHBL) is a condition characterized by diminished levels of functional ApoB100, resulting in impaired VLDL export and the development of hepatic steatosis. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies have shown that individuals with FHBL exhibit hepatic fat content approximately fivefold higher than that of controls ( 31 , 32 ). Progression to steatohepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been noted in these individuals ( 33 - 36 ). Hepatic Accumulation of Free Cholesterol The degree of hepatic free cholesterol accumulation in MASLD correlates with the presence and severity of cytologic ballooning ( 37 ). Decreased expression of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) A1 and ABCG8 cholesterol efflux proteins, may disrupt transfer of cholesterol from hepatocytes, driving up hepatocyte cholesterol ( 38 , 39 ). Transcriptional upregulation of the LDL receptor and downregulation of cholesterol conversion to bile acids may further contribute to excess hepatic accumulation ( 40 ). CHANGES IN LIPOPROTEINS Dyslipidemia is frequent in adults with radiographic and biopsy-proven MASLD and is characterized by hypertriglyceridemia, increased LDL particle concentrations, decreased LDL particle size, and decreased HDL-cholesterol levels ( 41 ). High ratios of total cholesterol or triglyceride to
