Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


biopsy-proven MASLD and is characterized by hypertriglyceridemia, increased LDL particle concentrations, decreased LDL particle size, and decreased HDL-cholesterol levels ( 41 ). High ratios of total cholesterol or triglyceride to HDL-cholesterol are associated with MASLD ( 42 ). Recent analyses have revealed that circulating sulfatides redistribute from HDL to LDL and are associated with the hepatic inflammatory pathways implicated in the initiation of fibrosis in MASLD. These bioactive molecules prove clinically useful non-invasive biomarkers capable of predicting mild fibrosis in MASLD ( 43 ). In addition, non-HDL-cholesterol (non-HDL-C), a composite measure of apolipoprotein-B containing lipoproteins and an important marker of CVD risk, is elevated in individuals with MASLD and MASH ( 44 , 45 ). MASH is also characterized by alterations in lipoprotein subfractions. Lipoprotein subfraction assays measure lipoprotein particle size, density, and composition. MASH is characterized by large VLDL particle size and decreased sizes of LDL and HDL particles ( 41 ). However, there are conflicting data on the association between MASH and VLDL particle size ( 21 ). Furthermore, increased levels of LDL-III and IV particles, which are more atherogenic LDL fractions, and reduced HDL2b levels, which are cardioprotective, are observed in MASH ( 42 , 46 ). Fortunately, resolution of MASH is associated with increases in HDL, decreases in triglycerides, and increases in mean both LDL particle diameter and the frequency of the atherogenic LDL phenotype A ( 47 , 48 ). A distinct LDL-like particle is formed when the glycoprotein apolipoprotein(a) is covalently linked to apoB-100, resulting in lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)). Elevated Lp(a) concentrations have been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, including myocardial infarction ( 49 ). The association between Lp(a) and liver disease appears to depend upon the extent of liver disease. In advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis, circulating Lp(a) levels decline, likely reflecting impaired hepatic synthetic capacity ( 50 ). Similar patterns have been reported in individuals with type 2 diabetes ( 51 ). Considering this, cardiovascular risk may be underestimated if evaluation is limited to Lp(a) without accounting for the presence of advanced liver fibrosis ( 52 ). Table 1. Alterations in Plasma Lipids and Lipoprotein in the setting of Metabolic Dysfunction Associated Liver Disease (MASLD) and Metabolic Dysfunction Associated Steatohepatitis (MASH) View in own window MASLD MASH Plasma triglycerides ↑ ↑ VLDL production*/particles ↑ ↑↑ LDL size ↓ ↓↓ LDL cholesterol ↑ ↑ HDL cholesterol ↓ ↓↓ Non-HDL cholesterol ↑ ↑
