Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


View in own window MASLD MASH Plasma triglycerides ↑ ↑ VLDL production*/particles ↑ ↑↑ LDL size ↓ ↓↓ LDL cholesterol ↑ ↑ HDL cholesterol ↓ ↓↓ Non-HDL cholesterol ↑ ↑ Lp(a) Typically unaffected ↓ with increasing fibrosis * Excluding the presence of genetic polymorphisms that decrease hepatic VLDL secretion. Insulin Resistance Insulin resistance is an underpinning of MASLD and contributes to the pathogenesis of the associated dyslipidemia. INSULIN RESISTANCE INCREASES CIRCULATING LDL, VLDL, AND TRIGLYCERIDE LEVELS Apart from increasing FFA delivery to the liver and stimulating DNL, insulin resistance can increase circulating VLDL and plasma triglyceride concentrations through several mechanisms. First, insulin resistance leads to a loss of suppression of MTP transcription, increasing the efficiency of VLDL assembly ( 53 , 54 ). In addition, insulin resistance reduces the expression of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) that is bound to endothelial cells within muscle and adipose tissue. LPL hydrolyzes triglycerides from circulating VLDL and thereby facilitates fatty acid delivery to muscle and adipose tissues. As a result, impaired VLDL clearance due to LPL downregulation results in increased plasma triglyceride concentrations ( 55 ). Insulin resistance can also increase circulating levels of ApoCIII, an apolipoprotein that binds to VLDL and inhibits LPL activity, thereby further reducing VLDL clearance from the circulation ( 56 ). Notably, ApoCIII also appears to modulate plasma triglyceride levels by LPL-independent mechanisms. In patients with LPL deficiency due to familial chylomicronemia syndrome, administration of an ApoCIII mRNA inhibitor for 13 weeks reduced plasma triglycerides by 56-86% ( 57 ). Insulin resistance also impacts LDL metabolism by upregulating hepatic lipase and increasing LDL receptor degradation. Hepatic lipase is an enzyme that removes triglycerides from intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDL), leading to the development of smaller, denser low-density lipoproteins, including LDL. In MASLD and insulin resistance, hepatic lipase levels are upregulated, resulting in increased levels of small, dense LDL particles ( 58 ). Insulin resistance can further increase circulating LDL levels by reducing LDL receptor abundance. Insulin upregulates proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), a circulating protein that binds to and promotes degradation of the LDL receptor ( 59 ). Increased PCSK9 expression decreases LDL receptor availability on hepatocytes, thereby elevating circulating LDL concentrations. INSULIN RESISTANCE DECREASES CIRCULATING HDL LEVELS In addition to the changes in LDL metabolism, upregulation of hepatic lipase contributes to reduced HDL-cholesterol concentrations by hydrolyzing triglyceride-enriched HDL particles. This in turn leads to dissociation of apoA-1 from HDL particles
