Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


the changes in LDL metabolism, upregulation of hepatic lipase contributes to reduced HDL-cholesterol concentrations by hydrolyzing triglyceride-enriched HDL particles. This in turn leads to dissociation of apoA-1 from HDL particles and accelerated renal clearance ( 60 , 61 ). Insulin resistance also decreases circulating HDL levels by interfering with HDL particle assembly. HDL is formed within plasma at the hepatocyte surface and requires the interaction of ApoA-1 and ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) ( 62 ). Nascent HDL particles are formed when ApoA-1, secreted by the liver or released from other lipoproteins, is lipidated with phospholipids and free cholesterol by ABCA1. Insulin resistance hampers HDL formation by promoting the phosphorylation and degradation of ABCA1 and by reducing ABCA1 activity ( 63 ). In addition to hampering HDL production and promoting catabolism, insulin resistance may interfere with reverse cholesterol transport. Insulin resistance can result in the formation of triglyceride-rich HDL particles owing to the action of cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) ( 64 ). These triglyceride-rich HDL are cleared more efficiently by the liver, further contributing to reduced circulating HDL levels. Management Diet and exercise are the foundations of the management of both MASLD and the associated dyslipidemia. Small studies have indicated that both a low carbohydrate diet as well as the Mediterranean diet may improve both serum lipids and MASLD ( 65 - 67 ). Further, adherence to a Mediterranean diet reduces the development of CVD ( 68 ). As CVD is a cause of considerable morbidity and mortality in MASLD patients, adherence to a Mediterranean diet may have benefits beyond liver disease per se . Routine aerobic exercise, defined as 30 minutes of moderate exercise most days of the week, can result in significant improvements in lipid levels and may improve hepatic lipid content ( 69 , 70 ). Individuals with MASLD should be advised to engage in aerobic exercise on a regular basis. Given the weight loss, improved glycemic control and reduced risk of major cardiovascular events associated with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA), such as semaglutide ( 71 ), their potential efficacy has been evaluated in MASLD and MASH. GLP-1RA treatment has been shown to reduce liver fibrosis in patients with MASH with moderate or advanced fibrosis ( 72 ), as well as to lower circulating triglycerides and total cholesterol levels. Based on these effects, semaglutide received accelerated FDA approval in 2025 for the treatment of adults
