Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


( 72 ), as well as to lower circulating triglycerides and total cholesterol levels. Based on these effects, semaglutide received accelerated FDA approval in 2025 for the treatment of adults with non-cirrhotic MASH, with continued approval contingent upon confirmatory clinical outcomes data. However, no improvement in LDL-C levels has been observed, suggesting that additional lipid-lowering strategies may be required to adequately mitigate cardiovascular risk ( 73 ). The first pharmacological therapy approved for MASH, is the liver-directed selective thyroid hormone receptor-β agonist resmetirom, which targets key pathways involved in lipid metabolism and inflammation ( 74 ). A meta-analysis revealed reductions in LDL-C, triglycerides, Lp(a), apoB and apoCIII ( 75 ). MASH resolution was achieved in 25.9% to 29.9% of patients, depending on the dose, compared with only 9.7% of patients who received placebo ( 76 ). OTHER LIPID-LOWERING MEDICATIONS HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors When diet and exercise are insufficient in individuals with MASLD, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors or “statins” are recommended. Statins play an important role in both the primary and secondary prevention of CVD and should be considered in patients with MASLD. In a post-hoc analysis of the Greek Atorvastatin and Coronary Heart Disease Evaluation (GREACE) study, statin therapy significantly reduced cardiovascular events in individuals with MASLD compared to placebo ( 77 ). Beyond cardiovascular benefit, statins have also been shown to exert protective effects on liver histology in patients with MASLD/MASH, including dose-dependent reduction in steatosis, steatohepatitis and fibrosis stages F2-F4. However, protection against steatohepatitis in individuals carrying the I148M PNPLA3 risk variant did not reach statistical significance ( 78 ). Despite these benefits, concerns regarding statin-associated hepatotoxicity persist among many physicians. Importantly, the incidence of statin-induced hepatotoxicity in the general population is extremely low and is not increased in individuals with MASLD or MASH ( 79 - 81 ). This ongoing apprehension among physicians may partly explain the under-prescribing of statins in patients with MASLD ( 78 , 82 ). Omega-3 Fatty Acids Omega-3 fatty acids may be used in patients with MASLD for the treatment of isolated hypertriglyceridemia or when statins alone are insufficient to control triglyceride levels. Omega-3 fatty acids act to reduce hepatic VLDL secretion and lower serum triglyceride levels. Doses of up to 4 grams daily can decrease triglycerides by 25-35% ( 83 ). Omega-3 fatty acids may reduce hepatic steatosis and aminotransferases ( 84 - 86 ). Cholesterol Absorption Inhibitors Cholesterol absorption inhibitors, among
