Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


daily can decrease triglycerides by 25-35% ( 83 ). Omega-3 fatty acids may reduce hepatic steatosis and aminotransferases ( 84 - 86 ). Cholesterol Absorption Inhibitors Cholesterol absorption inhibitors, among which ezetimibe has been the most extensively studied, have shown promise in MASLD. A randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving 32 patients with MASLD demonstrated that ezetimibe use led to significant improvements in fibrosis stage and ballooning score ( 87 ). However, ezetimibe did not significantly reduce liver fat content, as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging-proton density fat fraction and liver biopsy ( 88 ). Consequently, the influence of ezetimibe across the various stages of MASLD pathogenesis remains to be fully characterized. LIPID TREATMENT GOALS Treatment goals for cholesterol levels are guided by the Clinical Practice Guidelines from the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology ( 89 ) and the Guidelines for the management of dyslipidaemias from the European Society of Cardiology and European Atherosclerosis Society ( 90 ). These guidelines recommend high-intensity statin therapy for all adults with any form of CVD or an LDL-C ≥ 190 mg/dL, with a target of at least 50% reduction in LDL-C. Patients aged 45-70 years with diabetes and an LDL-C < 189 mg/dL, as well as individuals with a calculated 10-year global CVD-risk > 7.5%, should receive moderate-intensity statins therapy, aiming for a 30-50% reduction in LDL-C. Notably, a specific LDL-C target is no longer formally recommended. Return to Case For the patient with MASLD, lipid-lowering medication to manage dyslipidemia and reduce the risk of heart attack or stroke would be both safe and beneficial. Table 2. Management of Dyslipidemia in the setting of Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Liver Disease (MASLD) and Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatohepatitis (MASH) View in own window MASLD is associated with insulin resistance, which contributes to atherogenic dyslipidemia characterized by increased small dense LDL and triglycerides and decreased HDL. The dyslipidemia of MASLD may contribute to the increased risk of CVD Dyslipidemia in patients with MASLD and MASH should be treated to reduce their CVD risk. Combined treatment with resmetirom and semaglutide or with other lipid-lowering drugs may achieve better results than monotherapy. Individuals with MASLD can be treated with statins without increased risk of hepatotoxicity. ALCOHOLIC LIVER DISEASE Case Presentation An obese 48-year-old man with a past medical history significant for coronary heart disease, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus presents for management of newly diagnosed hepatic steatosis. He has a
