Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


Presentation An obese 48-year-old man with a past medical history significant for coronary heart disease, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus presents for management of newly diagnosed hepatic steatosis. He has a family history of coronary artery disease. He reports consuming 3 glasses of wine per night during the week (approximately 42 g alcohol daily) and an additional two glasses per evening on weekends. His fasting plasma triglyceride concentration is 350 mg/dL, his LDL cholesterol is 130 mg/dL, and HDL cholesterol is 55 mg/dL. The alanine aminotransferase level (ALT) is modestly elevated at 55 IU/L. He would like to know whether he has MASLD and whether you recommend continuing his current alcohol intake to protect against CVD, especially since he was told that his good cholesterol was elevated. Introduction Metabolic dysfunction and alcohol-associated liver disease (MetALD) reflects a recently adopted classification for patients with MASLD who consume 140-350 g per week for women or 210-420 g per week for men, and have at least one metabolic risk factor, such as obesity, hypertension or type 2 diabetes ( 2 , 91 ). In contrast, alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) is diagnosed in individuals whose alcohol consumption exceeds these thresholds. These updated diagnostic criteria help identify distinct patient populations, thereby facilitating the design of more targeted and effective therapeutic interventions. Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) accounts for nearly half of cirrhosis-related mortality in the United States ( 92 ). A hallmark feature of ALD is hepatic steatosis, which develops in more than 90% of heavy drinkers. However, less than one third of these individuals progress to advanced liver disease, including alcoholic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and HCC ( 92 ). Risk factors for disease progression include female sex, obesity, drinking patterns, dietary factors, non–sex-linked genetic factors, and cigarette smoking ( 93 , 94 ). Alcohol also synergizes with other etiologies of chronic liver diseases, including MASLD and viral hepatitis, to accelerate disease progression ( 92 ). Hypertriglyceridemia is the predominant dyslipidemia associated with alcohol consumption ( 95 ), and a J-shaped association exists between alcohol intake and CVD risk ( 96 ), which may reflect a parallel effect of plasma triglycerides ( 95 ). Although the contribution of alcohol to metabolic syndrome remains unclear, alcohol intake appears to interact with obesity to further increase plasma triglyceride concentrations ( 95 ). Changes in Lipoprotein Metabolism and Clinical Manifestations DEVELOPMENT OF STEATOSIS As with MASLD, the development of steatosis in
