Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


interact with obesity to further increase plasma triglyceride concentrations ( 95 ). Changes in Lipoprotein Metabolism and Clinical Manifestations DEVELOPMENT OF STEATOSIS As with MASLD, the development of steatosis in response to alcohol is multifactorial. Alcohol impairs the β-oxidation of fatty acids by mitochondria, promotes de novo lipogenesis in the liver, and increases fatty acid uptake. VLDL secretion is also increased in response to alcohol. Excess FFA Delivery to the Liver Fatty acids from extrahepatic sources appear to contribute substantially to hepatic steatosis. In addition to increasing mobilization of fatty acids from adipose tissue ( 97 ), alcohol intake augments hepatic lipid supply from the small intestine in the form of chylomicron remnants ( 98 ). Increased Denovo Lipid Synthesis Increased DNL synthesis contributes to alcohol-related steatosis through both direct and indirect mechanisms ( 92 ). The alcohol metabolite acetaldehyde increases transcription of SREBP1c, which upregulates transcription of lipogenic genes. In parallel, alcohol-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and inflammation enhance proteolytic processing and activation of SREBP1c protein within hepatocytes. Alcohol also inhibits key suppressors of lipogenesis, most notably the protein deacetylase Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), which plays a central role ( 99 ). Alcohol-mediated suppression of SIRT1 leads to hyperacetylation of multiple targets, including factors that promote lipogenesis. In addition, inhibition of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) further contributes to increased lipogenesis. AMPK normally suppresses lipogenesis by phosphorylating SREBP1c, thereby reducing its transcriptional activity, and by phosphorylating and inhibiting acetyl-CoA carboxylate (ACC), the rate-limiting enzyme in fatty acid synthesis. Impaired Oxidation and Degradation of Fatty Acids Alcohol decreases mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation principally by decreasing activity of the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha (PPARα). This occurs in response to increased NADH/NAD+ ratios and decreased AMPK activity, among other factors ( 92 ). PPARα promotes the transcription of genes that mediate fatty acid oxidation. Alcohol intake may also inhibit autophagy ( 92 ), which plays an important role removing lipids from the liver ( 100 ). Insufficient Export of Hepatic Triglycerides Alcohol increases VLDL secretion ( 95 , 101 ), apparently by increasing the transcription of MTP ( 97 ). The increase in export of hepatic triglycerides is insufficient to offset the accumulation due to increases in fatty acid uptake and synthesis in the setting of decreased oxidation. HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA Increased VLDL secretion contributes to hypertriglyceridemia that is observed in the setting of alcohol consumption. This is exacerbated by decreased expression of
