Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


synthesis in the setting of decreased oxidation. HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA Increased VLDL secretion contributes to hypertriglyceridemia that is observed in the setting of alcohol consumption. This is exacerbated by decreased expression of LPL ( 102 ), which promotes clearance of VLDL triglycerides into muscle and fat tissue. There is also an interaction between alcohol consumption and genetic polymorphisms in apoCIII, which circulates in the plasma and functions to inhibit lipoprotein lipase activity ( 103 ). HDL LEVELS Alcohol increases HDL lipids and apolipoproteins in a manner that depends on the amount of consumption. Moderate consumption tends to increase plasma concentrations of smaller HDL particles, whereas heavier consumption favors the accumulation of larger HDL particles ( 81 ). Alcohol influences HDL metabolism at multiple steps, ultimately leading to increased reverse cholesterol transport, the process by which cellular cholesterol is transported to the liver for elimination into bile ( 104 , 105 ). Heavier alcohol consumption impairs CETP activity, as a result, the typical inverse relationship between CETP activity and HDL levels observed in MASLD is not necessarily maintained in the setting of alcohol use, and HDL concentrations may be increased as well ( 95 , 106 ). Moderate alcohol consumption also appears to enhance the anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties of HDL particles ( 104 ). LDL LEVELS The effects of alcohol on plasma LDL cholesterol concentrations is less consistent than observed for HDL, with different patterns observed in different populations, which may be attributable to genetic polymorphisms with these populations ( 104 ). Table 3. Alterations in Plasma Lipids and Lipoprotein in the setting of Metabolic dysfunction- and alcohol-associated liver disease (MetALD) View in own window Plasma triglycerides ↑ VLDL production/particles ↑ LDL cholesterol ↔ or ↑ HDL cholesterol ↑ Lp(a) Typically normal Management In the setting of MetALD, cessation of drinking, along with therapeutic lifestyle modifications -including behavioral and psychological treatments- are the mainstays of therapy. Pharmacological management of MetALD should address both metabolic dysfunction and alcohol-related pathways ( 91 ). For the metabolic component, agents approved for MASLD, such as the thyroid hormone receptor-β agonist resmetirom, may be considered ( 76 ). Treatment responses to resmetirom in patients meeting criteria for MetALD were comparable to those observed in the overall MASLD population ( 107 ). In addition, GLP-1RA have demonstrated efficacy in reducing hepatic steatosis and improving liver biochemistry ( 72 ). Emerging evidence further suggests that GLP-1RA may also reduce
