Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


population ( 107 ). In addition, GLP-1RA have demonstrated efficacy in reducing hepatic steatosis and improving liver biochemistry ( 72 ). Emerging evidence further suggests that GLP-1RA may also reduce alcohol consumption ( 108 ). Return to Case The diagnosis of MASLD is based on the absence of significant alcohol consumption. For a man, the upper limit of alcohol intake is 2 drinks per day (28 g/day). This means that this patient is categorized as MetALD. Conceptually, MetALD reflects the synergistic interaction between alcohol exposure and metabolic dysregulation, which together exacerbate steatohepatitis, fibrosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and extrahepatic complications. He is at high risk for CVD, so should be managed accordingly, including lipid-lowering therapy with statins. His alcohol consumption should be reduced to less than 2 drinks per day, which may help reduce his fasting triglyceride concentrations. He should not be falsely reassured by his elevated HDL cholesterol concentration. Table 4. Key Points - Metabolic dysfunction- and Alcohol-Associated Liver Disease (MetALD) View in own window The consumption of alcohol is a common cause of excess fat accumulation in the liver. There are multiple mechanisms by which alcohol promotes hepatic steatosis. Alcohol can increase plasma HDL cholesterol concentrations and fasting triglyceride concentrations. Although modest alcohol consumption is associated with reduced CVD risk, this cannot be recommended due to other potential adverse effects, including alcoholic liver disease. VIRAL HEPATITIS - C Case Presentation A 65-year-old woman with a past medical history of CVD and untreated genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C presents for management of CVD. Her lipid levels are notable for an LDL of 99. She has read that since her LDL is below the recommended level for patients with CVD she would not benefit from lipid-lowering therapy. What would you advise her? Introduction Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a positive-strand RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae that can lead to chronic infection as well as the development of cirrhosis, HCC, and the need for liver transplantation. Chronic HCV (CHC) infection affects between 130 and 170 million individuals worldwide ( 109 ) . Changes in Lipoprotein Metabolism HCV replication is intricately linked with host cell lipids and impacts host lipid metabolism. Circulating HCV virions complex with host lipoproteins and form lipoviroparticles ( 110 ). This lipid-rich composition is a prerequisite for maintenance of viral particle morphology and HCV infectivity ( 111 - 114 ). For example, lipids on the virion surface shield viral
