Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


). This lipid-rich composition is a prerequisite for maintenance of viral particle morphology and HCV infectivity ( 111 - 114 ). For example, lipids on the virion surface shield viral envelope epitopes, protecting them from antibody engagement ( 115 ). Lipoviroparticles can enter hepatocytes via multiple receptors including the hepatocyte LDL receptor, which may also facilitate the replication step of the HCV cycle ( 116 ). Additional host factors involved in viral entry include Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (NPC1L1), a receptor for cholesterol resorption, and scavenger receptor class B member 1 (SRB1), which acts to promote cholesterol uptake from lipoproteins, and interacts with HCV envelope glycoprotein E2 to promote HCV entry ( 117 - 119 ). LDL receptor and SRB1 appear to have a redundant role in HCV entry ( 120 ). Several apolipoproteins influence HCV uptake: apoC1 interacts with HCV glycoproteins to promote infection, and apoE mediates initial attachment between virus and hepatocyte. Hepatocyte VLDL receptor mediates an additional HCV entry mechanism, involving E2 and apoE, with increased VLDL receptor expression conferring greater susceptibility to infection ( 121 ). Formation of the HCV core protein involves interaction with host cytosolic lipid droplets and with diacylglycerol O-acetyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), a host enzyme involved in triglyceride synthesis. HCV replication also depends on host cholesterol biosynthesis pathways within hepatocytes. The host protein F-box and leucine-rich repeat protein 2 (FBL2) undergoes geranylgeranylation, a post-translation modification derived from an intermediate of the cholesterol synthesis pathway that is essential for replication complex stability ( 122 ). Disruption of this pathway extinguishes HCV replication. Finally, HCV secretion from hepatocytes involves complexing with apoE-containing host lipoproteins in the form of VLDL or HDL ( 123 ). Clinical Manifestations Like MASLD, HCV infection is associated with the development of hepatic steatosis. However, unlike MASLD, HCV is also associated with hypolipidemia. Chronic HCV infection leads to significantly lower host LDL and total cholesterol levels than uninfected controls ( 124 ). Treatment is associated with increases in both LDL and cholesterol levels in patients with HCV who achieve a cure, defined as a sustained virologic response (SVR). Changes in host serum lipids are also seen in patients with acute HCV. Acute HCV infection is associated with a decrease in total cholesterol, LDL and non-HDL-C from pre-infection levels. In addition, total cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides and non-HDL-C progressively decline over a 10-year period following HCV seroconversion, after adjusting for BMI and FIB-4 score
