Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


LDL and non-HDL-C from pre-infection levels. In addition, total cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides and non-HDL-C progressively decline over a 10-year period following HCV seroconversion, after adjusting for BMI and FIB-4 score ( 125 ). In patients who achieved viral clearance, either spontaneous or treatment-induced, total cholesterol, LDL and non-HDL-C increased significantly from infection levels. In patients with both acute and chronic infection, post-viral clearance lipid levels exceed pre-infection levels ( 126 ). While HCV infection is associated with decreased LDL and non-HDL-C, which are important CVD risk factors, HCV infection is associated with an increased overall risk of CVD ( 127 , 128 ). When non-HCV infected individuals with similar lipid levels are compared to those with chronic HCV, HCV infection independently confers an increased risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), with a more pronounced increase seen in younger individuals ( 129 ). Further, lipid-lowering therapy among individuals with chronic HCV was associated with a greater reduction in AMI risk than uninfected persons with similar lipid levels. Therefore, lipid levels may not accurately reflect CVD risk in patients with chronic HCV. Table 5. Alterations in Plasma Lipids and Lipoprotein in the setting of Hepatitis C View in own window Infection Post-treatment Plasma triglycerides Normal or mildly ↑ variable Total cholesterol ↓ ↑ (rapid onset) LDL cholesterol ↓ ↑ HDL cholesterol ↓ ↑ ApoB ↓ ↑ Lp(a) ↓ ↑ Management Lipid treatment goals for individuals with chronic HCV are not well established. It is recommended that patients with chronic HCV adhere to the Cholesterol Clinical Practice Guidelines from the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology ( 89 ). Retrospectively-collected data links statin use to improved liver-related outcomes, with higher likelihood of achieving SVR, and lower rates of fibrosis progression, cirrhosis development, HCC incidence, and mortality amongst patients with chronic HCV ( 130 - 133 ). The use of atorvastatin and fluvastatin have the most significant anti-fibrotic benefit, compared with simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin or no statin use ( 134 ). It is important to note that for individuals who have achieved an SVR after HCV treatment, lipid levels often increase to or above pre-infection levels. Induction of SVR using direct-acting antiviral (DAA) therapy led to pro-atherogenic lipid changes (increased total cholesterol, LDL, LDL/HDL ratio, and non-HDL-C), irrespective of DAA regimen or fibrotic stage, with a parallel reduction in insulin resistance. The balance of these effects with respect to CVD risk remains
