Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


LDL, LDL/HDL ratio, and non-HDL-C), irrespective of DAA regimen or fibrotic stage, with a parallel reduction in insulin resistance. The balance of these effects with respect to CVD risk remains to be determined ( 135 ). Greater increases in serum LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in patients undergoing therapy were observed with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir treatment compared to daclatasvir/asunaprevir. Decline in HCV core protein was also independently associated with increases in LDL-C as lipid metabolism normalized ( 136 ). Thus, practitioners should be mindful to monitor post-treatment lipid levels and treat appropriately. Recent studies indicate that even years after HCV eradication, a substantial proportion of individuals develop MASLD accompanied by persistent dyslipidemia, suggesting ongoing metabolic risk despite SVR ( 137 ). Return to Case For the patient with CHC and CVD it would be important to administer lipid-lowering therapy to reduce the risk of a second CVD event. Based on the guidelines, she would benefit from high-intensity statin therapy, with a goal of decreasing LDL cholesterol by >50%. Table 6. Key Points - Hepatitis C Infection Modulates Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism View in own window The hepatitis C virus interacts with host lipids for hepatocyte entry, viral replication and secretion. HCV infection decreases host serum LDL and total cholesterol levels. Despite lower cholesterol levels, HCV infection is still associated with an increased risk of AMI and treatment with statins reduces this risk. Eradication of HCV results in increased serum lipid levels to at least pre-infection levels. As a result, some patients may newly meet the criteria for lipid-lowering therapy following cure. VIRAL HEPATITIS - B Introduction Approximately 250 million individuals worldwide are chronically infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) ( 138 , 139 ). Like HCV, chronic HBV infection can lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Lipoprotein Metabolism in Hepatitis B HBV interacts with host lipid metabolism at several critical stages, including during viral cell entry and formation of essential viral proteins such as the HBV surface antigen. HBV uses the sodium-taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP), a plasma membrane protein that facilitates hepatocellular uptake of bile acids from the plasma ( 140 ). HBV binding to NTCP impairs the bile acid transport function of NTCP resulting in increased conversion of cholesterol to bile acids within hepatocytes. The formation of the HBV surface antigen within hepatocytes relies in part on host cell cholesterol ( 141 ). The surface antigen particle is synthesized in the endoplasmic
