Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


within hepatocytes. The formation of the HBV surface antigen within hepatocytes relies in part on host cell cholesterol ( 141 ). The surface antigen particle is synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and is associated with the host ER lipid bilayer. Association with the lipid bilayer helps make the particle resistant to degradation by cellular proteases. The surface antigen is then transported to the ER lumen and exported from the hepatocyte as a lipoprotein particle. Approximately 25% of the surface antigen complex is composed of host lipids including phosphatidylcholine, triglycerides, cholesterol and cholesterol esters ( 141 ). HBV infection may also alter lipogenic gene expression. Two studies have demonstrated increased lipogenic gene expression in HBV-infected transgenic mice. HBV-infected transgenic mice exhibit increased gene expression of SREBP2, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, LDL receptor, fatty acid synthase, and ATP citrate lyase, all of which play a role in either cholesterol metabolism or fatty acid synthesis ( 142 , 143 ). In HBV infected humanized mice, gene expression of the HDL-associated human apolipoprotein A1, which plays a role in reverse cholesterol transport and PPAR-γ which regulates adipocyte differentiation and fatty acid storage, were significantly enhanced ( 142 ). HBV-infected transgenic mice also demonstrate elevated levels of cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (hCYP7A1), which promotes bile acid formation from cholesterol. In liver biopsy samples from patients with chronic HBV infection, hCYP7A1 was significantly induced when compared to uninfected controls. Taken together, these findings suggest that HBV replication may impact cholesterol metabolism. Clinical Manifestations Data on the impact of HBV infection on circulating lipid levels in humans remain limited. HBV infection may be associated with lower triglyceride levels compared with uninfected individuals ( 144 ); however, its influence on HDL remains ambiguous. In a case-control study comparing 322 individuals with chronic HBV infection to 870 age-matched uninfected controls, HBV-infected individuals exhibited significantly lower triglyceride and HDL levels than controls ( 144 ). In a second retrospective cohort of 122 individuals with chronic HBV, HBV DNA levels were inversely correlated to serum triglyceride levels, whereas no association was observed with HDL levels ( 144 ). In a separate cohort of non-diabetic patients, hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) seropositivity was inversely associated with hypertriglyceridemia and low HDL cholesterol. Hence, chronic HBV infection may favorably impact lipid profiles, which could partly account for the inverse relationship between HBsAg-seropositivity, and metabolic syndrome observed in this cohort ( 145 ). Similarly, HBsAg-positivity was associated
