Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


infection may favorably impact lipid profiles, which could partly account for the inverse relationship between HBsAg-seropositivity, and metabolic syndrome observed in this cohort ( 145 ). Similarly, HBsAg-positivity was associated with lower risk of developing dyslipidemia during a mean follow up of 4.5 years among patients without dyslipidemia at baseline ( 146 ). Circulating lipid levels may be predictive of clinical outcomes in HBV-infected patients. The average plasma apolipoprotein A-V level was decreased amongst 209 non-survivors of HBV-acute on chronic liver failure versus 121 survivors ( 147 ). Like HCV, chronic HBV infection is frequently associated with hepatic steatosis. Between 25% and 51% of patients with HBV were found to harbor steatosis by imaging or biopsy ( 148 ). However, while concurrent steatosis is common in HBV infections, steatohepatitis is not frequently described. Further, the pathogenesis of steatosis in HBV is not well understood and may be related to co-existing metabolic factors such as body mass index (BMI) and insulin resistance rather than the viral infection per se ( 149 ). Management Because data on the impact of HBV infection on circulating lipids are limited, there are no formal guidelines for dyslipidemia management in this population. Clinicians should be mindful of a possible decrease in HDL in this population and follow standard guidelines from the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology on lipid management. Recent studies have shown reduced risk of cirrhosis development ( 150 ), decompensation ( 150 - 153 ), mortality ( 151 , 152 ) and portal hypertension ( 151 ) amongst statin users compared to non-users with chronic HBV- and HCV-related hepatitis. Furthermore, statin use was associated with a 32% reduction in HCC risk. Concomitant use of statin and nucleos(t)ide analogue led to an additive chemopreventive effect ( 154 ). RCTs would be needed to comprehensively evaluate statins as a means of protection against disease progression in patients with viral hepatitis. Table 7. Key Points- Hepatitis B View in own window HBV infection may interact with host lipid metabolism and enhance lipogenic gene expression The clinical manifestations of HBV on host lipids are not well understood, but HBV infection may decrease serum triglyceride and HDL levels. Management of patients with HBV and dyslipidemia should be guided by standard recommendations for the treatment of dyslipidemia. CHOLESTATIC DISEASES Case Presentation A 58-year-old woman is referred with primary biliary cholangitis (formerly primary biliary cirrhosis; PBC) for the
