Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


be guided by standard recommendations for the treatment of dyslipidemia. CHOLESTATIC DISEASES Case Presentation A 58-year-old woman is referred with primary biliary cholangitis (formerly primary biliary cirrhosis; PBC) for the management of an elevated plasma total cholesterol of 450 mg/dL. She only reports symptoms of mild and intermittent pruritus. She is currently taking ursodeoxycholic acid. Her physical examination is notable for xanthelasma under the eyes. Introduction Bile is the primary route for cholesterol elimination from the body. Plasma cholesterol is taken up by the liver in the form of apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins (i.e. remnant lipoproteins and LDL) through receptor-mediated endocytosis, as well as via selective uptake of HDL cholesterol ( 155 ). Cholesterol is subsequently eliminated either by conversion to bile salts or by direct biliary secretion. Biliary obstruction, particularly in the setting of cholestatic liver diseases, can interfere with cholesterol elimination leading to hypercholesterolemia. This occurs most commonly in the setting of PBC, which is an autoimmune-mediated destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts. Similar disturbances can also occur in primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), in which there is inflammatory stricturing of larger bile ducts. Lipoprotein Metabolism in Cholestasis Hypercholesterolemia associated with cholestasis is largely attributable to the formation of lipoprotein-X, an atypical lipoprotein particle. Lipoprotein-X comprises principally unesterified cholesterol and phospholipids ( 156 ), resembling the cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles that are secreted by the liver into bile ( 157 ). The lipids of the particle comprise a sphere, with an aqueous core. The principal proteins associated with lipoprotein-X are apoC and albumin contained within the core ( 158 , 159 ). It appears to be formed due to the secretion of biliary-type particles into plasma in the setting of obstruction to bile flow ( 160 ), although defects in plasma cholesterol esterification may also contribute ( 156 ). Lipoprotein-X has similar characteristics as LDL including density, so that its presence in plasma requires electrophoretic separation ( 161 ). Because lipoprotein electrophoresis is not routinely available in most clinical laboratories, clinicians may rely instead on the discordance between apoB and non–HDL-C concentrations to raise suspicion for the presence of lipoprotein-X. Because lipoprotein-X is devoid of apoB, circulating apoB levels are disproportionately low relative to the markedly elevated non–HDL-C concentration. Table 8 illustrates the expected relationship between non–HDL-C and apoB based on population data from the UK Biobank ( 162 ). Table 8. Non-HDL-C Level and Variation in Apo B Level View in own
