Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


series cited above, but it was acknowledged that patients were young enough that excess CVD events would not have been expected ( 165 ). Lipid levels ultimately fell in patients who had progressed to cirrhosis and hepatic failure. Management Due to the overall lack of clinical evidence, the management of hypercholesterolemia associated with cholestasis lacks formal recommendations. In PBC, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) slows the progression of the disease and prolongs survival ( 167 ). Chronic UDCA administration also reduces plasma LDL concentrations. In PBC patients, statin therapy is generally safe and is effective at lowering LDL cholesterol in PBC patients ( 79 , 168 - 170 ). At present, UDCA is generally not recommended in the management of PSC ( 171 ), and data are lacking regarding lipid-lowering therapies in these patients. Of note, some patients with obstructive jaundice are treated with bile acid binders to reduce pruritus and not primarily to reduce plasma cholesterol concentrations. Plasmapheresis may be used to reduce plasma cholesterol and suppress disease progression ( 172 ). Return to Case For the patient with PBC, the presence of lipoprotein-X may be confirmed by lipoprotein electrophoresis. The possible contribution of atherogenic particles may be estimated by the measurement of the plasma apoB concentration. The institution of statin therapy should be based on standard estimates of CVD risk. Table 9. Key Points- Cholestatic Disease View in own window Plasma total cholesterol concentrations are commonly elevated in the setting of cholestasis. ApoB levels tend to be lower than predicted by non-HDL cholesterol levels. Lipoprotein-X is a lipoprotein that circulates in patients with cholestasis and is primarily responsible for the elevations in plasma total cholesterol concentrations. Elevations in plasma cholesterol concentrations due to cholestasis do not appear to confer excess CVD risk. Patients with cholestatic disorders may be candidates for lipid-lowering therapy if they are otherwise at risk for CVD. CIRRHOSIS Introduction Cirrhosis represents the common advanced histopathologic endpoint of chronic liver diseases, in which the formation of fibrotic nodules often obscures the underlying disease etiology. Clinical manifestations span a broad spectrum, ranging from well-compensated liver function with no apparent clinical manifestations to advanced decompensated liver disease characterized by portal hypertension and complications such as hepatic encephalopathy, esophageal varices, and ascites. Moreover, the development of cirrhosis confers increased risk of HCC. Changes in Lipoprotein Metabolism and Clinical Manifestations The changes in lipoprotein metabolism associated with cirrhosis generally reflect the degree
