Lipid and Lipoprotein Metabolism in Liver Disease
KEYWORDS: pubmed, liver, cholesterol, disease, free, lipid, levels, hepatic, patients, free article, article pubmed, article, risk, pmc, pmc free


ascites. Moreover, the development of cirrhosis confers increased risk of HCC. Changes in Lipoprotein Metabolism and Clinical Manifestations The changes in lipoprotein metabolism associated with cirrhosis generally reflect the degree of impairment of hepatic function. In one study ( 173 ), plasma concentrations of total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and VLDL cholesterol varied with increases in prothrombin time and decreases in serum albumin, which reflect hepatic synthetic function. These findings are in general agreement with other studies ( 174 ). Lipoprotein compositions are also altered in the setting of cirrhosis, with LDL particles enriched with triglycerides and deficient in cholesteryl esters, as well as HDL particles enriched with triglycerides, free cholesterol and phospholipids ( 174 ). These changes are secondary to characteristic abnormalities in plasma enzymes that remodel lipoproteins, including lecithin-cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT), hepatic lipase, and phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) ( 174 ). HDL cholesterol and enzymes involved in HDL maturation and metabolism are decreased in patients with cirrhosis. There is a shift in the composition of HDL in those with cirrhosis towards the larger HDL2 subclass and a reduction in small HDL3 particles. The latter are associated with diminished cholesterol efflux capacity, and their concentrations are predictive of 1-year mortality ( 175 ). Table 10. Alterations in Plasma Lipids and Lipoprotein in the setting of Cirrhosis View in own window Plasma triglycerides ↓ VLDL production/particles ↓ LDL cholesterol ↓ (↓↓ in decompensated cirrhosis) HDL cholesterol ↓↓ Non-HDL cholesterol ↓ Lp(a) ↓ ↓ HCC can occur in the setting of cirrhosis and may be associated with alterations in plasma lipid concentrations ( 176 - 178 ). In the case of hypercholesterolemia, the increase may be driven by elevated rates of cholesterol synthesis and cellular levels of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarylcoenzyme A. It is unclear whether hypercholesterolemia in this context confers increased CVD risk ( 179 , 180 ). CVD risk is dependent upon the etiology of cirrhosis, at least in part due to the association of type 2 diabetes. Cirrhosis due to MASH, HCV, and alcoholic liver disease increases the risk of type 2 diabetes, which is not observed in cholestatic liver diseases and presumably contributes to CVD risk ( 174 , 181 ). Management Statin therapy can be safely administered in patients with compensated cirrhosis and elevated CVD risk ( 79 ). In individuals with non-cholestatic cirrhosis, low HDL cholesterol serves as a surrogate marker of liver function and is
