Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


for cancer add a new dimension to considerations of autoimmune polyendocrinopathy syndromes. Rapid progress in the immunology and genetics of these entities offers the promise of potential amelioration and eventual reversal via genetic manipulation before organ damage is established. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . AUTOIMMUNE POLYGLANDULAR SYNDROMES The autoimmune polyglandular syndromes are clusters of endocrine abnormalities that occur in discreet patterns in subjects with immune dysregulation and that permit treatment and anticipation of associated systemic or other hormonal deficiencies ( 1 - 8 ). Three major entities are recognized, APS1, APS2 and APS3 as well as the extremely rare X-linked syndrome of immunodysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, and enteropathy (IPEX) syndrome. An additional but increasing category occurs in patients treated with checkpoint immunoregulatory agents for cancer, by which the tumor’s blockade of immune regulatory checkpoints is inhibited, so that tumor antigens that had evaded recognition can now be targeted, but at the expense of activating autoimmunity against endocrine organs. APS1 results from a failure to eliminate T-cells that have acquired receptors with high affinity to auto-antigens, as these T-cells mature and traverse the thymic epithelium during their development. Normally, such T-cells are prevented from entering the periphery because of the ectopic expression of multiple antigens within the thymus that usually are expressed only in discrete tissues, e.g. insulin in pancreatic β-cells. A developing T-cell that acquires and expresses a high affinity receptor for insulin will be bound to the ectopically expressed insulin antigen within the thymus, undergo apoptosis and be excluded from entering the periphery to initiate auto-immunity ( Fig1 ). This ectopic expression of antigens within the thymus is mediated by the A uto- I mmune RE gulator gene ( AIRE ) located on chromosome 21. Discovered in 1997 as the gene whose variable inactivation is responsible for the clinical entity APS1 ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 ), this gene is now known to be an essential component of the adaptive immune response cascade, and the spectrum of disorders ascribed to mutations in this gene extend beyond the APS1 syndrome ( 2 , 4 ). Moreover, although APS1 is a rare entity with predilection for particular populations, the increased incidence of autoimmunity in persons with trisomy 21, a relatively common genetic abnormality, may be due to abnormal function of the AIRE gene ( 9 ). In addition,
