Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


the increased incidence of autoimmunity in persons with trisomy 21, a relatively common genetic abnormality, may be due to abnormal function of the AIRE gene ( 9 ). In addition, it is becoming apparent that mutations in AIRE can have autosomal dominant effects and become manifest as autoimmune disorders later in life in patterns that differ from the classical APS1 ( 2 , 4 ). Since the incidence of such autosomal mutations may be as high as 1:1000, whereas the incidence of APS1 is much rarer (1:9000 in Iranian Jews; 1:14,500 in Sardinia; 1:25,000 in Finland), the influence of the AIRE gene on autoimmune processes and diseases may be far wider than hitherto appreciated, especially since Treg cells (regulatory T cells) also are now implicated in the abnormalities induced by AIRE deficiency ( 2 , 4 ). Both T-cell and B-cell abnormalities are observed in APS1, so that circulating antibodies to various hormonal, connective tissues, and protein antigens such as enzymes in the steroidogenic or thyroid synthesis cascades are evident in the serum of affected patients with APS1, and indeed in all forms of the autoimmune polyglandular syndromes. Figure 1 summarizes these concepts. Several recent case series indicate that the phenotypic variation and age of symptom onset vary greatly, even within the same family ( 10 , 11 ), implying that other genes such as major histocompatibility complex genes, or environmental exposures, influence the phenotype and natural course ( 11 , 12 ). This wide variation in presentation and symptomatology may make the diagnosis of APS-1 challenging. Figure1. Left panel: Modified from Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes in Pediatric Endocrinology 4 th Edition, Ed. Sperling MA. (with permission of the authors Drs. Michael Haller, William Winter, Desmond Schatz). A developing T-cell migrates from its origins in the bone marrow to the thymus where it matures and acquires its repertoire of receptors. The expression of self-antigens, including ectopic expression of antigens mediated via the AIRE gene, results in apoptosis of the T-cell possessing the complementary receptor, and prevention of the T-cell entering the periphery, a fate of almost all T-cells. A small fraction of T-cells enter the periphery where they remain anergic to self-antigens, but can mount an immune response to non-self-antigens. Right panel: Failure of self-tolerance, due to non-expression of self-antigens as would occur with inactivating mutations of the AIRE gene, results in failure of central tolerance as well as failure of
