Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


panel: Failure of self-tolerance, due to non-expression of self-antigens as would occur with inactivating mutations of the AIRE gene, results in failure of central tolerance as well as failure of recognition of self-antigens that leads to an auto-immune response. APS2 is characterized by the triad of T1DM, adrenocortical insufficiency, and hypothyroidism as a result of autoimmunity to components of the pancreatic β-cell, adrenal cortex, and thyroid synthesizing machinery. APS3 is essentially identical to APS2 except that adrenocortical insufficiency is absent. This similarity has led some investigators to label the former as APS2a and the latter as APS2b. Whereas APS2a is rare, APS2b is relatively common, as approximately 20% of patients with T1DM harbor circulating antibodies to thyroid synthesis components, namely thyroid peroxidase (TPO) and thyroglobulin (TGB), markers associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis. Note however that the presence of autoantibodies is not necessarily predictive of glandular failure and its clinical manifestations. The genes responsible for the disordered immunity in APS2 and APS3 are in the DQ and DR regions of the HLA complex on the short arm of chromosome 6; specific alleles or mutations facilitate the presentation of antigens co-expressed with the particular HLA complex by antigen presenting cells such as dendritic cells and macrophages. This facilitated presentation of self-antigens, along with other regulatory factors such as lower expression of T-regulatory cells, initiate auto- immunity. Consistent with the generally heightened immune responses in females, these forms of autoimmune endocrine disorders are significantly more prevalent in women, whereas in APS1 the sex distribution is equal. AUTOIMMUNE POLYGLANDULAR SYNDROME 1 (APS1-APECED) APS1 is characterized by 3 classical features; muco-cutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and low PTH concentrations, as well as Addison disease with cortisol deficiency, occasional aldosterone deficiency, and marked elevations in adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Clinical manifestations of primary adrenal insufficiency include hyperpigmentation (increased MSH in conjunction with increased ACTH), abdominal pain, vomiting, weight loss and electrolyte disturbances, as well as hypoglycemia with fasting. Two of the 3 classical features are required to make a diagnosis of APS1. Other manifestations include periodic rash with fever, kerato-conjunctivitis, chronic diarrhea, primary gonadal failure occurring pre-or post-puberty, Hashimoto thyroiditis with hypothyroidism, Vitamin B12 deficiency, chronic active hepatitis, T1DM, and ectodermal dystrophy-hence the term APECED (Autoimmune Poly Endocrinopathy, Candidiasis, Ectodermal Dystrophy).The features of ectodermal dystrophy include enamel hypoplasia affecting only the permanent teeth, pitted nail dystrophy unrelated to candidiasis of the nails, and visible alterations in the
