Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


Endocrinopathy, Candidiasis, Ectodermal Dystrophy).The features of ectodermal dystrophy include enamel hypoplasia affecting only the permanent teeth, pitted nail dystrophy unrelated to candidiasis of the nails, and visible alterations in the tympanic membranes characterized by calcium deposits. Iritis, optic atrophy and skin changes termed keratopathy, as well as alopecia and vitiligo also are reported ( 1 ). Most affected patients manifest their problem(s) by 5 years of age; non-endocrine manifestations precede the endocrine manifestations in about 75% of cases, with mucocutaneous, including oral, candidiasis as the first manifestation in about 60% and malabsorption in about 10%, and vitiligo, alopecia, hepatitis and keratopathy in about 5% of affected subjects (see table 1 ). Mucocutaneous candidiasis, the most common nonendocrine manifestation, occurs due to defective receptor- mediated internalization of Candida by monocytes as well as decreased kinase activation ( 13 ). In these subjects, the median interval to an endocrine manifestation is about 4 years with a range from 0.1-33 years. When an endocrine disorder is the first manifestation it is almost invariably hypoparathyroidism; overall about 70%-80% develop hypoparathyroidism, and in those who develop hypoparathyroidism first, about 60% develop Addison disease. If Addison disease is the first manifestation, about a third also develop hypoparathyroidism. The manifestations vary in sequence and age at onset; the description of all known Finnish cases in 2006 by Peerhentupa ( 1 ) remains one of the most detailed series description, and indicates the remarkable heterogenous pattern with the 3 most common being muco-cutaneous candidiasis (~80%), followed by hypoparathyroidism (~80%), and Addison disease(~70%). Ovarian failure occurs in about 60% of affected females but testicular failure only occurs in about 15% of males; parietal cell atrophy with atrophic gastritis and B12 deficiency, and T1DM occur in only about 12% of patients, with diabetes a late complication in comparison to the early manifestations of parathyroid and adrenal deficiency; although anti-thyroid antibodies are common, hypothyroidism only develops in about 5% of affected patients. Rare manifestations include diabetes insipidus, growth hormone deficiency secondary to hypophysitis, and infertility due to sperm antibodies in males and ovarian failure in females. In most patients with APS1, disease manifestations develop earlier than in APS2, as noted above, and are usually more severe than in APS-2. Typically, a given APS-1 patient develops an average of 4–5 manifestations of the syndrome, but may have as few as one or as many as twenty. Due to chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, patients
