Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


given APS-1 patient develops an average of 4–5 manifestations of the syndrome, but may have as few as one or as many as twenty. Due to chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, patients are also susceptible to squamous carcinoma of the oral mucosa and esophagus over time. In general, patients with APS-1 have an increased mortality risk , due to cancer, adrenal and hypocalcemic crises, and certain conditions induced by aberrant autoimmune responses, particularly hepatitis, nephritis and pneumonitis ( 14 ). Circulating antibodies against components of the parathyroid, adrenal, and thyroid glands as well as those of the pancreatic islets are hallmarks of this disease which affects T-cell as well as B- cell function. Although lymphocytic infiltration of the parathyroid glands is frequent, the protein NALP5 that serves as the antigen for the immune response was not discovered until 2008 ( 5 ). Antibodies to NALP5 (NACHT leucine-rich-repeat protein 5) were found to be highly specific and present only in those with hypoparathyroidism as part of APS1, but absent in other forms of autoimmune syndromes ( 5 ) or patients with APS1 but without hypoparathyroidism. Antibodies against adrenal cytochrome P450 enzymes such as Cyp21, Cyp17 and Cyp11A1 are present in many patients but wane with glucocorticoid treatment. Circulating antibodies to GAD 65 and IA2 may be present but are not strong predictors for the development of T1DM. Thyroid peroxidase and anti-thyroglobulin antibodies also are common but not predictive for development of hypothyroidism. Antibodies against liver microsomal proteins, against parietal cells ( α & β subunits of H + /K + ATPase), and against intrinsic factor also are reported. Other less common autoantibodies observed in APS-1 include BPI Fold Containing Family B Member 1 (BPIFB1), the potassium channel regulator KCNRG, expressed in the lung, and transglutaminase-4, expressed solely in the prostate gland ( 15 - 17 ). A unique feature is the presence of autoantibodies that neutralize type1 interferon, mostly interferon1α and 1ω; these antibodies appear to be specific for this entity and therefore have clinical diagnostic utility ( 18 ). Since over 95% of patients with APS-1 have autoantibodies to type 1 interferons, it has been proposed that evaluating the presence of these interferon antibodies should be part of the diagnostic evaluation of patients suspected of harboring APS1. In addition, patients with AIRE mutations possess high-affinity disease-ameliorating autoantibodies, which may explain the low incidence and late appearance of T1DM in patients with APS1
