Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


patients suspected of harboring APS1. In addition, patients with AIRE mutations possess high-affinity disease-ameliorating autoantibodies, which may explain the low incidence and late appearance of T1DM in patients with APS1 ( 19 ). In contrast to the autoantibodies mentioned above, systemic autoantibodies to certain cytokines are highly prevalent in many, if not most, APS-1 patients. Autoantibodies to the interleukin (IL) 17 family of cytokines, especially IL-22 are also prevalent in APS-1, exceeding 90% in some series ( 20 ). The cause of this autoimmunity are inactivating mutations in the autoimmune regulator gene ( AIRE ) on chromosome 21q22.3, which normally acts to permit ectopic expression in the thymus of numerous tissue restricted hormonal and other peripheral antigens, so that developing T-cells that acquire high affinity receptors for these antigens as the developing T-cell traverses the thymic epithelium are eliminated and do not enter the periphery to cause auto-immunity ( 2 , 4 , 6 , 7 ). For the classic case, this is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder; however, point mutations resulting in an autosomal dominant form have been reported, albeit this autosomal dominant form seems less severe than the classic autosomal recessive disease, suggesting that this genetic disorder may be more prevalent in various immune disorders hitherto not considered to be due to AIRE mutations ( 2 , 4 , 11 , 21 ). The structure of the AIRE gene, the sites of autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive mutations, their influence on the expression and function of the gene and its consequences, are elegantly discussed in recent reviews ( 2 , 4 , 11 , 21 ). To date, over 100 different disease-causing mutations have been reported. The most common is the so-called Finnish major mutation p.R257X, located in the SAND-domain (named after a range of proteins in the protein family: S p100, A IRE-1, N ucP41/75, D EAF-1). The Finnish major mutation is especially prevalent in people in Finland, Russia, and Eastern Europe ( 22 ). Another common mutation is the so-called 13 base pair deletion (p.C322del13) in the histone protein reading region called plant homeodomain 1 (PHD1), prevalent in persons in Norway, the British Isles, France, and North-America ( 10 , 23 ). Additionally, patients with unique dominant negative mutations in AIRE with autosomal dominant inheritance have recently been identified. These dominant negative mutations are associated with milder disease, often with accompanying pernicious anemia, vitiligo, autoimmune thyroid
