Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


dominant negative mutations in AIRE with autosomal dominant inheritance have recently been identified. These dominant negative mutations are associated with milder disease, often with accompanying pernicious anemia, vitiligo, autoimmune thyroid disease, and T1DM, and can be confused with the much more common condition, APS-2, which has a complex inheritance. The dominant gene variants are located both in the PHD1 and SAND domain ( 24 , 25 ). Recent findings indicate that AIRE controls immune tolerance by an additional mechanism—the induction of a unique population of FOXP3-positive T regulatory cells (Tregs) in the thymus that have the ability to suppress autoreactive cells ( 11 , 25 , 26 ). Thus, not only do more autoreactive cells escape deletion, but those Tregs normally in place to limit their activities are either not developed or are dysfunctional. The peri-post pubertal period is a common time for presentation of some manifestations, although initial presentation may occur as early as the first year of life ( 3 ). The classic disorder is rare, and altogether it is estimated that there were only several hundred cases worldwide. However, the syndrome is more common in certain populations; 1: 25,000 in Finns, 1:14,500 Sardinians, 1:9000 Iranian Jews, all examples of past “isolated” populations that demonstrate a founder effect. Surprisingly, however, diabetes mellitus is uncommon and generally appears as a late manifestation in the third and fourth decades of life ( 1 - 3 , 20 ). Unusual features include chronic kidney disease, apparent mineralocorticoid excess, asplenia and oral or esophageal malignancy. The frequency, patterns and long-term outcomes of this syndrome vary in different populations that harbor different mutations; recent reviews of the patterns and outcomes in cohorts from Sardinia ( 27 ), Norway ( 10 ) and India ( 28 ) highlight these unique patterns. The classic features based on the Finnish cohort are summarized in Table1 . Table 1. Clinical Features of APS1 View in own window Symptom Percentage of patients Mucocutaneous candidiasis 80% Hypoparathyroidism 70-80% Adrenal Insufficiency 60% Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus 12% Hypothyroidism 4% Ovarian Failure in Affected Females 60% Testicular Failure in Affected Males 14% Gastric Parietal Cell Failure 15% Hepatitis 13% Ectodermal Dysplasia 33% Keratopathy 22% Alopecia 27% Vitiligo 13% Based on references ( 1 - 4 ) Treatment of APS1 Treatment guidelines for this condition have been proposed ( 29 ); they are based on immune suppression and modulation with agents including
