Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


( 1 - 4 ) Treatment of APS1 Treatment guidelines for this condition have been proposed ( 29 ); they are based on immune suppression and modulation with agents including glucocorticoids such as prednisone, cyclosporin, the calcineurin inhibitors tacrolimus and sirolimus, methotrexate, mycophenolate mofetil, and rituximab, a CD20 inhibitor; these are especially used for auto-immune hepatitis, enteropathy, tubulo-interstitial nephritis, interstitial lung disease, and keratoconjunctivitis, and are detailed by Kisand et al ( 20 ). In general, management of autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes includes hormonal replacement therapy as needed, and treatment of complications ( 11 ). An interesting development is the discovery that the damage to various tissues in patients affected by APS 1 mutations is mediated via the JAK-.STAT signaling cascade and involves interferon gamma ( 30 , 31 ). Note that we previously stated above that antibodies to interferon1 were diagnostic for the entity APS1; damage to organs is mediated via the JAK-STAT signaling cascade. Hence, blockade of JAK-STAT signaling might reduce tissue damage. Indeed, inhibiting the JAK-STAT signaling cascade via the monoclonal Ab Ruxolitinib, improves clinical and biochemical manifestations in both a murine model and human patients ( 11 , 32 ), offering promise for dramatic improvement in prognosis and clinical outcomes for affected patients. Larger studies in affected patients are awaited with interest. Current standard treatment requires that hormonal and vitamin (Vitamin D, B12) replacement should be implemented for the known hormonal deficiencies, and other deficiencies should be anticipated and screened for periodically, especially in those with circulating antibodies for components of adrenal steroidogenesis (21-hydroxyase,17-hydroxylase), thyroid (TPO, TG antibodies) and calcium, phosphate, and/or parathyroid hormone levels as indicated. Periodic assessment of HbA1c, fasting glucose, liver function via ALT and AST should complement careful clinical assessment at 6 month-1year intervals in affected patients. When hypoparathyroidism and chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis are the initial manifestations, screening for primary adrenal insufficiency via an afternoon ACTH concentration is suggested to be performed every 6 months and at least annually. A level of ACTH greater than 80pg/ml is highly suggestive and a level exceeding 100pg/ml is virtually diagnostic. Whereas some recommend performing an ACTH- stimulation test to document adrenal reserve, others recommend starting cortisol replacement therapy and ongoing monitoring of sodium and potassium levels to exclude evolving aldosterone deficiency, as well as checking supine and standing blood pressure. Anti-candida drugs such as ketoconazole when used to treat the candidiasis should alert the treating physicians
