Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


to exclude evolving aldosterone deficiency, as well as checking supine and standing blood pressure. Anti-candida drugs such as ketoconazole when used to treat the candidiasis should alert the treating physicians to exclude possibility of adrenal insufficiency since these agents are known to interfere with cortisol synthesis and hence may accelerate the appearance of adrenal insufficiency or worsen manifestations of existing adrenal deficiency. Cortisol should initially be given in stress dosage, commonly 2-3 times the daily maintenance of ~10mg/m 2 /d for several days once initial diagnosis is established; thereafter, normal replacement doses of ~8- 10mg/M 2 /day may be given in 3 divided oral doses daily. When initial diagnosis is established during an inpatient admission, or at a subsequent hospital stay, consideration should be given to administer the hydrocortisone via parenteral means, intravenously or via intramuscular injection. This precaution is advised as oral medication may be less absorbed due to the concomitant presence of candidiasis of the esophagus and lower GI tract which might impair absorption. Patients should also be advised to wear a Medic-Alert bracelet, necklace or key chain, so that cortisol treatment is not delayed should a patient be involved in a motor vehicle accident or be in coma due to adrenal crisis or hypoglycemia. There is evidence that the predilection for autoimmunity in persons with trisomy 21 (Downs syndrome) may also be due to abnormality in the AIRE gene ( 9 ). Absent the classic triad of hypoparathyroidism, chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, and primary adrenal insufficiency, or 2 of these three manifestations, it is likely that many cases are missed; the wide spectrum of potential presentations suggest that genetic testing via AIRE mutational analysis be considered in patients with hepatitis, chronic diarrhea, and periodic rash with fever ( 1 ). Recent reviews also raise the possibility of genetic manipulation of certain mutations to restore thymic surveillance at some future date ( 2 ). Patients with APS-1 are best followed by a multi-disciplinary team led by a pediatric or adult endocrinologist at an academic medical center. Patients should have a minimum of two follow-up visits per year due to the complexity of the entity, and asymptomatic mutations carriers should be followed at least annually. It is mandatory to check all siblings of APS-1 patients even if they are adult and seemingly well. Screening for 21-hydroxylase and NALP5 antibodies is useful in assessing the risk of development of adrenal insufficiency
