Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


all siblings of APS-1 patients even if they are adult and seemingly well. Screening for 21-hydroxylase and NALP5 antibodies is useful in assessing the risk of development of adrenal insufficiency and hypoparathyroidism, respectively. AUTOIMMUNE POLYGLANDULAR SYNDROME 2 (APS2a; SCHMIDT SYNDROME) APS2 is characterized by the triad of T1DM, Addison disease, and thyroid autoimmunity with hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, or Hashimoto thyroiditis; T1DM and Addison disease are obligatory components, but thyroid autoimmunity is not and a host of other autoimmune entities can also be associated. These entities include celiac disease, vitiligo, alopecia, myasthenia gravis, pernicious anemia, IgA deficiency, hepatitis and hypogonadism. Peak prevalence is in the range of 20-40 years of age. In keeping with an autoimmune basis, the syndrome is more prevalent in females and associated with specific HLA DR3 and DR4 haplotypes and with the class II HLA alleles DQ2 and DQ8, also strongly linked to celiac disease. Autoantibodies to islet cell components (GAD65, IA2, ZnT8), thyroid (anti-thyroglobulin TG, anti-thyroid peroxidase TPO), adrenal leading to Addison disease (anti-21-hydroxylase or anti 17-hydroxylase), and celiac disease (tissue transglutaminase and gliadin) are commonly present and should be periodically sought in those with two autoimmune endocrinopathies such as Addison disease and T1DM. Specific treatment for each entity should be continued in the hospital, with cortisol dosage adjusted for stress ( 8 ). A mechanism by which viral disease may trigger autoimmunity in the gut leading to celiac disease has recently been proposed and may have relevance to the other auto-immune diseases that form this entity ( 32 ). The onset of APS-2 typically appears later than APS-1, mostly in young adulthood. Currently, there are no unique tests to detect patients with APS-2, but testing for autoantibodies may be helpful in assessing disease risk, since the relevant autoantibodies are frequently detectable years before disease onset. Despite the major advancement in identification of disease genes, the heritability of APS-2 is complex. Some authors propose splitting this syndrome into further subtypes, but there is little evidence for distinct etiology in such subcategories, so the broader term APS-2 for all of these patients seems appropriate ( 11 ). Illustrative Case A 16-year old girl was admitted to the hospital in coma and found to have profound hypoglycemia. Her physical findings were striking for pigmented patches on her tongue, gums, and lips and her skin was deeply suntanned (see figure 2 ). The mother related that her daughter has T1DM
