Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


findings were striking for pigmented patches on her tongue, gums, and lips and her skin was deeply suntanned (see figure 2 ). The mother related that her daughter has T1DM since age 12 and had been experiencing numerous hypoglycemic episodes unrelated to food intake or exercise. Accordingly, the dose of insulin had been reduced to about 50% of what it had been 3 months previously. She responded to glucose infusion and recovered full consciousness. Laboratory tests documented a marked elevation of ACTH, low morning cortisol, elevated antibodies to 21OH, and markedly elevated TSH with a low T4. Thus, this patient fulfills all the criteria for APS2. The hypoglycemia was due to a combination of deficient hormonal counter-regulation (cortisol deficiency) as well as the delayed clearance of insulin as a result of hypothyroidism. Figure 2. Patient with APS 2. AUTOIMMUNE POLYGLANDULAR SYNDROME 3 (APS2b) APS-3 also known as APS2b, is sometimes referred to as Carpenter’s syndrome, and has the same array of endocrine tissue autoimmune abnormalities as APS2, but without Addison disease. Almost 20% of patients with T1DM have thyroglobulin (TG) and thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies, but only a minority progress to clinical or biochemical hypothyroidism, so APS3 (APS2b) could be considered as a relatively common disorder ( 9 ). Treatment of APS-2 should focus on replacement of missing hormones according to current guidelines for treating the main components of APS-2. Physicians should be particularly aware that a patient with APS-2 has an increased risk of developing another organ-specific autoimmune disease. Massive family accumulation of autoimmune diseases, especially with early debut could indicate a monogenic disease, possibly a “non-classical” APS-1 especially if vitiligo and pernicious anemia is prevalent ( 2 ). Table 2. Clinical features of APS2 and APS3 View in own window APS2 APS3 Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Thyroid autoimmunity Thyroid autoimmunity Adrenal Insufficiency ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY Since adrenal insufficiency is a hallmark feature of APS1 and 2a syndromes, and since it is the most life threatening, we briefly review the crucial role of the adrenal in metabolic homeostasis. During stress, cortisol produced by the zona fasciculata of the adrenal gland is required to maintain normoglycemia and hemodynamic stability. Cortisol regulates carbohydrate metabolism to maintain normoglycemia, decreases capillary permeability to maintain a normal blood pressure, and is required for activating enzymatic activity to convert norepinephrine to epinephrine. Cortisol production is under the regulation of the hypothalamus and
