Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


capillary permeability to maintain a normal blood pressure, and is required for activating enzymatic activity to convert norepinephrine to epinephrine. Cortisol production is under the regulation of the hypothalamus and pituitary. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is mediated through the circulating level of plasma cortisol by negative feedback of cortisol on corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and ACTH secretion. Aldosterone produced by the zona glomerulosa is predominantly regulated by the renin-angiotensin system. Aldosterone stimulates the kidneys to reabsorb sodium and water and excrete potassium. At high concentrations, cortisol can also act on the mineralocorticoid receptor to increase sodium and water retention as the activity of 11β-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase 2 which inactivates cortisol to cortisone is overwhelmed. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency is often chronic, presenting with fatigue, anorexia, and weight loss; hyperpigmentation of the buccal mucosa and skin creases or generalized tanning of the skin occur with primary adrenal insufficiency from the excess of melanocyte stimulating hormone produced as a byproduct in the formation of excess ACTH. Adrenal insufficiency can be caused by primary adrenal disease or dysfunction of the HPA axis (secondary adrenal insufficiency). The most common etiologies of primary adrenal disease in children, adolescents, and young adults include autoimmune disease, retroperitoneal trauma and rare genetic syndromes involving the formation of the adrenal gland, the biosynthetic formation of cortisol, and the ability of the adrenal gland to respond to ACTH. Severe defects may present in the neonatal period or may be unmasked later in life by the requirement for higher secretion during a physiological stress situation such as sepsis or trauma. Secondary adrenal insufficiency is most commonly caused by damage to the hypothalamus or pituitary gland by trauma or neurological surgery or impingement on these structures by a tumor or mass; congenital defects of isolated ACTH formation or action also may occur. More commonly, suppression of the HPA axis can occur in patients chronically treated with potent glucocorticoid steroids. Patients with adrenal insufficiency can present acutely in a severe life-threatening event termed adrenal crisis, particularly if there is an inciting event such as a septic illness, surgical procedure, anesthesia, or trauma. These patients have symptoms of nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dehydration, altered mental status, hypotension, hypoglycemia, or shock ( 33 ). Hypotension may be unresponsive to fluid resuscitation alone due to deficiency of cortisol required to activate β-adrenergic receptors and vascular tone. Salt wasting (hyponatremia, hyperkalemia) results from aldosterone deficiency. A cardinal feature of
