Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


unresponsive to fluid resuscitation alone due to deficiency of cortisol required to activate β-adrenergic receptors and vascular tone. Salt wasting (hyponatremia, hyperkalemia) results from aldosterone deficiency. A cardinal feature of primary adrenal insufficiency is hyperpigmentation owing to concurrent rise in melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) associated with elevated ACTH production. Darkening of the skin is most prominent at the axillae, palmer creases, areolae, genitalia, and pigmentary lines of the gums (see Fig 2 above). This hyperpigmentation does not occur in secondary adrenal insufficiency as there is no rise in ACTH. Secondary causes of adrenal insufficiency, and certain forms of primary adrenal insufficiency that do not affect aldosterone production, do not present with salt-wasting and Addisonian crisis. Because of the circadian rhythm and diurnal variation in ACTH and cortisol production, early morning serum cortisol and ACTH concentrations provide the best assessment of endogenous adrenal function. An early morning serum cortisol of <10 mcg/dl is suspicious for adrenal insufficiency. The corresponding ACTH concentration is elevated in primary adrenal insufficiency; a low ACTH concentration is suspicious for secondary adrenal insufficiency. However, a randomly timed cortisol measurement of <15 mcg/dl, in the setting of an acute illness has been proposed as concerning for adrenal insufficiency in adults ( 33 ). In the absence of clinical clues suggesting primary adrenal insufficiency, such as hyperpigmentation, stimulation with ACTH is the best diagnostic test for identifying those with adrenal insufficiency. At baseline, ACTH and cortisol blood levels are obtained and 250 mcg of synthetic ACTH (cosyntropin) is administered either via the intravenous (IV) or intramuscular (IM) route. The test is considered diagnostic of adrenal insufficiency if the peak cortisol level is less than 18 mcg/dl, 60 minutes following cosyntropin administration ( 34 ). Such a supra- physiologic dose of ACTH may overcome a defect in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to produce the rise in serum cortisol. If there is a high suspicion for secondary adrenal insufficiency in the face of a normal cortisol response to high dose ACTH, early morning serum cortisol and ACTH concentrations may be more informative. The causes of adrenal insufficiency as well as that of thyroid dysfunction and their management are described elsewhere in Endotext ( 35 , 36 ). AUTO-IMMUNITY ASSOCIATED WITH CANCER IMMUNOTHERAPY An increasingly important and frequent cause of endocrine-autoimmune syndromes is their appearance in association with the increasing use of immunotherapy as a front line or back-up therapy in various cancers
