Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


An increasingly important and frequent cause of endocrine-autoimmune syndromes is their appearance in association with the increasing use of immunotherapy as a front line or back-up therapy in various cancers ( 37 ). Indeed, the variety and severity of endocrine autoimmune syndromes associated with the use of inhibitors of CTLA4 (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4) such as ipilimumab, and immune checkpoint blockade of programmed death 1(PD-1) and its ligands PDL1 and PDL2, has recently been termed “the Achilles heel of cancer immunotherapy” ( 38 ). The range of autoimmune endocrine manifestations includes hypophysitis with disturbances in anterior pituitary hormones, hypo-and hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, and T1DM ( 25 , 39 - 43 ). Key checkpoints by which autoimmunity is regulated in normal individuals are also exploited by tumors to evade recognition and elimination via the immune system; employing immuno-regulatory agents that block these checkpoints facilitates the recognition of tumor antigens as foreign and activates their destruction, but at the same time stimulates autoimmune responses to self-antigens. Clinicians should be aware of these autoimmune manifestations and screen for involvement of endocrine tissues or their clinical manifestations. Notably, some of these endocrine autoimmune manifestations may appear months to years after initiation of immune therapy for cancer ( 40 ). Thyroid disorders, typically associated with anti-PD-1 antibodies and hypophysitis commonly related to anti-CTLA-4 therapy, are the two most frequent endocrine organ pathologies ( 41 ). Notably, in a large cohort, it was shown that the incidence of any-grade immune-related adverse event (irAE) is higher with CTLA-4 (53.8%) than with PD-1 (26.5%) and PD-L1 (17.1%) Moreover, the incidence of any-grade irAE was highest in patients receiving CTLA-4 plus PD-1/PD-L1 combinations (61.1%) ( 44 , 45 ). The incidence of endocrine adverse events reported with the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) ranges from 5% to 20% ( 46 , 47 ), with a recent systematic review and meta-analysis reporting an overall incidence of clinically significant endocrinopathies of approximately 10% ( 48 ). Hypophysitis appears most often in men older than 60 years and 2–5 times more frequent than in women. The incidence reported is 4%–20% with ipilimumab, 8% with the combination ipilimumab plus nivolumab, 0.6% with nivolumab, and 0.7% with pembrolizumab ( 47 ). The incidence of hypothyroidism ranges from 6% to 13% and for thyrotoxicosis varied from 3% to 16%. However, when subclinical hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism is included, the incidence can reach 28% and 22%,
