Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndromes
KEYWORDS: autoimmune, patients, pubmed, adrenal, insufficiency, syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, disease, mutations, aire, cortisol, immune, aps-, free, gene


of hypothyroidism ranges from 6% to 13% and for thyrotoxicosis varied from 3% to 16%. However, when subclinical hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism is included, the incidence can reach 28% and 22%, respectively ( 49 ). These risks were reported to be dose dependent; in the case of anti-CTLA-4 treatment, the risk was observed only above a treatment threshold of 10 mg/kg. Rarely, patients develop T1DM, or central diabetes insipidus, or hypoparathyroidism. Endocrinopathies less often reported include diabetes mellitus, as mentioned above, primary adrenal insufficiency, and hypercalcemia due to hyperparathyroidism. In the case of primary adrenal insufficiency, an incidence of less than 1% with monotherapy and 4%–8% with combined immunotherapy has been reported ( 48 ). For T1DM, overall incidence of 0.4% was reported in patients treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 but not those treated with anti-CTLA-4 ( 50 , 51 ). However, a recent study reported a prevalence of 0.9% among 2,960 patients treated by ICI ( 52 ). In clinical practice, significant irAEs (grade 2 or higher) are managed with systemic immunosuppression mostly in the form of corticosteroids with methylprednisolone 0.5–1 mg/kg for grade 2 and 1–2 mg/kg for grade 2–3; for grade 4 irAEs, resuming treatment with the drug is contraindicated. More rarely, anti-tumor necrosis factor-α agents have been used if steroids are not effective or contraindicated ( 41 ). X-LINKED IMMUNODYSREGULATION, POLYENDOCRINOPATHY, AND ENTEROPATHY (IPEX) X-linked Immunodysregulation, Polyendocrinopathy and Enteropathy - or IPEX- is an extremely rare inherited syndrome characterized by early onset T1DM, ( 53 ) autoimmune enteropathy with intractable diarrhea and malabsorption, and dermatitis that may be eczematiform, ichthyosiform or psoriasiform. Eosinophilia and elevated IgE-levels are frequently present in IPEX. Some patients develop kidney disease, most often membranous glomerulonephritis or interstitial nephritis. Later manifestations may include autoimmune thyroiditis, alopecia, various autoimmune cytopenias, hepatitis and exocrine pancreatitis ( 54 ). Several of these features overlap with APS-1, but in IPEX they usually develop much earlier in life at 0.1-0.4 years ( 55 ). The disorder is frequently fatal in the first few years of life, unless patients are diagnosed and promptly treated with immunosuppressive agents or, if possible, receive an allogenic bone marrow transplant, which can be curative ( 54 ). The defective gene was mapped to mutations in the FOXP3 (human) gene ( 56 ). To date, over 100 different mutations throughout the gene have been reported in patients. FOXP3 is currently recognized as a master transcription factor
