META-ANALYSIS
KEYWORDS: cancer, polymorphism, risk, i-squared, asian, subtotal, subtotal i-squared, zhang, sci, china, cancer risk, isi, china asian, carcinoma, polymorphism cancer


of developing oesophageal cancer in Caucasian males and Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide. To make things never-smokers was significantly associated with the rs11614913 worse, the number of cancer cases and deaths is expected to variant homozygote TT, the minor allele in this population . grow rapidly with increase in populations, age, and adapta- Rs11614913 is located on the 3’ passenger (3p) strand ma- tion to lifestyle behaviors that increase cancer risk . One of ture sequence of mir-196a-2, thereby possibly affecting both the major reasons for variability among individuals is the pres- maturation and the repertoire of target mRNAs with which it ence of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), which makes interacts. Indeed, previous studies have shown that sequence individuals more susceptibility to cancer . Several explora- variations in mature and precursor miRNA sequences affect tions related to genome-wide associations have suggested miRNA biogenesis , and levels of mature miR-196a-2 there are many loci in the genome that have signs of low tu- were lower in CC carriers than in TT carriers . Notably, mor susceptibility for common tumors [3–5]. this SNP has also been associated with poor survival in pa- tients with lung cancer. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a type of single-stranded non-encoded small RNA that can inhibit the transcription of mRNA or promote The miR-34 family members include miR-34a, miR-34b, and its degradation at the post-transcription level by binding to the miR-34c. miR-34a is encoded by its own transcription, while target mRNA 3’ UTR region to regulate gene expression . the miR-34b and miR-34c share a primary transcription There is growing evidence that misalignment of miRNA ex- (pri-miR-34b/c) . In the promoter region of Pri-miR-34b/c, pression affects tumorigenesis based on activation of either a potentially functional rs4938723 T/C variant may affect tumor suppressor or oncogene [8–12]. miRNA gene polymor- the binding of transcription factor Gata-X, thereby changing phism affects tumor susceptibility by destroying miRNA bio- the expression of pri-miR-34b/c [23–25]. The rs4938723 T>C synthesis and target gene expression, changing mature miRNA, variant may potentially influence the expression of miR-34b/c or by affecting its interaction with target genes [13–16]. via genetic and epigenetic mechanisms, leading to increased The relationship between miRNA gene polymorphisms is com- or decreased risk of cancer. Previous studies proposed plicated. For example, in each case, the rs11614913 variant that miR-34b/c is dysregulated in various cancers [26–28]. 111 irrelevant articles were excluded after reading the abstract
