META-ANALYSIS
KEYWORDS: cancer, polymorphism, risk, i-squared, asian, subtotal, subtotal i-squared, zhang, sci, china, cancer risk, isi, china asian, carcinoma, polymorphism cancer


leukemia, colorectal, and esophageal cancer. The following rea- the publication bias. Second, there were only 2 case-control sons may explain these results. First, differences in the distri- studies regarding leukemia, colorectal, and gastric cancer; bution of various cancers between cases and controls might be future studies should also focus on these types of cancers. a source of variability during pooling. Second, rs4938723 poly- Third, few studies used mixed, Caucasian, or African popula- morphism might carry out different functions in different types tions; future studies should also focus on these races. Fourth, Indexed in: [Current Contents/Clinical Medicine] [SCI Expanded] [ISI Alerting System] This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- 7069 [ISI Journals Master List] [Index Medicus/MEDLINE] [EMBASE/Excerpta Medica] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Chemical Abstracts/CAS] Xu B. et al.: META-ANALYSIS Rs4938723 polymorphism and cancer risk © Med Sci Monit, 2018; 24: 7057-7071 additional studies are needed to address the effects of race Conclusions and sample size on the predicted associations, and more at- tention must be placed on gene-gene and gene-environment Our present analysis found novel evidence that the pri-miR- interactions. Fifth, other environmental factors, such as dietary 34b/c rs4938723 polymorphism had 2-tier effects on the risk of factors and infectious agents, increase the load of carcinogenic different types of cancers: rs493723 polymorphism was associ- substances humans are exposed to. ated increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and decreased risk of leukemia, colorectal and esophageal cancer. Further stud- ies with larger samples are needed to evaluate associations between rs4938723 polymorphism and each type of cancer. Conflict of interest None.
