Intraoperative Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
KEYWORDS: endoscopy, intraoperative, bleeding, colon, patients, patient, intraoperative endoscopy, table, lesions, resection, ofthe, examination, endoscope, surgeon, lesion


Intraoperative Gastrointestinal Endoscopy TALMADGE A. BOWDEN, JR., M.D., VENDIE H. HOOKS, III, M.D., ARLIE R. MANSBERGER, JR., M.D. opticendoscopetotheintraoperativeenvironmentispresented gery Service and the Surgical Endoscopy Unit, Medical utilized in a wide variety ofdifficult gastrointestinal surgical problemstoincludethelocationofthesiteandcauseofbleeding of obscure etiology; resolution of intraoperative dilemmas without the necessity ofopening abdominal viscera; resection naltractismosteasilyperformedwiththecolonoscope. oflesions during operations conducted for other pathological We use the 165 centimeter Olympus CFLB2® for all processes; andenhancementofdiagnosisatlaparotomy. There total examinations. The endoscope is prepared with werenocomplicationsfromtheuseofintraoperativeendoscopy either gas sterilization or with mechanical cleansing and the technique was beneficial in 28 of the 30 patients (93.3%).Limitingfactorsinthefullutilizationoftheendoscope andsoakinginaniodophorsolution. Aftertheabdomen atceliotomy weredenseadhesions withashortened mesentery is opened and generally explored, the endoscope is and massive hemorrhage with blood obscuring the intestinal introduced orally. Cooperation is required from the lumen. anesthesiologist in the initial positioning of the endo- tracheal tube, monitoring devices, and bite blocks. IN 1958 HIRSCHOWITZ introduced the first clinically Aftertheendoscopeenterstheduodenum,thesurgeon, useful flexible fiberoptic endoscope. During the first assistant and endoscopist work as a team gently 20-year period since that time the mechanical and advancing the instrument. When the duodenal C-loop opticalsophisticationoftheinstrumentshasprogressed has been traversed and the tip of the instrument tothepointthatthemodemdayendoscope canbeused arrives at the ligament of Treitz, the remainder of with relative ease and safety. Conventional endoscopy theexamination isquite easy. Anoncrushingoccluding has become an indispensible tool in the diagnosis and clamp is positioned at the ileocecal valve. Gentle management of surgical and medical gastrointestinal manipulation in the advancement of the instrument disease. Adaptationoftheendoscopetotheintraopera- avoids the production of small mucosal lesions. As tive environment is in its infancy and only a few scat- the endoscope is advanced, the endoscopist keeps the tered references to the technique are in the literature. lumen in the center of the field. Adequate forward Thispaperwillpresentourexperiencewiththeapplica- passageoftheendoscope requiresa"push-pull" action tion of intraoperative endoscopy to a wide variety of by the first assistant and surgeon as the small bowel gastrointestinal problems. is telescoped over the instrument. After the endoscope reaches the terminal ileum the Materials and Methods room lights are turned out and the scope is gradually Since its inception five years ago over 2100 endo- withdrawn from the transilluminated and insufflated scopic exams and procedures have been performed bowel. In 10 cm segments, the lumen is examined by through the Surgical Endoscopy Unit at the Medical the endoscopist andthe external surfacebytheoperat- CollegeofGeorgia(Table 1). Duringthepastfouryears ing surgeon. When examination of the upper gastro- 30 ofthose examinations have
