Intraoperative Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
KEYWORDS: endoscopy, intraoperative, bleeding, colon, patients, patient, intraoperative endoscopy, table, lesions, resection, ofthe, examination, endoscope, surgeon, lesion


examined by through the Surgical Endoscopy Unit at the Medical the endoscopist andthe external surfacebytheoperat- CollegeofGeorgia(Table 1). Duringthepastfouryears ing surgeon. When examination of the upper gastro- 30 ofthose examinations have been carried out in the intestinal tract is complete, the endoscopist passes the operating room during celiotomy. endoscope peranus to the sigmoid colon and the oper- Intraoperative endoscopy ofthe entire gastrointesti- ating surgeon guides the instrument to the cecum. Examinationofthe colonis, onoccasion, slightly more difficult than that of the small intestine, since it may PresentedattheAnnualMeetingoftheSouthernSurgicalAssocia- be necessary to mobilize the flexures for adequate tion, December 3-5, 1979, Hot Springs, Virginia. examination. When a lesion is found, its location is Reprintrequests:TalmadgeA.Bowden,M.D.,DepartmentofSur- markedbyafine serosal silksuture. Oncetheexamina- Augusta, Georgia 30912. tion is completed, the lesion as delineated by endo- Submitted for publication: December 7, 1979. scopic examination is excised by snare cautery, simple 0003-4932/80/0600/0680 $00.90 X J. B. Lippincott Company Vol. 191 .No.6 GASTROINTESTINAL ENDOSCOPY 681 ellipse, wedge resection, or by a more extensive TABLE 2. IndicationsforIntraoperative Endoscopy bowel resection as indicated. A. Tolocatethesiteandetiologyofoccultgastrointestinalbleeding. For a limited examination ofportions ofthe gastro- B. Todiagnose,biopsyand,whenappropriate,resectlesionsduring intestinal tract other scopes are employed. Our choice operations conducted forotherpathological processes. for a study confined to the esophagus, stomach or C. To gain endoscopic access for resection of lesions otherwise inaccessible (endoscopically) by virtue ofintestinal distortion duodenum is either the Olympus GIF-D2 gastroscope due to adhesions. or the thinner, more maneuverable GIFP2 pediatric D. Toguidetheoperatingsurgeontoanareaofresectablepathology gastroscope. throughdenseadhesionswhichare secondarytomultiplepre- vious laparotomies. We have encountered no technical difficulties in any E. To enhance diagnoses at the time ofdiagnostic laparotomy. ofthe examinations, and the average examination time has been approximately 45 minutes. Since the bowel is decompressed as the instrument is withdrawn, there wasdischargedonahighresidue dietwith 100%bran supplementa- tion. has been no difficulty in closing the abdomen. No Seven days later the patient returned with acute lower tract instance ofprolonged ileus has occurred. bleeding and associated syncope. Angiographic findings were com- patible with a "possible" vascular anomaly ofthe right colon, and Indications vasopressin (Pitressin) perfused through the indwelling arterial catheterstoppedthebleeding.Atelectiveoperation,carefulexplora- The indications for intraoperative gastrointestinal tion ofthe abdominal viscerafailed to reveal a source ofbleeding, endoscopy have been wide and varied in the manage- butintraoperativeendoscopyshoweda 1 cm,irregular,redmucosal ment of complicated problems in surgical patients lesion in the area of the cecum. With transillumination via the (Table 2). The technique has been successfully, used endoscope an obvious vascular anomaly was clearly identified. A conservative elliptical
