Intraoperative Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
KEYWORDS: endoscopy, intraoperative, bleeding, colon, patients, patient, intraoperative endoscopy, table, lesions, resection, ofthe, examination, endoscope, surgeon, lesion


lesion in the area of the cecum. With transillumination via the (Table 2). The technique has been successfully, used endoscope an obvious vascular anomaly was clearly identified. A conservative elliptical excision of the lesion which measured 1.5 to locate the site and cause of bleeding of obscure x 2.0 cm was done. Intraoperative endoscopy was completed origin; to diagnose, biopsy and, when appropriate, within20minutes.Pathologicdiagnosiswasarteriovenousmalforma- resect lesions during operations conducted for other tion (Fig. 1). The patient has had nofurtherbleeding. pathologic processes; to gain endoscopic access for Case2. A 51-year-old man was admittedfor evaluation ofrecur- resection oflesions otherwise inaccessible (endoscopi- rent rectal bleeding. The hemoglobin was 7.7 g/dl and the stools were positive for blood. One year previously the patient had had cally) by virtue of intestinal distortion caused by rectal bleeding and subsequently underwent colonoscopic polyp- adhesions; to guide the operating surgeon to an area ectomy. Upper tract barium studies revealed a duodenal lipoma. ofresectable disease through dense adhesions; and to Colonoscopy on thisadmissionrevealedtwo angiodysplasias in the enhance diagnosis at laparotomy. cecum. Selective angiography confirmed this finding. An elective operation was performed. Intraoperative endoscopy demonstrated an unsuspected angiodysplasia in the transverse colon which had Results not been demonstrated either by previous colonoscopy or by Bleeding ofObscure Origin angiography. Small bowel endoscopy was negative except for the duodenal lipoma which was localized endoscopically and a sub- Case1.A69-year-oldwhitemanwasinitiallyseenbecauseofatwo mucosal resection was performed. Since multiple, angiodysplastic weekhistoryofpainlessrectalbleeding.Thepatientappearedanemic lesions existed, a right colectomy was performed. Pathology con- andgross bloodwas presentonrectal examination. The hematocrit firmed the lesions. The postoperative course was benign and the value was 28%. Proctosigmoidoscopic examination revealed two patient has had nofurtherbleeding. small polyps in the distal sigmoid colon. The nasogastric aspirate Case3.A54-year-oldmanonthemedicine-pulmonary servicefor wasclear. Theadmittingdiagnosiswaslowergastrointestinalbleed- severesilicosisandpolymyositisandon200mgofPrednisoneaday ing secondary to diverticular disease. The bleeding was not developedamassiveuppergastrointestinalbleed.Thestomachcould considered rapid enough to justify angiography and a diagnostic- notbeclearedwithicedsalinelavagesothepatientwastakentothe therapeutic barium enema revealed diverticula of the descending operating room without benefit of a diagnostic evaluation. A and sigmoid colon. The bleeding stopped after the barium enema gastrotomy was done and the bleeding could not be localized. A examination. Repeat barium enema yielded no additional findings steady flow could be seen coming from the area of the cardia. but an additional polyp in the proximal descending colon was Intraoperative endoscopy was performed and with the surgeon found duringcolonoscopy. Allpolypswereremovedandthepatient applying suction from below, an active pulsatile bleeding site was localized by the endoscopist 2 cm
