Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


ABSTRACT Subcutaneous adipose tissue diseases involving adipose tissue and its fascia, also known as adipofascial disorders, represent variations in the spectrum of obesity. The adipofascia diseases discussed in this chapter can be localized or generalized and include a common disorder primarily affecting women, lipedema, and four rare diseases, familial multiple lipomatosis, angiolipomatosis, Dercum disease, and multiple symmetric lipomatosis. The fat in adipofascial disorders is difficult to lose by standard weight loss approaches, including lifestyle (diet, exercise), pharmacologic therapy, and even bariatric surgery, due in part to tissue fibrosis. In the management of obesity, healthcare providers should be aware of this difficulty and be able to provide appropriate counseling and care of these conditions. Endocrinologists and primary care providers alike will encounter these conditions and should consider their occurrence during workup for bariatric surgery or hypothyroidism (lipedema) and in those that manifest, or are referred for, dyslipidemia or diabetes (Dercum disease). People with angiolipomas should be worked up for Cowden’s disease where a mutation in the gene PTEN increases their risk for thyroid and breast cancer. This chapter provides details on the pathophysiology, prevalence, genetics and treatments for these adipofascial disorders along with recommendations for the care of people with these diseases. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION People with subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) diseases have fat within this compartment that grows abnormally in amount or structure, often causing pain and other discomfort. Subcutaneous adipose tissue is loose connective tissue, or adipofascia, which is the most common type of connective tissue in vertebrates. The focus of this chapter is on abnormal SAT that has within it changes in blood vessels, lymphatic vessels, immune cells, mesenchymal stem cells, fascia, interstitial matrix organ, or other components that make up loose connective tissue. The SAT diseases discussed here include lipedema, which commonly occurs in women, and four rare adipose tissue diseases (RAD): familial multiple lipomatosis, angiolipomatosis, Dercum disease, and Madelung disease ( 1 ). Adipose tissue in SAT diseases is resistant to loss by usual measures including extreme dietary changes (both hypocaloric and in macronutrient content) and exercise. Because of this, it is often referred to persistent fat tissue. People with diabetes and/or obesity may have a mixture of normal and persistent fat, making the understanding of SAT diseases by clinicians important in the care of these patients. Persistent fat may also
