Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


and/or obesity may have a mixture of normal and persistent fat, making the understanding of SAT diseases by clinicians important in the care of these patients. Persistent fat may also be found in conditions where adipose tissue proliferation occurs, such as during infection, in autoimmune diseases, in those with hypermobile joint disorders, or with exposure to environmental toxins. Information on subcutaneous adipose tissue diseases not discussed here can be found in recent reviews and other Endotext chapters, including those covering lipodystrophies ( 2 - 4 ), cellulite ( 5 ), obesity ( 6 , 7 ), and other fat depots such visceral fat (abdominal, perirenal, pericardial), and perivascular fat ( 8 ). Along with the gut ( 9 ), subcutaneous adipose tissue is thought to be one of the largest endocrine organs in the body ( 10 ). Subcutaneous adipose tissue houses immune cells including monocytes/macrophages, mast cells, and lymphocytes, which produce some of the hormones secreted by fat tissue ( 11 , 12 ). Greater amounts of fat and immune cells result in an inflammatory process that can lead to insulin resistance and slow intrinsic pumping of lymphatic vessels, which, in turn, may prolong inflammation in this tissue ( 13 ). Patients, most often women with swelling, have slow blood flow in, and lymph flow out of, depots of increased fat on the abdomen ( 14 , 15 ) or the gynoid area (hips, thighs and buttocks) ( 16 ). Poor blood and lymph flow through fat tissue results in accumulation of fluid, cell waste material, proteins, cells and other metabolic products in the extracellular matrix (ECM) around adipocytes and other components of adipofascia, resulting in a hypoxic environment, especially in adipocytes furthest from their nutrient and oxygen sources. These adipocytes then send signals that recruit more immune cells, resulting in a state of sustained inflammation and tissue degradation. Connective tissue then replaces degraded tissue in a process called fibroplasia or fibrosis. When tissue ischemia occurs or ECM accumulation outpaces its degradation, fibrosis may become unchecked and lead to widespread pathological remodeling of the ECM culminating in permanent scar tissue that completely inhibits flow through the adipose tissue ( 17 ). Obesity is a main cause of densification of fascia and fibrosis development in loose connective tissue ( 18 ). The result is a fibrotic mesh around adipocytes and fat lobules which has been well described ( 19 ).
