Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


fascia and fibrosis development in loose connective tissue ( 18 ). The result is a fibrotic mesh around adipocytes and fat lobules which has been well described ( 19 ). This sick fat, or adisopathy, increases the risk of metabolic disease ( 20 ). In addition, more fibrotic adipose tissue is less responsive to mobilization and reduction attempts through diet, exercise, use of weight loss medications, or bariatric surgery ( 19 , 21 , 22 ). All the SAT disorders in this chapter have a component of fibrosis in the tissue that prevents loss by usual measures. An important goal is to determine why the loose connective tissue in SAT diseases becomes fibrotic and adisopathic to prevent its occurrence and progression and treat when identified. LIPEDEMA Lipedema is a common SAT disease that was first described in 1940 at the Mayo clinic by Drs. Allen and Hines ( 23 ). A second seminal paper in 1951 provided a description of lipedema that is still commonly used for clinical diagnosis. Lipedema occurs almost exclusively in women but has been reported rarely in men ( 24 - 26 ). Lipedema fat is located just under the skin on the limbs including upper arms, hips, buttocks, thighs, lower legs, generally sparing the trunk and feet. It feels nodular when palpated, may be painful to touch, and often has prominent superficial veins. Lipedema tissue can be found under the umbilicus and in some woman, a deeper nodular adipofascia is found in the lateral abdomen. This inner nodularity may reflect changes in the ECM that may be a precursor to lipedema fat if abdominal obesity develops. Disease defining key questions and physical examination characteristics can help to establish the diagnosis of lipedema ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Characteristics of lipedema that aid in establishment of diagnosis are listed, and many can be seen in the accompanying photo. This patient was diagnosed with Stage 3, type III and IV lipedema without lymphedema (see below). A quick and easy set of questions and exam findings are included to help in diagnosis of women with lipedema. Classification of Lipedema Lipedema is classified by stages and types ( 27 ). In Stage 1 ( Figure 2 ) the skin surface is normal over an enlarged hypodermis that already has palpable pea-sized nodules in the fat. These pea-sized nodules represent enlargement of and fibrosis in the ECM and in
