Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


skin surface is normal over an enlarged hypodermis that already has palpable pea-sized nodules in the fat. These pea-sized nodules represent enlargement of and fibrosis in the ECM and in the connective tissue surrounding the fat lobule. Stage 2 skin is uneven with indentations (like cellulite) representing thickening and contraction of underlying connective tissue fibers over increased fat with small to larger hypodermal masses. Lobular extrusions of skin, fat and fascia tissue in Stage 3 represent significant loss of elasticity in the adipofascia drastically inhibiting mobility; blood flow in and lymph flow out of the lobules is reduced resulting in inflammation followed by fibrosis; it is in this stage that fibrosis in the tissue becomes prominent and clearly palpable; fibrosis may or may not affect the skin and the skin may develop thinning and a looser connection to the underlying hypodermis ( Figure 1 ). Modifications of diagnostic criteria for lipedema have been suggested ( 28 ). Lymphedema can occur at any stage, but is more often found in women with Stage 3 lipedema when it is often called lipo-lymphedema or Stage 4 ( 26 ). Rather than use this combined term, however, it is preferable to identify the lipemia stage and state whether lymphedema is also present or not. Lymphedema can be identified in women with lipedema by visible swelling of the hands or feet, pitting edema, asymmetry between the size of one limb versus the other, and/or a positive Stemmer sign. A positive Stemmer sign occurs when edema in the limb makes it difficult to pinch skin on the great toe, top of the foot, finger, or dorsal hand. A negative Stemmer sign occurs when only skin is pinched. Other differences between lipedema and lymphedema include symmetry (lipedema tissue occurs symmetrically versus lymphedema, which is usually unilateral), sparing of the hands and feet in lipedema, and report by patients of pain in lipedematous but not lymphedematous tissue. Figure 2. Three stages of legs of women with lipedema with subcategories of types. In Stage 1, the skin is smooth, and the legs can appear normal but there is pain, easy bruising and a nodular feel to the fat tissue. In Stage 2, the lipedema fat exhibits a mattress-like pattern indicating fibrosis under the skin that tethers on the skin that can be found on the upper legs (Type II) or extend down to the ankles (Type III). In lipedema
