Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


indicating fibrosis under the skin that tethers on the skin that can be found on the upper legs (Type II) or extend down to the ankles (Type III). In lipedema Stage 3, there are folds of tissue and the lipedema fat usually extends down to the ankles. For description of the types of lipedema, see Figure 3 . The type of lipedema is defined by its anatomical location ( 29 ). Women with Type I lipedema have affected fat on the pelvis, buttocks and hips (saddle bag phenomenon). Women with Type II have affected fat from the buttocks to knees with formation of a tender deposits of fat around the inner side of and below the knee. Women with Type III lipedema have affected fat from the buttocks to ankles where a prominent “cuff,” or ledge, of fat tissue develops. Women with Type IV lipedema fat have affected arms and women with Type V lipedema, a rare type, have only affected lower legs. The most common phenotype of women with lipedema are combinations of II and IV or III and IV ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Types of lipedema fat. Lipedema fat may be located from the umbilicus down to the bottom of the hips (Type I), down to the medial knees usually including a pad of fat on the inner knee and below the knee (Type II), and down to the ankle (Type III) where a “cuff” of fat develops but spares the dorsal foot. Rarely only the lower legs are affected (Type V). Lipedema affecting the arms alone is rare (Type IV) and, instead, usually is found in combination with Type II or III lipedema. The arms can be variably affected with nodular lipedema fat around the cubit nodes, over the brachioradialis, down the medial arm to the wrist in line with the thumb or 5 th digit, the entire lower arm, or the entire arm. Prevalence of Lipedema From one specialty lymphedema/obesity clinic in Germany, the prevalence of lipedema in women was estimated to be 11%. Estimates from similar clinics reported prevalence rates of lipedema ranging from 15 to 18.8% ( 30 , 31 ). The prevalence of lipedema in children in the United States in a vascular clinic was reported to be 6.5% ( 32 ). Examination of 62 women outside of clinics in Germany found a prevalence rate for all types of lipedema of
