Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


a vascular clinic was reported to be 6.5% ( 32 ). Examination of 62 women outside of clinics in Germany found a prevalence rate for all types of lipedema of 39% ( 33 ). Using the lowest prevalence estimate in adults of 11%, over 16 million women in the US may be affected with lipedema. Genetics of Lipedema The gene or genes underlying lipedema are not known, but another affected immediate family member has been reported in up to 60% of women ( 34 - 37 ). This is compatible with an autosomal dominant inheritance with incomplete penetrance ( 38 ) in which an affected parent has a 50% chance of passing lipedema to their child. Supportive of a genetic component, lipedema has been reported in children ( 32 ) and as early as infancy by some women. The phenotypic expression of lipedema may vary amongst affected females, especially if there is also obesity in the family. Males that carry the putative gene do not generally exhibit the phenotype, even the fathers of affected daughters. A mutation in the POU1F1/PIT-1 gene has been shown to cause multiple anterior pituitary deficiencies including thyroxine and growth hormone (GH) deficiency. A PIT-1 mutation was associated with the phenotypic presentation of lipedema in a short mother but not her short son who also carried the mutation, and not in her normal height daughter who did not carry the mutation ( 39 ). In mice with GH receptor (GHR) antagonism or lacking GH function, subcutaneous adipose tissue is increased more than other fat depots similar to lipedema in humans ( 40 ). No other cases of women with lipedema and a mutation in PIT-1 have been reported to date and women with lipedema are not known to be more likely to have short stature. Classic features of lipedema can be found in people with Williams syndrome caused by a chromosomal 7q11.23 microdeletion of ~1.6 million base pairs, which includes the elastin gene ELN ( 41 ). Loss of elasticity results in the reduction of the ability of tissue to contract back after being stretched. Changes in elasticity may therefore allow more fat to grow. These reports suggest there may be more than one genetic mutation causing expression of the lipedema phenotype. Additional genes that may be important in the development of lipedema have been reviewed ( 42 ). Pathophysiology of Lipedema The cause of lipedema
