Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


causing expression of the lipedema phenotype. Additional genes that may be important in the development of lipedema have been reviewed ( 42 ). Pathophysiology of Lipedema The cause of lipedema remains unknown. Given the predominance of occurrence in women, it is tempting to consider sex steroids, especially estrogen, as major triggers or contributors of this condition. That knee laxity in women peaks when estrogen levels decline between ovulation and post-ovulation is indictive of estrogen’s effect on connective tissue ( 43 ). Other observations that support this effect include reports that lipedema is often first noticed at the time of puberty in young girls and occasionally following pregnancy, when multiple hormone levels are high, including estrogen. Although data in men is sparse, those reported to have lipedema tend to have low testosterone or liver disease, both of which are associated with a relative increase in estrogen levels and therefore a higher estrogen to testosterone ratio ( 21 ). While higher levels of testosterone in women with polycystic ovarian syndrome are not protective against lipedema, the adipose tissue in women with this condition may be predisposed to lipedema due to abdominal obesity and inflammation associated with pre-diabetes or diabetes. A causative role for estrogen in the expression of lipedema remains speculative until well-controlled studies are conducted that quantify sex hormone levels, sex hormone receptors, tissue effects, metabolism or sex hormone driven pathways in men and women with lipedema. Proposed theories to explain lipedema Theory 1: Abnormal Blood Microvasculature We and others ( 36 , 44 , 45 ) have advanced the theory that increased compliance from structural changes in connective tissue results in the ability to hold on to fluids, proteins and other constituents within the ECM and is causally important in the development of lipedema. As in lymphedema, changes in lipedema tissue may occur globally but are likely to also be found regionally in the same limb ( 46 ). Over 50% of women with lipedema are thought to have some kind of joint hypermobility consistent with a connective tissue disorder ( 25 ). Most women with lipedema and hypermobility fall into the Ehlers Danlos spectrum of disorders, the gene for which is not known ( 47 , 48 ). This hypothesis is consistent with loss of elasticity in tissue resulting in classic features of lipedema in Williams syndrome. Structures in loose connective tissue that contain elastin include blood vessels, lymph
