Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


hypothesis is consistent with loss of elasticity in tissue resulting in classic features of lipedema in Williams syndrome. Structures in loose connective tissue that contain elastin include blood vessels, lymph nodes, and connective tissue fascia that helps loose connective tissue hold its shape. Initial lymphatic vessels do not have elastic fibers, but elastic fibers support lymphatic vessels to open and close in response to pressure changes in the tissue; loss of elasticity could reduce the ability of lymphatic vessels to open with increased pressure in the ECM. Capillaries do not have elastic fibers but the loose connective tissue surrounding them does; as loose connective tissue enlarges due to growth of adipocytes, capillaries are at risk for dilation and distortion. Dilated and/or distorted capillaries may release their contents into tissues at a higher rate and/or amount in lipedema which initially, lymphatic vessels promptly pump out. Over time, due to compliance in fascia surrounding cells, malfunction of lymphatic vessels, and increased infiltrate leaving altered capillaries fill the ECM, with protein dense and salt-rich ( 49 ) deposits that accumulate in the interstitial space clogging flow through the tissue resulting in hypoxia. Hypoxia results in the secretion of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1 by local adipocytes, which stimulates hypoxia response elements on a number of genes including the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene and inducing proliferation of stem cells in the adipose tissue ( 50 ). Levels of VEGF have been shown to be elevated in women with lipedema (n=9) compared to women without lipedema (n=5) ( 51 ), supporting an underlying role for hypoxia in the pathogenesis of lipedema. Lymph fluid induces adipogenesis when added to adipocytes ( 52 ). Therefore, accumulation of pre-lymph fluid in the ECM may be a stimulating factor in adipogenesis. Mesenchymal stem cells isolated from lipedema stromal vascular fraction (SVF), a heterogeneous collection of cells surrounding adipocytes within adipose tissue, contained the connective tissue cell marker CD90+ and endothelial/pericytic marker CD146+ ( 53 ). With ~50% of cells in the SVF expressing +CD146+, perivascular cells (pericytes) play a physiological role in vascular development and homeostasis ( 52 ). The presence of such high numbers of pericytes is consistent with a chronic capillary injury in lipedema leading to increased need for repair and increased protection of vessels. As overworked lymphatic vessels eventually lose function, microaneurysms form in the lymphatic vessels in lipedemadous tissue, becoming high risk for breakage
