Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


increased need for repair and increased protection of vessels. As overworked lymphatic vessels eventually lose function, microaneurysms form in the lymphatic vessels in lipedemadous tissue, becoming high risk for breakage and leakage analogous to what happens in lymphedema ( 54 , 55 ). Adipokines, especially large adipokines such as leptin and monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, become secreted primarily into the lymphatic system rather than blood capillaries ( 56 ). It would then follow that adipokine flow out of lipedema loose connective tissue would be diminished and systemic levels lower (e.g., leptin levels), leading to larger quantities of adipose tissue necessary to achieve weight homeostasis. Other potential contributors to expression of lipedema include release of lipids from leaky lymphatic vessels in the gut and tissue level ( 57 ), which could mediate induction of adipogenesis and have an important role in the development of the loose connective tissue in lipedema ( 58 ). Finally, inflammation in response to hypoxia or injuries could facilitate the development of fibrosis within loose connective tissue, not only reducing flow through the tissue further, but also impeding fat loss during weight reduction ( 19 , 21 , 22 ). Theory 2: Abnormal Lymphatic Vasculature Another theory posits that fluid accumulation in the ECM results from a primary defect in lymphatic vessels. Such accumulation enhances permeability issues in surrounding blood microvessels ( 59 ). In support, of this hypothesis, one study of women with lipedema and obesity noted a mismatch in the number of lymphatic vessels and the increased numbers of blood vessels in affected tissue ( 60 ). Instead there was an increase in the size (area) and area/perimeter ratio of the lymphatic vessels. Increased angiogenesis but fewer numbers and dilated lymphatic vessels has also been reported in a diet-induced obesity model in mice ( 61 ). In another supportive study of lipedemadous tissue free of lymphedema, an expansion in the size of lymphatic vessels but no significant changes in transport in of lymphatic fluid was reported ( 62 ). However, against this hypothesis of a primary defect in lymphatic tissue as the proximal cause of lipedema is that lymphatic vessel function as determined by lymphangioscintigraphy appears normal in many women with early stages of lipedema and only later can reductions in lymphatic flow rate or function be detected in many women with late stage lipedema ( 54 , 63 , 64 ). Markers of Obesity,
