Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


and only later can reductions in lymphatic flow rate or function be detected in many women with late stage lipedema ( 54 , 63 , 64 ). Markers of Obesity, Cardiometabolic Health, and Aortic Disease in Women with Lipedema Hypertrophic adipocytes, a marker of an inflammatory environment at risk for insulin resistance and other metabolic dysfunction, are reported in loose connective tissue in lipedema from women regardless of whether they were obese or not ( 58 , 65 ). Adipogenesis has also been identified in lipedema loose connective tissue ( 58 ) as has hypertrophy and hyperplasia of adipocytes in people who developed obesity after lifestyle changes. Unhealthy hypertrophic adipocytes undergo necrosis and become surrounded by macrophages that phagocytize the dead adipocytes forming crown like structures on histological exams of tissue. Crown-like structures have also been found in the loose connective tissue of women with lipedema ( 53 , 58 ). Adipose tissue stem cells collected from subcutaneous adipose tissue from people with obesity have reduced adipogenic potential and proliferative ability ( 66 ). The same reduction in adipogenic potential including a reduced capacity to produce leptin by cells in culture was found for adipose tissue removed by tumescent liposuction from women with lipedema compared to women without lipedema ( 67 ). These data support the possibility that even in early stages of lipedema when BMI is in the non-obese range, lipedema fat tissue shares characteristics of adipose tissue taken from people with obesity. Thus, even though femoral adipose tissue is known to be cardioprotective ( 68 ), this association weakens in later stages of lipedema. The later the stage, the greater the obesity and metabolic risk, including lower high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, higher diastolic and systolic blood pressures, higher reported history of hypertension, and higher percentages of pre-diabetes ( 69 ). As such women with advanced lipedema should be closely monitored for these conditions as part of their ongoing care. Women with lipedema are thought to have a connective tissue disease along the spectrum of hypermobile Ehlers Danlos. Transthoracic 2D echocardiography (2DE) and Doppler imaging revealed that women with Stage 2 lipedema in their early 40s with BMI ~30 kg/m 2 had impaired left ventricular apical rotation and left ventricular twist compared to people with lymphedema and those without either disease ( 70 ). Another paper by the same group used 2DE and Doppler imaging demonstrated enlarged
