Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


and left ventricular twist compared to people with lymphedema and those without either disease ( 70 ). Another paper by the same group used 2DE and Doppler imaging demonstrated enlarged ascending aortic systolic and diastolic diameters resulting in aortic stiffness in women with lipedema compared to controls ( 44 ). Individuals with Williams syndrome with loss of elasticity and features of lipedema also have aortic stiffness ( 71 ). These cardiac changes may reflect an underlying connective tissue disorder in women with lipedema and the possible need for cardiovascular screening even if lipid levels and other markers of metabolic syndrome are normal. Imaging of Lipedema There are currently no imaging exams that can be used to definitively differentiate lipedema fat from non-lipedemadous adipose tissue. However, some imaging studies may be useful. Nuclear medicine lymphangioscintigraphy (NM LAS) may be helpful in differentiating the presence of lymphedema in patients with lipedema. Flow of Technetium-99m-sulfur colloid injected dermally and taken up by the lymphatic vessels starting at the toe or finger webbing can be normal in lipedema ( 72 ), or the lymphatics can be tortuous especially below the knee ( 73 ). Other authors found slower lymphatic flow and a marked asymmetry of the lymphatic system in women with lipedema as compared with women without lipedema ( 74 , 75 ). Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scans (DEXA) can be used for assessing whole body composition including regional fat mass and lean body mass in addition to bone mineral density; some scanners also estimate visceral fat mass. One study suggested that DEXA can be used to strengthen the confirmation of a diagnosis of lipedema in women, differentiating them from women without lipedema by a cutoff value of 0.46 for fat mass in the legs (kg) adjusted for BMI ( 76 ). Even though many women with lipedema also have obesity, the authors assert this cutoff value allows for a separation of lipedema of the legs from women without lipedema regardless of obesity. Ultrasound of lipedema tissue compared to control tissue or tissue from women with lymphedema demonstrates thinner skin in agreement with previous data ( 77 ), and increased thickness and hypoechogenicity of the subcutaneous fat throughout the lower limb suggesting a diffuse increase in aqueous material ( 78 ). The hypoechogenicity was most significant in the distal extremity (medial calf) and may provide support to a clinical diagnosis when found. Another group
