Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


increase in aqueous material ( 78 ). The hypoechogenicity was most significant in the distal extremity (medial calf) and may provide support to a clinical diagnosis when found. Another group found no difference between ultrasonographic features of women with and without lipedema including compressibility and echogenicity ( 79 ). The control women were reported to have obesity or lipohypertrophy, an enlargement of the legs that is phenotypically similar to lipedema but painless. The definition of lipohypertrophy is unclear in the literature where authors have stated that symptoms of lipohypertrophy resolve with elevation suggesting a fluid component associated with the fat tissue ( 80 ). In personal communication with the authors, they state the relief of symptoms is due to lowering of pressure on the venous system suggesting that venous disease is important in the diagnosis of lipohypertrophy. Other authors state that lipohypertrophy is a precursor to lipedema which may explain why the latter ultrasound data showed no differences. Clearly, better means of distinguishing lipedema from those with larger legs but no lipedema is needed. Finally, widening of lymphatic vessels up to 2 mm has been found by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the legs of women with lipedema; women with lipedema and lymphedema had lymphatic vessel enlargement >3 mm ( 81 ). If this dilation of lymphatic vessels is consistent with lymphostatic decompensation (failure of lymphatic vessel function) in lipedema as the authors suggest, then salt should be found in the skin of women with lipedema as lymphatic vessels regulate Na+, Cl– and water in the skin, where reduced lymphatic vessel numbers are paralleled by increased blood pressure ( 82 ). Indeed Crescenzi et al. found increased salt in the skin and loose connective tissue of women with lipedema compared to women without lipedema, even in earlier Stage 1 lipedema where women tend to not have obesity ( 49 ). Conditions Associated with Lipedema Obesity Women with lipedema are often are often thought of as having common obesity whether or not they meet BMI criteria for this condition. The two striking differences between women with lipedema and women with obesity are that women with lipedema often have tenderness of the affected tissue and/or easy bruising of the skin overlying the lipedema fat, which is not found in women with common obesity ( Table 1 ). However, some women with lipedema do not have pain in their tissues. It is unclear
