Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


lipedema fat, which is not found in women with common obesity ( Table 1 ). However, some women with lipedema do not have pain in their tissues. It is unclear if women with lipedema with pain have the same disease as women without pain. Of note, women with lipedema may have no pain in their lipedema fat tissue when they are well-controlled under treatment regimens, however, they should still be considered to have lipedema. For example, women with lipedema who eat low inflammatory foods, avoiding processed starch and sugar, who exercise most days of the week and wear compression garments on their legs can have minimal to no pain. Therefore, a good history is important to identify a history of pain in the tissue that would be indicate the presence of lipedema. As described above, helpful measures to differentiate women with lipedema from women with common obesity include the disproportionate distribution of their adipose tissue between the trunk and legs, any family history of lipedema, as well as a historical inability to lose much fat from the lipedema-affected areas. On the other hand, when women with obesity and lipedema lose more substantial weight through medical or surgical interventions, they can lose some fat from the areas with lipedema, which can then leave them with rolls of excess skin along in the areas of remaining lipedema fat tissue ( Figure 4 ). Table 1. Clinical Similarities and Differences Between Lipedema and Obesity View in own window Sign/Symptom Lipedema Obesity Sex affected Females Females and Males Onset Puberty Any age Increased fat Common Common Gynoid disproportion Common Possible Influenced by lifestyle No Yes Tenderness of the tissue Common Absent Easy bruising Common Absent Pitting edema Uncommon Uncommon Stemmer sign Negative Negative Able to lose fat from the legs/hips Minimal Common Obesity (especially abdominal/visceral obesity) and/or polycystic ovary syndrome can worsen lipedema severity. This is thought to be mediated by increases in adipokines, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) and leptin that often accompany these conditions, which are associated with venous disease ( 83 ). Venous dysfunction that can lead to leakage of fluid back into tissue due to reflux may also be an important contributor to worsening of both lipedema and lymphedema, when present ( 84 , 85 ). Figure 4. Fat due to obesity and fat due to lipedema can be intermixed on the legs. With weight loss, the obesity fat can
