Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


present ( 84 , 85 ). Figure 4. Fat due to obesity and fat due to lipedema can be intermixed on the legs. With weight loss, the obesity fat can be lost resulting in excess skin and lipedema fat tissue remaining on the legs. Lymphedema Women with lipedema are at risk for developing lymphedema, which may happens in lipedema Stage 3 > Stage 2 > Stage 1 ( 26 ). The presence of lymphatic disease or lymphedema increases the risk of cellulitis and wounds, which can be difficult to manage and disfiguring. Women with heavy limbs and swelling should be considered for manual lymphatic drainage and deeper tissue therapies such as instrument assisted soft tissue therapies (e.g., Astym therapy, Graston technique) or manual therapies (e.g., myofascial therapies or other deep tissue therapies ( 86 )), followed by compression plus reduction of obese adipofascia to reduce the risk of developing lymphedema. Psychosocial Psychosocial issues are prominent in women with lipedema including appearance-related distress and depression ( 87 ), which can result in eating disorders ( 88 ). This is not surprising in the United States where very thin women or photos of women that have been photoshopped to accentuate the appearance of leanness are posted on the internet and on television. Imagine how a woman in today’s society might feel who developed lipedema at puberty and is told to diet and exercise by friends, family and healthcare providers to lose weight, something that she has done for years to no avail. One author polled women in Germany and found a high rate of suicide attempts in women with lipedema ( 89 ). Lower mobility associated with lipedema and obesity were also found to affect quality of life in women living with lipedema ( 87 ) and may contribute to social isolation. Prevention and management of obesity in women with lipedema becomes paramount to maintain their quality of life. High anxiety is associated with hypermobile joint disorders ( 90 ), and because hypermobile joint disorders are associated with lipedema ( 25 ), anxiety should be assessed and treated to help women living with lipedema. Dercum Disease (painful lipomas) Lipedema can be present in the same individual who also has Dercum disease (see below), and in this instance, would be considered a mixed disorder. Authors have tried to differentiate women with lipedema from those with Dercum disease by examining populations and finding that
