Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


below), and in this instance, would be considered a mixed disorder. Authors have tried to differentiate women with lipedema from those with Dercum disease by examining populations and finding that people with Dercum disease tend to have other pain disorders including higher pain scores, fibromyalgia, abdominal pain, and migraines, and more often have lipomas, cognitive dysfunction and shortness of breath; whereas women with lipedema have more often fibrotic tissue, easy bruising, hypermobile joints, venous disease and edema of the feet ( 25 ). Numerous other conditions apart from those described above have been associated with lipedema ( Table 2 ). Of note, hypothyroidism is found in 27% of women with lipedema ( 25 , 26 ). In one case, a woman with lipedema was described as having lymphedema and multiple symmetric lipomatosis ( 91 ). Table 2. Co-morbidities and Complications of Associated with Lipedema ( 60 , 92 - 94 ) View in own window Musculoskeletal Soft Tissue Vascular Other Gait disturbance Obesity; fat deposits Lymphedema/Idiopathic Edema Pain Change in posture (e.g., lordosis) Loss of skin elasticity Dilated Capillaries Microangiopathy Psychological distress/anxiety Genu valgum and arthritis of the knees Thinning of the skin Bruising Shortness of breath Ankle pronation Lipomas Varicose veins Venous insufficiency Cellulitis Hypermobile joints (Hypermobile Ehlers Danlos?) Cellulite; fibrosis Cherry angiomas Slow metabolic rate Clinical Care of Women with Lipedema Depending on whether the astute clinician makes the diagnosis of lipedema during the course of taking a history and physical, affected patients may more typically seek care for an associated co-morbidity. For example, women with lipedemia who have thyroid disease and/or obesity may regularly be referred by their primary care provider to an Endocrinologist. Endocrinologists should be clued in to a possible diagnosis of lipedema in women who present with difficulty losing weight from their hips, buttocks and legs, and who are convinced they have a thyroid issue, but thyroid labs are normal. In desperation, patients with lipedema may ask for a “complete set of thyroid labs” including thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free T4, free T3, reverse T3 and thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies to ensure that there is no thyroid issue, which may cause tension during a clinical visit when a provider chooses not to order all these laboratories. Other times, women with joint hypermobility are often cared for by rheumatologists and orthopedic surgeons, and those with lipedema and venous disease are often followed by vascular surgeons,
