Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


these laboratories. Other times, women with joint hypermobility are often cared for by rheumatologists and orthopedic surgeons, and those with lipedema and venous disease are often followed by vascular surgeons, physical therapists and lymphedema specialists. Diagnosis Once the possibility of lipedema is considered, a good medical history will include an assessment of the food eaten, patterns of exercise, and a timeline of development of lipedema signs and symptoms with special attention to hormonal transitions in women including puberty, pregnancy, or menopause. Additionally, helpful findings on history include pain and easy bruising in affected areas and a family history of similar traits in other female members. The upper arms and legs should then be examined for physical manifestations of lipedema as described in more detail below. In the author’s experience, diagnosing lipedema in a woman who presents thinking they have another condition, such as thyroid disease but with normal thyroid function tests, and providing education and treatment recommendations can be transformative for the patient’s life and greatly enhance the patient-physician relationship. The physical exam to diagnose lipedema can be performed quickly if a woman can be seen in her underwear after donning a gown. Visual inspection to establish disproportionality between the upper and lower body fat should be done initially and include a measure of the waist and hip ratio, which is also helpful in diagnosing central obesity. Following this, examination (both visually and by palpation of fat tissues) should be performed with special attention to characteristics described in Table 3 . Table 3. Examination of Subcutaneous Fat for Lipedema, With or Without Obesity View in own window No Obesity Head Normal Neck Normal Arms Normal (nodular fat tissue may be found around cubital nodes) Wrist Normal Hands Normal; Stemmer sign negative (no edema) Abdomen Normal (nodules may be found deep laterally or under the umbilicus) Buttocks Increased loose connective tissue; may be nodular and heavy Hips Increased loose connective tissue; may be nodular and heavy Thighs Increased loose connective tissue; may be nodular and heavy Medial knee Nodular or enlarged fat pad; usually tender Under knee Fat pad; may be nodular Shin May be covered in fat making the shin hard to palpate Lateral malleolus May have fat pad underneath Ankle Cuff may be very small but present in Type III lipedema Feet Normal; stemmer sign negative Skin Bruising; livedo reticularis; may see peau d’orange with long-standing disease With Obesity
