Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


very little data on the use of diets to reduce lipedema fat. Although poorly studied, it is generally accepted that lipedema fat is resistant to weight loss mediated through lifestyle, which compounds patients’ frustrations when weight loss expectations are not met. In the absence of specific recommendations, dietary counseling can focus on establishing healthy eating patterns for overall health improvement and weight management. Food plans are important in helping manage obesity that accompanies lipedema with a minimal goal of stabilizing weight and a maximal goal of losing obesity weight. The most successful food plans are those with low processed carbohydrates including added sugars that reduce insulin levels and inflammation and, therefore, reduce adipogenesis ( 95 ); fasting between meals (no snacking) has been suggested ( 96 ). One group used a 1200 calorie diet along with complete decongestive therapy to reduce volume in the legs of women with lipedema ( 97 ), but evidence for long-term weight loss maintenance by this approach is lacking. Exercise Exercise is important for women living with lipedema as the muscle action helps pump blood and lymph fluid through the limbs. However, women with lipedema have ~67% of the normative value for quadriceps muscle strength compared to women without this condition matched for age and BMI ( 98 ). One theory is that fibrosis from the fat tissue extends into and reduces muscle function. The Dutch guidelines for lipedema recommend graded exercise programs aimed at strength training and conditioning for women with unhealthy lifestyles or physical limitations, although they recognize that the body parts affected by lipedema tend to increase in tissue volume despite activity ( 80 ). These authors also state that exercise and heat can increase swelling and pain in the lipedematous areas. Anecdotally, women with lipedema appear to benefit greatly from water exercises, which may be in part due to the compressive effect of water on the body that helps mobilize fluid and soften fibrotic tissues, as well as from water jets that may also help reduce fluid in the adipofascia. Some women with lipedema have a concern about showing their bodies in public due to the commonality of public body shaming ( 99 ). Cropped pant, swim tights and other swimwear coverings have enabled more women with lipedema to feel comfortable during public swimming. Garments with compression are generally recommended for women with lipedema to wear during land-based exercises especially, when
