Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


coverings have enabled more women with lipedema to feel comfortable during public swimming. Garments with compression are generally recommended for women with lipedema to wear during land-based exercises especially, when using Nordic poles that improve the adipofasica of the arms and legs. Compression Garments Compression garments are usually worn on the legs with a high waist (to treat fat on the abdomen) and on the arms as needed. Compression can be lower in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) for lipedema than for lymphedema. For example, 15-25 mm Hg or Class I 20-30 mm Hg, compared to Class II 30-40 mm Hg or Class III 40-50 mm Hg. The type of knit for a lower pressure garment can be circular knit, which means it is seamless and is knitted on a round cylinder. Circular knit garments have more stretch and are best suited for women with lipedema that have less lymphedema or swelling. They can also stretch to fit any shape and size. Flat knit garments have less stretch and therefore provide better edema control. Flat knit is recommended especially for women with lipedema who have an ankle cuff or unusual shape requiring a custom fit and usually have a seam. A durable medical equipment (DME) order can be provided to patients to take to a medical supply store if they are able to get insurance coverage for compression garments. Therapists treating patients with lipedema can provide guidance on compression wear. Venous Disease Venous insufficiency has been documented in 25% of women with lipedema ( 92 , 100 ). When pitting edema is present, venous insufficiency should be investigated in women with lipedema by a venous duplex ultrasound of the legs. These studies are performed in a vascular lab and should specify to look at the greater and lesser veins of the legs to evaluate for venous insufficiency and not just thrombus. Care should be taken to treat venous disease conservatively first as there is no data showing correction of venous insufficiency by surgical means will improve lipedema. Anecdotally in reports from women with or without lipedema, lymphedema can occur after surgical treatment of venous insufficiency of the greater saphenous vein ( 101 ). Bariatric Surgery Women with lipedema without some upper body obesity may respond poorly to bariatric surgery with regard to weight loss ( 102 ) and often feel like failures or are mistakenly told (directly or indirectly) by
