Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


upper body obesity may respond poorly to bariatric surgery with regard to weight loss ( 102 ) and often feel like failures or are mistakenly told (directly or indirectly) by their providers that it was their fault, with devastating psychological impact. Indeed, women that lose minimal weight from their lower abdomen, hips, and legs after bariatric surgery should be examined for the presence of lipedema. Even with less-than-expected weight loss, patients with lipedema should still be considered candidates for bariatric surgery as several procedures (e.g., laparoscopic gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy) have shown weight-independent benefits on glucometabolic outcomes, especially prediabetes and diabetes, and cardiovascular risk. When women do lose weight and it includes a portion of their lipedema-affected regions, it often results in accentuation of the “saddle bag” look (See Figure 4 ) and may worsen their body image anxieties. Optimally, women with lipedema should be identified prior to bariatric surgery, counseled on their condition and how it might influence their overall weight-loss response, and be offered complete decongestive therapy and compression garments to reduce the risk of developing lymphedema after bariatric surgery and to improve weight loss success. In addition, pre-surgery is a good time to initiate consultation with a plastic surgeon regarding options of removal of excess skin removal once weight stability is established post-operatively (usually between 1 and 3 years). Liposuction Women with lipedema typically have several medically necessary reasons for undergoing liposuction to remove lipedema fat, including: Loss of mobility Reduced quality of life Joint damage or altered gait Chronic pain Failure to improve signs and symptoms associated with lipedema despite conservative therapy Complete decongestive therapy including manual lymphatic drainage, compression garments, a healthy eating plan, and as much activity as allowed or possible are important before liposuction to improve outcomes. Due to the increased vascularity of the lipedematous tissue and blood loss with liposuction, post-procedure anemia is not uncommon. Therefore, labs prior to surgery should include a complete blood count (CBC) with platelet level as well as coagulation labs to include activated prothrombin time (aPTT), prothrombin time (PT) , thrombin time (TT) , and fibrinogen. People with normal coagulation labs and easy bruising can have hereditary and acquired platelet defects, hereditary disorders of vascular and perivascular tissues including Ehlers Danlos Syndrome, and other disorders of blood clotting. Any woman with lipedema and a personal or family history of bleeding or clotting should work with a
