Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


perivascular tissues including Ehlers Danlos Syndrome, and other disorders of blood clotting. Any woman with lipedema and a personal or family history of bleeding or clotting should work with a healthcare provider to determine if additional testing is needed before liposuction surgery ( 103 ). Removal of lipedema fat by liposuction that spares lymphatic vessels (wet, not dry, technique) has been performed primarily in Europe, especially in Germany, since the 1990s ( 104 - 107 ). The fat is saturated with Klein solution which includes saline or lactated Ringers solution, an anesthetic such as lidocaine or prilocaine, epinephrine, sodium bicarbonate buffer( 108 ), usually without steroid ( 109 ). This tumescent technique provides turgor to the tissue allowing blunt microcannula to slide through the fat tissue avoiding creation of shearing forces and tissue damage. When power assisted, tiny, rapid vibrations of the microcannula break up fat which is then suctioned out of the tissue. Water jet assisted liposuction (WAL) uses jets of saline and Klein solution to release fat for suction with minimal damage to cells and vessels( 106 ) without the waiting period required to tumesce the tissue. Laser assisted tumescent liposuction is another technique which some reserve for fibrotic areas such as the posterior thighs. Most affected women undergo liposuction in stages, involving removal of an area of lipedema fat from the lower body and arms followed by a period of recovery and healing before returning to remove an adjacent region. The average number of surgeries for a women with Stage II lipedema ranged between two and three ( 110 ), but some had more than five ( 37 ). Patients are either awake during the liposuction procedure with or without conscious sedation ( 104 , 111 , 112 ), or general anesthesia, the former allowing for rapid recovery ( 111 ). Some medications used in general anesthesia reduce the pumping activity of lymphatic vessels ( 113 - 116 ). Prior to undergoing liposuction by a qualified surgeon, therefore, a patient should have a thorough understanding of the surgeon’s technique, whether the surgeon uses general anesthesia along with the type of analgesia, the number of surgeries performed by the surgeon and outcomes and their complication rate. After liposuction, the surgically treated areas may be quite tender and uncomfortable for days to weeks. Most studies on liposuction are from surgeons performing the procedure, are not randomized or controlled, and
