Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


the surgically treated areas may be quite tender and uncomfortable for days to weeks. Most studies on liposuction are from surgeons performing the procedure, are not randomized or controlled, and do not include external oversight of data collection. Nevertheless, current data are compelling for benefit. Twenty-five women with lipedema had significant improvements in pain, tension in the legs, excessive warmth, muscle cramps, leg heaviness, tired legs, swelling, itching, general involvement of the skin, difficulty walking, quality of life, and appearance of the legs six months post-liposuction surgery ( 104 ). A larger study of 85 women from the same clinic demonstrated significant improvements six months after surgery for all complaints with the greatest improvement in quality of life ( 110 ). In a longer study from a different clinic, 21 women over an average of 3.7 years after their first liposuction procedure and 2.9 years after the second liposuction showed improvement in the parameters of body disproportion, swelling, edema and quality of life, except for bruising which improved in all but two of the women ( 105 ). A retrospective study of women with Stage I or II lipedema from the same clinic, four, and eight years after liposuction, showed sustained improvements during follow-up for parameters including pain, sensitivity to pressure, edema, bruising, restriction of movement, cosmetic impairment, reduction of overall quality of life and overall impairment ( 117 ). The most interesting data was the reduced need for combined decongestive therapy four years after liposuction, which decreased further after eight years ( 37 ). Any surgery, including liposuction, requires that efficacy of the procedure and the medical necessity be demonstrated to the insurance company. What are currently needed are well conducted randomized, controlled trials of sufficient numbers of patients with lipedema to determine which patients do and do not benefit from liposuction. In the meantime, documenting patient baseline characteristics and outcomes by surgeons in the United States will be important to understand the benefits of liposuction for lipedema in the US population compared to reports from other countries (e.g., Germany). It is notable that surgeons agree that quality of life is strongly and consistently improved by liposuction ( 104 , 110 , 117 , 118 ). Complete Decongestive Therapy Complete decongestive therapy (CDT) is commonly recommended for the treatment of lymphedema and includes skin care, education on home exercise programs, manual lymphatic drainage (MLD) therapy, wrapping as needed to
