Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


Complete decongestive therapy (CDT) is commonly recommended for the treatment of lymphedema and includes skin care, education on home exercise programs, manual lymphatic drainage (MLD) therapy, wrapping as needed to reduce fluid build-up, and skin care recommendations performed by physical and occupational therapists and licensed massage therapists that have undergone additional training. Many women with lipedema benefit from CDT with reduced pain, limb volume and capillary fragility ( 119 - 121 ). Near-infrared fluorescence lymphatic imaging (NIRFLI) has added additional techniques to MLD including the “Fill and Flush” method ( 122 ). Complete decongestive therapy also improves lymph flow in brain lymphatic vessels ( 123 ). Deeper tissue therapies to reduce fibrosis in the lipedema tissues may also be beneficial for patients with lipedema. Pneumatic Compression Devices Studies have shown the benefit of advanced pneumatic compression devices (PCDs) in the treatment of lymphedema. There are also studies on the benefits of PCDs in the treatment of lipedema ( 119 , 124 ). Important for the distorted and dilated capillaries in lipedema ( 36 , 88 ), PCDs decrease capillary fragility ( 120 ), improving vessel quality. Along with manual therapy to improve flow of fluid through lipedema tissue, PCDs are also recommended in conjunction with liposuction surgery for lipedema ( 110 ). If a woman with lipedema responds well to manual therapy, or she tries a PCD and has a reduction in tissue volume, she should be offered PCD therapy to continue treatment at home when insurance will no longer cover CDT or when distance or commitments prevent regular professional visits. The PCD should ideally be an E0652 device with a segmented, multi-ported pump that allows for individual pressure calibration at each port. This allows the patient to alter pressure in areas of severe pain or for different shaped tissue. Pump garments should wrap around and treat the abdomen and pelvis when the legs are pumped, and the chest when the arms are pumped. If basic compression pumps are prescribed (E0650; E0651), compression garments to protect the abdomen, pelvis, chest and/or head should be worn during pumping. Without these compression garments, fluid is pushed up the leg into the abdominal and pelvic area where it accumulates due to lymphatic dysfunction. As this fluid sits in the tissue with all its nutrients and protein, evidence suggests it may stimulate further adipogenesis ( 125 ). With an E0652 pump, the abdomen is
