Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


As this fluid sits in the tissue with all its nutrients and protein, evidence suggests it may stimulate further adipogenesis ( 125 ). With an E0652 pump, the abdomen is treated along with the leg and the chest is treated along with the arm preventing pooling of lymph fluid. PCDs can be easily ordered by writing a prescription for durable medical equipment with multiple suppliers. Deep Tissue Therapy Women with lipedema treated with deep tissue manual therapy have reduced pain, fat tissue on the legs, tissue volume, tissue fibrosis and leaky or fibrotic vessels ( 86 , 126 ). This deep tissue therapy is in the spectrum of meridian massage shown to reduce body weight ( 127 ) and is thought to improve lymphatic flow through lipedema fat tissue. Massage also reduced fat in preterm infants ( 128 ). Instrument-assisted soft tissue (IAST) therapy has cc in lipedema fat tissue with noted reduction in palpable fibrosis after treatment. Instrument-assisted soft tissue techniques include Astym therapy, which increased fibroblast activation and number, production of fibronectin, movement, and decreased pain in patients with fibrosis ( 129 ) and Graston technique which reduces pain and improves movement ( 130 ), and are performed by physical therapists who can be located on websites for these techniques. Traditional Chinese gua sha tools or bian stones have been used to improve pain and function ( 131 ) as has cupping ( 132 ). Pressure required to occlude lymphatic function in the upper limb was found to be 86 mm Hg, suggesting that deeper treatment into the tissue is safe, for example at pressures ranging from 15 to 25 mm Hg used to reduce scars ( 133 ), and will not damage lymphatic vessels ( 122 ). Psychological Support Women with lipedema have often spent years looking for answers and help for their condition. Healthcare providers often hold strong negative attitudes and stereotypes about people with obesity, which may reduce the quality of care they provide to women with lipedema ( 134 ). Poor quality of life associated with mobility and appearance-related stress associated with lipedema can result in depression ( 87 ). For many patients, they experience a huge sense of relief when they finally get a diagnosis of lipedema after trying a myriad of diets and exercise programs, even bariatric surgery to lose the lipedema fat. In addition to treatment recommendations in this chapter, there
