Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


a diagnosis of lipedema after trying a myriad of diets and exercise programs, even bariatric surgery to lose the lipedema fat. In addition to treatment recommendations in this chapter, there are a number of things a healthcare provider can do to help improve the lives of people living with lipedema: 1) Reduce focus on body weight in lipedema and provide education on improving metabolism, reducing inflammation and improving quality of the lipedema fat tissue (reducing fibrosis); 2) Use motivational interviewing focusing on strides made to improve markers of health including healthy eating, activity, metabolic lab markers, and social interactions; 3) Ensure that the clinic environment is welcoming with tables and chairs that allow women with larger lower bodies to be comfortable; 4) Ensure that patients with lipedema have identity safety in clinic situations and encourage healthy social interactions at home and in on-line social groups that also provide safe affiliations known to improve satisfaction of life for women with lipedema ( 135 ); and 5) Ensure that the continuum of care includes adequate referral resources for counselling, physical therapy and message, and when indicated pain management specialists. Including providers that understand lipedema and the physical and the psychological burden this diagnosis carries for patients is especially important ( 134 ). Medications and Supplements There are no medications and supplements specifically for lipedema. Instead, recommendations regarding use of medications and supplements for the treatment of lipedema should focus on reducing tissue inflammation, fibrosis, swelling, pain, and pharmacologic weight loss management for those who are overweight or have obesity. Supplements used for lipedema are, in part, based on literature for lymphedema and venous disease, both complications of lipedema. Some medications exacerbate symptoms in lipedema and should be avoided ( Table 5 ). Sympathomimetic Amines Sympathomimetic amines (SA) such as phentermine and amphetamine are approved by the food and drug administration (FDA) for the treatment of obesity. Sympathomimetic amines bind to adrenergic receptors (AR) located on adipocytes to induce lipolysis, reducing the storage of fat. Adrenergic receptors are also located on blood vessels and lymphatic vessels. Activating AR on blood vessels induces vasoconstriction. Activating AR on lymphatic vessels improves the efficiency of lymphatic pumping by increasing the force of contraction ( 136 ); medications or supplements that improve lymphatic pumping are lymphagogues. Amphetamine and dextroamphetamine alone or in combination are also FDA-approved for the treatment of attention deficit disorder (ADD), attention deficit hyperactivity
