Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


medications or supplements that improve lymphatic pumping are lymphagogues. Amphetamine and dextroamphetamine alone or in combination are also FDA-approved for the treatment of attention deficit disorder (ADD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and narcolepsy. The use of SA for treatment of lipedema may be beneficial in reducing fat and improving lymphatic pumping. A retrospective questionnaire study found that low dose sympathomimetic amines improved quality of life, reduced weight, clothing size, pain and leg heaviness in women with lipedema ( 137 ). Contraindications of sympathomimetic amines include advanced arteriosclerosis, symptomatic cardiovascular disease, moderate to severe hypertension, hyperthyroidism, known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines, and glaucoma. Diosmin Diosmin is a bioflavonoid found in the rind of citrus fruit and is traditionally prescribed for the treatment of inflammation associated with chronic venous insufficiency. Diosmin was shown to reduce oxidative stress markers in people with chronic venous insufficiency ( 138 ). Diosmin also functions as a lymphagogue, and in combination with its anti-inflammatory activity, reduces edema ( 138 ). Women with lipedema who have a feeling of heaviness in their legs, obvious edema, chronic venous insufficiency or Stage II and III lipedema report feeling less pain and improved swelling on diosmin based on the author’s experience. Diosmin can be found over the counter or ordered by prescription as a medical food. Placing lemons, limes or other citrus in water to soak before drinking is a way to intake diosmin throughout the day. Metformin There are no current medications that can be used to reduce fibrosis already present in lipedema fat tissue, for which liposuction and deep tissue therapy are better modalities. Metformin and resveratrol have been shown to reduce the development of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 inflammation and fibrosis in mice fed a high fat diet ( 139 ). Metformin also prevented fibrosis and restored glucose uptake in fat after insulin stimulation, although it did not prevent side effects of doxorubicin that included tissue loss and inflammatory response ( 140 ). Metformin should be considered early in women with obesity and lipedema Stages II and III where fibrosis in the fat tissue is prominent, as well as in women who have signs of metabolic syndrome ( 69 ). Selenium Selenium is a mineral found in the soil and in high concentration in Brazil nuts ( Bertholletia excelsa ). Selenium has been demonstrated to have anti-inflammatory effects on multiple levels of the inflammatory cascade
