Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


lipedema should be recognized prior to weight loss efforts so that expectations can be discussed, and manual therapies and other treatments can be considered to improve outcomes. Medications and supplements can be tried, but liposuction should be considered for women with lipedema who fail conservative measures and following weight loss with medications and/or bariatric surgery. There is a wide variety of presentations of lipedema in women due to co-morbidities and other genetic and environmental influences. Therefore, every affected woman should be considered on a spectrum and treatments personalized. FAMILIAL MULTIPLE LIPOMATOSIS Familial multiple lipomatosis (FML) is a rare adipose disorder (RAD) of multiple lipomas in subcutaneous fat (OMIM 151900). Some members in an FML family may have only a few lipomas whereas others may have hundreds to thousands; it is not understood why there is unequal penetrance in families. Lipomas usually are not painful or tender to the touch except while growing; they may also cause a slight feeling of itching or burning when forming. Some lipomas can be tender if they develop in areas of pressure such as on the back of the legs, the lower back (pressure from a chair), or the lateral wrist due to repetitive stress such as comes from using a computer mouse ( 150 , 151 ). Another example of trauma-induced lipomatous growth includes movement of the xiphoid process ( 152 ). According to older FML literature ( 153 ), "pain may suddenly develop in one of the lipomas (called lipoma dolorosa), and will gradually extend to involve more and more of the discrete lipomas.” The authors state that lipoma dolorosa syndrome in families with FML is not the same as Dercum disease (see below) ( 154 ). This is confusing as individuals with painful lipomas in an FML family have been described as having Dercum disease. While painful lipomas in a person with FML may also be on the spectrum of Dercum disease, a more precise name is FML with painful lipomas, especially when a family history of FML is known. It is interesting that by observation in some families with FML, the men will develop lipomas and the women often develop obesity in line with lipedema. This suggests an overlap between the development of one fat disorder (FML) and another (lipedema) and should prompt more detailed questions regarding other potentially affected family members. Prevalence of FML Familial multiple lipomatosis is considered to
