Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


development of one fat disorder (FML) and another (lipedema) and should prompt more detailed questions regarding other potentially affected family members. Prevalence of FML Familial multiple lipomatosis is considered to be a rare disease with an estimated prevalence of 1/50,000 ( 155 ). Genetics of FML Familial multiple lipomatosis is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with males and females equally affected. The gene High Mobility Group AT-Hook 2 ( HMGA2; 12q15) has been implicated in FML but is not thought to be causative. A mutation in partner and localizer of breast cancer (BRCA2, DNA-repair associated gene), called PALB2 , was described in a family with FML ( 156 ). PALB2 is an intranuclear protein that anchors BRCA2 to nuclear structures. PALB2 mutations are associated with a 2-fold increased risk of breast cancer, a Fanconi anemia subset, pancreatic cancer and ovarian cancer ( 156 ). Conditions Associated with FML In case reports, FML has been associated other rare or unusual disorders ( Table 6 ). Because multiple lipomas are often linked with mutations in tumor suppressor genes, FML can be considered clinically to be a marker for the presence of an underlying tumor suppression gene mutation and affected patients and their families should be appropriately screened. For example, in MEN-1, lipomas have been reported in association with a recessive mutation in a tumor suppressor gene ( 157 ). In a family with retinoblastoma and multiple lipomas, the lipomas were present in people with a gene mutation in the RB1 gene who did not develop retinoblastomas ( 158 ). Multiple lipomas in Cowden's disease can be due to a germline inactivation of PTEN/MMAC1 that renders a person susceptible to thyroid and breast malignancies ( 159 ). Other genes including other tumor suppressor genes have been implicated in the growth of lipomas ( 160 ). For example, a mutation was found in the tumor suppression gene PALB2 in a family with multiple lipomas suggestive of a diagnosis of FML ( 156 ). And finally, lipomatosis like that of FML has also been reported in two cases after chemotherapy ( 161 , 162 ), a treatment known to be associated with an increased risk of cancer development. Because of these associations, people with multiple lipomas should be considered at increased risk for cancers and a referral to a geneticist considered. Table 6. Disorders Found in Association with Multiple Lipomas View in own
