Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


with multiple lipomas should be considered at increased risk for cancers and a referral to a geneticist considered. Table 6. Disorders Found in Association with Multiple Lipomas View in own window Atypical mole syndrome ( 163 ) Gastroduodenal lipomatosis (no gastroduodenal lipomatosis in proband’s mother) ( 164 ) Celiac disease ( 165 ) Cowden’s disease ( 159 ) Gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( 166 ) Interhemispheric brain lipoma with corpus callosum hypoplasia and the malformation of cortical development in a young woman with refractory epilepsy ( 167 ) Neurofibromatosis (NF1) ( 168 ) Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN)-1 ( 169 ) Retinoblastoma (Rb1) ( 158 ) Legius Syndrome (SPRED 1); autosomal dominant; multiple café-au-lait macules and skin fold freckling, ± macrocephaly, a Noonan-like appearance, learning difficulties and/or attention deficit in children and lipomas in adults ( 170 ) Pathophysiology of FML The pathophysiology of lipoma growth in FML is not known. Single lipomas of subcutaneous fat tissue are the most common benign tumor growths in humans and may be induced by genetic changes, trauma, inflammation, or other causes. As detailed above, multiple lipomas tend to be linked with tumor suppression genes. People with FML are known to be insulin sensitive, therefore an insulin-resistant metabolic cause of FML is unlikely ( 171 ). Additionally, the presence of the lipomas themselves do not confer insulin resistance. Imaging of Lipomas in FML Lipomas in FML are identified by palpation as connected to skin, surrounded by fat or connected to other structures such as muscle or solid fascial structures. Localized pain can assist in finding smaller lipomas. Silky or tight clothing can also assist in palpation. Sonographic evaluation is the best most inexpensive means to identify lipomas other than palpation, but the average sensitivity for three Radiologists when retrospectively reviewing sonographic exams of lipomas was only 48%, and average accuracy was 59% ( 172 ). Magnetic resonance imaging without contrast can be used to find lipomas ( 173 ), but small lipomas, lipomas without a capsule, and lipomas with minimal fibrosis or surrounding edema remain difficult to identify. Radiologists were able to render the correct diagnosis for lipoma versus liposarcoma in 69% of cases ( 174 ). Computed tomography (CT) scans have been used to differentiate lipomas from liposarcomas ( 175 ) but should be used after sonography and MRI to avoid excess radiation exposure. Evaluation of the Patient With FML The initial workup for people
