Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


lipomas from liposarcomas ( 175 ) but should be used after sonography and MRI to avoid excess radiation exposure. Evaluation of the Patient With FML The initial workup for people with FML includes a family history of lipomas and cancer, and any associated conditions such as nevi or neuropathy. The exam incudes assessment for multiple lipomas usually located on the trunk, lower back, arms, and thighs; rarely on the upper back or calves. Skin should be examined for nevi and cherry angiomas, the latter seen commonly with multiple lipomatosis ( 176 ). Due to the associated cancer risk, the exam includes examination of the thyroid and breasts for nodules. Reflexes should be checked along with monofilament and/or vibration assessments for peripheral neuropathy. Cancer screening as appropriate for sex and age should be advised, and appropriate labs ordered ( Table 7 ). Although there is no definitive association of FML with dyslipidemia, statin therapy may be helpful in lowering lipoma size ( 177 ) and so a lipid panel is also appropriate. Table 7. The FML Workup View in own window Family history Lipomas; cancer; nevi; celiac; neuropathy Medical history Lipomas; cancer; nevi; celiac; neuropathy Physical Exam Lipomas Trunk, arms, low back, flanks, abdomen, thigh. Attached to skin, muscle, other. Skin Nevi; cherry angiomas Thyroid Nodules Nervous system Reflexes; skin sensory exam (monofilament) Laboratory Studies Thyroid TSH Blood fats Lipid panel; other per family history Fibrin clot (found in angiolipoma) D-dimer Food/gluten intolerance Celiac panel Treatment of FML The current management of FML includes screening for associated conditions such as cancer ( Table 7 ) and consideration of a referral to genetics for tumor suppressor gene workups as needed. A healthy diet and an exercise plan to avoid or reduce obesity is important as obesity in families with FML can be associated with pain ( 154 ) and, anecdotally, triathletes notice a reduction in lipoma size during high intensity training. A statin has been shown to reduce a lipoma in a case report ( 177 ). Painful lipomas or those that interfere with activities of daily living can be excised as needed but these procedures can cause numerous scars ( Figure 5 ). Massive amounts of lipomas can occur on the arms, hips/flanks, buttocks and thighs. Therefore, this condition can be psychologically devastating and people with severe FML do not consider it benign. Figure 5. Multiple scars after excision of lipomas
