Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


arms, hips/flanks, buttocks and thighs. Therefore, this condition can be psychologically devastating and people with severe FML do not consider it benign. Figure 5. Multiple scars after excision of lipomas in FML. Liposuction is an option to excision of lipomas in people with FML as it provides good results in terms of skin appearance, and there is reported lack of recurrence or growth or development of other lipomas in the same area for at least 12 months ( 178 ). Injections of collagenase have been shown to shrink or destroy lipomas with minimal pain and good cosmetic result in a published abstract ( 179 ). Similar data were found for the detergent, deoxycholic acid ( 180 ), but anecdotally care should be taken not to inject too much detergent that can remain in the tissue requiring excision to remove. Additional treatments such as cryotherapy have been suggested and reviewed ( 181 ). More data is needed for the efficacy of injections and other therapies for the lipomas in FML as they are preferable to more invasive and scarring surgical techniques. Concluding Remarks on FML Familial multiple lipomatosis is a rare disease of multiple lipomas often associated with mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. Therefore, people identified with FML should be assessed for cancer. Liposuction should be considered to remove symptomatic lipomas and is preferable to surgical excision as multiple excisions leave many scars. ANGIOLIPOMATOSIS Angiolipomatosis also known as angiolipoma microthromboticum (OMIM 206550) is a rare disease of multiple angiolipomas and connective tissue that occurs commonly in men and usually begins after puberty; one case of a child with an angiolipoma in a family in which the father also had angiolipomatosis has been reported ( 182 ). Angiolipomas have been described as vascular malformations or vascular lipomas where blood vessels occupy between 10-90% of the angiolipoma. In families with familial angioliopomatosis, lipomas and angiolipomas can exist in the same person. Subcutaneous angiolipomas usually occur on the trunk and limbs, rarely on the head, hands, or feet ( 183 ). The angiolipomas can be the size of a rice grain, pea, a marble or much larger and are tender to the touch and can be associated with intense pain. Angiolipomas may or may not be visible and may be palpable or non-palpable depending on their location and size. Numerous case reports describe epidural or extradural spinal angiolipomas, and rare cases report colonic
