Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


may not be visible and may be palpable or non-palpable depending on their location and size. Numerous case reports describe epidural or extradural spinal angiolipomas, and rare cases report colonic ( 184 ), bronchial ( 185 ), joint ( 186 ), and testicular angiolipomas ( 187 ). Angiolipomas are known to be painful, although not always, and should be distinguished from other painful neoplasms ( 188 ). One case of angiolipomatosis was reported to occur after treatment with corticosteroids ( 189 ). The loose connective tissue of angiolipomas contains adipose cells, fibrotic tissue, vessels with fibrin clots, and mast cells as salient features ( Figure 6 ). Due to the large number of vessels, angiolipomas are bluish in color through the skin. Interestingly, the vessels in angiolipomas can grow from the dermis into the territory of the epidermis making the vessels palpable as small raised areas on the skin ( Figure 7 ). A plethora of capillary “cherry” angiomas where a capillary grows and dilates through the epidermis may be found on the skin in areas of angiolipomas ( Figure 8 ). Figure 6. Angiolipoma with mast cell with enlarged multiple vessel lumens and degraded tissue. The black arrow points to a classic fried egg appearance of a mast cell stained with Alcian Blue in angiolipoma tissue. Red arrows point to small fat cell remnants likely non-functional as evidenced by the absence of nuclei. Blood vessels are numerous and large for location. The green arrow demonstrates the remnant of a capillary. Connective tissue is evident especially in the area surrounding the mast cell as bluish fibers. Magnification 100X. Figure 7. Multiple cherry angiomas present on the legs and arms of a woman with angiolipomatosis. Figure 8. Histological features of angiolipomas. A. Small area of hypervascularity in an angiolipoma (40X). B. Blood vessels in an angiolipoma grow up and through the epidermis and are palpable on the skin (40X). C. Empty and presumed dead and non-functional vessel on the left containing an eosinophil next to two functional blood vessel lumens containing red blood cells (100X). Microthrombi can be seen as pale areas especially between the right side of the dead vessel and the lumen of the active vessel. Dead vessels may result in hypoxia and ischemia causing pain. D. Non-functioning blood vessel to the right and smaller fat cells surrounded by an enlarged interstitial organ (40X). Prevalence of Angiolipomatosis The prevalence
