Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


result in hypoxia and ischemia causing pain. D. Non-functioning blood vessel to the right and smaller fat cells surrounded by an enlarged interstitial organ (40X). Prevalence of Angiolipomatosis The prevalence of angiolipomatosis is unknown but it is considered to be a rare disease ( 190 , 191 ). Genetics of Angiolipomatosis Angiolipomatosis most often occurs sporadically, but a family history can be identified in a minority of cases as autosomal dominant ( 192 ) or autosomal recessive ( 193 , 194 ). There are no known genes identified to date for angiolipomatosis. Pathophysiology of Angiolipomatosis Angiolipomas likely arise from fascia and therefore may also be painful because fascia is highly innervated, and when inflamed, is a likely source of pain ( 195 ). Inflamed fascia has robust angiogenesis ( 196 ) and may be important in the initial development of angiolipomas as resident mesenchymal cells in fascia can develop into adipocytes ( 197 ). It is thought that microthrombi in angiolipomas leads to necrosis of blood vessels, adipocytes and other components of adipofascia. Other hypotheses regarding pain include nerve damage from limited blood flow and tethering by fibrotic tissue. Subcutaneous angiolipomas are assumed to be congenital in origin where pubertal hormones may induce differentiation of adult adipose-derived stromal adipogenic precursors that reside in adipofascia; these precursors develop into adipocytes in intimate association with blood vessels ( 197 ). Vascular proliferation is thought to occur after repeated trauma to the fascia resulting in the development of an angiolipoma. However, there is a question of whether angiolipomas can become autonomous as a cancer. Two of three cases of angiolipomas in one publication suggest a neoplastic nature for these tumors due to deletion of parts of chromosome 13, a region containing the retinoblastoma gene, a tumor suppressor gene ( 198 ). The neoplastic nature of angiolipomas should be considered in individuals with significant numbers of angiolipomas and anti-neoplastic treatments considered when other conservative therapies fail. Imaging of Angiolipomatosis Identification of angiolipomas in tissue by Ga-PSMA PET/CT ( 199 ), magnetic resonance imaging ( 200 ), and ultrasound ( 201 ) allows surgeons to identify superficial and deeper angiolipomas targeted for removal. Treatment of Angiolipomatosis Surgical The only definitive treatment of angiolipomas to date is individual resection by excision or liposuction ( 202 ). Angiolipomas are typically removed if they are painful or restrict movement. A surgical emergency may occur to prevent hemorrhage of
