Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


is individual resection by excision or liposuction ( 202 ). Angiolipomas are typically removed if they are painful or restrict movement. A surgical emergency may occur to prevent hemorrhage of angiolipomas which can compress the spinal cord ( 203 , 204 ). Karyotypes of DNA from the angiolipomas should be assessed to determine the neoplastic nature of the angiolipomas so as to prepare the patient for the potential of multiple resections throughout life ( 198 ). A concern with resection of lipomas is that inflammation is often a sequela of the removal process. As fascia plays an important role in the pathophysiology of angiolipomas, generation of inflammation in the fascia by surgical techniques has been anecdotally noted to incite a pain crisis. Removal of angiolipomas must therefore be considered carefully and manual or IAST therapies for the fascia should be considered after any surgery to speed recovery and reduce pain. Pain Management The necrosis of tissue in angiolipomas and inflammation of fascia with all of its nerve endings can cause severe pain in individuals with angiolipomatosis. In a case report from Germany, the systemic administration of acetylsalicylic acid, diclofenac, ketotifen, ranitidine, tramadol, or tilidine combined with naloxone did not provide adequate pain relief. In contrast, the antidepressant doxepin, which also has antihistaminergic effects to control the release of mast cell mediators, demonstrated good therapeutic efficiency for the pain from angiolipomas ( 205 ). Depending on the mast cell burden in angiolipomas and their systemic effects including flushing, itching, nausea, diarrhea, angioedema, pain and a cadre of other signs and symptoms ( 206 , 207 ), individuals with angiolipomatosis may be considered to have mast cell disease or mast cell activation disease. Treatments to reduce the burden of mast cells in angiolipomas such as histamine 1 and/or histamine 2 receptor blockers, montelukast, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antihistaminergic bioflavonoids such as quercetin or pycnogenol, amphetamines, and possibly stronger immunosuppressants that have been used for mastocytosis such as sunitinib ( 208 ) or mast cell activation syndrome such as tofacitinib ( 209 ) or imatinib ( 210 ) may provide benefit for pain and growth of angiolipomas. Non-neoplastic therapy for mast cell activation disease should be considered prior to the use of antineoplastic agents, which have been described extensively ( 211 ). Patients with angiolipomatosis can have a poor quality of life due to extreme pain and fatigue and consider suicide. In these individuals,
