Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


which have been described extensively ( 211 ). Patients with angiolipomatosis can have a poor quality of life due to extreme pain and fatigue and consider suicide. In these individuals, use of anti-neoplastic agents should be considered early. Many individuals with angiolipomatosis require opioid pain management and should be under the care of pain management specialists. Unfortunately, opioids can activate mast cells requiring concurrent treatment of mast cell signs and symptoms ( 212 ). Opioids should not be withheld during a pain crisis, and in fact may need to be escalated before weaning back down after the pain crisis has resolved. Concluding Remarks on Angiolipomatosis People with angiolipomas have severe pain that can be out of proportion to the outward appearance of the individual. Treatment with mast cell stabilizers, pain medications, and surgical treatments of angiolipomas are all important in management. More research is needed for this rare disease to enable individuals with angiolipomas to live a full and active life. DERCUM DISEASE Dercum disease (DD; OMIM 103200) is a term used to describe extremely painful adipofascial tissue that is resistant to loss by diet and exercise and poorly responsive to analgesics. Other names include adiposis dolorosa (a term that is also used to describe women with lipedema) and Morbus Dercum. While Dercum disease is defined as painful fatty masses accompanied by other signs and symptoms of a chronic healing cycle disorder ( 25 ) ( 213 ), there remains a lot of confusion in the literature as to what exactly Dercum disease is. One review article stated that people with Dercum disease have obesity and chronic pain ( 214 ), which can easily be confused with people who have obesity and chronic pain for a variety of reasons including fibromyalgia. The old classification of Dercum disease and a new classification remain inadequate to differentiate the overlapping disorders that are bundled together as Dercum disease ( 65 , 215 , 216 ) because they describe only the phenotype and not the history ( Table 8 ). Table 8. Comparison of Outdated Classifications of Dercum Disease. View in own window Older Classification Previous Recent Classification Type I: Diffuse Type. Widespread occurrence of painful lipomas in a diffuse manner Diffuse Type. Diffusely painful adipose tissue that may present as painful folds of fats containing fat nodules that feel like pearls located around lymph node beds. Mostly resembles lipedema but extends or start
