Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


painful adipose tissue that may present as painful folds of fats containing fat nodules that feel like pearls located around lymph node beds. Mostly resembles lipedema but extends or start in the trunk which differentiates it from lipedema Type II: Generalized Nodular Nodular type. Intense pain in and around grape-like clustered lipomas of variable size most commonly on the arms, legs, lower back or thorax; can include angiolipomas. Most resembles familial multiple lipomatosis Type III. Localized Nodular Nodular type. Intense pain in and around grape-like clustered lipomas of variable size in defined areas; can include angiolipomas Type IV: Juxta-articular NA NA Mixed Type: Combination of diffuse and nodular A better classification of painful adipofascia considers the history of the disease ( Table 9 ). For example, women with lipedema who become obese and/or develop lymphedema can metabolically become toxic or ill leading to the growth of painful masses in fat tissue. The etiology of these masses is likely due to the presence of inflammation known to slow lymphatic pumping leaving more pre-lymph fluid in the ECM, inducing adipogenesis, as lymph (even pre-lymph) makes fat grow. Women with lipedema, obesity, and painful fatty masses have dominated some studies on Dercum disease leading the authors to describe women with Dercum disease as having obesity and chronic pain ( 214 ). The masses that develop in women with lipedema and metabolic syndrome are similar to those that develop on the abdomens of people who have obesity and do not have lipedema. These tender masses resolve with weight loss and have been called Ander’s disease or adiposis tuberosa simplex ( 217 ). A good history taken from a woman with lipedema and the label Dercum disease, may reveal the development of lipedema earlier in life and additional weight gain later in life with development of tender masses, allowing treatment to be focused on lipedema and obesity rather than on Dercum disease. Table 9. Conditions with Painful Adipofascia which Have Been Labeled as Dercum Disease View in own window Types Comments Obesity-associated Non-painful lipomas resolve with weight loss (Ander’s disease) Lipedema with obesity and/or lymphedema Painful lipomas resolve with weight loss; lipedema fat tissue remains Familial multiple lipomatosis (FML) with obesity Lipomas may get smaller and pain reduce with weight loss Angiolipomas with or without obesity Weight loss does not affect angiolipomas but is important to reduce inflammation Localized due to trauma( 218 ) Multiple
