Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


and pain reduce with weight loss Angiolipomas with or without obesity Weight loss does not affect angiolipomas but is important to reduce inflammation Localized due to trauma( 218 ) Multiple lipomas in an area of trauma and not just a single lipoma; likely due to injury of the fascia as with angiolipomas Toxic/infectious; present around lymph node beds or diffuse with or without obesity Likely due to a healing cycle disorder, infection, methylation deficiency, high oxalate or other toxin overload. Signs and symptoms of Dercum disease include chronic pain, fatigue, brain fog, insomnia, cardiac arrhythmia most often tachycardia (palpitations), gastrointestinal distress often similar to irritable bowel syndrome, muscle weakness, tremor or jerking of muscles (myoclonus), joint pains, insulin resistance and diabetes, hypothyroidism, and other autoimmune disorders ( 219 ). The signs and symptoms of Dercum disease have been suggested to be in the spectrum of fibromyalgia ( 220 ). Dr. Dercum’s first patient was a woman with obesity with fat similar to a woman with Stage 3 lipedema ( 221 ). Dr. Dercum and his medical resident described rapid changes in fat tissue shape and size in real time suggestive of edema or fluid shifts. Therefore, involvement of the lymphatic system is likely in Dercum disease. Irregular and thickened lymphatic vessels have been described in Dercum disease suggesting that an altered lymphatic system can contribute to changes in the adipofascial tissue that found by palpation ( 222 ). Once people with Dercum disease are more accurately described by phenotype, there will be a better chance of finding a gene or biomarkers. Prevalence of Dercum Disease Many women with lipedema have been miscategorized as having Dercum disease when actually they have lipedema and metabolic syndrome, making the prevalence estimate of 1/1000 for Dercum disease in Sweden too high ( 223 ). There are no other prevalence studies of Dercum disease although the angiolipomatosis type is considered rare and the obesity- or lipedema-associated types are likely common, but these individuals are better described with what they have, angiolipomas, obesity, or lipedema respectively, with metabolic disease rather than lumping them all together as Dercum disease simply due to the presence of pain in the tissue. Genetics of Dercum Disease There is(are) currently no known gene(s) for Dercum disease. Continuing to include people with angiolipomas, FML, and lipedema under the same moniker of Dercum disease will make it very difficult to discover genes important
