Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


known gene(s) for Dercum disease. Continuing to include people with angiolipomas, FML, and lipedema under the same moniker of Dercum disease will make it very difficult to discover genes important for these diseases when examining populations. The study of genes for specific families may be more helpful to find gene mutations that can then be assessed in individuals with painful adipofascia. One family with familial multiple lipomatosis was found to have members that developed pain in the lipomas consistent with Dercum disease (adiposis dolorosa). While many of the family members with FML and pain also had obesity, not all were. Therefore the authors concluded that “adiposis dolorosa may in fact be an expression of familial multiple lipomas” ( 154 ). It remains unclear, however, why some individuals would develop pain and some not in a family with FML. Fascia can become inflamed for a variety of reasons including surgery, trauma, infection, toxin or drug exposure, and development of obesity. Lipomas in people with FML are often connected by a tail of connective tissue to solid fascial structures in the body, and fascia is a source of preadipocytes ( Figure 9 ). It may be that lipomas in FML are a marker of fascial disease and that pain in and around the lipomas depends on the amount and extent of inflammation present. Other genes may modify susceptibility to prolonged inflammation including those yet to be identified in fibromyalgia ( 224 ). Figure 9. Lipomas with fascial component. A. Lipoma with obvious tail of connective tissue. Removal of the fascia is important along with the lipoma to reduce additional growth in the area of removal. B. Long piece of connective tissue weaving amongst multiple lipomas during resection. Pathophysiology of Dercum Disease The pathophysiology of Dercum disease needs to be determined by type, something that very few papers have done so accurately. In mostly women with lipedema type Dercum disease, substance P was lower in the spinal fluid compared to controls ( 225 ), confirming a strong pain component is present when women with lipedema develop obesity and metabolic syndrome. In another study, interleukin-6 levels were elevated in the fat from women with Dercum disease compared to women without lipedema supporting Dercum disease as an inflammatory disorder ( 226 ). Weight stabilization and when possible, weight loss in patients with obesity should be a focus for women who have developed metabolic disease, in
