Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


as an inflammatory disorder ( 226 ). Weight stabilization and when possible, weight loss in patients with obesity should be a focus for women who have developed metabolic disease, in addition to caring for their lipedema. The juxta-articular type of Dercum disease where nodules in the adipofascial tissue are present around joints had been associated with rheumatoid arthritis ( 227 ). Lymph nodes are present around many joints including the elbow (cubit nodes), knees (popliteal nodes), and hips (femoral nodes), and in these locations adipofacial nodules have been found. Cases of juxta-articular Dercum disease suggest that inflammation in the adipofascia around joints may reduce lymphatic pumping in these areas resulting in a backup of fluid in the interstitial body leading to densification of fascia and eventually fibrosis around lobules of fat making them palpable as nodules. These nodules are tender due to inflammation of the fascia and nerves. As an example, a woman with rheumatoid arthritis was treated with tocilizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody of class IgG1, targeting interleukin-6 receptors, and developed painful fatty masses of her knees documented by MRI ( 228 ). A similar pathophysiology would be likely for the trauma-induced Dercum disease. Familial multiple lipomatosis and angiolipomas have been previously discussed including why pain develops in angiolipomas. It is unclear why a person with FML would suddenly develop pain in and around lipomas qualifying for a diagnosis of Dercum disease (FML type with pain). The presence of inflammation occurring in the body of a person with FML such as from obesity, trauma, hypermobile joint spectrum disorders, arthritis and any other inflammatory condition that includes the fascia in the inflammatory process likely accounts for the development of pain in FML. Resolving the inflammation in the fascia may reduce the pain and return the diagnosis back to FML alone. One theory on the origin of Dercum Disease is based on the work of Robert Naviaux in which a failure of healing of inflammation occurs ( 213 ). According to Naviaux, a normal healing cycle includes normal wakefulness, restorative sleep, fitness and healthy aging. The cell “danger response” is an evolutionarily conserved cellular metabolic response activated when a cell encounters a threat that could injure or kill it, examples of which can be microbial, chemical, physical, or psychological in nature. Chronic disease occurs when cells fail to heal or contain inflammation, and a toxic repeating loop of incomplete recovery and
