Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


which can be microbial, chemical, physical, or psychological in nature. Chronic disease occurs when cells fail to heal or contain inflammation, and a toxic repeating loop of incomplete recovery and re-injury occurs. Chronic pain disorders are included by Naviaux as a healing disorder and the author feels many people with Dercum disease fall into this category. Imaging of Dercum Disease The most inexpensive means to document lipomas in the adipofascia of people with Dercum disease is by ultrasound. Ultrasound findings include a hyperechogeneity (higher density) to the lipoma suggesting fibrotic tissue and no increased Doppler signal (minimal blood flow) ( 229 ). Magnetic resonance imaging of the tissue of people with Dercum disease has found lymphedema in a woman and multiple lipomas in a man ( 230 ). Nodular type lipomas have also been visualized by MRI in the tissue of people with Dercum disease ( 229 ). The lipomas were multiple, oblong, fatty lesions in the superficial subcutaneous adipose tissue, mostly < 2 cm in long axis diameter. A nodular ("blush-like") fluid signal was also found without the presence of contrast. According to Richard Semelka, MD, gadolinium contrast should not be used in people with Dercum disease unless absolutely necessary to avoid any risk for development of gadolinium deposition disease ( 231 , 232 ). MRI images demonstrate variability in the tissue of people with Dercum disease, from lymphedema to distinct lipomas, and exemplify the different phenotypes under the moniker of Dercum disease. To date there are no confirmed connections between multiple lipomas as in FML or trauma-induced Dercum disease and development of lymphedema. Conditions Associated with Dercum Disease Dercum disease has been associated with many conditions such as disrupted sleep cycle, headaches, cognitive difficulties, tachycardia, shortness of breath, and gastrointestinal symptoms ( 219 ). Many of these symptoms are consistent with mast cell activation disease (MCAD). Therefore, MCAD is considered an associated condition in Dercum disease. Diabetes is common in Dercum disease ( 25 , 219 ) and cardiovascular disease should be evaluated for and treated in any person with Dercum disease especially if blood markers of inflammation are high, such as C-reactive protein. A woman with Dercum disease had a dysfunctional arteriolar venous reflex in her arm suggesting a blood vascular or nerve problem in Dercum disease ( 233 ). Another case of a woman with the FML type of painful lipomas was described who had dizziness
