Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


suggesting a blood vascular or nerve problem in Dercum disease ( 233 ). Another case of a woman with the FML type of painful lipomas was described who had dizziness followed by left sided sensory-motor deficit suggestive of a vascular origin ( 234 ). Anecdotally, some of the author’s patients with Dercum disease also have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS). Fibromyalgia is often an accompanying diagnosis in people with Dercum disease as are other pain syndromes such as migraines ( 25 ). Many people with Dercum disease become concerned that the painful lipomas can spread throughout the body as with cancer. Once case of a lipoma on the uterus of a woman with Dercum disease is known to the author, and two women with Dercum disease had invasive calcaneal lipomas that were resected. Other lipomas in people with Dercum disease have been identified in the gastrointestinal system but these need to be verified. Lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was found in one person with Dercum disease ( 235 ), but this type of fat can also be associated with obesity ( 236 ). Altered lymphatics were found in a few cases of Dercum disease ( 222 ). One family had Dercum disease with dysarthria, visual pursuit defect and progressive dystonia ( 237 ). General swelling, a sensation of a “heaviness” in tissue, increased pain in one limb, or aching limbs all suggest that a lymphatic dysfunction may be present, which can be evaluated using lymphangioscintigraphy, which is performed in most nuclear medicine departments, or near infrared lymphatic imaging using indocyanine green, which is not yet to the point of being readily clinically available. Finding altered lymphatic function can change clinical management by steering practitioners towards prescribing manual lymphatic drainage therapy and compression garments to contain and support lymphatic flow. Treatment of Dercum Disease To maintain a healthy weight or lose excess adipofascial tissue, people with Dercum disease should be encouraged to eat a healthy diet such as Mediterranean, DASH, low processed sugar, plant-based low inflammatory foods, or foods that are low in histamine if mast cell activation disease is present or suspected; they should also undertake a graded exercise program. Pain management of Dercum disease Signs and symptoms common in people with Dercum disease, including pain. should be treated symptomatically ( Table 10 ). Opioids are often used for pain treatment for Dercum disease, but doses can escalate over
