Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


in people with Dercum disease, including pain. should be treated symptomatically ( Table 10 ). Opioids are often used for pain treatment for Dercum disease, but doses can escalate over time and care should be taken to try and find additional alternative treatments. Table 10. Medications Used to Treat Pain and Other Symptoms in People with Dercum Disease View in own window Medication Comments Deoxycholic acid ( 238 ) Injection of deoxycholic acid reduced pain and size of lipomas in a man with FML type of Dercum disease Doxepin ( 205 ) Has antihistaminergic activity therefore useful for pain, depression and mast cell activation disease Intravenous lidocaine ( 239 ) Ketamine is often used in addition to or in place of lidocaine if not effective Topical lidocaine ( 240 ) Often combined with other medications in topical form such as EMLA ( 241 ) Metformin ( 242 ) Useful for metabolic disease and when inflammatory markers are high Mexiletine and amitriptyline ( 243 ) Mexilitine has been described as oral lidocaine and offers an alternative to opioids Low dose naltrexone ( 244 ) Effective for fibromyalgia pain, a condition often present in Dercum disease Pregabalin ( 245 ) Gabapentin has also been shown to reduce pain ( 246 ) but may increase edema Sympathomimetic amines ( 137 ) Phentermine, dextroamphetamine, amphetamine; sympathomimetic amines resolved lipomas and liver fat in two cases of Dercum disease. Non-Medication Treatment of Dercum disease People with Dercum disease should be offered manual or IAST therapies or pool/water therapy to reduce pain, improve mobility and impede progression of the disease. Manual lymphatic drainage combined with pregabalin improved weight and pain in a woman with Dercum disease ( 245 ). It has also been reported that fascia improved, pain reduced, and fat was lost after women with lipedema and Dercum disease received deep tissue therapy ( 86 , 126 ). Liposuction has been used as treatment for Dercum disease ( 247 ), reducing pain by one point on a visual analogue scale ( 248 ) and improving insulin sensitivity ( 249 ). Surgeons removing lipomas by liposuction must have experience in the removal of fibrotic tissue and manual or IAST therapies should be performed before and after any surgery to keep inflammation levels at a minimum. Transcutaneous frequency rhythmic electrical modulation system (FREMS) reduced pain and the size of lipomas in one case of Dercum disease (
