Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


any surgery to keep inflammation levels at a minimum. Transcutaneous frequency rhythmic electrical modulation system (FREMS) reduced pain and the size of lipomas in one case of Dercum disease ( 250 ). Cycling hypobaric air around ten people with Dercum disease improved pain and mental quality of life after five days of therapy ( 251 ). Cycling air around the body by sequential pneumatic compression pump therapy is also useful for people with Dercum disease due to the presence of lymphatic dysfunction ( 222 , 229 ). Concluding Remarks on Dercum Disease People with Dercum disease have painful lipomas and other signs and symptoms of a healing disorder. The different types of Dercum disease need to be delineated before any gene or biomarker can be found. The pain and associated signs and symptoms of Dercum disease should be treated to improve quality of life. People with Dercum disease may be at high risk for cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors should be closely monitored and treated when appropriate. MULTIPLE SYMMETRIC LIPOMATOSIS Multiple symmetric lipomatosis (MSL; OMIM#151800) also known as Madelung disease, Launois-Bensaude syndrome, cephalothoracic lipodystrophy, and benign symmetric lipomatosis is a rare disease first described by Brodie in 1846.This disorder is clearly not benign. Madelung reported data on 33 cases, but the classical description of the disease is attributed to Launois and Bensaude who published a detailed account of 65 cases in 1898. The literature on MSL was initially dominated by research on men with alcoholism; however, people who do not consume alcohol ( 252 ), women, and children are also affected ( 253 ). There are different types of MSL described initially by two different groups and reclassified in 2018 based on a German cohort of 45 patients ( Table 11 and Figure 10 ) ( 91 ). Table 11. Types of Multiple Symmetric Lipomatosis (Locations of Abnormal Fat Tissue) View in own window Types Old Classification ( 254 ) Old Classification ( 255 ) New German Classification ( 91 ) I Neck, shoulders, supraclavicular triangle, and proximal upper limbs Neck, upper back, shoulder girdle, and upper arms Ia: Neck Ib: Neck, shoulder girdle, upper arms Ic: Neck, shoulder girdle, upper arms, chest, abdomen, upper and lower back II Abdomen and thighs Shoulder girdle, deltoid region, upper arms, and thorax Hips, bottom, and upper legs III Thigh or female type similar to lipedema Gynecoid type: Thighs and medial side
