Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


Abdomen and thighs Shoulder girdle, deltoid region, upper arms, and thorax Hips, bottom, and upper legs III Thigh or female type similar to lipedema Gynecoid type: Thighs and medial side of the knees General distribution skipping head, forearms, and lower legs IV NA Abdominal type: Abdomen NA Figure 10. Two different presentations of MSL. The man has MSL with a Charcot Marie Tooth presentation with increased fat on the upper body even after multiple resections, and the woman on the right has increased fat on the arms and upper back consistent with the old classification of MSL Type II. Women tend to have Type II MSL and the authors state that it is difficult to differentiate women with lipedema from women with MSL type II. Criteria the authors used to distinguish the two are “the hips and bottom are affected [in Type II MSL] which are not affected in patients suffering from lipedema.” Lipedema, however, does affect the hips and buttocks in Types I-III lipedema ( Figure 3 ). Finding a gene or biomarker for lipedema and MSL will be ultimately be helpful in distinguishing these adipofascial disorders. In rare cases, MSL SAT can invade the muscles of the tongue ( 256 , 257 ), vocal cords ( 258 ), and periorbital area ( 259 ). Tracheal or esophageal compression can occur resulting in superior vena cava syndrome ( 260 ). Prevalence of MSL Multiple symmetric lipomatosis is considered rare occurring 1:25,000 in a primarily male Italian population ( 261 ) and 1:25,000 in a German population where females outnumbered men 2.5:1 ( 91 ). Genetics of MSL Multiple deletions of mitochondrial DNA, and the myoclonus epilepsy and ragged red fibers (MERRF) tRNA(Lys) A>G(8344) mutation have been found in some cases of MSL ( 262 , 263 ) but not in others ( 264 , 265 ). Chalk et al. found no mitochondrial pathology or mutations in four siblings with MSL with a pattern favoring autosomal recessive ( 265 ). Another study examined individuals with mitochondrial mutations and found that MSL was a rare sign of mitochondrial disease with a strong association between multiple lipomas and lysine tRNA mutations ( 266 ). If triglyceride cannot be mobilized from fat, then along with adipogenesis (via microRNAs), fat would be expected to increase. Indeed, a mutation in the LIPE gene coding for hormone sensitive lipase was found to be mutated in a
