Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


along with adipogenesis (via microRNAs), fat would be expected to increase. Indeed, a mutation in the LIPE gene coding for hormone sensitive lipase was found to be mutated in a family with MSL and lipodystrophy ( 267 ). Mutations in the MFN2 gene coding for mitofusin 2 have been found to cause MSL with Charcot Marie Tooth Disease ( 268 ). Mitofusin 2 helps to regulate the morphology of mitochondria by controlling the fusion process. Individuals with mutations in MFN2 have increased fat on the upper part of the body and a lipodystrophy or lack of fat on other aspects of the body. These data support pathophysiology of MSL hypothesis 1 above for the development of MSL but also support hypothesis 2 in that alcohol may cause widespread damage to mitochondria. Pathophysiology of MSL Hypothesis 1: Brown Adipose Tissue The dorsocervical fat pad (buffalo hump) is thought to be a location of brown adipose tissue found both in MSL ( 264 , 269 , 270 ) and HIV-associated lipodystrophy ( 271 - 274 ) suggesting that the abnormal fat tissue in both of these conditions arises from brown adipocytes ( 275 ). Uncoupling protein (UCP)-1 has been shown to be activated in HIV-associated lipodystrophy and in agreement, calcyphosine-like (CAPSL), important in early adipogenesis, was down-regulated and uncoupling protein (UCP)-1 upregulated in eleven individuals, one with familial MSL and ten with sporadic MSL disease ( 276 ). Stromal vascular cells grown out of MSL fat tissue resulted in multiloculated adipocytes consistent with brown adipocytes ( 277 , 278 ). These data suggest that altered pre-adipocyte mesenchymal stem cells, adipogenesis and energy metabolism are important in development of MSL fat. In support, microRNAs miR-125a-3p and miR-483-5p are significantly increased in the fat of patients with MSL. These microRNAs promote adipogenesis through regulating the RhoA/ROCK1/ERK1/2 pathway ( 279 ). Finally, stem cells from MSL tissue showed significantly higher proliferative activity ( 280 ) suggesting a defect in regulation of adipogenesis. That brown fat was not found by 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18 F-FDG) uptake using PET/CT in areas of MSL tissue ( 281 ) does not rule out the brown fat hypothesis as there may be browning of MSL fat rather than as strict replication of brown adipocytes. Hypothesis 2: Inflammation, Alcohol and the Lymphatic System Further research is needed to determine the exact pathophysiology involved in the development of MSL fat tissue, but
