Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Diseases: Dercum Disease, Lipedema, Familial Multiple Lipomatosis, and Madelung Disease
KEYWORDS: lipedema, pubmed, tissue, disease, fat, women, dercum, crossref, dercum disease, pubmed crossref, pain, lipomas, multiple, obesity, lymphatic


deaths in one series of primarily men ( 254 ). The neuropathology of MSL is a distal axonal demyelination different from that associated with alcohol intake and impairment of autonomic function has been suggested as a possible cause of sudden death; this impairment seems to prevalently involve the autonomic nervous system and not related to a high alcohol intake. Treatment of MSL Anyone with MSL should be encouraged to stop intake of alcohol. The only definitive treatment of MSL is liposuction or excision of the MSL tissue. The advantages of lipectomy is more complete removal of MSL tissue and better control of iatrogenic damage to nearby structures. Liposuction, however, achieves good cosmetic results and is simpler and less invasive than lipectomy ( 287 ). Multiple symmetric lipomatosis tissue tends to recur after liposuction and even excision. Therefore, other treatments are needed to slow down the progression of this disease to improve quality of life. Some believe that combining excision with liposuction can reduce recurrence ( 288 ). Mesotherapy is a procedure that involves injections of multiple substances such as pharmaceuticals and/or vitamins into subcutaneous fat to reduce the fat tissue or cellulite. Such substances include phosphatidylcholine, multivitamins, pentoxifylline, aminophylline, hyaluronic acid, yohimbine, collagenase and others. Mesotherapy has been used to treat MSL but the injections can cause fibrosis which can make excision or liposuction difficult ( 289 ). Concluding Remarks on MSL Multiple symmetric lipomatosis is a rare adipofasial disorder associated with alcohol use, but not always. The pathophysiology is unknown but may involve early adipogenesis, mitochondrial dysfunction, and brown adipose tissue formation. Women with MSL may have lipedema and vice versa, therefore a gene or biomarker is needed to identify people with different types of MSL. Surgical treatment remains the only therapy for MSL. OVERALL CONCLUSIONS ON ADIPOFASCIAL DISEASES Aipofascial diseases occur when there is an increase in adipofascial tissue on the body that becomes fibrotic and is resistant to loss by lifestyle change. Until such time that better understanding of the pathophysiology of these disorder hints at other treatment modalities, these disorders often require removal by surgical means. Many of the diseases overlap, making identification difficult and will remain so until additional genes or biomarkers are clinically available. A comparison table of the five adipofascial disorders presented in this chapter can be helpful ( Table 12 ). Table 12. Comparison of Adipofascial Diseases View in own window Characteristic
