SexTransmInf2001;77:63–68 63
KEYWORDS: women, sexual, gonorrhoea, risk, data, etal, infection, partner, bacterial, sti, study, known, postcode, vaginal, ethnicity


of BV (inclusive). Data from all females aged under Acceptedforpublication 15September2000 and it is now known that Gardnerella vaginalis 45 were analysed as the major burden of ill www.sextransinf.com 64 Morris,Rogers,Kinghorn health associated with BV is for women of ablelogisticregressionanalysis(analysisoflog reproductive age. Diagnostic, demographic, likelihood).Apvalueoflessthan0.05foreach and behavioural data for the first attendance variable was then regarded as statistically with BV within a calendar year were investi- significant. For the final model all two way gatedinriskfactoranalyses.Reattendanceina interactions between variables were investi- later year was taken as a new patient attend- gated.Thebaselineschosenreflectedthelarg- ance. It is not unreasonable to presume that est group within a variable except for age and those reattending with BV over the study postcode.AsBVismostcommonamongolder period would diVer from those with a single women, while STIs are more common in the attendance. Therefore, reattendance with BV under 20s,a baseline of 20–24 was chosen to atanypointoverthestudyperiodwasusedto highlight both phenomenon.1213 A postcode investigate risk factors for reattenders in a descriptionof“livinginaprosperousarea”was separateanalysis. chosenasthebaselinetohighlightanytrendof increasing prevalence with deprivation that is DATACOLLECTION oftencommonwithdisease.13 Dataonthedateofattendance,diagnosis,and The final model for BV was compared with demographiccharacteristicswerecollectedand riskmodelscompiledusingthesamedataand analysed. Behavioural characteristics were methodologyfortwoknownSTIs,gonorrhoea determinedthroughashortbehaviouralques- (KC60codeB1B2)andChlamydiatrachomatis tionnaire delivered by the doctor at each (C4AC4C),andforconditionsnotbelievedto patient visit, on sexual behaviour including be primarily sexually transmitted, candida sexual preference, the number of partners in (KC60 code C7A) and “other conditions” a history of high risk sexual partners, and code D2B). To allow for direct comparison, sexual experience abroad. Data on smoking riskfactormodelswererunforeachcondition andcontraceptiveusewerenotavailable.Data containingallthevariablesthathadprovedsig- werewhollyanonymised. nificantinanyoneindividualmodel. Postcode data were used as a proxy for ReattendancewithBVwasexaminedinthe socioeconomicstatus.Postcodeswerelinkedto subsetofpatientswhohadattendedwithBVat the local health authority ward using the post some point during the study period. Factors oYce address file database. The local health related to a reattendance with BV were authoritywardwasthendescribedasdeprived, analysedinthesurvivalanalysis.Followupwas industrial, mixed urban/rural and prosperous considered truncated in September 1998 and according to the OYce for National Statistics timetoreattendancewasmeasuredinmonths. (ONS)groupandclusterclassification. Before running the model it was confirmed thatallvariablesconformedtotheassumptions MEDICALANDLABORATORYDATA oftheproportionalhazardsmodel.Forthesur- Diagnosis of BV in the clinic was based on vivalanalysistheblackAfricanandAsianeth- Amsel’scriteriarequiringthreeormoreofthe nic groups were combined as the numbers in followingclinical/diagnosticfeatures11: each group were very small. As the two + The presence of (excessive) homogeneous amalgamatedethnicgroupshadalmostidenti- vaginaldischarge cal survival curves it was felt that no unique + ElevatedvaginalpHgreaterthanorequalto information would be lost through their 5.0 combination. The amalgamation of the few + Positiveaminetest cases of BV within each group gave a more + 20% “clue cells” (vaginal epithelial cells robustanalysis. adhered to by infective microbes)
