SexTransmInf2001;77:63–68 63
KEYWORDS: women, sexual, gonorrhoea, risk, data, etal, infection, partner, bacterial, sti, study, known, postcode, vaginal, ethnicity


deprived areas. BV, gonorrhoea United States and Scandinavia and it is andChlamydiatrachomatisweremostprevalent possible that the results are not applicable in amongwomenwithtwopartnersinthepast3 theUnitedKingdom.AnotherUKstudysetin months compared with none or one partner. a west London GUM clinic reported a Those in the “other condition”category were prevalence of BV of only 9.6%.17 The low significantly less likely to report two partners prevalencecouldreflectcertaincharacteristics comparedwithnooronepartner.Thosewith of the present study population.Over 90% of BV, gonorrhoea, and Chlamydia trachomatis the population were white with very few weremorelikelytohaveahistoryofabacterial patients representing black ethnic minorities STI. knowntohavehigherratesofBV.Inaddition, GonorrhoeaandChlamydiatrachomatiswere only 16% of the study population had had mostcommonamongteenagers.Onlythosein more than one sexual partner in the past 3 the “other treatment” group followed the months, representing a population with lower patternofBV,wheretheriskwasgreatestinthe risksexualbehaviourthanthoseinvestigatedin 35–44agegroup.Patientswithgonorrhoeaand the studies yielding higher prevalences of BV. Chlamydia trachomatis were much more likely Alternatively, diagnostic diVerences may have tohavehadasexualcontactwithapartnerwith led to diVering results. This study used a pH anSTI.Thosewithcandidaandinthe“other cutoVpointforBVofgreaterthanorequalto treatment” group were less likely to have had 5.0 rather than pH 4.5 used elsewhere. This contactwithapartnerwithanSTI. higher cutoV may have excluded some cases There were few significant results from the and lowered the prevalence. However, as a candidamodel.Therewerenodirectsimilari- more sensitive microscopy technique was also tiestotheresultsforBVortheSTIs.Because inusethisshouldhavebeenavoided. ofthistheresultsarenotpresentedintable2. A common risk factor profile for a sexually transmitted infection (STI) includes having REATTENDERANALYSIS highernumbersofsexualpartners,higherrates Onehundredandfivepatientsoutofthe1280 of partner change, a lower age of first presentingwithBVhadmorethanonediagno- intercourse,andbeingagedunder25.13Previ- sisofBVwithinthestudyperiod.Thepropor- ousstudieshavereportedthattheprevalenceof tional hazards assumptions held for all vari- BValsoriseswiththenumberoflifetimesexual ables and the single variable analysis proved partnersandismorecommoninthosewitha significant for ethnicity,postcode,numbers of lowerageoffirstintercourse.18Inthisstudythe partnersinthepast4–12months,ahistoryof riskofBVwasgreatestamongthosereporting anSTI,apartnerwithaSTI,havingaconcur- more than one partner in the past 3 months rent infection with trichomoniasis and warts, reflecting the pattern reported for the known and being a commercial sex worker. There STIs, gonorrhoea, and Chlamydia trachomatis. werenosignificanttwowayinteractions. This suggests that a diagnosis of BV is The results for a multivariable survival associated with a recent partner change. It is analysis to investigate the risk factors associ- possiblethatBVisfavouredbycertainvaginal atedwithareattendanceforBVforthese1280 physiological changes induced through a new patients are shown in table 3. Time to sexual partnership.19 Alternatively, as short reattendance with BV was shorter for black termsexualhistorywasofgreatestimportance, Caribbeansandthoseofmixed/otherethnicity having a new sexual partner may prompt that compared with those of white ethnicity. The patienttoseektreatmentforsymptoms. )%( ecnelaverP 66 Morris,Rogers,Kinghorn Table3 AdjustedriskfactorsforreattenderswithBV Variable Hazardratio 95%CI pValue Ethnicity: White 1.00 BlackCaribbean 1.69 1.07–2.67 BlackAfrican/Asian 0.44 0.06–3.16 Other/mixed 2.61 1.44–4.70 <0.01 Partnersinpast4–12months: 0/1 1.00 2 1.46 0.81–2.62 3+ 1.80 1.19–2.71 0.02 HistorybacterialSTI 2.04 1.45–2.85 <0.01 <16 16–19 20–24
