Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, nodule, patients, benign, thyroid nodules, cancer, clin, endocrinol, carcinoma, follicular, clin endocrinol, diagnosis, therapy, adenoma


TeratomaII. Malignant Tumors A. Differentiated 1. Papillary adenocarcinoma a. Pure papillary adenocarcinoma b.Mixed papillary and follicular carcinoma (variants including tall cell, follicular, oxyphyl, solid) 2. Follicular adenocarcinomas (variants: "malignant adenoma", Hurthle cell carcinoma or oxyphil carcinoma, clear-cell carcinoma, insular carcinoma) B. Medullary carcinoma- (not a tumor of follicular cells) C. Undifferentiated 1. Small cell (to be differentiated from lymphoma) 2. Giant cell 3. Carcinosarcoma D. Miscellaneous 1. Lymphoma, sarcoma 2. Squamous cell epidermoid carcinoma 3. Fibrosarcoma 4. Mucoepithelial carcinoma 5. Metastatic tumor Figure 18-1A) Follicular and microfollicular adenoma. The nodule shows microfollicles, is sharply circumscribed by a delicate even fibrous capsule, and there is no invasion of the capsule or blood vessels by the tumor. Figure 18-1B) The central area of a microfollicular adenoma displays regular nuclei and some interfollicular edema. Figure 18-1C) Hurthle (oxyphile) cell tumor, lower half of photomicrograph, with well circumscribed margin established by an intact delicate fibrous capsule. This is a Hurthle cell tumor of low malignant potential (an adenoma). Figure 18-1D) High power view of a Hurthle cell tumor made up of microfollicles lined by large acidophilic cells, the cytoplasm of which is granular and filled with mitochondria. PATHOLOGY OF NODULES Thyroid nodules are not expression of a single disease but are the clinical manifestation of a wide range of different diseases. Non-neoplastic nodules are the result of glandular hyperplasia arising spontaneously or following partial thyroidectomy; rarely, thyroid hemiagenesia may present as hyperplasia of the existing lobe, mimicking a thyroid nodule. Non-neoplastic thyroid diseases, such as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or subacute thyroiditis may appear as thyroid lumps which are not true nodules but just the expression of the underlying thyroid disease. Benign neoplastic nodules are divided into embryonal, fetal, follicular, Hurthle, and possibly papillary adenomas on the basis of their characteristic pattern 12 . Examples appear in Figure 18-1 (above). The adenomas usually exhibit a uniform orderly architecture and few mitoses, and show no lymphatic or blood vessel invasion. They are characteristically enveloped by a discrete fibrous capsule or a thin zone of compressed surrounding thyroid tissue. All types of nodules may become partially cystic, presumably through necrosis of a portion of the growth. Cyst formation is very common in colloid nodules. Whether papillary adenoma is a real entity is debatable; most observers believe that all papillary tumors should be considered as carcinomas. Others consider that some papillary tumors are benign adenomas. It is our impression
