Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, nodule, patients, benign, thyroid nodules, cancer, clin, endocrinol, carcinoma, follicular, clin endocrinol, diagnosis, therapy, adenoma


been observed and confirmed that there is a direct correlation between TSH levels in patients with nodules and the risk of thyroid malignancy, and also with the degree of aggressiveness of the tumor(33.1) The serum TG concentration may be elevated, as in all other goitrous conditions, and therefore is not a valuable tool in differential diagnosis. Calcitonin assay is indicated in the presence of a suggestive family history or of coincident features of the MEN-II syndromes. A chest x-ray should be taken if a normal film has not been reported in the prior 6 months. Soft tissue x-ray films of the neck may disclose indentation or deviation of the trachea if the tumor is more than 3 or 4 cm in diameter. Fine, stippled calcifications through the tumor (psammoma bodies) are virtually pathognomonic of papillary cancer. Patchy or "signet ring" calcification occurs in old cysts and degenerating adenomas, and has no such connotation. Calcitonin assays Although MTC constitutes a small fraction of thyroid malignancies, and an even smaller proportion of thyroid nodules, several reports suggest that routine screening of nodular goiters by CT assay is an appropriate approach (34-37). Such screening offers the possibility of finding tumors before they have metastasized, and MTC is rarely found on FNA. Whether the considerable expense is justified is yet indeterminate. Routine screening has been adopted as a standard procedure for evaluation of nodules in many clinics in Europe, but not in the USA. While calcitonin levels above 60 typically signal the presence of Medullary cancer, abnormal levels between 10 and 60 may be present with C-cell hyperplasia or no objective abnormality, and may spontaneously normalize(37.1). FINE NEEDLE ASPIRATION CYTOLOGY For many years core needle biopsy of the thyroid was employed successfully in some clinics to provide a histologic diagnosis on which to base therapy (38). Difficulties in acceptance of the procedure by surgeons, patients, and pathologists prevented its widespread application. As an alternative technique, thin needle aspiration cytologic examination has been widely adopted after favorable reports by Walfish et al (39) and Gershengorn et al (40). The procedure is technically simple and acceptable to patients, but requires an experienced operator and collaboration with a skilled cytopathologist (Figure 18-1). Two to four aspirations of the nodule, in different areas of the nodule, are recommended by many expert cytologists, particularly when the nodule is large enough (41). One common technique for sampling the whole nodule,
