Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, nodule, patients, benign, thyroid nodules, cancer, clin, endocrinol, carcinoma, follicular, clin endocrinol, diagnosis, therapy, adenoma


current commercially- available methods for classifying thyroid fine-needle aspirates by molecular techniques, especially those in the category of “atypia of undetermined significance/follicular lesion of undetermined significance” (AUS/FLUS) with a 5% to 15% risk of malignancy, and the “follicular neoplasm/suspicious for follicular neoplasm” (FN/SFN) category typically associated with a 15% to 30% risk of malignancy. The Afirma Gene Expression Classifier (GEC) and Afirma BRAF use microarray technology to assess the mRNA expression profiles of cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules.The test is designed to “rule out” malignancy with a high PPV and low NPV, and is most clearly applicable to aspirates in the FN/SFN category, and may be less useful for AUS/FLUS aspirates. ThyGenX test is designed to “rule in” a possible diagnosis of malignancy by assaying FNA sample DNA for the most common oncogenic mutations in BRAF, KRAS, HRAS, NRAS, and chromosomal translocations resulting in RET/PTC1, RET/PTC3, and PAX8/PPARc fusions. Positive assay for BRAFV600E mutations and Ret/ PTC rearrangements carry a very high PPV. ThyroSeq V2 is similarly directed to “rule in” diagnosis of a malignancy. It uses parallel “next generation sequencing” targeted multiple portions of the genome in parallel searching for gene mutations in PIK3CA, PTEN, TP53, TSHR, CTNNB1, RET, AKT1, and TERT, as well as gene fusions involving RET, BRAF, NTRK1, NTRK3, AKT, PPARc, and THADA. It is also probably most useful on samples in the FN/SFN category, and less reliable in the AUS/FLUS category. Please consult this reference for extensive data on test performance. Guidelines published by AACE and AME (51i) in January 2016 on management of thyroid nodules offers a wealth of carefully researched information. The authors advise that Molecular Testing should be considered to complement cytologic evalua­tion, and is appropriate if the results are expected to change therapy.The studies should include the detection of BRAF and RET/PTC and, possibly, PAX8/PPARG and RAS muta­tions if such detection is available. This group also concluded that there is “insufficient evidence to recommend use of gene expression classifiers (GECs) for decisions on cytologically indeterminate nodules”, that with the exception of mutations such as BRAFV600E, molecular evidence is insufficient to determine the extent of surgery , and that patients with nodules that are nega­tive on mutation testing should still be monitored by close follow-up. Please consult this reference for a full description of their views, THYROID ULTRASOUND It is accepted practice to perform ultrasound examination of all thyroid nodules as the first
