Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, nodule, patients, benign, thyroid nodules, cancer, clin, endocrinol, carcinoma, follicular, clin endocrinol, diagnosis, therapy, adenoma


( Table 18-3 ,18-4) ( Figure 18-4 ) Figure 18-4 Diagnostic sequence and therapeutic decisions in managing a patient with an apparent single nodule of the thyroid. Toxic Nodules Three therapeutic options are available for toxic nodules: surgery, 131-I therapy and ethanol injection. Antithyroid drugs can be used if necessary prior to definitive therapy, for example during pregnancy. Radioiodine is a very effective therapy and is becoming the treatment of choice in most patients over 21 years of age and particularly in older patients and those with coincident serious illness, because of its ease and convenience, slightly lower expense, avoidance of a scar, and avoidance of hospitalization. The activity of 131-I to be administered will depend on the size of the nodule and usually ranges between 185 and 740 MBq (5-20 mCi). Euthyroidism and a variable shrinkage of the nodule are obtained in most patients. When one single dose is ineffective, the procedure may be repeated. With time, hypothyroidism may develop in up to 30-40% of the patients, since the remainder of the gland receives 1,000-8,000 rads (64). Hypothyroidism is more frequent in patients with positive anti-thyroid autoantibodies prior to therapy (59a). Further, the patient receives 30-60 rads of whole body irradiation (65). Although, in theory, this radiation could induce cancer formation, this has not been reported. Surgery is indicated for large nodules, particularly when they have a large cystic component, in very young patients (although rare) and in those refusing radioiodine therapy. Surgery consists of a total lobectomy and must be performed after restoration of a normal thyroid function by antithyroid drugs. Also after surgery, late hypothyroidism is common (30-40% in our experience), while the occurrence of surgical complications is nearly absent in the hands of experienced surgeons. The third option for the treatment of toxic or pre-toxic nodules, ethanol injections, has been proposed by Italian authors (66, 67). The procedure consists in percutaneous intra-nodular ethanol injection, which induces cellular dehydration followed by coagulative necrosis and vascular thrombosis and occlusion. Volumes of .4 - 2 ml are injected, and patients may receive up to 9 or more treatments at intervals of several days. The technique requires a well-trained staff. Transient, sometimes severe, local pain is the most frequent side effect, followed by transient fever, and occasionally transient dysphonia. Long term follow-up studies have shown that the rate of recurrence is limited to a few patients, and almost no patient
