Thyroid Nodules
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, nodule, patients, benign, thyroid nodules, cancer, clin, endocrinol, carcinoma, follicular, clin endocrinol, diagnosis, therapy, adenoma


effect, followed by transient fever, and occasionally transient dysphonia. Long term follow-up studies have shown that the rate of recurrence is limited to a few patients, and almost no patient developed hypothyroidism (68). However, in our opinion, this therapeutic option should be limited to highly selected cases, such as small nodules, well accessible to palpation, in patients at surgical risk or refusing radioiodine. Small autonomous functioning thyroid nodules, without thyrotoxicosis, can be left untreated and followed. Nearly 30-40% will eventually evolve into toxic nodules (69), but many may stay as they are or even undergo spontaneous cystic degeneration. Cysts Cystic lesions are aspirated and often reaspirated one or more times. Possibly long-term replacement with thyroid hormone tends to prevent recurrence, although this outcome is uncertain (70). If, after repeated aspiration, the lesion is still clearly evident, it must be considered a mixed solid/cystic lesion and probably should be resected. Cytologic examination of the aspirated fluid should be done, but the specimens are often not satisfactory for diagnosis. Some physicians attempt to sclerose cysts by aspirating fluid, and then reinjecting one-half volume of a 10/1 mixture of saline and an injectable form of tetracycline containing 100 mg/ml of the drug. Care must be taken to avoid subcutaneous leakage which is very painful. The technique is not widely used, but is reported to be effective (71). Sclerotherapy by ethanol injection is an other promising method of treatment for thyroid cysts. A major reduction in cyst volume, with very low rate of recurrence has been reported in two publications (72, 73). Large cysts (over 40 ml volume) can also be treated by ethanol injection in several sessions with > 50% reduction in size in most cases (74). Solid nodules Solid, mixed, functioning, or "cold" nodules constitute the remaining group and indeed the majority of cases. Here major reliance is placed on aspiration cytology. If the results are positive for carcinoma, resection is offered. If no specimen is obtained, reaspiration is performed. If the specimen is suspicious, reaspiration or resection is mandatory. Usually "suspicious" cytology and follicular proliferation leads to resection, since about 25% of nodules with this cytological picture are carcinomas at final pathology Table 18-3 Factors to be Considered in Management of Cold Nodules View in own window History Physical Examination Laboratory tests Radiation Size FTI Age Fixation Antithyroid antibodies Sex Cystic nature TG Duration Tenderness Chest Xray film Local Sysmptoms Adenopathy
