Scandinavian Journal of Primary HealtH care
KEYWORDS: uti, women, study, data, diagnosis, diagnosed, years, diabetes, cystitis, primary, study period, period, uncomplicated, pyelonephritis, healthcare


2025, vol. 44, no. 1, 1–5 ReseaRch aRticle Acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections and subsequent type 2 diabetes diagnosis in women: a national cohort study including primary healthcare data Filip Jansåkera,b,c , Xinjun lia , Ola ekströmd , henning stenberga,b and Kristina sundquista,b,e Japan ABSTRACT ARTICLE HISTORY Purpose: to examine the association between uncomplicated urinary tract infections Received 12 June 2025 and subsequent type 2 diabetes (t2D) diagnosis in women. Materials and methods: We accepted 21 October included 1,840,044 women without previously diagnosed type 2 diabetes (t2D) or 2025 redeemed antidiabetic drugs. Results and conclusions: During the 12-year study period, KEYWORDS women with uncomplicated urinary tract infections (cystitis and pyelonephritis), cystitis; diagnosis; diagnosed within two years before t2D, did not have higher subsequent risks of t2D pyelonephritis; type 2 compared to those without urinary tract infections. diabetes; Uti; women Introduction in sweden, a country of universal healthcare, the estimated proportion of undiagnosed t2D is 33% . cators of t2D could help to identify undiagnosed cases of t2D. infections diagnosed in primary healthcare are common in patients with t2D and it is possible that common infections could be useful predictors of t2D. Research on this topic is, however, sparse. Previous research has shown that patients with community-acquired pneumonia have high prevalence of prediabetes and undiagnosed diabetes . in addition, women with vulvovaginal candidiasis have increased subsequent risk of t2D . it is also well-established that women with t2D have a higher risk of subsequent Uti compared to women without t2D [3,6–10]. there are several possible explanations behind the increased risk of Uti in women with t2D; for example, t2D is associated with increased concentration of glucose in the urine- and renal parenchyma as well as impaired bladder function and weakened immune system [7–10]. thus, it is plausible that Uti also could be a predictor of a subse- quent risk of t2D. such knowledge could be useful in clinical practice as Uti is a common infection in women worldwide . the purpose of this nationwide study, including primary healthcare data, was to examine the associ- ation between uncomplicated Uti and subsequent t2D diagnosis in women without previously diag- nosed diabetes mellitus. With an aim to evaluate whether such an association could provide useful diagnosis . Jan Waldenströms gata 35, 205 02 malmö, Sweden Supplemental data for this article can be accessed online at © 2025 the author(s). Published by informa uK limited,
