Scandinavian Journal of Primary HealtH care
KEYWORDS: uti, women, study, data, diagnosis, diagnosed, years, diabetes, cystitis, primary, study period, period, uncomplicated, pyelonephritis, healthcare


1,831,043 (99.5) 47,025 (2.6) 9001 (0.5) 310 (3.4) 178 (57.4) 0.77 (0.67–0.89) 0.62 (0–2) ci: confidence interval; Hr: hazard ratio; t2d: type 2 diabetes; uti: urinary tract infection. aProportion of study population without/with uti diagnosis during the study period. bProportion of those diagnosed without/with uti who were diagnosed with t2d during the study period. cProportion of those diagnosed with uti and t2d during the study period who were diagnosed with uti within two years before t2d diagnosis. dHr for subsequent t2d in those with uti (diagnosed within two years before t2d) compared to those without uti during the study period. a cox regression model adjusted for age, family history of type 2 diabetes, parity and individual-level sociodemographic factors (education level, income level, region of residence, and country of origin). the women with cystitis and 57.4% of the women with pyelonephritis had a Uti within two years before the t2D diagnosis. For these women, the mean time to the t2D diagnosis was 0.64 years for cystitis and 0.62 years for pyelonephritis. Discussion in this nationwide population of 1,840,044 women aged 35–65 years, uncomplicated cystitis and pyelo- nephritis diagnosed within two years before t2D diagnosis were not associated with higher t2D risks compared to women without the infection. these findings suggest that uncomplicated Utis may not be useful clinical predictors for t2D in this population and setting. in contrast to these results, our previous findings on vulvovaginal candidiasis, diagnosed within two years prior to t2D diagnosis, indicated a higher subsequent risk of t2D in women aged ≥35 years . Moreover, patients with community-acquired pneumonia have been found to have high prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes . it is possible that the broad causes and high prevalence of Uti might dilute general population of women presenting with symptoms of uncomplicated Uti in primary healthcare. however, more complicated and more severe forms of Uti (e.g. hospitalization for pyelonephritis) may be more strongly associated with undiagnosed t2D. Furthermore, while focusing on whether Utis occur- the potential associations between Uti and subsequent t2D. including Utis from longer time periods could thus show different results, which can be explored in future research into the association between Uti and subsequent t2D. although we did not identify predictive relationships between Uti and t2D, the sequence of Uti fol- lowed by t2D diagnosis within two years after the infections was observed in a majority of women diagnosed with both conditions during
