Scandinavian Journal of Primary HealtH care
KEYWORDS: uti, women, study, data, diagnosis, diagnosed, years, diabetes, cystitis, primary, study period, period, uncomplicated, pyelonephritis, healthcare


Uti and t2D, the sequence of Uti fol- lowed by t2D diagnosis within two years after the infections was observed in a majority of women diagnosed with both conditions during the 12-year study period may reflect differences in individual ies could explore specific subgroups in which Utis might serve as predictors for t2D, e.g. recurrent and complicated Uti . Future research could also consider the heterogeneity of diabetes as the asso- ciation with Uti might differ across subtypes of diabetes . For example, insulin resistance is linked to increased susceptibility to Uti , whereas high BMi has been associated with lower Uti risk in women . it is also possible that Uti might be more valuable in the prediction of t2D in countries with higher prevalence of undiagnosed t2D. another important aspect to consider when interpreting the findings from this study is that the outcome was t2D diagnosis. Given that the estimated proportion of undiag- nosed t2D in sweden is approximately 33%, and even higher for prediabetes , the ‘true’ association between Uti and undiagnosed t2D and prediabetes may be different than the observed association in this study, which warrants further studies. Future studies could, for example, examine the prevalence of t2D and prediabetes in women diagnosed with uncomplicated Uti, as previously done for patients with pneumonia . 4 F. JaNsÅKeR et al. the main limitation with our study is the lack of detailed clinical and microbiological data. although other researchers have found significant bacteriuria in 80% of clinically diagnosed cases of uncompli- cated cystitis (n = 304) in swedish primary healthcare , we could not validate the Uti diagnoses in this nationwide study. additionally, missed diagnoses of uncomplicated cystitis are possible , as some women may not seek medical attention (e.g. if symptoms are mild) and the infection is self-limiting in over 25% of cases . however, any potential misclassification bias is probably lower for pyelonephritis, a more severe infection, and the associations were similar for cystitis and pyelonephritis. the major strength of this study is that we were able to use prospectively collected data from almost nationwide primary healthcare settings, where most Uti are diagnosed and managed . another strength is the highly complete national healthcare and population-based registers. For example, diagnoses in the National Patient Register are >99% complete and have a positive predictive value for diabetes mellitus of almost 99%. together with the almost nationwide primary
