Scandinavian Journal of Primary HealtH care
KEYWORDS: uti, women, study, data, diagnosis, diagnosed, years, diabetes, cystitis, primary, study period, period, uncomplicated, pyelonephritis, healthcare


registers. For example, diagnoses in the National Patient Register are >99% complete and have a positive predictive value for diabetes mellitus of almost 99%. together with the almost nationwide primary healthcare data, these data sources include more or less all women diagnosed with Uti and t2D during the study period. altogether, this supports that the data sources used in this study are representative. lastly, our data allowed us to restrict the analysis to women without previously diagnosed diabetes mellitus or redeemed antidiabetic drugs and other obvious risk factors for Uti, enabling a more accurate assessment of whether uncomplicated Uti could be an independent predictor for t2D in women. in conclusion, in this nationwide study of women aged 35–65 years, uncomplicated Uti diagnosed within two years before t2D diagnosis did not predict a higher risk of t2D compared to women without Uti, at least not in primary healthcare settings. Further studies could explore specific subgroups in which Utis might serve as predictors for t2D. Author contributions cRedit: Xinjun Li: Data curation, Formal analysis, investigation, Methodology, software, validation, visualization, Writing – review & editing; Ola Ekström: Funding acquisition, investigation, Methodology, validation, visualization, Writing – review & editing; Henning Stenberg: investigation, Methodology, validation, visualization, Writing – review & editing; Kristina Sundquist: Data curation, investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Resources, software, supervision, validation, visualization, Writing – review & editing; Filip Jansåker: concept and idea, Resources and funding, tables, literature search, Drafting of manuscript. Disclosure statement No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s). Ethical approval the present study was a non-intervention nationwide register study of pseudonymized secondary data obtained from national authorities and approved by the ethical Review Board in lund, sweden. all methods were performed in accordance with the relevant guidelines and regulations. Funding this study was supported by the swedish Research council (2024-03748), the swedish society of Medicine (sls-1000073) and tore Nilsons stiftelse för Medicinsk Forskning (2023-073) granted to Filip Jansåker. the study was also supported by swedish society of Medicine (sls-1000809) granted to Ola ekström. ORCID Filip Jansåker Xinjun li Ola ekström henning stenberg Kristina sundquist scaNDiNaviaN JOURNal OF PRiMaRy health caRe 5 Data availability statement this study made use of several national registers and, owing to legal concerns, data cannot be made openly avail- able. Further information regarding the health registries is available from the swedish National Board of health and Welfare: () and statistics sweden: (). the statistical
