ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


ANNALS OF SURGERY Vol. 225. No. 1. 39-50 1997 Lippincott-Raven Publishers .. the Place of Cryosurgery in Treatment Malignant of Liver Tumors Rehe Adam, M.D., Ph.D., Edip Akpinar, M.D., Marc Johann, M.D., Francis Kunstlinger, M.D., Pietro Majno, M.D., and Henri Bismuth, M.D., F.A.C.S. (Hon.) From Hepatobiliary Surgeryand Liver Transplant Unit, Hopital Paul Brousse, Universit6 Paris Sud, Villejuif, France Objective The authors evaluate the results of cryosurgery in malignant liver tumors. Summary Background Data The outcome of primary or secondary liver tumors is poor when resection can not be achieved. Encouraging results of cryosurgery have been reported in unresectable liver tumors, but this treatment needs further evaluation of its efficacy in homogeneous groups of patients. Methods From 63 patients with malignant liver tumors with various histology treated by cryosurgery in a 2.5-year period, the authors evaluated the results of 34 patients with nonresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (9 patients) or nonresectable metastases from colorectal cancer (25 patients). Cryosurgery was used either as a single treatment (4 hepatocellular carcinomas, 5 metastases) or in association with liver resection (5 hepatocellular carcinomas, 20 metastases). Systemic chemotherapy was used routinely before surgery and after surgery. Results There was no intraoperative mortality. Mortality within 2 months was 3% and was unrelated to the procedure. Postoperative morbidity consisted of one sterile fluid collection and one biliary fistula (8%). At a mean follow-up of 16 months, (range, 2-27) local recurrence rate was 0% for hepatocellular carcinoma and 44% for metastases. Cumulative survival at 24 months was 63% and 52%, respectively, with 6 patients (67%) and 5 patients (20%) currently disease free. In the group of patients with metastases, survival was related to the size ofthe treated tumor (p = 0.06) and the absence of residual disease (p = 0.03). Conclusions Cryosurgery is safe and increases the number of patients with unresectable liver malignancies in whom surgery can aim at eradicating the tumor. Local recurrence is observed more frequently for metastases than for hepatocellular carcinoma. The benefit in survival is related to the complete treatment of the tumoral disease. 40 Adam and Others Ann.Surg.*January1997 Liver resection is the best treatment ofmalignant liver admitted to our center, of whom 60 (24%) were re- tumors and the sole therapy giving a chance of cure. sected-30 (12%) by partial liver resection, 4 of those However, it may be achieved in only 10% to 20% of with cryosurgery applied on the resection margins, and patients"2
