ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


without tumoral activity when the size was In the HCC group, four patients were treated by cryo- reduced, tumor markers were normal, and no changes surgery alone for one or two nodules with a mean tumor were observed in the absence of other treatment for an size of34 mm (range, 16-50). Five patients were treated interval of at least 6 months from cryosurgery. by cryosurgery combined with resection ofan associated Survival was determined according to the Kaplan- liver lesion. Liver resection involved one or two nodules Meiermethod. Comparisonofsurvivalrateswasobtained with a mean size of 42.4 mm (range, 27-80), whereas with the log-rank test. A p value lower than 0.05 was cryosurgery was applied to single nodules with a mean considered statistically significant. size of 18 mm (range, 5-30). In the colorectal metastases group, five patients under- RESULTS went cryosurgery alone, of whom two had a widespread Feasibility of Cryosurgery bilateral disease and three had pulmonary metastases. In There was no notable technical difficulty to perform three ofthese five patients, a complete treatment was not liver cryosurgery in any patient considered for this treat- accomplished because hepatic tumor was more wide- ment. spread than estimated before surgery, and cryosurgery was done on the main tumors. In two of these patients, Operative Mortality and Morbidity the disease progressed rapidly, but two other patients un- derwent a subsequent liverresection 5 and 8 months after There wasnointraoperative mortality. Mortality within cryosurgery. 2months was 3%: onepatientdiedonthethirdpostopera- The other 20 patients in the colorectal metastases group tivedaybecauseofmyocardialinfarctionapparentlyunre- had cryosurgery combined with resection of an associated lated to cryosurgery. The one intraoperative complication liver lesion. Four patients in this subgroup presented with was the perforation of the opposite liver capsule by the extrahepatic metastases (lungs, two resected subsequently; cryoprobe (3%), which was repaired by a simple suture. peritoneal, one; and ileum, one resected concomitantly). The two postoperative complications (8%) were one ster- Liver resection was done for one to six tumors (mean, 2.6) ile subhepatic fluid collection treated by percutaneous with a mean tumor size of36.5 mm (range, 10-60). Cryo- drainage and one biliary fistula spontaneously resolving surgery was performed on one to four nodules (mean, 1.5) with external drainage. with a mean tumor size of22.6 mm (range, 4-50). Acom- plete treatment was achieved in all but one patient who Tolerance to the Procedure remained with one untreated small nodule because of its No noticeable drop of the
