ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


4-50). Acom- plete treatment was achieved in all but one patient who Tolerance to the Procedure remained with one untreated small nodule because of its No noticeable drop of the central temperature was close proximity to the biliary confluence. noted intraoperatively with a mean of 36 C (range, 34.1 C-37 C). A temporary elevation of serum transaminase Evolution of Tumor Markers levels and a diminution ofthe platelet count and the pro- thrombin time commonly were observed after surgery in Hepatocellular Carcinoma relation to the duration ofcryotherapy and the number of treated lesions. Normalization ofthe values was observed Serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were increasedin seven within 5 days. Peak serum transaminase levels and mini- of nine patients at the time of diagnosis. After arterial mum prothrombin time levels are presented in Table 3. chemoembolization, only five (56%) ofnine patients had 44 Adam and Others Ann.Surg.*January1997 limit of the tumor was a constant feature. Cryotreated lesions appeared as hypoechogenic or hypodense areas, sometimes with a calcification in the center when they were shrunk by the treatment. Hepatocellular Carcinoma Allpatients wereevaluable. Partialresponse withnota- ble reduction in tumor size was observed in five (55%) of nine patients. In four (45%) of nine patients, tumor was stable according to the above-mentioned criteria but had, in fact, decreased in size for less than 50% and remained unchanged with more than 6 months' follow- up. Colorectal Metastases Twenty-three patients were evaluable. A complete re- sponse was observed in six patients (26%), and a partial response was observed in 2 patients (9%). Tumor was considered as stable in 10 patients (43%) and progressed in5 patients (22%). A CT scan ofapatientwithcomplete response is presented in Figure 1. Tumor Recurrence Histopathologic analysis ofthe cryotreated tumor was obtained aftersurgery in nine patients, all with colorectal metastases either by histologic examination of the liver resection specimen after subsequent surgery (five pa- tients), by ultrasound-guided biopsy (three patients), or by histologic examination at necropsy (one patient). In Figure 1. Computed tomography scan of a patient with colorectal all but two patients, viable tumoral cells were found at metastases treated by resection (three metastases not shown) and cryosurgery. Complete responseofthelesiontreated bycryosurgery. histologic analysis. Resultsofhistologicexaminations are (A) Before cryosurgery. (B) Seven months aftercryosurgery. summarized in Table 4. The local recurrence rate for HCC was 0% for a mean increased alpha-fetoprotein levels. After cryosurgery, a follow-up of 18.4 months (range, 8-26). It was 44% in diminution was
