ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


size increase of the poor except when a subsequent liver resection was per- cryotreatedlesion andincreasedtumormarkers. Theover- formed in some patients having responded dramatically all recurrence rate of the disease at 16 months was 54% to chemotherapy.30 For HCC, the rate of survival of our in the colorectal metastases group and 33% in the HCC patients treated by arterial chemoembolization alone was group. Recurrence patterns are presented in Table 5. 24% at 2 years in the absence of cirrhosis. It was 49% for patients with cirrhosis class A, 29% for class B, and 9% for class C.29 Similarly, median survival of patients Subsequent Hepatic Resection and with unresectable colorectal metastases treated by our Associated Extrahepatic Surgery standard systemic chemotherapy protocol was 15 In the group of patients with metastases, two patients months.28 It is, therefore, in this group of patients with were submitted to hepatic resection for local recurrence unresectablediseasewheretheroleofcryosurgery should within 5 and 7 months, respectively, after cryosurgery be explored. and five patients had repeat hepatic resection, four for Our patient selection in the study period showed that local recurrence at 4, 7, 10, and 12 months and one for cryosurgery could not be applied to a high proportion of recurrence outside the site of cryosurgery at 8 months. patients with unresectable tumors, even when the pres- Fourpatients with metastases underwentresection oflung ence ofextrahepatic disease was notconsidered as a con- metastases, whereas no patient with HCC was submitted traindication to the use ofthis technique. Patients treated to extrahepatic surgery. by cryosurgery within the study period represented 5% and 15%, respectively, ofpatients treatedforunresectable HCC and metastases of colorectal cancer. However, this Patient Survival has to be compared to arterial chemoembolization and After a mean follow-up of 16 months, 13 patients systemic chemotherapy used as single therapies for 72% (38%) havedied, 3 (33%)intheHCCgroupand 10(40%) of unresectable HCC and for 85% of unresectable colo- in the colorectal metastases group. Overall survival ofthe rectal metastases, respectively, during the same period. colorectal metastases group was 77% at 12 months and This proportion is merely a rough indicator that possibly 52% at 24 months (Fig. 2). Median survival was not underestimates the place of the technique because a new achieved atafollow-up of 16 months (Fig. 2). IntheHCC procedure needs aperiod ofevaluation before being used group, overall survival was 77% and 63%, respectively. more extensively. In addition, cryosurgery also was used Currently, five patients (20%) with colorectal
