ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


for the high recurrence rate of cryotreated not achieve total destruction of the tumoral tissue in all colorectal metastases in our series. It is pos;sible that a cases. The histologic type of the tumor, the size of the selection bias favoring a negative outcome e)dists for our treated lesion, as well as the methodused forcryosurgery patients as compared to other series: resectalble extrahe- probably influencetheradicality ofthe treatment. Weare, patic disease was notconsideredas acontrain(dlicationand therefore, reluctant to claim that cryosurgery has similar in some patients, not excluded from the stucly, cryosur- resection. results to gery could not treat all the liver lesions as irntended mil- tially. Thesefactors,however, wouldbeexpectedtoaffect Cryosurgery alone was used in only a few patients (four HCC and five colorectal metastases) in our study, illustrating our policy to treat concomitant liver lesions by resection whenever possible. The causes of unresect- Cumulative Percent Surviving ability were differentbetween HCC andcolorectal metas- .9 tases. Althoughthe presenceofunderlying cirrhosis com- .8 bined with the ill location of the tumors was the main .7 AllTumorMass contraindication to resect HCC, multinodular or large le- Treated (17 pts) sions were the principal contraindications for resecting .6 .5 colorectal metastases. The results also were different. Al- .4 though three of four patients with HCC treated exclu- .3 NonTratedTumor sively by cryotherapy show at present no residual liver .2 Mass(8pts) disease, recurrence developedin fouroffivepatients with .1 colorectal metastases and three have died. The benefit of 0 6 12 18 24 30Months cryosurgery in the latter patients is not shown, possibly because the widespread diffusion of the disease favored Figure4. Cumulativesurvival ofpatientswith unresectcablecolorectal livermetastasesinrelationtothepresenceofresidualdi,sease(hepatic therecurrence ofthetumordespitepreoperative andpost- 48 Adam and Others Ann.Surg.*January1997 notadvocate theuseofcryosurgery alonein patients with 2. Strangl R, Altendorf-Hoffmann A, Chamley RM, et al. Factors widespread multinodular disease. influencingthenaturalhistoryofcolorectallivermetastases.Lancet 1994; 343:1405-1410. From the results of our study, the main indication for 3. AdsonMA.Resectionoflivermetastases-whenisitWorthwhile? cryosurgery is as a complement to hepatic resection in WorldJ Surg 1987; 11:511-520. patients in whom hepatectomy has dealt with the main 4. Hughes KS, SimonR, Songhorabodi S,etal. Resectionoftheliver tumor mass, but some residual tumorcan not be resected. for colorectal carcinoma metastases: a multi-institutional study of Inourexperience, this groupofpatients has amorefavor- indications forresection. Surgery 1988; 103:278-288. 5. NordlingerB,JaeckD,GuiguetM,etal.Traitementdesmetastases able prognosis than have patients with multinodularbilat- hepatiquesdescancerscolorectaux. Monographiesdel'Association eral disease, less amenable to tumor-ablating procedures. Fran,aise de Chirurgie (AFC). New York: Springer-Verlag; Accordingly, the current survival rate of patients treated 1992:129-146. with a multimodality associating cryosurgery,
