ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


DR. ALMEIDA (Lisboa, Portugal): What negative temperature doyouuse?Howmanydegreesnegativedoyouadvisetogive? Andthe secondquestion is: Doyouuse thePringle's maneuver DISCUSSION in cryosurgery? One is the degree of the temperature that you arrive because it is important in many studies and the second DR. R. MARGREITER (Innsbruck, Austria): I am one ofthose question,ifyoudousethePringle'smaneuvertoobtainalower temperature of the liver because it is easier to obtain a low have a few questions. It is certainly a nice approach and an temperature with this? excellentworklikeeverything comingoutfromourPresident's DR. HARDER (Basel, Switzerland): Henri Bismuth last year correlation between the increase in liver enzymes and the re- presentedaseriesofunresectable livertumorstreatedwithpoly- sponse, maybe even the survival, because ifyou have a sharp chemotherapy very aggressively during up to a year or even increaseintransaminases, thatwouldmeanthatyoutreatedalso more. What is the difference in indication when you choose thesurroundingtissuesbecauseyouwouldnotgetanincreasein this approach, when you choose this multiple chemotherapy, enzymeinside thetumoronly. Thiswouldbemy firstquestion. and the second question is how does this cryotherapy compare Second question would be: Has there beenperformed any con- with alcoholic installation? comitant systemic treatment for those patients suffering from colorectal metastases? And I saw that you removed all those or seven patients. Could you say a little bit about the tumors? enough information to plan a prospective randomized trial of You have, I think if I recall correctly, two patients who had this therapy? onlyone noduleandalltogetherfivepatients whohadonlytwo nodules. Usually such singular metastases can be resected by DR. R. ADAM (Closing Discussion): I would like to thank classical typical resection. Another thing: You showed a sig- all the discussants for their kind comments and questions. Dr. nificant difference between those patients treated only with Margreiter asked about the possible relation between the raise cryosurgery and those who have had it combined with aresec- in liverenzymes andthe response to therapy. We didnotstudy tion. What was that resection? Was itjust enucleation or was precisely this factor, but my feeling is that there is no correla- it with a tumor-free margin of 1 cm or something like that? tion: Ifitistruethat anincrease intransaminase maymeanthat Could you specify what you meanby resection combined with there is a fair amount of necrosing healthy liver tissue as a cryosurgery? What kind ofresection was it? I appreciate very safety margin around the lesion, it may also mean that we said "resection to achieve a curative treatment." I think you may have aless favorable prognosis. With regard tothe second cannot say curative if you achieve only 30% to
