ANNALS OF SURGERY
KEYWORDS: patients, cryosurgery, metastases, liver, resection, colorectal, hcc, tumor, treated, colorectal metastases, recurrence, surgery, tumors, months, hepatic


that we said "resection to achieve a curative treatment." I think you may have aless favorable prognosis. With regard tothe second cannot say curative if you achieve only 30% to 50% survival question concerning associated forms of treatment, our usual at2years. Thatwouldbemycommentratherthanmyquestion. approach in hepatocellular carcinoma is to perform arterial chemoembolization, and all the patients treated by surgery or DR. A. JOHNSON (Sheffield, UK): Could you tell me some- by cryosurgery had preoperative chemoembolization (1 to 5 thingabouttheposition ofthe tumors inregardtotheunresect- courses). In patients with unresectable colorectal metastases, ability?Wehavelimitedexperience withthistechnique. Ifthey systemic chemotherapy combining 5-FU, folinic acid, and oxa- areclosetovenacava, forexample, whichisoneofthereasons liplatin had been given. We use Paul Brousse protocols with they may not be resected, then it is very difficult to achieve chronomodulated chemotherapy based on the principle that for adequate freezing and the cardiac complications increased if every drug used, there is a known time period in the 24 hours you are cooling down the vena cava. in which the toxicity is less, and we administer the drugs at thattimetoincreasethedoseandtotrytooptimizetheefficacy. DR. BROELSCH (Hamburg, Germany): I have very much ap- Dr. Margreiter also asked about the criteria defining unresect- preciatedthisinteresting approach. Idohaveaquestion regard- able disease, and about thekind ofprocedures performedwhen ingtheconceptofthisapproachinthecontextofamultisegmen- liver resection was associated with cryosurgery. There was a tectomy,whichiscomingparticularlyfromProfessorBismuth's major difference in the reasons for unresectability between pa- institution. Whendo youdomultisegmentectomy? Why doyou tients with HCC and those with colorectal metastases. All pa-
