doi:
KEYWORDS: tumor, ifp, surgery, case, esophagus, dysphagia, endoscopic, performed, submucosal, stomach, lecs, egj, inflammatory, doi, eus


doi: InternMed58:2357-2362,2019 【 CASE REPORT 】 Laparoscopy Endoscopy Cooperative Surgery for Inflammatory Fibroid Polyp in the Esophagus Kohei Oka1,2, Ken Inoue3, Naoto Iwai2, Tasuku Hara2, Yutaka Inada2, Toshifumi Tsuji2, Sosuke Komiyama4, Takashi Okuda2, Soujin Sai5, Akihiro Nagata6, Toshiyuki Komaki2, Yuji Naito3, Yoshito Itoh3 and Keizo Kagawa2 Abstract: Inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) appears most often in the stomach. We herein report an extremely rare case of esophageal IFP resected using laparoscopy endoscopy cooperative surgery (LECS). A 73-year-old man with dysphagia underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy. A 50-mm semi-pedunculated submucosal tu- mor was observed in the esophagogastric junction. Endoscopic ultrasonography showed a homogeneous, hy- poechoic, and well-vascularized tumor in the second and third layers of the stomach, but endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration failed to establish a definite diagnosis. Since he was suffering from dysphagia, LECS was performed. The resected specimen proved that the tumor was an IFP originating from the esophagus. Key words: inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP), esophagus, laparoscopy endoscopy cooperative surgery (LECS) (Intern Med 58: 2357-2362, 2019) (DOI: ) 104/μL, hemoglobin 5.4 g/dL, mean corpuscular volume 88.2 Introduction fL). Esophagogastroduodenoscopy, which was performed due to suspected upper gastrointestinal bleeding, revealed a Inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) appears commonly in semi-pedunculated 50-mm submucosal tumor (SMT) in the the stomach, small intestine, and colon and is caused by fundus of the stomach. It appeared to originate from the oral stimuli to the affected area. We experienced a rare case of side of the esophagogastric junction prolapsing into the IFP originating in the esophagus and attempted its excision stomach. There were some erosions on its surface, but no using a minimally invasive surgical procedure: laparoscopy active bleeding was observed. Contrast-enhanced computed endoscopy cooperative surgery (LECS). tomography showed a low-enhancement tumor in the same location. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) demonstrated a Case Report homogeneous, hypoechoic, and well-vascularized tumor in the second and third layer of the stomach (Fig. 1). However, A 73-year-old man presented to our hospital with progres- it was difficult to demonstrate sequentiality to the adjacent sive dysphagia. He also had a history of black stool. He had layer because of the tumor prolapse. Although endoscopic taken some analgesics for a few weeks because of lower ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) back pain, but no antacids had been prescribed. Laboratory was performed twice for the pathological evaluation and tests showed microcytic anemia (red blood cell count 204× some interstitial tissues were obtained, they failed to provide １DepartmentofGastroenterology and Hepatology,
