doi:
KEYWORDS: tumor, ifp, surgery, case, esophagus, dysphagia, endoscopic, performed, submucosal, stomach, lecs, egj, inflammatory, doi, eus


an tinued the circumferential dissection from the anal end. IFP of the esophagus. The patient has not complained of Intern Med 58: 2357-2362, 2019 DOI: (a) (b) (c) Figure 2. Laparoscopy endoscopy cooperative surgery. (a) Dissection of the lesion was initially started from the oral end. (b) Due to severe submucosal fibrosis, circumferential dissection was at- tempted from the anal end. (c) Some injuries of the lamina muscularis were seen due to severe fibro- sis, but the wall defect was closed immediately using the laparoscopic hand-sewn technique. any symptoms since the surgery, and there have been no IFPs commonly originate in the stomach and less fre- signs of recurrence in the year since the resection (Fig. 4). quently in the small intestine and colon, but only a few re- ports have described its presence in the esophagus (3).A lit- Discussion erature search on PubMed with the key words “inflamma- tory fibroid polyp” and “esophagus,” produced 10 case re- An IFP is an inflammatory polyp that arises in the sub- ports describing esophageal IFP with detailed clinical infor- mucosa and mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract. Although it mation (Table) (3-12). The mean tumor size was 77 mm has generally been considered as a reactive and non- (range: 13-130 mm). Dysphagia was the most common pres- neoplastic lesion, its pathogenesis remains controversial. entation. Most of the lesions originated from the lower tho- Some recent reports have revealed that IFP harbors platelet- racic esophagus or the esophagogastric junction. Endoscopic derived growth factor receptor A mutations, which may at- ultrasonography was performed in three cases, which re- tribute a neoplastic nature (1). IFP sometimes has erosions vealed homogeneous and hypoechoic tumors. In addition, in or ulcers on its surface, which are suspected of being the one detailed case, the tumor was found to be well vascular- cause of microcytic anemia, as in our case. IFP is micro- ized, similar to our case. Among these cases, eight under- scopically characterized by fibroblastic spindle cells and went surgical excision without recurrence. In the other two eosinophilic infiltration. Spindle cells appear concentrically cases, endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) was performed, arranged around the blood vessels, which is often referred to but both of them developed local recurrences within a year as an “onion-skin like appearance.” Immunohistochemistry after EMR (6, 8). To our knowledge, this was the first case has shown that the spindle cells in IFP are positive
