Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


the risk transition is that posed by dual with 217 million workers in 2000; the number of workers is exposuretoasbestosandcigarettesmokeandriskforlungcan- expected to reach 270 million in 2010 .The bur- cer.This example is especially troubling not only because the den ofdisease and injury attributable to workplace risks in the riskisdauntinglyhighbutalsobecauseexposurestobothare formal and informal sectors is grave and will continue to rise. occurringwithfullknowledgeoftheirindividualandcumula- Inadequate data and reporting systems make capturing the tiveeffects.Asshownintable60.1,againstabackgroundofrel- effect of workplace risks problematic. Nonetheless, several ativeriskforlungcancerof1foranonsmoking,nonasbestos- recent efforts by international bodies have shed some light on exposed population, a working population with significant the staggering burden,although in general attempts to derive asbestosexposurebutnotobaccoexposuremayfacearelative evidence-based estimates are likely to systematically and signif- riskoflungcancerof5;asmokingpopulationnotexposedto icantly underrepresent the extent ofthe problem. asbestosfacesarelativeriskof 10;andratherthantheserisks The gravity of workplace risks is seen in the recent beingadditive(thatis,15)thesmoking,asbestos-exposedpop- International Labour Organization (ILO) estimate that among ulationhastheextraordinaryrelativeriskoflungcancerof50. the world’s 2.7 billion workers,at least 2 million deaths per year Most important, in this well-recognized multiplicative-effect are attributable to occupational diseases and injuries.The ILO scenario,ifthesmokingexposurealonewereeliminatedamong estimates for fatalities are the tip ofthe iceberg because data for the asbestos-exposed workers, the overall risk of lung cancer estimating nonfatal illness and injury are not available for most of the globe. The ILO also notes that about 4 percent of the GDP is lost because of work-related diseases and injuries Table 60.1 Relationship between Asbestos, Smoking, and . Risk for Lung Cancer A recent effort of the World Health Organization (WHO) has provided insight into the global dimensions of several Asbestos exposurea selected occupational health risks.WHO included five occupa- Smokingb No Yes tional risk factors in its comparative risk assessment in a uni- No 1 5 fied framework of26 major health risk factors contributing to the overall global burden of disease and injury (Ezzati and Yes 10 50 others 2002, 2003; WHO 2002). The WHO comparative Source: Kjellstrom and Rosenstock 1990. approach used a common statistical model that allows a reader a. If asbestos exposure eliminated, eliminate 80 percent lung cancers in asbestos workers. b. If smoking eliminated, eliminate 90 percent lung cancers in asbestos workers. to compare the contribution (attributable fraction) of several 1128 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Linda Rosenstock, Mark Cullen, and Marilyn Fingerhut risk factors to a single outcome—lung cancer, for example. The absence of data in much of the developing world Stringent requirements for consistency in describing risk fac- limited the range ofoccupational risk
