Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


injuries,with wide regional variation.WHO ates these conditions from the others analyzed in the study. also found that between 1 and 12 percent ofHIV infections in Figure60.2providessummaryresultsfortheoccupationalrisk health care workers was caused by sharps injuries. The com- factors. parative risk assessment by region and type of infection indi- The WHO comparative risk assessment has accounted for cates where special emphasis is needed (see figure 60.1). only about 800,000 (40 percent) of the 2 million deaths Clearly, solutions exist to these problems, as shown by the estimated by ILO to occur each year because of occupational illness and injury. Deaths attributable to a wide range of occupational exposures could not be included because of the Percentage 90 HCV HBV HIV 80 Low back pain (37) 41 Hearing loss (16) 60 22 50 6 COPD (13) 30 7 Asthma (11) Unintentional 2 injuries (8) 12 Afr D Afr E A mr A A mr B A mr D E mr B E mr D Eur A Eur B Eur C Sear B Sear D Wpr A Wpr B Tr o a r c l h u e n a g , c b a ro n n c c e h r u (9 s ) , 5 Regions 2 Leukemia (2) Male Female Source: WHO 2002, 130. HCV = hepatitis C virus; HBV = hepatitis B virus; HIV = human immunodeficiency virus; 0 10 20 30 40 50 Afr = Africa; Amr = America; Emr = Eastern Mediterranean; Eur = Europe; Sear = Southeast Asia; Wpr = Western Pacific. Source: Adapted from Nelson and others 2005. Figure 60.1 Fraction of Hepatitis C Virus, Hepatitis B Virus, and HIV Figure 60.2 Fraction of Global Disease and Injury Attributable to Infections in Health Care Workers Attributable to Injuries with Occupational Risk Factors Contaminated Sharps, Ages 20 to 65 (percent) 1130 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Linda Rosenstock, Mark Cullen, and Marilyn Fingerhut strict requirements for global data. Missing are deaths • Regional conflict, economic pressures, climatologic factors attributable to asbestosis, silicosis, and other dust diseases; and lack offoreign exchange may make otherwise straight- infectious diseases; cardiovascular diseases; and violence. forward choices impractical. Deathsattributabletoworkplaceexposurestopesticides,heavy • Supply of labor is often high, as is turnover, so economic Outcomes such as dermatitis, psychological disorders, and industrial countries. upper-extremity musculoskeletal disorders that cause little mortalitybutsubstantialdisabilityarealsonotcapturedbythe Strategies for Improving Working Conditions WHOcomparativeriskanalysis.Additionally,theconsequences With these differences in
