Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


is turnover, so economic Outcomes such as dermatitis, psychological disorders, and industrial countries. upper-extremity musculoskeletal disorders that cause little mortalitybutsubstantialdisabilityarealsonotcapturedbythe Strategies for Improving Working Conditions WHOcomparativeriskanalysis.Additionally,theconsequences With these differences in context in mind,we now consider the ofunderreportinginexistingsystemsandthedearthofrecord- major types ofintervention:international,national,workplace, keeping systems in the developing nations lead to substantial and individual. undercounting by both the ILO and WHO. Nonetheless, the analyses provide important insights into the immense global International Interventions. The ILO–WHO Joint Com- burdenof diseaseandinjuryattributabletooccupationalrisk mittee on Occupational Health was formed in 1950 to provide factors. guidance to the ILO and WHO regarding international occu- pational health issues.The committee meets periodically.At its 13th session, held in December 2003, the committee recom- INTERVENTIONS mended that WHO and ILO pursue the following priorities (ILO and WHO 2003): Strategies for controlling injury and occupational disease, developed by industrial hygienists and others over many • Guide and support national occupational safety and health decades in industrial countries,are as fully applicable in devel- programs. Such guidance and support includes providing oping countries.The strategies include a hierarchy of controls models for organizing at national or subnational levels; in the following decreasing order of preference: substituting providing basic occupational health services; promoting major hazards for less hazardous materials or processes;apply- management systems and tools,including control banding; ing engineering controls to separate workers from hazards that developing national profiles and indicators; assessing the remain; using administrative controls to minimize contact cost-effectiveness ofinterventions;and establishing effective uncontrollable by engineering;and,as the last line of defense, enforcement agencies. using personal protective equipment such as respirators and • Enhance regional collaboration and coordination,including protective garments.What differs in developing countries is the the development and dissemination ofmodels for coopera- context in which the paradigm must be applied. Options are tion,such as the African Joint Effort. often sharply limited, and knowledge of them even more so; • Coordinate and enhance information and educational pro- economic and political factors may impede otherwise obvious grams and materials (for example, by developing a joint or desirable solutions; and the differing workplace context Internet-based global portal) and statistics. may demand that attention be paid to certain problems and • Provide awareness-raising activities and instruments concerns that would not be relevant in industrial countries in through campaigns,events,and special days. temperate climates. The following generic factors associated with work in devel- State or Government Interventions. The major role the gov- oping countries may alter industrial hygiene practice and must ernment
