Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


temperate climates. The following generic factors associated with work in devel- State or Government Interventions. The major role the gov- oping countries may alter industrial hygiene practice and must ernment can play is to establish workplace rules and provide be considered in every effort to intervene to improve working a system of dissemination and enforcement. Evidence from conditions and occupational health: industrial countries is overwhelming that conditions are sub- stantially improved when both a strong regulatory framework • Access to industrial hygiene consultation is limited; pro- and enforcement are achieved. An added benefit of govern- fessionals,sampling equipment,and laboratories are all in ment,rather than private sector,control is to “level the playing short supply. field”:all employers in an economic sector carry the same bur- agers and workers is often limited. developing strategies beyond the minimum required,could be • Markets for production materials as well as safety equip- used to confer competitive advantages,a message to reluctant ment may be limited and may include more hazardous employers that has been used in different parts of the world materials or less effective protective equipment “dumped” with some success. from industrial countries where they are no longer mar- Regulatory decisions,such as the choice of exposure limits ketable (Hecker 1991;Ives 1985;Jeyaratnam 1990). or allowable practices,often stimulate the biggest discussion— Occupational Health | 1131 for example,the debate about dust levels to be allowed in South have markets in industrial countries that have banned or African mines—but the larger issue for most countries is gar- restricted their use—for example,solvent mixtures containing nering resources to ensure compliance, to attract adequately benzene and construction materials containing asbestos. trained personnel to conduct inspections,and to establish and Similarly,equipment such as machines that are well guarded to monitor laboratories to support regulatory efforts. The most prevent injury or well baffled to limit noise may be prohibi- stringent exposure levels (often referred to as threshold limit tively expensive in a marketplace geared to “hand-me-downs” values, or TLVs) are useless if the offending hazard cannot be compared with respirators or gloves.Unfortunately,even these routinely and accurately measured.Indeed,the South African last lines of defense may be difficult to obtain or relatively experience,despite the presence ofexcellent regulations,is not expensive unless local suppliers are available. encouraging in this regard . The single strategy for which no compelling economic dis- Other forms of government intervention may indirectly incentive exists—training—may also be difficult.Through the improve working conditions.Among these are workers’com- efforts of
