Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


effort and enforcement is woefully inadequate compared with that to address all issues related to injection and immunization in industrial countries. Detailed case examples from Brazil safety:availability ofequipment and supplies (auto-disposable (Bedrikow and others 1997); Kenya (Mbakaya and others syringes, safety boxes, incinerators); safe injection practices; 1999); Nigeria ; and Taiwan, China (Chen and safe vaccine delivery; and safe waste management (WHO Huang 1997),underscore the ubiquity ofthis problem. 2002).In 2000,WHO conducted a survey to assess the safety of injections in a study group of a random sample of 80 health Workplace-Based Interventions. Issues beyond the economic centers.The situation was reassessed in June 2003 to evaluate and legal ones impede application of the principles of indus- the use of safety boxes (which had been provided in a WHO trial hygiene.A primary factor is ignorance; many employers immunization campaign in Burkina Faso in 2001) and the may be uninformed about available controls and their value. impact of Project Focus. Table 60.2 shows results of the Insurance agencies,local safety groups,and—in some regions reassessment.Dramatic reductions were found in needle recap- ofthe world—trade unions may serve as facilitators ofpositive ping, needlestick injuries, and misuse of safety boxes. influence.In general,however,such resources fall short of the Additionally,the number ofclinics using safety boxes increased benefit ofon-site industrial hygiene expertise that is lacking in from fewer than halfto 86 percent. many regions ofthe world. Small enterprises present special challenges because they Economic factors often impede efforts to institute voluntary lack resources and expertise to address health and safety prob- controls. Materials used are frequently far cheaper than safer lems. Thailand’s National Institute for the Improvement of substitutes, often precisely because these materials no longer Working Conditions and Environment has used the ILO 1132 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Linda Rosenstock, Mark Cullen, and Marilyn Fingerhut Table 60.2 Prevalence of Risk Factors and Injuries at Control of Nonoccupational Exposures 80Observed Health Centers In industrial countries, a sharp demarcation exists between (percent) environmental risks associated with work and those associated Needle Needlestick Lack of Misuse of with home life. This differentiation is not the case in many Year recapping injuries safety boxes safety boxes developing countries, especially at large, remote industrial 2000 55 71 51 83 complexes and farms. Workers—with or without their families—often cohabit with the workplace—and often with 2003 17 32 14 18 many or all ofits risks,including noise,chemicals,and biohaz- Source: S. Khamassi, WHO Mediterranean Centre,
