Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


farms. Workers—with or without their families—often cohabit with the workplace—and often with 2003 17 32 14 18 many or all ofits risks,including noise,chemicals,and biohaz- Source: S. Khamassi, WHO Mediterranean Centre, personal communication 2003. ards. The most dramatic examples of this situation were the industrial disasters at Chernobyl and Bhopal.It is not just in disaster, however, that risk occurs. Pesticides, for example, training approach called WISE (Work Improvement in Small result in hundreds ofthousands ofcases ofpoisoning a year,a Enterprises) with some success.In one example,six enterprises high fraction from the misuse of farm chemicals for nonwork in the metal industry in Bangkok with between 15 and 115 applications, such as the appropriation of empty (but not workers participated in the WISE program,in which practical clean) drums for transporting water or other household goods, workshops involved workers and management in deciding on a disturbingly common practice.In the industrial setting,car- changes to be made in the workplaces.A wide range of inex- cinogens, neurotoxins, and other hazardous chemicals often pensive changes were put in place,and a booklet to illustrate pollute homes,drinking supplies,and common areas for recre- good practices for others was prepared . ation on a daily basis,adding to the exposure of workers and placing nonworking family members at risk from what would Individual Interventions. The general principle that,for most normally be seen as workplace hazards. The remedy is often complex and beyond traditional indus- effective than strategies targeting the individual is even more trial hygiene practice. Housing, which in any event may be true when it comes to the workplace. With the exception of substandard, needs to be modified to exclude the possibility self-employed workers,such as those in the informal sector and of contamination by effluent from farm or factory under any foreseeable circumstances.Children and family members need lend itselfreadily to individual solutions,with the same factors to be apprised ofthe hazards ofall materials used for work and limiting employees more likely to limit individuals. prevented from even accidental access,a situation complicated by the fact that children are themselves often inappropriately engaged in the workplace.Food and water supplies need to be Improvement of Access to Health Care secure and protected from cross-contamination, a particular In a few developing countries, workers enjoy broad access to problem in the farm setting. nonprofit employer mutual associations that provide advice on reducing risks in workplaces and medical treatment and sick Surveillance and Reporting pay for work-related illness and injury
