Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


safety and health agementsystemsleadtobroadeningoftrainingforworkersand professionals,employers,labor unions,and governmental and managers, although the scarcity of trained professionals is a academic institutions in all countries in Africa. major obstacle to adequately implementing regulations and Enlarging small but successful existing programs is one policiesandprovidingoccupationalhealthservices(Christiani, approach to capacity building.The U.S.National Institutes of Tan,andWang2002;Wang,Cheng,andGuo2002). In countries with some capacity, the expertise tends to be Institute of Environmental Health Sciences sponsor a suc- medical,rather than in other areas,such as industrial hygiene, cessful program, International Training and Research in engineering, or ergonomics. In most countries, ministries of health and of labor have jurisdiction over working conditions small but strong programs between U.S.universities and insti- but often have too few experts and inadequate coordination. tutions in more than 30 developing nations . Moreover,the large percentage ofwork conducted in the infor- Capacity building requires high-quality educational op- mal sector presents a special challenge to these ministries. portunities.Advances in information technology over the past Because globalization has brought the need for professionals in decade are revolutionizing methods of education,and univer- sities worldwide are developing large numbers of Internet- national trade and development bodies to support national based courses. Fostering access of students from developing and international capacity-building programs. nations to these courses in leading universities is now feasible, In 1970,when the United States enacted the Occupational but a national or international program is needed to address Safety and Health Act that established the National Institute for issues such as tuition, competition, intellectual property, and degree requirements. This effort might be called Access to little professional capacity in that field. The new law charged Universities, following the model WHO program Access to NIOSH with ensuring an adequate number of trained profes- Biomedical Journals, through which WHO and the world’s sionals and accomplished this task successfully by funding largest medical journal publishers have provided about 100 graduate programs in U.S. universities. A follow-up 25 years developing countries with Internet access to journals at no cost later found that 90 percent ofNIOSH-supported trainees pur- or at deeply reduced rates . sued careers in the field,with more than 50 percent working in Professional associations have a long history of assisting in private organizations and the balance in government and aca- capacity building through training,research,and conferences. demia (U.S.DHHS 1996a).Similar results could be achieved by a determined,large-scale effort focused on assisting developing Johannesburg developed the first Diploma Occupational countries in achieving adequate professional capacity. Hygiene program in
