Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


in developing nations,who could morale. Harari and his colleagues in Ecuador (Cullen and devote scarce resources to controlling exposures rather than to Harari 1995) have been studying the effect ofsuch exposures as measuring exposures. The approach has gained momentum solvents and organophosphate pesticides on production levels. through adoption by the International Program on Chemical They are attempting to make the case that relatively inexpen- Safety and through formation of an international workgroup sive strategies for exposure control are economically advanta- to advance the approach in developing nations. To enable geous to employers. global use of this approach, the ILO has translated the U.K.- specific system into a product called the ILO Chemical Control Intervention Costs and Cost-Effectiveness Banding Toolkit . Workplace illness and injury produce personal suffering and high economic costs.The ILO estimates that about 4 percent of ECONOMIC ASPECTS OF INTERVENTION GDP worldwide is lost because of work-related diseases and injuries .The European Agency for Occupational where those costs ultimately come to rest affects the willingness society in European countries ranged from 0.4 percent to ofemployers to implement the preventive measures. 4percent ofgross national product. Examining from Industrial Countries. Identifying interven- Who Bears the Costs of Preventive Measures? tions tosuccessfully reduce or prevent workplace injuries and In industrial countries, compelling economic incentives exist illnesses will benefit society,employers,and workers.In 1996, for employers to control risks for injury and illness on the job, stakeholders in the United States identified intervention effec- especially those that result in demonstrable near-term lost tiveness research as one of 21 priority areas in occupational work or function.These include the high cost of medical care health research for the next decade (U.S.DHHS 1996a).From (especially in the United States),the burden of workers’com- 1996 to 2002, research conducted or funded by NIOSH to pensation payments,high replacement costs for the labor,risk develop and evaluate the effectiveness of solutions to prevent of litigation and liability,and negative business consequences work-related injury and illness has increased nearly sixfold, ofadverse publicity.Although these factors may differ by coun- from about US$5.5 million to US$33 million (U.S. DHHS try and sector, they are less likely in the developing world to 2003). confer on employers a strong economic imperative for Research studies of workplace interventions often use sur- prevention—labor is plentiful, its replacement cost is low, rogate or implied measures for economic evaluation. For and—most important—a high portion of the real cost of example, economic benefit is
