Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


and were US$27,242 from reduced injury, illness, and absen- Garment Factory”and can be found on the NIOSH Web teeism and an increase in productive days (see table). site at Source:Amador and others 2003. musculoskeletal discomfort for video-display terminal opera- rates for key measures of success were recorded for the three tors without decreasing productivity (Galinsky and others years before the intervention and for the three years after the 1999,2000).Similar benefits ofimproved comfort and reduced intervention.The successful project reduced the frequency of stress from short rest breaks were observed among workers in back injuries in six nursing homes by 57 percent, lowered a meat-processing plant without affecting productivity injury rates by 58 percent,and decreased workers’compensa- (Dababneh,Swanson,and Shell 2001). tion expenses by 71 percent. Box 60.1 illustrates the value of Including economic costs of interventions is more difficult evaluating costs of interventions in garment factories in but is an important measure to allow employers to make deci- Central America. sions about interventions. A model intervention study, “Evaluation of a Best Practices Back Injury Prevention ReducingRiskforBackPain. TheWHOsummaryofavariety Program in Nursing Homes,” received the 2003 National of cost-effectiveness studies for interventions addressing all Occupational Research Agenda Partnering Award for Worker aspectsofglobalhealthillustratedthatthecost-effectivenessof Safety and Health (APHA 2003; Collins and others 2003). interventions in some areas of personal health has been well Members of the partnership that carried out the intervention studied but that environmental and occupational topics have study included a large nonprofit U.S. health care system that had relatively few studies.TheWHO comparative risk assess- owns nursing homes; manufacturers of lifting equipment; mentconcludedthatabout37percentofbackpaingloballyis and NIOSH;and health care workers.The prevention program effectivenessstudyofinterventionstoreduceoccupationalback combined measures to reduce back injury by identifying the pain was also reported,using economic models developed to movements and postures that put nursing assistants at risk of calculate costs of interventions in three WHO geographic back strain,stress,and injury in lifting and moving residents. regions that illustrate different levels of development. Mechanical lifting devices for reducing those stresses and Intervention studies were obtained from the published and strains were evaluated in the laboratory and then in the nurs- unpublished literature.All costs of running the interventions ing homes.A best-practices training and lifting program was were measured in international dollars (not exchange rate put in place on the basis ofresearcher and employee input,and dollars, as in the analysis reported later in this chapter) and 1136 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Linda Rosenstock, Mark Cullen,
