Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


silica-related diseases such as tuberculosis and cancer are not considered. In the developing world, a patchwork of some of these approaches has brought success:in Vietnam by reducing silico- sis through industrial hygiene practices of wetting the process and through surveillance (effective but much less so than pro- IMPLEMENTATION tective equipment or, better yet, substitution of a safer prod- and national security. No country has become a successful ing systems.Even in highly developed countries,the continued workers,who create the successful economy.Responsibility for ernment involvement at the center,is evident. employers,and the workers themselves.However,it is the gov- comparison of injury indicators for workers across three both,that is the linchpin on which other efforts rest. (figure 60.4). Two decades of data demonstrate improving nonfatal injury rates for construction and agricultural workers (falling steadily from about 16 and 12 per 100 full-time work- Institutions and Programs ers, respectively). This rate is in contrast to injury rates for tus,as measured by morbidity and mortality data across multi- a starting point ofabout 10 per 100 workers .Why ple economic sectors and across many countries, has been the difference? Although the reason is not fully delineated, compellingly demonstrated. Not surprisingly, because these major efforts (including government regulation, research conditions are inherently preventable,what may be the lowest investment and policy setting, education, and best-practice achievable level ofrisk is debated in industrial countries.In the efforts)—plus,in the case ofconstruction workers,active trade United States, for example, occupational injury fatality rates union involvement—in the two industrial sectors clearly workers,down from 7.5 just 20 years earlier . care worker sector, no such national program existed in the less of the level of development, include regulatory and tial workforce problems,such as increasing work demands on a sional education;surveillance and reporting systems;and dis- Lessons Learned semination and implementation of best practices.Often these elements overlap in multifaceted approaches to addressing As countries undergo rapid economic development,industrial- complex and disparate work settings. ization, and the effects of globalization, leaders can examine Occupational Health | 1139 available occupational health system models as they develop ministersofallmembernations.BothILOandWHOregional their national occupational health systems. The Republic of offices provide technical assistance and training.An unfortu- Korea has experienced major economic and societal changes nategapexists,however,becauseoftenthenationalministries since it emerged from the Korean War in the 1950s with a need of labor relate to the ILO and the ministries of health to the to establish occupational safety and health programs without WHO.Becauseworkingpeopleareinfluencedbythenational any historical experience.The system directed by
