Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


development, internal adjustments healthservicesfollowedtheILO’sRecommendation112(1959) to strengthen national competitive power to enter globalized as a paradigm (Dias, Mendes, and Schwartz 2002).Although markets,adjustments to foreign policy to integrate globalized fewcountriesratifymostconventions,morethan150countries markets,andaimstowardlong-termsustainablehumandevel- have ratified Convention 182, which was passed in 1999 and opment.These authors also analyze the positive and negative addressestheworstformsofchildlabor.Acurrentcriticalneed effectsonoccupationalhealthconditionsincountriessuchas is assistance to developing nations to meet the obligations Brazil,wherecrisesandopportunitiesareexperiencedsimulta- required by ratification. WHO sets international policies on neously. On the risk side, for example, free trade agreements 1140 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Linda Rosenstock, Mark Cullen, and Marilyn Fingerhut industry and materials—many hazardous—to regions with Nonetheless, globalization does offer potential solutions. poor occupational infrastructure. These effects are likely One is the link provided by international lending agencies such increasingriskandratesofinjuryandoccupationaldisease. as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund ofhealth Globalization has also engendered major occupational and safety considerations to development loans. As a condi- sored by Scandinavian governments (Partanen and others and safety conditions could be mandated and enforced. A 1999). These initiatives have infused developing countries second opportunity is voluntary initiatives, as were recently with expertise, training programs, and equipment and have developed in the Apparel Industry Partnership,wherein a con- provided much-needed (external) economic incentives for sortium of European and U.S.garment manufacturers agreed adoptionofchangeonnational,regional,andlocallevels.The to control labor and safety practices in their facilities in devel- major concern is sustainability, because the incentives are oping countries by joint consent. external. Implications for Health System Development Globalization has resulted in a rapid increase in the number of multinational companies operating outside industrial Workers’ health and safety in most of the developing world countries.Indeed,this outcome was the underlying economic may fall under the jurisdictions of both the ministry of labor intent of recent free trade agreements such as the North and the ministry ofhealth,with little collaboration and coordi- American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In general, these nation between the two.The ministry oflabor most commonly companies bring with them a highly developed infrastructure is the governmental focus of any regulatory and enforcement Unfortunately,although these model companies undoubtedly follow-up care,it may mandate services falling squarely within enhance workers’ awareness, and create pressure on other tion testing as ongoing screening for individual response to industries in the region to conform,the pressure likely goes in exposure to pulmonary toxicants). Whatever the country- both directions.The competitive advantage of lowered invest- specific organizational and structural constraints,the following tiful and the direct costs to employers ofillness
