Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, workers, developing, countries, occupational, world, industrial, percent, risk, control, injury, economic, safety, costs, research


in the countries of concern,but rather is likely to be aided by ting,the incentive for the employer to disclaim responsibil- the capacity building derived from partnership between aca- ity leaves the worker, whatever the cause or causes of the demic institutions and government agencies across countries of condition under question, falling through the cracks of different levels ofdevelopment. occupational health care and traditional health care. Public Health Systems Research in the United States or in much ofthe developing world,can mitigate this problem. Although health services research has emerged as an important • Healthprofessionalworkforceexpertiseinoccupationalhealth. area of inquiry in the health field in the industrial world over As discussed in the section on capacity building,adequate the past few decades, scant attention has been paid to public expertisedoesnotexistinthedevelopingworldtoaddress health systems research (Institute of Medicine 2003). Given traditional and emerging occupational health problems. that occupational health sits at the interface between individual nonmedical (industrial hygiene and engineering expertise, germane to research in the field.This research would examine forexample)inadditiontohealth(nursingandphysician) the effectiveness of government systems working in coordina- (whetherthroughbroadlybasedtrainingforallhealthper- status. sonnel,trainingforoccupationalhealthspecialists,ormost likely some combination of the two) if they are to grapple Occupational Health Policy Research even minimally successfully with reducing the human and economicburdenofwork-relatedinjuriesandillnesses. Public policy to address improving occupational health in the developing world should rest on a sound scientific base (that is, Unifying the three principles identified above is the need to be evidence based) and should be coupled with an under- recognize that occupational health should be in the main- standing of the local and national frameworks for policy and individual level) and health care.An argument against this Adequate research has not been undertaken to evaluate policy approach is the perception that doing so will result in an unten- development and implementation in public health in general able burden on already underfunded health care. We suggest and occupational health specifically.As with the need for new and human terms. edly benefit from partnerships among countries in the indus- trial world and in the developing and industrializing world. RESEARCH AGENDA Intervention Effectiveness Research Before 1996,there was no known national effort to identify and Occupational Research Agenda (NORA) (U.S.DHHS 1996a). the developing world. The absence of data in this chapter to have launched similar efforts (for example,Italy,Sweden,and ures is indicative of the need for more such information to the United Kingdom).Although all these efforts are relevant to target what will always be a demand for
