PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 March 14; 12(10): 1634-1636
KEYWORDS: mucosal, polyps, prolapsing, prolapsing mucosal, lesions, biopsy, mucosal polyps, showed, figure, polypoid, jumbo biopsy, endoscopic, jumbo, mucosa, muscle


of them in the sigmoid colon. marked lymphocyte infi ltration, hemosiderin deposits and Slightly elevated red round patches were considered to fi bromuscular obliteration in the lamina propria, features be early minimal lesions of prolapsing mucosal polyps similar to those of mucosal prolapsing syndrome. After (Figure 1A). The surfaces of the polypoid lesions, considered to be advanced lesions, were smooth, and Thus, jumbo biopsy is useful for diagnosis and treatment congested hyperemic mucosa contrasted sharply with the of prolapsing mucosal polyps. surrounding intact mucosa. Endoscopic examination with indigo-carmin dye spraying showed an intact mucosal pit © 2006 The WJG Press. All rights reserved. pattern (Figure 1B). Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) Key words: Colon; Diverticulum; Jumbo biopsy; of the early minimal lesions showed thickening of the fi rst Prolapsing mucosal polyp and second layers (mucosa) and irregular echoic lesions in the third layer (submucosa) with hypertrophy of the Kato S, Hashiguchi K, Yamamoto R, Seo M, Matsuura fourth layer (muscularis propria) (Figure 2A). EUS of T, Itoh K, Iwashita A, Miura S. Jumbo biopsy is useful the advanced lesions showed irregular low echoic lesions for the diagnosis of colonic prolapsing mucosal polyps throughout the colonic wall (Figure 2B). Endoscopic www.wjgnet.com Kato S et al. Diverticular prolapsing mucosal polyp 1635 Figure 1 Colonoscopic Figure 2 Endoscopic A A examination of early ultrasonographic minimal lesion (A) examination of early and advanced lesion minimal lesion (A) and (B) showing slightly advanced lesion (B) elevated bright red round showing thickening of the patches and congestive first and second layers hyperemic polypoid lesion (mucosa) and irregular contrasted sharply with echoic lesion in the third the surrounding mucosa layer (submucosa) with (B: indigo carmine dye hypertrophy of the fourth spraying view). layer (muscularis propria), and irregular low echoic lesion throughout colonic wall, respectively. B B Figure 4 α-Smooth muscle actin A (α-SMA) staining of prolapsing mucosal polyp showing smooth muscle fibers radiating from the thickened muscularis mucosa into the lamina propria (x200). B cutting with an Olympus SD-210-25 snare and an electro- surgical unit, OLYMPUS UES-20. Histology of the polypoid lesion showed mucosal hyperplasia (Figure 3A). Crypt elongation, chronic inflammatory cell infiltration, congested vessels and hemosiderin deposits were observed in the lamina propria (Figure 3B). Immunohistochemistry using a monoclonal antibody against anti-α smooth muscle actin showed smooth muscle fibers radiating from the Figure 3 Hisological examination of prolapsing mucosal polyp showing mucosal hyperplasia (A) and chronic inflammatory cell
