PO Box 2345, Beijing 100023, China World J Gastroenterol 2006 March 14; 12(10): 1634-1636
KEYWORDS: mucosal, polyps, prolapsing, prolapsing mucosal, lesions, biopsy, mucosal polyps, showed, figure, polypoid, jumbo biopsy, endoscopic, jumbo, mucosa, muscle


monoclonal antibody against anti-α smooth muscle actin showed smooth muscle fibers radiating from the Figure 3 Hisological examination of prolapsing mucosal polyp showing mucosal hyperplasia (A) and chronic inflammatory cell infiltration, crypt elongation, thickened muscularis mucosa (fi bromuscular obliteration) congested vessels and fi bromuscular obliterations observed in the lamina propria (Figure 4). Based on these findings, these lesions were (B) (H&E, a: x40, b: x200). diagnosed as prolapsing mucosal polyps with diverticulosis of the sigmoid colon. The patient was treated with anti- diarrhetic drugs and a fiber-enriched diet. Diarrhea was biopsy specimens were taken several times. Histology improved and the white blood cell count in peripheral of biopsy specimens revealed no specific findings other blood decreased to within the normal range. than chronic inflammation. In order to obtain accurate diagnosis, we performed endoscopic jumbo biopsy for DISCUSSION the polypoid lesions after obtaining informed consent. The jumbo biopsy specimen was taken by using a saline- We experienced a patient who was diagnosed by using solution-assisted snare resection technique that involved the jumbo biopsy method as having prolapsing mucosal www.wjgnet.com 1636 ISSN 1007-9327 CN 14-1219/ R World J Gastroenterol March 14, 2006 Volume 12 Number 10 polyps with diverticular diseases. Cases of prolapsing et al proposed the usefulness of diagnostic features of mucosal polyps with diverticular disease have recently been ‘diamond-shaped’ crypts in biopsy specimens. However, reported by Franzin et al and Mathus-Vliegen et al These there were no such fi ndings in our case. Jumbo biopsy is polyps are histologically unclassified polyps resembling known to be a safe and useful method for diagnosis and those in mucosal prolapse syndrome (MPS). MPS treatment, and it is often used for not only endoscopic including solitary rectal ulcer syndrome is characterized cure of early cancers, but also obtaining specimens for by the presence of polypoid or ulcerative lesions accurate pathologic staging. In some cases, infl ammatory with the histological changes of glandular epithelium, change induces a “pseudo-malignant status”. Colitis cystica fi bromuscular obliteration and teleangiectatic blood vessels profounda, a variant of mucosal prolapse syndrome, in the lamina propria. MPS is thought to result from is sometimes difficult to distinguish from mucinous- chronic intermittent ischemia caused by overt or occult producing carcinoma because of its formation by an mucosal prolapse. Histological features of these polyps aberrantly located gland-forming epithelium. are crypt elongation, up-growth of muscle fibers from Treatment of prolapsing mucosal polyps is the muscularis
