Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


underlying bone disease in a patient with severe chronic kidney disease. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Osteoporosis is a common systemic skeletal disease characterized by low bone strength that results in an increased risk of fracture ( 1 ). Fractures are associated with serious clinical consequences, including pain, disability, loss of independence, and death, as well as high healthcare costs. Early identification and intervention with patients at high risk for fracture is needed to reduce the burden of osteoporotic fractures ( 2 ). Management of a patient with a confirmed diagnosis of osteoporosis or low bone mass (osteopenia) includes assessment of fracture risk, evaluation for secondary causes of skeletal fragility, decisions on initiation of treatment, and identification of all relevant clinical factors that may influence patient management. This is a review of the key components in the care of patients prior to treatment. DIAGNOSIS OF OSTEOPOROSIS The World Health Organization (WHO) diagnostic classification ( Table 1 ) ( 3 ) is made by bone mineral density (BMD) testing with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) using the T-score, calculated by subtracting the mean BMD (in g/cm2) of a young-adult reference population from the patient’s BMD and dividing by the standard deviation (SD) of the young-adult reference population. The International Society for Clinical Densitometry (ISCD) recommends that BMD be measured at the lumbar spine (ideally L1-L4), total hip, and femoral neck, with the 33% radius (1/3 radius) being measured when the lumbar spine and/or hip cannot be measured (e.g., obese patient who exceeds weight limit of table), is invalid (e.g., patient with lumbar laminectomy or bilateral total hip replacements), or when the patient has hyperparathyroidism ( 4 ). Osteoporosis cannot be diagnosed by BMD measurement at skeletal sites other than lumbar spine, total hip, femoral neck, and 33% radius or with technologies other than DXA, except for total hip and femoral neck T-scores calculated from 2D projections of quantitative computed tomography (QCT) data. The quality of DXA instrument maintenance, acquisition, analysis, interpretation, and reporting is important in obtaining valid results that can be used for making appropriate clinical decisions ( 4 - 6 ). In a patient with a fragility fracture, a clinical diagnosis of osteoporosis may be considered independently of BMD results, assuming other causes of skeletal fragility (e.g., osteomalacia, multiple myeloma) are not responsible for the fracture. Establishing
