Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


and adherence to well established quality standards ( 4 ). Table 5. ISCD Indications for Lateral Spine Imaging by Standard Radiography or Vertebral Fracture Assessment (VFA) ( 4 ) View in own window Vertebral imaging is indicated when the T-score is < -1.0 and one or more of the following is present: Women ≥ 70 years of age or men ≥ 80 years of age Historical height loss > 4 cm (1.5 inches) Self-reported but undocumented prior vertebral fracture Glucocorticoid therapy equivalent to ≥ 5 mg of prednisone or equivalent per day for ≥ 3 months QUALITY OF DXA AND VFA DXA and VFA should be performed by well-trained and experienced staff operating an instrument that has been maintained and calibrated according to the manufacturer’s standards. Precision assessment and least significant change (LSC) calculation by each DXA technologist are required in order to make quantitative comparisons of serial BMD measurements. The LSC is the smallest change in BMD that is statistically significant, usually with a 95% level of confidence. The use of the correct scan modes, proper patient positioning, consistent vertebral body labeling, and bone edge detection are among the essential elements for serial comparisons of BMD. VFA should be done by a technologist properly trained in acquisition techniques and interpreted by a clinician familiar with methods of diagnosing vertebral fractures using this technology. Bone densitometry facilities should be supervised by a clinician who knows current methods for BMD measurement and fully understands the standards for quality control, interpretation, and reporting of the findings. Poor quality studies may result in inappropriate clinical decisions, generate unnecessary healthcare expenses, and be harmful to patients ( 5 ). Assurances of high quality DXA can be attained through education, training, and certification of DXA technologists and interpreters by organizations such as the ISCD. DXA facilities should understand and adhere to ISCD Official Positions ( 4 ) and DXA Best Practices ( 6 , 14 ); facility accreditation ( 15 ) provides assurance of adherence to DXA quality standards. TECHNOLOGIES FOR ASSESSMENT OF SKELETAL HEALTH Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) Devices that measure or estimate BMD differ according to their clinical utility, cost, portability, and use of ionizing radiation. DXA is the “gold standard” method for measuring bone density in clinical practice. There is a strong correlation between mechanical strength and BMD measured by DXA biomechanical studies ( 16 ). In observational studies of untreated patients,
