Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


measuring bone density in clinical practice. There is a strong correlation between mechanical strength and BMD measured by DXA biomechanical studies ( 16 ). In observational studies of untreated patients, there is a robust relationship between fracture risk and BMD measured by DXA ( 11 ). The WHO diagnostic classification of osteoporosis is based primarily on reference data obtained by DXA ( 3 ), and femoral neck BMD provides input into the FRAX algorithm. Most randomized clinical trials showing reduction in fracture risk with pharmacological therapy have selected study participants according to BMD measured by DXA ( 17 ). There is a relationship between BMD increases with drug therapy and fracture risk reduction ( 18 , 19 ). Accuracy and precision of DXA are excellent ( 20 ). Radiation exposure with DXA is very low ( 21 ). BMD of the 33% (one-third) radius, measured either by a dedicated peripheral DXA (pDXA) device or a central DXA instrument with appropriate software, may be used for diagnostic classification with the WHO criteria and to assess fracture risk, but is generally not clinically useful in monitoring the effects of treatment. DXA measures bone mineral content (BMC in grams [g]) and bone area (cm2), then calculates areal BMD in g/cm2 and derives parameters, such as the T-score and Z-score. DXA is used for diagnostic classification, assessment of fracture risk, and for monitoring changes in BMD over time. Quantitative Ultrasound (QUS) QUS devices emit inaudible high frequency sound waves in the ultrasonic range, typically between 0.1 and 1.0 megahertz (MHz). The sound waves are produced and detected by means of high-efficiency piezoelectric transducers, which must have good acoustical contact with the skin over the bone being tested. Technical differences among QUS systems are great, with different instruments using variable frequencies, different transducer sizes, and sometimes measuring different regions of interest, even at the same skeletal site. The calcaneus is the skeletal site most often tested, although other bones, including the radius, tibia, and finger phalanges, can be used. Commercial QUS systems usually measure two parameters- the speed of sound (SOS) and broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA). A proprietary value, such as the “quantitative ultrasound index” (QUI) with the Hologic Sahara or “stiffness index” with the GE Healthcare Achilles Express, may be calculated from a combination of these measurements. SOS varies according to the type of bone, with a typical range of 3000-3600 meters per second
