Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


GE Healthcare Achilles Express, may be calculated from a combination of these measurements. SOS varies according to the type of bone, with a typical range of 3000-3600 meters per second (m/sec) with cortical bone and 1650-2300 m/sec for trabecular bone ( 22 ). A higher bone density is associated with a higher SOS. BUA, reported as decibels per megahertz (dB/MHz), is a measurement of the loss of energy, or attenuation, of the sound wave as it passes through bone. As with SOS, a higher bone density is associated with a higher BUA. Values obtained from calculations using ultrasound parameters may be used to generate an estimated BMD and a T-score. The T-score derived from a QUS measurement is not the same as a T-score from a DXA. QUS cannot be used for diagnostic classification and is not clinically useful to monitor the effects of therapy ( 23 ). Radiofrequency Echographic Multi Spectrometry (REMS) assesses bone health and fracture risk with an ultrasound scan of the lumbar spine and proximal femur, thereby overcoming the limitation of QUS of only measuring peripheral skeletal sites. REMS technology uses a portable device with a transducer that transmits ultrasound waves to the target axial skeletal site and a receiver that captures the resultant back-scattered waveforms with B-mode image reconstruction of the region of interest. There are studies that support a strong correlation between REMS and DXA measurements of BMD ( 24 ). Potential clinical applications include its use in frail patients with limited mobility, bedside measurements in hospitalized patients, and special populations such as pregnant women and children. Quantitative Computed Tomography (QCT) and Peripheral QCT (pQCT) QCT and pQCT measure trabecular and cortical volumetric BMD at the axial skeleton and peripheral skeletal sites, respectively. QCT is a useful research tool to enhance understanding of the pathophysiology of osteoporosis and the mechanism of action of pharmacological agents used to treat osteoporosis. QCT predicts fracture risk, with the correlation varying according to skeletal site and bone compartment measured, type of fracture predicted, and population assessed ( 4 ). The ISCD Official Positions state that “spinal trabecular BMD as measured by QCT has at least the same ability to predict vertebral fractures as AP spinal BMD measured by central DXA in postmenopausal women with lack of sufficient evidence to support this position in men; pQCT of the forearm at the ultra-distal radius predicts hip, but not spine, fragility
