Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


central DXA in postmenopausal women with lack of sufficient evidence to support this position in men; pQCT of the forearm at the ultra-distal radius predicts hip, but not spine, fragility fractures in postmenopausal women with lack of sufficient evidence to support this position in men ( 4 ).” QCT is more expensive than DXA and QUS and uses higher levels of ionizing radiation than DXA. T-scores by QCT are typically lower than with DXA ( 27 ), thereby overestimating the prevalence of osteoporosis, with the exception of total hip and femoral neck T-scores calculated from 2D projections of QCT data, which are similar to DXA-derived T-scores at the same regions of interest and may be used for diagnosis of osteoporosis in accordance with the WHO criteria. T-scores and femoral neck BMD derived from 2D projections of QCT data may also be used as input for the FRAX algorithm to estimate 10-year fracture probabilities. Other Technologies of Interest Pulse-echo ultrasonography (PEUS) uses a portable handheld ultrasound device to estimate the thickness of cortical bone at peripheral skeletal sites. When connected to a computer with proprietary software, a value can be generated that that is correlated with hip BMD measured by DXA, with the potential benefit of identifying patients who are likely or unlikely to have osteoporosis ( 25 ). Biomechanical CT (BCT) is an opportunistic analysis of data from pre-existing CT scans of the hip and/or spine that provides DXA-equivalent T-scores for the hip, QCT-equivalent vBMD at the spine, and an estimate of bone strength with finite element analysis (FEA) ( 26 ). 3D-Shaper is software that can be added to a DXA system using statistical modelling to reconstruct the 3D shape and density distribution of the proximal femur from 2D DXA data scans. A recent study found that this technology provided an estimation of femur strength that was similar to that derived from QCT FEA ( 27 ). FRACTURE RISK ASSESSMENT TOOL (FRAX® and FRAXplus) The combination of BMD and clinical risk factors (CRFs) predicts fracture risk better than BMD or CRFs alone ( 28 , 29 ) ( 2 ). A fracture risk assessment tool (FRAX) combines CRFs and femoral neck BMD in a computer-based algorithm that estimates the 10-year probability of hip fracture and major osteoporotic fracture (i.e., clinical spine, hip, proximal humerus, and distal forearm fracture). FRAX can be accessed online at http://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX ( Figure 1 ),
