Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


10-year probability of hip fracture and major osteoporotic fracture (i.e., clinical spine, hip, proximal humerus, and distal forearm fracture). FRAX can be accessed online at http://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX ( Figure 1 ), on most software versions of DXA systems, and on smartphones. FRAX is based on analysis of data from 12 large prospective observational studies in about 60,000 untreated men and women in different world regions, having over 250,000 person-years of observation and more than 5,000 reported fractures reported. Figure 1. FRAX online for US Caucasian patients. This example shows a 65-year-old woman who has no clinical risk factors for fracture and a femoral neck BMD of 0.582 g/cm2 with a Hologic instrument. The 10-year probability of major osteoporotic fracture is 11% and the 10-year probability of hip fracture is 2.2%. These levels do not meet the Bone Health & Osteoporosis Foundation guidelines for initiation of pharmacological therapy in the US ( 7 ). Image reproduced with permission from Eugene McCloskey, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. The input for FRAX is the patient’s age, sex, height, weight, a “yes” or “no” response indicating the presence or absence for each of 7 CRFs: 1. previous ‘spontaneous’ or fragility fracture as an adult; 2. parent with hip fracture; 3. current tobacco smoking; 4. ever use of chronic glucocorticoids at least 5 mg prednisolone for at least 3 months; 5. confirmed rheumatoid arthritis; 6. secondary osteoporosis, such as type 1 diabetes, osteogenesis imperfecta in adults, untreated longstanding hyperthyroidism and hypogonadism, or premature menopause (note: this is a “dummy” risk factor that has no effect on the fracture risk calculation unless no femoral neck BMD value is entered); 7. alcohol intake greater than 3 units per day, with a unit of alcohol defined as equivalent to a glass of beer, an ounce of spirits or a medium-sized glass of wine), and if available, femoral neck BMD and trabecular bone score (TBS). Since the introduction of FRAX, upgrades have been introduced to correct errors, enhance its usability, and incorporate new data that have become available. Benefits of FRAX The use of FRAX provides a quantitative estimation of fracture risk that is based on robust data in large populations of men and women with ethnic and geographic diversity. Expression of fracture risk as a probability provides greater clinical utility than relative risk. When combined with cost-utility analysis, a fracture risk level at which it is cost-effective to treat
