Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


Expression of fracture risk as a probability provides greater clinical utility than relative risk. When combined with cost-utility analysis, a fracture risk level at which it is cost-effective to treat may be derived. FRAX can be used to estimate fracture probability without femoral neck BMD, allowing it to be used when DXA is unavailable or inaccessible. FRAX is incorporated into many clinical practice guidelines. Limitations of FRAX To generate a valid FRAX output, the responses to CRF questions must be correct; for example, an incorrect entry of self-reported rheumatoid arthritis or use of glucocorticoids could skew the results toward overestimation of fracture risk. FRAX may underestimate or overestimate fracture risk due to dichotomized (yes or no) input for CRFs that in reality are associated with a range of risk that varies according to dose, duration of exposure, or severity; for example, fracture risk may be underestimated when a patient is on high-dose glucocorticoid therapy or has had multiple recent fragility fractures, even when a “yes” response is entered for these CRFs. FRAX is validated only in untreated patients and may overestimate fracture risk when the patient is being treated; the NOF(BHOF)/ISCD guidance on FRAX suggests that “untreated” may be interpreted as never treated or if previously treated, no bisphosphonate for the past 2 years (unless it is an oral agent taken for less than 2 months); and no estrogen, raloxifene, calcitonin, or denosumab for the past 1 year ( 7 ). In this context, calcium and vitamin D do not constitute treatment. FRAX in the US allows input for 4 ethnicities (Caucasian, Black, Hispanic, Asian); it is not clear how to use FRAX for patients of other ethnicities or a mix of these ethnicities. Answering “yes” for the category of secondary osteoporosis has no effect on the fracture risk calculation as long as a value for femoral neck BMD is entered. The range of error for a fracture probability generated by FRAX is unknown but may be substantial in some cases. Some important risk factors, such as falls and frailty, are not directly entered into FRAX, although they are indirectly included insofar as they are a component of aging. FRAX may underestimate fracture risk when the lumbar spine BMD is substantially lower than femoral neck BMD, as may occur in about 15% of patients ( 30 ). Despite the limitations of FRAX, it is a helpful clinical tool when used
