Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


substantially lower than femoral neck BMD, as may occur in about 15% of patients ( 30 ). Despite the limitations of FRAX, it is a helpful clinical tool when used with a good understanding of factors that may result in underestimation or overestimation of fracture risk. FRAX may enhance discussion of risk with the patient and help to identify those who are at sufficiently high for fracture to benefit from therapy. FRAXplus FRAXplus ( https://www.fraxplus.org/ ) is an updated version of FRAX that addresses some of the limitations of traditional FRAX, allowing input for these additional rick factors: recency of osteoporotic fracture, high exposure to oral glucocorticoids, type 2 diabetes, concurrent data on lumbar spine BMD, trabecular bone score, falls history, and hip axis length. For patients with fracture risk that is close to the intervention threshold for the applicable clinical practice guideline, the use of an additional risk factor with FRAXplus might influence the decision to treat or not treat with a pharmacological agent. MEDICAL HISTORY A thorough medical history may identify risk factors for osteoporosis and fractures, suggesting that a bone density test and/or further evaluation is indicated. The medical history may also reveal symptoms of potentially correctable causes of skeletal fragility (e.g., gluten intolerance with celiac disease) or co-morbidities that could influence treatment decisions (e.g., esophageal stricture suggests that oral bisphosphonates should not be given). A history of falls is a predictor of future falls, with that risk potentially modifiable though appropriate interventions. Finally, some symptoms may trigger further evaluation for the presence of fractures (e.g., historical height loss or development of kyphotic posture suggests the possibility of vertebral fractures that may warrant spine imaging). Table 6 provides examples of helpful information that might be obtained from a thoughtful interactive discussion with the patient. Medical History for Patients with Osteoporosis A thorough review of systems and history of relevant familial disorders, previous surgical procedures, medications, dietary supplements, food intolerances, and lifestyle provides helpful information in the management of patients with osteoporosis. Such historical information may play a role in determining who should have a bone density test, assessing fracture risk, providing input for FRAX, evaluating for secondary causes of osteoporosis, selecting the most appropriate treatment to reduce fracture risk, and finding factors contributing to suboptimal response to therapy. Listed here are key components of the skeletal health history and examples of the potential impact on patient care.
