Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


fracture risk, and finding factors contributing to suboptimal response to therapy. Listed here are key components of the skeletal health history and examples of the potential impact on patient care. Table 6. Clinical Utility of the Medical History View in own window Clinical Utility Medical History Assist in determining who need a bone density test See Table 3 Assessing fracture risk See Table 3 and 4 Input for FRAX Age, sex, weight, height, previous fracture, parent with hip fracture, current tobacco smoking, ever use of glucocorticoids, rheumatoid arthritis, secondary osteoporosis, alcohol intake 3 or more units per day, and if available, femoral neck bone mineral density and trabecular bone score Evaluating for secondary causes of osteoporosis See Table 3 Selecting most appropriate treatment Identify co-morbidities of clinical significance. For example, high-risk of breast cancer favors raloxifene use, while history of thrombophlebitis suggests that raloxifene should not be used; esophageal stricture is a contraindication for oral bisphosphonate use; a patient with a skeletal malignancy should not be treated with teriparatide. Factors contributing to suboptimal response to therapy Compliance and persistence to therapy; adequacy of calcium and vitamin D; comorbidities listed in Table 3 . PHYSICAL EXAM Findings of importance on the physical exam of a patient with osteoporosis may be the sequelae of old fractures (e.g., kyphosis due to old vertebral fractures), a consequence of a recent fracture (e.g., localized vertebral spinous process tenderness with a new vertebral fracture), or abnormalities suggestive of a secondary cause of osteoporosis (e.g., thyromegaly with thyrotoxicosis). An accurate measurement of height with a wall-mounted stadiometer is a helpful office tool for evaluating patients at risk for fracture. A height loss of 1.5 inches (4.0 cm) or more compared to the historical maximum ( 28 , 29 ) or a loss of 0.75 inches (2.0 cm) or more compared to a previous measured height ( 30 ) suggests a high likelihood of vertebral fracture. Body weight measurement is part of the osteoporosis evaluation because low body weight (less than 127 lbs) ( 31 ), low BMI (20 kg/m2 or less) ( 32 ), and weight loss of 5% or more (( 33 )36) are associated with increased risk of fracture. Localized tenderness of the spine, kyphosis, or diminished distance between the lower ribs and the pelvic brim may be the result of one or more vertebral fractures. Abnormalities of gait, posture, balance, muscle strength, or the
