Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


or diminished distance between the lower ribs and the pelvic brim may be the result of one or more vertebral fractures. Abnormalities of gait, posture, balance, muscle strength, or the presence of postural hypotension or impaired level of consciousness may be associated with increased risk of falling. Bone tenderness may be caused by osteomalacia. Atrophic testicles suggest hypogonadism. Patients should be observed for stigmata of hyperthyroidism or Cushing’s syndrome. Blue sclera, hearing loss, and yellow-brown teeth are suggestive of osteogenesis imperfecta. Joint hypermobility and skin fragility could be due to Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Urticaria pigmentosa may occur with systemic mastocytosis. Table 7 shows examples of abnormal physical exam findings with osteoporosis. Table 7. Focused Physical Examination in a Patient with Osteoporosis View in own window Component of physical exam Example of finding of potential skeletal importance Potential clinical implications for skeletal health Vital signs Low body weight or body mass index Anorexia nervosa Loss of height Vertebral fracture Loss of weight Malignancy, malabsorption Skin Urticaria pigmentosa Dermatitis herpetiformis Systemic mastocytosis Celiac disease Striae, acne Cushing’s syndrome, exogenous glucocorticoids Head Cranial dysostosis Hypophosphatasia Eyes Blue sclera Osteogenesis imperfect Ears Hearing loss Osteogenesis imperfecta, sclerosteosis Nose Anosmia Kallmann syndrome Throat Poor dentition Increased risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw Neck Thyromegaly Thyrotoxicosis Lungs Decreased breath sounds Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Heart Aortic insufficiency Marfan’s syndrome Musculoskeletal Kyphosis Vertebral fractures Spinous process tenderness Acute vertebral fracture Decreased space between lower ribs and pelvis Vertebral fractures Tender bones Osteomalacia Inflammatory joint disease Rheumatoid arthritis Hypermobility of joints Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Muscle weakness Vitamin D deficiency, osteomalacia Abdomen Hepatomegaly Chronic liver disease Surgical scars Bariatric surgery, gastrectomy Genitalia Testicular atrophy Hypogonadism Neurological Poor balance High fall risk, vitamin D deficiency Dementia Poor adherence to therapy, high fall risk This table provides examples of findings on physical exam that may be helpful in the evaluation of skeletal health. It is not intended to show all findings of importance. EVALUATION FOR SECONDARY CAUSES OF OSTEOPOROSIS The possibility of previously unrecognized causes of skeletal fragility should be considered in every patient with osteoporosis ( 34 ), understanding that some patients with a T-score ≤ -2.5 may have a skeletal disease other than osteoporosis and some patients with osteoporosis have contributing disorders and conditions other than estrogen deficiency and advancing age that can be corrected. Collectively, these contributing factors are sometimes called secondary causes of osteoporosis. After an initial medical history
