Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


disorders and conditions other than estrogen deficiency and advancing age that can be corrected. Collectively, these contributing factors are sometimes called secondary causes of osteoporosis. After an initial medical history is taken and physical exam is performed, appropriate laboratory testing and imaging may provide information that is critical for ongoing patient care. The reported prevalence of secondary osteoporosis varies depending on the study population, the extent of the medical evaluation, and definitions for laboratory abnormalities. It is likely that many or most patients with osteoporosis have clinically significant contributing factors that may influence patient management. In a study of North American women receiving osteoporosis therapy, it was found that 52% had vitamin D inadequacy, defined as serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OH-D) levels less than 30 ng/ml ( 35 ). In another study of patients referred to an osteoporosis clinic, over 60% were found to have elements of secondary osteoporosis when vitamin D deficiency was very conservatively defined as serum 25-OH-D level less than 12.5 ng/ml ( 36 , 37 ). In the same study, the number of patients with secondary osteoporosis was much higher when vitamin D inadequacy was more appropriately defined as serum 25-OH-D less than 33 ng/ml ( 38 , 39 ). It has been proposed by some that a bone density that is less than expected compared to an age- and sex-matched population, as represented by a low Z-score (e.g., less than -2.0), suggests a high likelihood of secondary osteoporosis and should be one of the triggers for further investigation ( 40 , 41 ). While there may be some merit to this concept, there are few if any studies validating the use of a Z-score cutoff for this purpose. Since secondary causes of osteoporosis are common, a more effective strategy is to screen all patients with osteoporosis for contributing factors ( 42 ). The results of a metabolic evaluation may identify previously unrecognized diseases and conditions that require treatment in addition to, or instead of, standard osteoporosis pharmacological therapy. Depending on the patient population being studied, different causes of secondary osteoporosis may predominate. Calcium deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, and sedentary lifestyle are common contributing factors for all patients. In women referred to an osteoporosis clinic with previously recognized medications or diseases contributing to osteoporosis, the most common were history of glucocorticoid use (36%), premature ovarian failure (21%), history of unintentional weight loss (10%), history of alcoholism (10%),
