Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


recognized medications or diseases contributing to osteoporosis, the most common were history of glucocorticoid use (36%), premature ovarian failure (21%), history of unintentional weight loss (10%), history of alcoholism (10%), and history of liver disease (10%) ( 36 ). When patients without previously recognized contributing factors were evaluated at the same specialty clinic, most (55%) were found to have vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency (serum 25-OH-D less than 33 ng/ml) ( 39 ), while 10% had hypercalciuria, 8% had malabsorption, and 7% had primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 36 ). In men, the most common secondary causes of osteoporosis are long-term glucocorticoid use, hypogonadism, and alcoholism ( 43 , 44 ). The increasing use of aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer in women and androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer in men ( 45 ) is now recognized as an important factor in the development of osteoporosis in these patients. Other common causes for low BMD and fractures include multiple myeloma ( 46 ), gastric bypass surgery ( 47 ) and gastric resection ( 48 ). Treatable but easily missed secondary causes of osteoporosis include asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism ( 49 ), subclinical hyperthyroidism ( 50 ), mild Cushing’s syndrome ( 51 ), and malabsorption due to unrecognized celiac disease ( 52 ). Table 8 lists some of the causes of low BMD by category. Table 8. Causes of Low Bone Mineral Density View in own window Inherited Nutritional Endocrine Drugs Other Osteogenesis imperfecta Malabsorption Hypogonadism Glucocorticoids Multiple myeloma Homocystinuria Chronic liver disease Hyperthyroidism Anticonvulsants Rheumatoid arthritis Marfan’s syndrome Alcoholism Hyperparathyroidism Long-term heparin Systemic mastocytosis Hypophosphatasia Calcium deficient diet Cushing’s syndrome Excess thyroid Immobilization Vitamin D deficiency Eating disorder GnRH agonists Aromatase inhibitors Although a variety of testing strategies have been proposed as screening for all patients with osteoporosis, a minimal cost-effective work-up for all patients consists of a complete blood count (CBC), serum calcium, phosphorus, creatinine with calculated or measured creatinine clearance, alkaline phosphatase, 24-hour urinary calcium, and serum 25-OH-D. Other laboratory tests may be indicated according to the patient’s clinical profile and the practice setting. A summary of useful common and uncommon laboratory studies with comments on their possible skeletal significance is provided below. CLINICAL CASE A 52-year-old postmenopausal woman with a history of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and a family history of osteoporosis (mother with hip fracture) is found to have osteoporosis on a DXA study. Evaluation for
