Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


woman with a history of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and a family history of osteoporosis (mother with hip fracture) is found to have osteoporosis on a DXA study. Evaluation for secondary causes of osteoporosis is unremarkable except for mild iron deficiency anemia (a long-standing problem, previously attributed to heavy menses) and a low 24-hour urinary calcium of 30 mg, with adequate calcium intake and normal renal function. Serum 25-OH-D is 29 ng/ml. Additional work-up shows a high titer of IgA endomysial antibodies consistent with celiac disease. This diagnosis is confirmed by a small bowel biopsy showing villous atrophy. She is started on a gluten-free diet, resulting in resolution of her “IBS” symptoms and correction of her anemia. One year later, with no pharmacological therapy for osteoporosis, there is a statistically significant BMD increase of 9% at the lumbar spine. Celiac disease may result in osteoporosis due to calcium malabsorption, even in the absence of gastrointestinal symptoms. Treatment is strict lifelong adherence to a gluten-free diet, which may sometimes be followed by a substantial increase in BMD, as seen in this patient. A 24-hour urinary calcium is an inexpensive screening test for calcium malabsorption that should be considered a routine part of the initial evaluation of osteoporosis. BASIC BLOOD TESTS CBC- Anemia may be seen in patients with myeloma or malnutrition. Sedimentation rate- May be elevated with myeloma and rheumatic diseases. Calcium- Among the many causes of hypercalcemia are primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism, hyperthyroidism, renal failure, vitamin D intoxication, and Paget’s disease of bone. Hypocalcemia may be seen with vitamin D deficiency and hyperphosphatemia. Phosphorus- Hyperphosphatemia may occur with hypoparathyroidism, renal failure, and possibly with bisphosphonate therapy. Hypophosphatemia may be seen with primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism, vitamin D deficiency, tumor induced osteomalacia, and X-linked hypophosphatemia. Alkaline phosphatase- High values can be seen with healing fractures, osteomalacia, and Paget’s disease, as well as occurring normally in growing children. Low values occur with hypophosphatasia, a rare genetic disorder that causes impaired mineralization of bone and dental tissue. Vitamin D- The test that best reflects vitamin D stores is the serum 25-OH-D. While there is no consensus on the optimal range of serum 25-OH-D, a reasonable target for good skeletal health is approximately 30-50 ng/ml. This is likely to maximize intestinal absorption of calcium and minimize serum PTH levels. Interpretation of serum 25-OH-D levels is confounded by assay variability ( 59 ). Serum 1,25-(OH)2-D3
