Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


ng/ml. This is likely to maximize intestinal absorption of calcium and minimize serum PTH levels. Interpretation of serum 25-OH-D levels is confounded by assay variability ( 59 ). Serum 1,25-(OH)2-D3 is usually not helpful in the evaluation of osteoporosis patients, unless there are concerns regarding renal conversion of 25-OH-D to 1,25-(OH)2-D3. Deficiency or insufficiency of vitamin D is very common and play a role in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis and osteomalacia. Creatinine- Chronic kidney disease may cause an elevated creatinine level and renal osteodystrophy. Elderly patients with small muscle mass may have impaired renal function with a “normal” serum creatinine. An estimated glomerular filtration rate can be calculated using one of many formulae, such as that of Cockcroft and Gault ( 53 ) or modification of diet in renal disease study equation ( 54 ). Impaired renal function not only has adverse skeletal effects but also raises considerations regarding the type and dose of pharmacologic agents used. TSH- Hyperthyroidism from any cause, including excess thyroid replacement, can usually be recognized by a low TSH. High bone turnover associated hyperthyroidism is associated with loss of bone mass. Liver enzymes- Abnormalities may be caused by chronic liver disease, which is a risk factor for osteoporosis. BASIC URINE TESTS Urinalysis- Proteinuria may occur with multiple myeloma or chronic kidney disease. Abnormal cells may suggest kidney disease. 24-hour urine for calcium- A well-collected 24-hour urine for calcium is a helpful screening test for identifying patients with common disorders of calcium metabolism. The “normal” range of urinary calcium is not well established and varies according to many dietary factors and estrogen status in women ( 55 ). As a “rule of thumb,” urinary calcium may be considered elevated when it is greater than 250 mg per 24 hours in women; greater than 300 mg per 24 hours in men; or greater than 4 mg/kg body weight per 24 hours in either sex. It has been proposed that hypercalciuria can be easily classified as “renal” (renal calcium leak), “resorptive” (excess skeletal loss of calcium) or “absorptive” (increased intestinal absorption of calcium) ( 56 ). However, in clinical practice, these distinctions are not so easily established. Idiopathic hypercalciuria, perhaps the most common type of hypercalciuria ( 57 ), may be diagnosed if there are no underlying medical disorders (e.g., hyperparathyroidism, vitamin D toxicity, Paget’s disease of bone, multiple myeloma, sarcoidosis) and no obvious dietary excesses (e.g., calcium,
