Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


), may be diagnosed if there are no underlying medical disorders (e.g., hyperparathyroidism, vitamin D toxicity, Paget’s disease of bone, multiple myeloma, sarcoidosis) and no obvious dietary excesses (e.g., calcium, sodium, protein, carbohydrates, alcohol) or deficiencies (e.g., phosphate, potassium) that are associated with hypercalciuria. In the absence of dietary calcium deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, malabsorption, liver disease, or chronic renal failure, low urinary calcium (less than 50 mg per 24 hours in women or men) is suggestive of calcium malabsorption and warrants further investigation. Celiac disease is a common ( 58 ) cause of asymptomatic malabsorption in osteoporosis that is treatable with a gluten-free diet. ADDITIONAL STUDIES IN SELECTED PATIENTS Celiac antibodies- Anti-endomysial antibody and tissue transglutaminase antibody are currently the serological markers of choice, with a higher sensitivity and specificity than anti-gliadin antibody and anti-reticulin antibody. If a serological marker is abnormal, or if there is a high clinical suspicion for celiac disease, the patient should be referred for endoscopy and small bowel biopsy. Intact PTH- This may be elevated in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism or with secondary hyperparathyroidism due to disorders such as chronic kidney disease, vitamin D deficiency, or calcium malabsorption. Serum protein electrophoresis and serum kappa/lambda light chain ratio- These are helpful tests to screen for possible multiple myeloma. Abnormal results may require further evaluation by an oncologist. Overnight 1 mg dexamethasone suppression test or 24-hour urinary free cortisol- This is helpful to evaluate patients with suspected Cushing’s syndrome. Serum total or free testosterone level- May be helpful in the assessment of men with osteoporosis. Serum homocysteine- Elevated circulating homocysteine levels are associated with an increased risk of fractures ( 59 ). It is unknown whether reduction of homocysteine levels by increasing dietary intake of folic acid and vitamins B6 and B12 reduces the risk of fracture. Serum tryptase and 24-hour urine for N-methylhistamine- Systemic mastocytosis is a rare cause of osteoporosis that can be diagnosed by a biopsy of typical skin lesions of urticaria pigmentosa, when present. Patients with systemic mastocytosis may sometimes present with osteoporosis and no other manifestations of the disease ( 60 ). When this disorder is suspected but skin lesions are not present, the finding of an elevated serum tryptase and/or urinary N-methyl histamine can be helpful, especially during or soon after a symptomatic episode of histamine release. However, normal values do not exclude the diagnosis. Bone marrow aspiration or biopsy,
