Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


urinary N-methyl histamine can be helpful, especially during or soon after a symptomatic episode of histamine release. However, normal values do not exclude the diagnosis. Bone marrow aspiration or biopsy, or non-decalcified double tetracycline labeled transiliac bone biopsy, may be necessary to confirm the diagnosis. Serum bicarbonate- Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) has been associated with osteoporosis ( 61 ). With distal (type I) RTA, the serum bicarbonate is usually less than 15 mmol/l with a urine pH greater than 5.5 despite having systemic acidosis. This is due to the impaired ability of the distal nephron to secrete hydrogen ions effectively, which is a hallmark of the condition. BONE TURNOVER MARKERS Bone turnover markers (BTMs) are noninvasive laboratory tests of serum and urine that are readily available in clinical practice. While BTMs cannot be used to diagnose osteoporosis or determine the cause to osteoporosis, they have been very helpful in research to understand the pathophysiology of osteoporosis and other skeletal diseases and the mechanism of action of interventions used in the treatment of osteoporosis. In clinical practice, BTMs offer the potential of predicting fracture risk independently of BMD and may be useful in monitoring the metabolic effects of therapy ( 62 ). Drugs that are approved for the management of osteoporosis modulate bone remodeling in ways that are reflected by changes in BTMs. A decrease in BTMs with antiresorptive therapy is predictive of a subsequent increase in BMD ( 63 ) and reduction in fracture risk ( 64 ). The magnitude of BTM decrease with antiresorptive therapy is significantly associated with the level of fracture risk reduction, although the proportion of treatment effect due to the reduction in BTMs appears to vary according to the type of drug used ( 65 ). Teriparatide and abaloparatide, analogs of PTH and PTHrP, respectfully, are bone forming drugs associated with an increase in bone remodeling, with bone formation markers rising sooner and greater than bone resorption makers. Romosozumab is bone forming drug that uncouples bone resorption and formation, with an initial increase in bone formation markers and decrease in bone resorption markers. Markers of bone resorption are mostly fragments of type I collagen, the main component of the organic bone matrix, which are released during osteoclastic bone resorption. These are measured in the serum or urine, with those available for clinical use including N-telopeptide of type I collagen (NTX), C-telopeptide of type I collagen
