Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


during osteoclastic bone resorption. These are measured in the serum or urine, with those available for clinical use including N-telopeptide of type I collagen (NTX), C-telopeptide of type I collagen (CTX), deoxypyridinoline (DPD), and pyridinoline (PYD). Bone formation markers are proteins secreted by osteoblasts or byproducts of type I collagen production by osteoblasts. They are measured in the serum and include bone specific alkaline phosphatase (BSAP), N-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (P1NP), and osteocalcin. CTX and P1NP have been proposed as the reference BTMs for clinical trials ( 66 ) and for clinical practice ( 67 ). Clinical use of BTMs requires knowledge of their limitations as well as benefits. BTMs are subject to pre-analytical (biological) and analytical variability ( 62 ). Uncontrollable sources of pre-analytical variability include age, sex, menopausal status, pregnancy, lactation, fractures, co-existing diseases (e.g., diabetes mellitus, impaired renal function, and liver disease), drugs (e.g., glucocorticoids, anticonvulsants, and gonadotropin hormone releasing agonists), and immobility. Controllable pre-analytical sources of variability include time of day (circadian variability), fasting status, and exercise. Analytical sources of variability include specimen processing (e.g., collection, handling, and storage). Between-laboratory variability may be large (reported to be as much as a 7.3-fold difference), casting doubt on the validity of comparing specimens sent to different labs ( 68 ). Reference ranges for BTMs are not well established and may vary according to the population tested, the type of BTM, and the circumstances under which it is collected and processed. In order to compare BTMs measurements longitudinally, it would be ideal to know the least significant change (LSC) and use this in a manner similar to what should be (but is probably not) common practice with DXA. However, the standards for calculating an LSC for a BTM are not as clear as with DXA, and the opportunity to do precision assessment for a BTM may not present itself. The Belgian Bone Club suggests using an estimated LSC by assuming an LSC of about 30% for serum BTMs and about 50-60% for urine BTMs ( 69 ). While the LSC for BTMs is almost always greater than for DXA, the magnitude of likely change is greater than DXA, with the “signal to noise ratio” that may be as good or even better than DXA. One strategy for the use of BTMs to monitor patients on antiresorptive therapy is to use absolute values rather that percent changes, as
