Osteoporosis: Clinical Evaluation
KEYWORDS: bone, osteoporosis, fracture, risk, pubmed, clinical, patients, dxa, bmd, disease, fracture risk, fractures, skeletal, therapy, frax


as good or even better than DXA. One strategy for the use of BTMs to monitor patients on antiresorptive therapy is to use absolute values rather that percent changes, as follows: treatment effect can be considered optimal when serum CTX has decreased by 100 ng/L or is below 280 ng/L, or when P1NP has decreased by 10 mcg/L or is less than 35 mcg/L ( 70 ). A significant change of a BTM level in the appropriate direction following therapy is evidence that the patient is taking the drug regularly, taking it correctly, and that it is being absorbed and having the expected effect in modulating bone remodeling. Failure to achieve such a change in the BTM level is cause for concern and suggests that evaluation and possibly a reconsideration of treatment strategies. The use of BTMs allows assessment of drug effect sooner than with DXA, so that evaluation and corrective action, if needed, can be taken early in the course of therapy rather than later. Monitoring BTMs, especially in association with regular contact by a healthcare provider, may improve persistence with therapy ( 70 ). Despite the well-described limitations of BTMs, there is emerging support for their use in clinical practice, particularly in the assessment of response to therapy ( 62 ). Clinicians who are familiar with the benefits and limitations of BTMs may find them a helpful tool, in association with BMD testing, for managing patients with osteoporosis. IMAGING STUDIES Standard X-rays are used to diagnose fractures of all types and may sometimes suggest secondary causes of osteoporosis. Pseudofractures (Looser’s zones) are radiolucent lines running perpendicular to the bone cortex that may be seen in patients with osteomalacia. These probably represent stress fractures that have healed with poorly mineralized osteoid. Punctate radiolucencies may be seen in bone X-rays of patients with systemic mastocytosis. Primary hyperparathyroidism may cause bone cysts, subperiosteal bone resorption, brown tumors, and demineralization (‘salt and pepper’ pattern) of the skull. MRI, CT scanning, or nuclear imaging may be used to detect stress fractures that are not visible on X-ray. MRI of the spine is commonly used prior to vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty to determine the age of the fracture, the likelihood of the fracture being from causes other than osteoporosis, and whether there is retropulsion of bony fragments than could impair neurological function. BONE BIOPSY Non-decalcified double tetracycline labeled iliac crest bone biopsy is rarely used
