Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION OF SEVERE HYPERGLYCEMIA Diabetes Mellitus is a common condition that affects over 800 million adults globally. Type 2 diabetes mellitus represents almost 95% of these diagnoses. Type 2 diabetes typically has two pathophysiologic defects: an insulin secretory defect and insulin resistance. Symptoms of uncontrolled hyperglycemia include polyuria, polydipsia, blurry vision, possibly dehydration, and weight loss. Patients may complain of thirst, sweet cravings, generalized fatigue, abdominal discomfort, and muscle cramps. They may have a history of poor wound healing and/or frequent infections. Workup with basic metabolic laboratory tests may reveal a random blood glucose level >200 mg/dL [>11.1 mmol/L], hyper- or hyponatremia, hypokalemia, metabolic acid-base derangements, and acute renal or pre-renal insufficiency. Historical clues for diagnosing type 2 diabetes might include a pre-existing history of pre-diabetes, a family history of type 2 diabetes, an ethnicity at higher risk for diabetes mellitus (e.g., African American, Hispanic, Native American, Pacific Islander, Asian), a history of gestational diabetes, obesity, clinical or subclinical cortisol excess, and a sedentary lifestyle. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Table 1. Clinical Features of the Acute Presentation of Type 2 Diabetes and Pathophysiology View in own window Hyperglycemia Insulin resistance, insulin deficiency (pancreatic beta cell failure), increased gluconeogenesis, glycogenolysis Dehydration, polyuria, polydipsia Osmotic diuresis, compensatory thirst Weight loss, sweet cravings Glycosuric calorie loss and inadequate glucose utilization Muscle pain and abdominal discomfort Lactic acid accumulation, hypokalemia, electrolyte /acid-base derangements Metabolic alkalosis and/or acidosis, electrolyte disturbances Dehydration and ketogenesis Ketogenesis Insulin deficiency results in lipolysis yielding free fatty acids, formation of ketone bodies. Note ketosis may be severe, and without profound hyperglycemia in those taking an SGLT2i DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Diabetes can be diagnosed in several ways: Presence of symptoms of hyperglycemia with a random plasma blood glucose of 200 mg/dL [11.1 mmol/L] or greater. A fasting blood glucose of 126 mg/dL [7.0 mmol/L] or higher on two occasions. A blood glucose of 200 mg/dL [11.1 mmol/L] or greater at 2 hours following a 75-gram oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). A hemoglobin A1C value of 6.5% or greater. If asymptomatic, the diagnosis of diabetes is confirmed by two consecutive days of abnormal test results from the same test or by two different tests on the same day showing concordant results. If using a hemoglobin A1C for the diagnosis, one should be aware of several conditions (some
