Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


same test or by two different tests on the same day showing concordant results. If using a hemoglobin A1C for the diagnosis, one should be aware of several conditions (some common) that make this measurement unreliable. These include factors that may increase or decrease red blood cell turnover, hemoglobinopathies, chronic disease (e.g., kidney and liver disease), ethnicity, medications or toxicities, assay interference, impaired glycation, or pregnancy. Adult patients with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes can sometimes present similarly. If a patient presents with hyperglycemia, ketonemia, and metabolic acidosis, distinguishing between the types of diabetes is not necessary in such an acute setting, as initially both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes are treated with insulin. Type 2 diabetes can also present acutely with a hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state (HHS) with dehydration, altered level of consciousness, and a lesser degree of clinical ketosis than seen in diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Mixed DKA/HHS is not uncommon and has a higher hospital mortality rate than either entity alone, occurring in 27% of cases per a U.S.-based study. Genetic syndromes and other concomitant rare conditions of endocrine hormone excess (cortisol, growth hormone, epinephrine, glucagon), as well as exposure to agents such as immune checkpoint inhibitors or steroids, leading to hyperglycemia, should be considered in a non-urgent setting for patients with a new diagnosis of diabetes. SUGGESTED DIAGNOSTIC TESTING For an acute presentation of diabetes with hyperglycemic symptoms, the patient should have a basic metabolic panel, including glucose, electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, blood or urinary ketones if blood unavailable, liver function tests, and urinalysis. Other testing should be guided by a patient’s history and physical exam and might include evaluation for infection or cardiac dysfunction. A hemoglobin A1C reflects the average blood glucose over the last 90 days and is a helpful test. Distinguishing type 1 from type 2 diabetes can be complex. It can be assisted by the presence of circulating autoantibodies, including glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65 antibody, tyrosine phosphatase antibody (IA-2), and/or zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8) antibody. The presence of two or more antibodies suggests an autoimmune etiology, as seen in type 1 diabetes. However, it should be noted that up to 15% of adults are antibody negative, falling into the category of ‘non-immune’ or ‘idiopathic’ type 1 diabetes, making this diagnosis even more complex. In type 1 diabetes, insulin levels are characteristically low, whereas they may be normal or
