Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


the category of ‘non-immune’ or ‘idiopathic’ type 1 diabetes, making this diagnosis even more complex. In type 1 diabetes, insulin levels are characteristically low, whereas they may be normal or elevated at the onset of type 2 diabetes. A C-peptide level can be checked; however, it is advisable not to check this until at least 2 weeks after presentation with a hyperglycemic emergency. Although less common than type 1 diabetes, it is important to recognize “ketosis-prone diabetes” (KPD) upon presentation. It is most common in the Black and Caribbean populations and often presents with ketosis or even DKA. Islet autoimmunity is not present, and insulin secretion may improve over time. TREATMENT Treatment can be separated into patients presenting with severe hyperglycemia with or without symptoms and evidence of a catabolic state. Insulin therapy is the initial choice of treatment for patients presenting with hyperglycemia and catabolic symptoms, including weight loss. If laboratory abnormalities suggest concurrent DKA or HHS, these must be treated emergently with aggressive saline rehydration, intravenous insulin, potassium, and other electrolyte replacement according to protocols. For a severely hyperglycemic patient, with a catabolic presentation that usually includes moderate to severe volume depletion, the first therapeutic step is rehydration, usually with intravenous saline. After adequate hydration, insulin therapy (0.1-0.2 units per kilogram body weight daily) is recommended and up-titrated on an individual basis. The ideal treatment regimen would be a combination of a long-acting basal insulin and multiple premeal prandial “bolus” injections to manage meal-related insulin requirements and correct pre-meal hyperglycemia, referred to as basal-bolus insulin therapy. A good starting place is to prescribe half the total daily insulin dose as basal and the other half as bolus. The combination of a long- or an intermediate-acting insulin (e.g., insulin glargine, or NPH) and a rapid-acting analogue (e.g. lispro, aspart, glulisine) is a good option for basal-bolus therapy. Of note, insulin detemir is no longer available in the U.S. as of 2024 and is being phased out globally. The basal dose is given as 1-2 separate injections after the bolus injections, with severely insulin-deficient patients or those with type 1 diabetes requiring twice-daily basal injections. As a rule of thumb, for most patients with endogenous insulin secretion, once daily glargine works well. Many find that with larger doses (e.g., more than 50 units per injection) administering it twice daily may work better but this would be quite unusual when initiating.
