Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


works well. Many find that with larger doses (e.g., more than 50 units per injection) administering it twice daily may work better but this would be quite unusual when initiating. We do not recommend initiating basal insulin treatment with degludec or U300 glargine, given their longer half-lives and the time required to reach steady state. Insulin icodec, an ultra-long-acting insulin administered once weekly, is not yet available in the U.S., and we do not recommend initiating it during the acute period. The premeal “bolus” dose is calculated by summing the dose required to cover the carbohydrate load plus the dose to correct premeal hyperglycemia. It is given as one injection 10-15 minutes before the meal. Particularly with premeal hyperglycemia, and even with mealtime glucose levels within target, today’s rapid-acting analogues require time for absorption to avoid more severe postprandial hyperglycemia (typically referred to as the “lag time”). When starting mealtime insulin in type 2 diabetes, we suggest taking 50% of the total daily dose and depending on the size of the meal, matching the insulin appropriately. As an example, for a patient taking 25% of their calories at breakfast and lunch, and 50% at dinner, the dinner dose will need to be larger. The diet history needs to be taken. We then provide a range of insulin doses for each meal. In our example, if the total daily dose is 40 units, 20 units would be provided as basal insulin and the 20 units of prandial insulin could be given for breakfast, lunch, and dinner as 5, 5, and 10 units, respectively. As a place to start, the insulin doses can be increased or decreased by 1-2 units based on the size of the meal. Correction doses in type 2 diabetes have been controversial, but we prefer to add insulin based generally on the 1800 rule, where 1800/total daily dose is the insulin sensitivity factor. In our example, that would be 1800/40 = 45. In type 2 diabetes, the accuracy is not as critical as we see with the more insulin deficient type 1 patient, but this is a reasonable place to start. For most patients, we tend to add correction dose insulin when the glucose is over 150 mg/dL. In an acute setting, and for a patient with economic concerns for paying for the more expensive insulin analogues, it might be more appropriate to begin therapy with a twice-daily
