Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


In an acute setting, and for a patient with economic concerns for paying for the more expensive insulin analogues, it might be more appropriate to begin therapy with a twice-daily pre-mixed insulin (e.g. NPH/regular, protamine lispro, protamine/aspart). Even though this regimen is not ideal for many in the long term because it does not allow sufficient dose titration, it provides approximate physiologic basal-bolus insulin coverage with fewer injections. Nevertheless, if starting with basal-bolus or premixed insulin, it is best to teach the patient to correct pre-meal hyperglycemia with an additional dose of a rapid-acting insulin analogue, administered 10-15 minutes before the meal. Alongside Diabetes Self-Management and Support (DSMES), it is also recommended that anyone with a new diabetes diagnosis be offered nutritional therapy, which is an integral part of their management. In patients who present with severe hyperglycemia, however, who are asymptomatic and without catabolic features, insulin and/or glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RA) can be considered. Of note, in patients with pre-existing retinopathy, the magnitude of glycemic lowering by either insulin or a GLP-1 RA can worsen retinopathy-related complications; therefore, caution should be used and retinopathy assessment performed before intensification. FOLLOW-UP The patient should be prescribed a glucose meter and, if available, a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) to monitor their glucose levels. CGM use allows for closer glucose monitoring with less need to prick the skin for glucose testing. These devices have also been shown to improve hemoglobin A1c and glycemic metrics in numerous RCTs. It is a level A recommendation from the American Diabetes Association that people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes using insulin therapy should use a CGM. Accessibility, financial limitations, and insurance coverage should be considered when prescribing a CGM. For a patient on basal-bolus insulin therapy, they can increase their basal insulin doses by 1-2 units every 3 days until fasting blood glucose levels fall into a target range of 90 -130 mg/dL [5 – 7.2 mmol/L]. Ideally, the patient’s bedtime and fasting glucose levels should be similar once the basal insulin has been titrated. If the difference between bedtime glucose and fasting glucose is >50mg/dL [2.8 mmol/L], dinner-time bolus insulin should be intensified. Adjustments to pre-meal insulin doses are most easily made with an algorithm clearly written for the patient to reference. The importance of injecting mealtime insulin 10 -15 minutes before eating needs to be emphasized. In contrast to type
