Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


made with an algorithm clearly written for the patient to reference. The importance of injecting mealtime insulin 10 -15 minutes before eating needs to be emphasized. In contrast to type 1 diabetes, where carbohydrate counting is standard, most patients with type 2 diabetes do well with a fixed mealtime dose or adjusting up or down based on the size of the meal. For example, one might take 8 units for a smaller meal and 12 units for a large one. Generally, increases in insulin doses by 10% are well tolerated by patients. Late-night snacks without insulin coverage may lead to morning hyperglycemia and interfere with the assessment of basal insulin adequacy. Correction doses are “trial and error,” but most patients with type 2 diabetes require an insulin sensitivity factor (ISF) of 30 (i.e., a 30 mg/dL (1.7 mmol/L) reduction in glucose is expected with 1 unit of insulin). For example, if additional insulin is provided for premeal glucose levels above 150 mg/dL or 8.3mmol/L, 1 extra unit would be given for 150-180 mg/dL or 8.3-10mmol/L, 2 units for 181-210 mg/dL or 10-11.7mmol/L, etc. When starting insulin, it may be appropriate to use a more conservative insulin sensitivity factor, such as 40 or 50 (2.2–2.8 when using mmol/L). If a patient experiences hypoglycemic symptoms (e.g., sweating, shaking, increased hunger) despite concurrent blood glucose levels within a normal range, one could use smaller insulin dose increments to lower blood glucose into the target range more gradually, as this patient may have “relative hypoglycemia”. Initial diabetes therapy includes diabetes self-management education and support (DSMES) and nutritional therapy. In the absence of contraindications, starting therapy with metformin is recommended as an adjunctive therapy with insulin to reduce insulin requirements and minimize weight gain in patients with type 2 diabetes. In patients receiving long-term metformin therapy and those with laboratory findings or symptoms consistent with anemia and/or peripheral neuropathy, measurement of vitamin B12 levels is recommended, as long-term metformin use is associated with vitamin B12 deficiency. Transitioning from insulin to metformin and other non-insulin antihyperglycemic medications may help simplify a regimen, particularly as glucose toxicity resolves. If the patient initially presented with a hemoglobin A1c <10%, it is often possible to achieve the hemoglobin A1c goal, corroborated by either glucose meter data or a CGM, while using a low total daily insulin dose. This should be guided by a patient-centered approach, considering factors such as
