Initial Management of Severe Hyperglycemia in Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, type, type diabetes, glucose, patient, patients, hyperglycemia, dose, therapy, blood, units, daily, mmol, levels


goal, corroborated by either glucose meter data or a CGM, while using a low total daily insulin dose. This should be guided by a patient-centered approach, considering factors such as drug efficacy relative to the patient’s hemoglobin A1c, age, comorbidities, weight, risk of hypoglycemia, side-effect profiles, renal function, route of administration, and cost. Metformin is far less expensive and has been available in clinical practice longer than other agents, such as sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) and incretin-based therapies, such as dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP)/ GLP-1 RAs. Guidelines recommend that patients with ASCVD, those at high risk of having cardiovascular disease, heart failure, or CKD, be started on an SGLT2i and/or GLP-1 RA. If a patient has concomitant MASH or MASLD, a GLP-1 RA, a dual GIP/GLP-1 RA, or pioglitazone can be considered. For the obesity in this population, GLP-1 RAs or GLP-1 RA/GIP is suggested. In decompensated cirrhosis, insulin is recommended and incretin therapy needs to be avoided. Among the non-insulin antihyperglycemic medications, clinicians should be aware of the risk of euglycemic DKA (eDKA) associated with the SGLT2i, which provide insulin-independent glucose lowering by blocking the SGLT2i’s glucose reabsorption in the proximal renal tubule. The SGLT2i’s are an attractive therapeutic option given their cardioprotective, renal protective, and weight-loss properties. However, the US FDA issued a warning about the risk of ketosis associated with this class of medications in 2015. In patients taking an SGLT2i, ketosis may occur in the absence of significant hyperglycemia with a blood glucose level <250mg/dl [<13.8 mmol/L]. Patients with type 1 diabetes and insulin-deficient type 2 diabetes are at the highest risk for this. eDKA may be misleading, as cases of ketosis in type 2 diabetes associated with SGLT2i can exhibit significant or even severe hyperglycemia, owing to the counter-regulatory action of glucagon, which enhances hepatic gluconeogenesis, glycogen breakdown, and lipolysis. Clinicians should educate patients on SGLT2i to immediately stop taking the medication and seek medical attention if they develop nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dyspnea, and to have their urine and serum ketones tested promptly. The US FDA also announced in 2022 that canagliflozin, empagliflozin, and dapagliflozin should be withheld for 3 days before surgery, and ertugliflozin should be withheld for 4 days before surgery to minimize the risk of developing eDKA. GUIDELINES Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care. 2026;49(Supplement_1) [ PMC free article : PMC12690168 ] [ PubMed : 41358883 ] REFERENCES
