Cardiac tamponade overview
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tamponade, cardiac tamponade, pericardial, fluid, effusion, trauma, heart, diagnosis, pericardial effusion, include, diagnostic, rupture, cause, chest


Cardiac tamponade is a medical emergency condition in which fluid/blood accumulates in the pericardium (the sac in which the heart is enclosed). The elevated pericardial pressure puts significant pressure on the heart, causing a decrease in the diastolic filling of the ventricles, and hence in stroke volume. The end result is ineffective pumping of blood, shock, and potentially death. It is caused mainly by the accumulation of a large or uncontrolled pericardial effusion. The effusion can occur rapidly (as in the case of trauma or myocardial rupture), or over a more gradual period of time (as in cancer). The fluid involved is often blood, but pus is also found in some circumstances. Common causes of increased pericardial effusion include hypothyroidism, trauma (either penetrating trauma involving the pericardium or blunt chest trauma), pericarditis (inflammation of the pericardium), iatrogenic trauma (during an invasive procedure), and ventricular rupture. It should be differentiated from tension pneumothorax, hypovolemia and acute congestive heart failure. Patients with cardiac tamponade may present with sudden onset of chest pain, palpitations, breathlessness and lightheadedness. Physical examination may show the classic Beck's triad (hypotension, muffled heart sound, and elevated jugular venous distension), tachycardia, pulsus paradoxus, and pericardial rub depending on the type, and severity of tamponade. The electrocardiogram in cardiac tamponade usually demonstrates sinus tachycardia, and may sometimes show reduced QRS voltage and electrical alternans. Chest X ray will demonstrate pneumopericardium and cardiac silhouette changes. Echocardiography findings include pericardial effusion, diastolic compression of the RV, diastolic compression of the right atrium (RA), plethora of the inferior vena cava and paradoxical septal motion. Pericardiocentesis can provide a diagnostic sampling of pericardial fluid and can be used as a therapeutic maneuver to evacuate pericardial fluid and lower the pericardial pressure. Historical Perspective Cardiac tamponade is a very common emergent manifestation, which can be caused by traumatic injuries, since the emulation of the disease tracks back to centuries ago. Acknowledgment of existing pericardial is first done by hippocrates, which was continued by Galen to describing what is now known as pericardial effusion. Classification Cardiac tamponade is an emergency form of cardiac effusion. it is more over classified by the pathological causes. The management of emergent situation is not very differed by the basic cause. Pathophysiology Cardiac tamponade occurs when the pericardial space fills up with fluid faster than the pericardial sac can stretch. If the amount of fluid increases slowly (such as in hypothyroidism)
