Cardiac tamponade overview
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tamponade, cardiac tamponade, pericardial, fluid, effusion, trauma, heart, diagnosis, pericardial effusion, include, diagnostic, rupture, cause, chest


Pathophysiology Cardiac tamponade occurs when the pericardial space fills up with fluid faster than the pericardial sac can stretch. If the amount of fluid increases slowly (such as in hypothyroidism) the pericardial sac can expand to contain a liter or more of fluid prior to tamponade occurring. If the fluid occurs rapidly (as may occur after trauma or myocardial rupture) as little as 100 ml can cause tamponade. However, if the volume of the fluid accumulation is too rapid and or large, then the hemodynamic compromise can occur with a rise in pericardial pressure. This in turn reduces stroke volume, and eventually, cardiac output. If fluid continues to accumulate, then with each successive diastole, less and less blood enters the ventricles, as the increasing pressure presses on the heart and forces the septum to bend into the left ventricle, leading to a decreased stroke volume. Causes 2/6 Cardiac tamponade is caused by the accumulation of a large or uncontrolled pericardial effusion. The effusion can occur rapidly (as in the case of trauma or myocardial rupture), or over a more gradual period of time (as in cancer). The fluid involved is often blood, but pus is also found in some circumstances. Common causes of increased pericardial effusion include hypothyroidism, trauma (either penetrating trauma involving the pericardium or blunt chest trauma), pericarditis (inflammation of the pericardium), iatrogenic trauma (during an invasive procedure), and ventricular rupture. Differentiating cardiac tamponade from Other Diseases The initial diagnosis of cardiac tamponade can be challenging, as there are a number of differential diagnoses, including tension pneumothorax, hypovolemia and acute congestive heart failure. The differential diagnosis of cardiac tamponade differs based on the type of cardiac tamponade (either acute or subacute). Epidemiology and Demographics The cardiac tamponade is most often attributed to the rupture of an acute myocardial infarction or an intrapericardial rupture of a dissecting ascending aortic aneurysm. In developed countries malignancy is the leading cause of cardiac tamponade secondary to pericardial effusion. The incidence of cardiac tamponade based on a giant sample size of about 216 million emergency admissions was about 115,638(0.05%). The incidence of cardiac tamponade increases with age; the mean age was around 61.9. Cardiac temponade mortality rate is significantly different due to its underlying cause. Risk Factors Most potent risk factors for cardiac tamponade include heart surgeries, cardiac myxomas, myocardial infarction and traumas. Screening Cardiac tamponade is more of a clinical diagnosis. If
