Cardiac tamponade overview
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tamponade, cardiac tamponade, pericardial, fluid, effusion, trauma, heart, diagnosis, pericardial effusion, include, diagnostic, rupture, cause, chest


underlying cause. Risk Factors Most potent risk factors for cardiac tamponade include heart surgeries, cardiac myxomas, myocardial infarction and traumas. Screening Cardiac tamponade is more of a clinical diagnosis. If the patient clinical manifestation was raising suspicious toward tamponade, CT scan and echocardiogram are diagnostic gold standards for the disease. Natural History, Complications, and Prognosis Cardiac tamponade is a life-threatening condition requiring urgent intervention to remove the pericardial fluid. Complications include pulmonary edema, cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock and ultimately death. Cardiac tamponade has a good prognosis if detected early and treated immediately. Short-term survival is mostly dependent on early diagnosis and relief of tamponade. Long-term survival depends upon the prognosis of the underlying cause, irrespective of the mode of treatment. Diagnosis Diagnostic Study of Choice 3/6 Cardiac tamponade is more of a clinical diagnosis, but still some diagnostic studies may be helpful. History and Symptoms Patients with cardiac tamponade may present with sudden onset of chest pain, palpitations, breathlessness and lightheadedness. Presentation vary with the cause and acuteness of development of tamponade. An acute cardiac tamponade follows trauma to the chest or rupture of the aorta or heart. A subacute cardiac tamponade occurs in the setting of a neoplasm or renal failure. A low pressure cardiac tamponade occurs in patients who are hypovolemic secondary to hemorrhage or over diuresis. Physical Examination Physical examination may vary depending on the type of cardiac tamponade. Physical examination may show the classic Beck's triad (hypotension, muffled heart sound, and elevated jugular venous distension), tachycardia, pulsus paradoxus, and pericardial rub depending on the type, and severity of tamponade. Initial diagnosis can be challenging, as there are a number of differential diagnoses, including tension pneumothorax, and acute heart failure. Laboratory Findings Non-specific markers of inflammation are generally elevated in pericarditis. This include the CBC, elevated C-reactive protein, ESR. The cardiac troponin is elevated if there is injury to the underlying myocardium, a condition termed myopericarditis. Diagnostic pericardiocentesis and biopsy help in identifying an underlying infectious or malignant process. Electrocardiogram The electrocardiogram in cardiac tamponade usually demonstrates sinus tachycardia, and may sometimes show reduced QRS voltage and electrical alternans. X-ray Cardiac tamponade is a clinical diagnosis, however chest X ray can be helpful sometimes. It will demonstrate pneumopericardium and cardiac silhouette changes. Echocardiography and Ultrasound The role of echocardiography in the evaluation of the patient with pericarditis is to characterize the presence, size, location and hemodynamic impact
