Cardiac tamponade overview
KEYWORDS: cardiac, tamponade, cardiac tamponade, pericardial, fluid, effusion, trauma, heart, diagnosis, pericardial effusion, include, diagnostic, rupture, cause, chest


pneumopericardium and cardiac silhouette changes. Echocardiography and Ultrasound The role of echocardiography in the evaluation of the patient with pericarditis is to characterize the presence, size, location and hemodynamic impact of a pericardial effusion. Tamponade is characterized by pericardial effusion, diastolic compression of the RV, diastolic compression of the right atrium (RA), plethora of the inferior vena cava and paradoxical septal motion. CT scan 4/6 A CT scan is not commonly used for the diagnosis of cardiac tamponade as it is effectively diagnosed based on clinical features and echocardiography. Findings on CT include [Superior vena cava]] andInferior vena cava enlargement, Hepatic and renal vein enlargment, periportal edema, reflux of contrast material, collapse of the right atrium, Pericardial thickening. MRI Cardiovascular MRI is not commonly used for the diagnosis of cardiac tamponade as it is effectively diagnosed based on clinical features and echocardiography. Findings include Pericardial effusion, distension of the vena cavae and hepatic vein, collapse of the right sided cardiac chambers, interventricular septum shifts towards the left, paradoxical septal motion. Other Imaging Findings There are no other imaging findings associated with cardiac tamponade. Other Diagnostic Studies There are no other diagnostic studies associated with cardiac tampnoade. Treatment Medical Therapy If the patient is symptomatic, and if there are signs of cardiac tamponade, urgent pericardiocentesis should be performed. Additional supportive therapy includes the administration of oxygen, fluid repletion, echocardiographic monitoring, treatment of underlying pathology, reversal of anticoagulation and monitoring. Surgery Percutaneous pericardiocentesis is a procedure where fluid is aspirated from the pericardium (the sac enveloping the heart) using a needle via a percutaneous approach. Pericardiocentesis can provide a diagnostic sampling of pericardial fluid and can be used as a therapeutic maneuver to evacuate pericardial fluid and lower the pericardial pressure. Primary Prevention There are no established measures for the primary prevention of cardiac tamponade. Secondary Prevention There are no established measures for the secondary prevention of cardiac tamponade.
