Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


Acute myocardial infarction is myocardial necrosis resulting from acute obstruction of a coronary artery. Symptoms include chest discomfort with or without dyspnea, nausea, and/or diaphoresis. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography (ECG) and the presence or absence of biomarkers. Treatment is with antiplatelets, anticoagulants, nitrates, beta-blockers, statins, and reperfusion therapy. For ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction, emergency reperfusion is via fibrinolytic drugs, percutaneous intervention, or, occasionally, coronary artery bypass graft surgery. For non–ST-segment- elevation myocardial infarction, reperfusion is via percutaneous intervention or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. (See also Overview of Acute Coronary Syndromes.) In the United States, up to 1.0 million myocardial infarctions occur annually (1). Myocardial infarction (MI) results in death for 300,000 to 400,000 people (see also Cardiac Arrest). Acute MI, along with unstable angina, is considered an acute coronary syndrome. Acute MI includes both non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Distinction between NSTEMI and STEMI is vital as treatment strategies are different for these two entities Pathophysiology of Acute MI Myocardial infarction is defined as myocardial necrosis in a clinical setting consistent with myocardial ischemia (1). These conditions can be satisfied by a rise of cardiac biomarkers (preferably cardiac troponin [cTn]) above the 99th percentile of the upper reference limit (URL) plus at least one of the following: Symptoms of ischemia ECG changes indicative of new ischemia (significant ST/T changes or left bundle branch block) Development of pathologic Q waves Imaging evidence of new loss of myocardium or new regional wall motion abnormality Angiography or autopsy evidence of intracoronary thrombus Slightly different criteria are used to diagnose MI during and after percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting, and as the cause of sudden death. MI can be classified into 5 types based on etiology and circumstances (1): Type 1: Spontaneous MI caused by ischemia due to a primary coronary event (eg, plaque rupture, erosion, or fissuring; coronary dissection) Type 2: Ischemia due to increased oxygen demand (eg, hypertension), or decreased supply (eg, coronary artery spasm or embolism, arrhythmia, hypotension) Type 3: Related to sudden unexpected cardiac death Type 4a: Associated with percutaneous coronary intervention (signs and symptoms of myocardial infarction with cTn values > 5 × 99th percentile URL) Type 4b: Associated with documented stent thrombosis Type 5: Associated with coronary artery bypass grafting (signs and symptoms of myocardial infarction with cTn values > 10 × 99th percentile URL) Infarct location MI affects
