Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


documented stent thrombosis Type 5: Associated with coronary artery bypass grafting (signs and symptoms of myocardial infarction with cTn values > 10 × 99th percentile URL) Infarct location MI affects predominantly the left ventricle (LV), but damage may extend into the right ventricle (RV) or the atria. Right ventricular infarction usually results from obstruction of the right coronary or a dominant left circumflex artery; it is characterized by high RV filling pressure, often with severe tricuspid regurgitation and reduced cardiac output. 2/22 An inferoposterior infarction causes some degree of RV dysfunction in about half of patients and causes hemodynamic abnormality in 10 to 15%. RV dysfunction should be considered in any patient who has inferoposterior infarction and elevated jugular venous pressure with hypotension or shock. RV infarction complicating LV infarction significantly increases mortality risk (2). Anterior infarcts tend to be larger and result in a worse prognosis than inferoposterior infarcts. They are usually due to left coronary artery obstruction, especially in the anterior descending artery; inferoposterior infarcts reflect right coronary or dominant left circumflex artery obstruction. Infarct extent Infarction may be Transmural Nontransmural Transmural infarcts involve the whole thickness of myocardium from epicardium to endocardium and are usually characterized by abnormal Q waves on ECG. Nontransmural (including subendocardial) infarcts do not extend through the ventricular wall and cause only ST-segment and T-wave (ST-T) abnormalities. Subendocardial infarcts usually involve the inner one third of myocardium, where wall tension is highest and myocardial blood flow is most vulnerable to circulatory changes. These infarcts may follow prolonged hypotension. Because the transmural depth of necrosis cannot be precisely determined clinically, infarcts are usually classified as STEMI or NSTEMI by the presence or absence of ST-segment elevation or Q waves on the ECG. Volume of myocardium destroyed can be roughly estimated by the extent and duration of creatine kinase (CK-MB) elevation or by peak levels of more commonly measured cardiac troponins. Non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI, subendocardial MI) is myocardial necrosis (evidenced by cardiac biomarkers in blood; troponin I or troponin T and CK-MB will be elevated) without acute ST-segment elevation. ECG changes such as ST-segment depression, T-wave inversion, or both may be present. ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI, transmural MI) is myocardial necrosis with ECG changes showing ST-segment elevation that is not quickly reversed by nitroglycerin. Troponin I or troponin T and CK-MB are elevated. Myocardial infarction in the absence of coronary artery disease
