Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


ECG changes showing ST-segment elevation that is not quickly reversed by nitroglycerin. Troponin I or troponin T and CK-MB are elevated. Myocardial infarction in the absence of coronary artery disease (MINOCA) Myocardial infarction in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease (MINOCA) is found in about 5 to 6% of patients with acute MI who undergo coronary angiography (3). Patients with MINOCA tend to be younger, female, and without dyslipidemia. They tend to have myocardial necrosis without significant coronary atherosclerosis. Plaque disruption and coronary vasospasm are common in MINOCA. Coronary thrombosis or embolism and spontaneous coronary artery dissection are causes of MINOCA. Medical management should be based on the underlying mechanism for MINOCA in each patient. 3/22 Symptoms and Signs of Acute MI Symptoms of NSTEMI and STEMI are the same. Days to weeks before the event, about two thirds of patients experience prodromal symptoms, including unstable or crescendo angina, dyspnea, and fatigue. Usually, the first symptom of infarction is deep, substernal, visceral pain, described as aching or pressure, often radiating to the back, jaw, left arm, right arm, shoulders, or all of these areas. The pain is similar to angina pectoris but is usually more severe and long-lasting; more often accompanied by dyspnea, diaphoresis, nausea, and/or vomiting; and relieved little or only temporarily by rest or nitroglycerin. However, discomfort may be mild; approximately 20% of acute MIs are silent (1). Silent MIs are those that are asymptomatic or are causing vague symptoms that are not recognized as illness by the patient. Silent MIs more commonly occur in patients with diabetes or a history of known coronary artery disease. Patients often interpret their discomfort as indigestion, particularly because spontaneous relief may be falsely attributed to belching or antacid consumption. Silent ischemia sometimes manifests as transient asymptomatic ST-T abnormalities seen during stress testing or 24-hour Holter monitoring. Radionuclide studies can sometimes document asymptomatic myocardial ischemia during physical or mental stress. Silent ischemia and angina pectoris may coexist, occurring at different times. Some patients present with syncope. Females are more likely to present with atypical chest discomfort; however, even when presenting with typical symptoms, MI is more often unrecognized in them (2). Older patients may report dyspnea more than ischemic-type chest pain. In severe ischemic episodes, the patient often has significant pain and feels restless and apprehensive. Nausea and vomiting may occur, especially with inferior MI. Dyspnea and weakness due to LV
