Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


In severe ischemic episodes, the patient often has significant pain and feels restless and apprehensive. Nausea and vomiting may occur, especially with inferior MI. Dyspnea and weakness due to LV failure, pulmonary edema, shock, or significant arrhythmia may dominate. Skin may be pale, cool, and diaphoretic. Peripheral or central cyanosis may be present. Pulse may be thready, and blood pressure is variable, although many patients initially have some degree of 4/22 hypertension during pain. Heart sounds are usually somewhat distant; a fourth heart sound is almost universally present. A soft systolic blowing apical murmur (reflecting papillary muscle dysfunction) may occur. During initial examination, a friction rub or more striking murmurs suggest a preexisting heart disorder or another diagnosis. Detection of a friction rub within a few hours after onset of MI symptoms suggests acute pericarditis rather than MI. However, friction rubs, usually evanescent, are common on days 2 and 3 post-STEMI. The chest wall is tender when palpated in some patients. In right ventricular (RV) infarction, signs include elevated RV filling pressure, distended jugular veins (often with Kussmaul sign), clear lung fields, and hypotension. Diagnosis of Acute MI Serial ECGs Serial cardiac biomarkers Immediate coronary angiography (unless fibrinolytics are given) for patients with STEMI or complications (eg, persistent chest pain, hypotension, markedly elevated cardiac biomarkers, unstable arrhythmias) Delayed coronary angiography (within 24 to 48 hours) for patients with NSTEMI without complications (See also algorithm Approach to Acute Myocardial Infarction.) Evaluation begins with initial and serial ECG and serial measurements of cardiac biomarkers to help distinguish between unstable angina, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), and non–ST- segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). This distinction is the center of the decision pathway because fibrinolytics benefit patients with STEMI but may increase risk for those with NSTEMI. Also, urgent cardiac catheterization is indicated for patients with acute STEMI but not generally for those with NSTEMI. ECG ECG is the most important test and should be done as soon as possible (eg, within 10 minutes of presentation). 5/22 For STEMI, initial ECG is usually diagnostic, showing ST-segment elevation ≥ 1 mm in 2 or more contiguous leads subtending the damaged area (see figures Acute Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction, Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction, Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction (several days later), Acute Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction, Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction, and Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction (several days later)). NSTEMI IMAGE © SPRINGER SCIENCE+BUSINESS MEDIA
