Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


Infarction (several days later), Acute Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction, Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction, and Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction (several days later)). NSTEMI IMAGE © SPRINGER SCIENCE+BUSINESS MEDIA Acute Lateral Left ventricular Infarction (tracing obtained within a few hours of onset of illness) There is striking hyperacute ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, V , and V and reciprocal 4 6 depression in other leads. Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction (after the first 24 hours) ST segments are less elevated; significant Q waves develop and R waves are lost in leads I, aVL, V , and V . 4 6 6/22 Lateral Left Ventricular Infarction (several days later) Significant Q waves and loss of R-wave voltage persist. ST segments are now essentially isoelectric. The ECG will probably change only slowly over the next several months. Acute Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction (tracing obtained within a few hours of onset of illness) There is hyperacute ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, and aVF and reciprocal depression in other leads. Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction (after the first 24 hours) Significant Q waves develop with decreasing ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, and aVF. Inferior (Diaphragmatic) Left Ventricular Infarction (several days later) ST segments are now isoelectric. Abnormal Q waves in leads II, III, and aVF indicate that myocardial scars persist. Pathologic Q waves are not necessary for the diagnosis. The ECG must be read carefully because ST- segment elevation may be subtle, particularly in the inferior leads (II, III, aVF); sometimes the reader’s attention is mistakenly focused on leads with ST-segment depression. If symptoms are characteristic, ST-segment elevation on ECG has a specificity of 90% and a sensitivity of 45% for diagnosing myocardial 7/22 infarction. Serial tracings (obtained every 8 hours for 1 day, then daily) showing a gradual evolution toward a stable, more normal pattern or development of abnormal Q waves over a few days tends to confirm the diagnosis. If right ventricular (RV) infarction is suspected, a 15-lead ECG is usually recorded; additional leads are placed at V4-6R (see figure Right Ventricular (VR) Leads VR1 Through VR6), and, to detect posterior infarction, V8 and V9. Right Ventricular (VR) Leads VR1 Through VR6 ECG diagnosis of MI is more difficult when a left bundle branch block configuration is present because it resembles STEMI changes. ST-segment elevation concordant with the QRS complex strongly suggests MI as does > 5-mm ST-segment
