Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


detecting lower levels of troponin, hs-cTn assays enable earlier identification of MI than other assays, and have replaced other cardiac biomarker tests in many centers. Patients suspected of having a myocardial infarction should have a hs-cTn assay done on presentation and 2 to 3 hours later. Troponin should be measured at 0 and 6 hours if a standard cTn assay is used. All laboratory tests should be interpreted in the context of the pre-test disease probability (see also Understanding Medical Tests and Test Results). This is especially relevant for the hs-cTn assay, given the very high sensitivity of this test, but applies to all assays of cTn. An hs-cTn assay must be interpreted based on the patient's pre-test probability of disease, which is estimated clinically based on: Risk factors for ACS Symptoms ECG 9/22 A high pre-test probability plus an elevated troponin level detected with an hs-cTn assay is highly suggestive of myocardial infarction, whereas a low pre-test probability plus a normal hs-cTn assay result is unlikely to represent myocardial infarction (1). Diagnosis is more challenging when test results are discordant with pre-test probability, in which case serial hs-cTn assays often help. A patient with low pre-test probability and an initially slightly elevated troponin level detected with hs-cTn that remains stable on repeat testing probably has non-ACS cardiac disease (eg, heart failure, stable coronary artery disease). However, if the repeat level rises significantly (ie, > 20 to 50%), the likelihood of myocardial infarction becomes much higher. If a patient with high pre-test probability has a normal troponin level detected with hs-cTn level that rises > 50% on repeat testing, myocardial infarction is likely; continued normal levels (often including at 6 hours and beyond when suspicion is high) suggest the need to pursue an alternate diagnosis. Coronary angiography Coronary angiography most often combines diagnosis with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI— ie, angioplasty, stent placement). When possible, emergency coronary angiography and PCI are done as soon as possible after the onset of acute myocardial infarction (primary PCI). In many tertiary centers, this approach has significantly lowered morbidity and mortality and improved long-term outcomes. Frequently, the infarction is actually aborted when the time from pain to PCI is short (< 3 to 4 hours). Angiography is obtained urgently for patients with STEMI, patients with persistent chest pain despite maximal medical therapy, and patients with complications (eg, markedly elevated cardiac biomarkers, presence of cardiogenic shock,
