Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


Angiography is obtained urgently for patients with STEMI, patients with persistent chest pain despite maximal medical therapy, and patients with complications (eg, markedly elevated cardiac biomarkers, presence of cardiogenic shock, acute mitral regurgitation, ventricular septal defect, unstable arrhythmias). Patients with uncomplicated NSTEMI whose symptoms have resolved typically undergo angiography within the first 24 to 48 hours of hospitalization to detect lesions that may require treatment. After initial evaluation and therapy, coronary angiography may be used in patients with evidence of ongoing ischemia (ECG findings or symptoms), hemodynamic instability, recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and other abnormalities that suggest recurrence of ischemic events. Some experts also recommend that angiography be done before hospital discharge in patients with STEMI who have inducible ischemia on stress imaging or an ejection fraction < 40%. Treatment of Acute MI Prehospital care: Oxygen, aspirin, nitrates, and triage to an appropriate medical center Pharmacologic therapy: Antiplatelet agents, antianginal drugs, anticoagulants, and in some cases other medications Reperfusion therapy: Fibrinolytics or angiography with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery Post-discharge rehabilitation and chronic medical management of coronary artery disease Choice of pharmacologic therapy and choice of reperfusion strategy are discussed elsewhere. Prehospital care Oxygen Aspirin Nitrates Triage to appropriate medical center A reliable IV route must be established, oxygen given (typically 2 L by nasal cannula), and continuous single-lead ECG monitoring started. Prehospital interventions by emergency medical personnel (including ECG, chewed aspirin [160 to 325 mg], and pain management with nitrates) can reduce risk of mortality and complications. Early diagnostic data and response to treatment can help determine the need for and timing of revascularization. Hospital admission Risk-stratify patient and choose reperfusion strategy Pharmacologic therapy with antiplatelets, anticoagulants and other medications based on reperfusion strategy On arrival to the emergency department, the patient's diagnosis is confirmed. Pharmacologic therapy and timing of revascularization depend on the clinical picture and diagnosis. 11/22 For STEMI, reperfusion strategy can include fibrinolytic therapy or immediate PCI. For patients with NSTEMI, angiography may be done within 24 to 48 hours of admission if the patient is clinically stable. If the patient is unstable (eg, ongoing symptoms, hypotension, or sustained arrhythmias), then angiography must be done immediately (see figure Approach to Myocardial Infarction). 12/22 Approach to Myocardial Infarction * Morphine should be used judiciously (eg, if nitroglycerin is contraindicated or if the patient has symptoms despite nitroglycerin therapy). Data suggest that morphine attenuates activity of
