Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


to Myocardial Infarction * Morphine should be used judiciously (eg, if nitroglycerin is contraindicated or if the patient has symptoms despite nitroglycerin therapy). Data suggest that morphine attenuates activity of some P2Y12 receptor inhibitors and may contribute to worse patient outcomes. † Complicated means that the hospital course was complicated by recurrent angina or infarction, heart failure, or sustained recurrent ventricular arrhythmias. Absence of any of these events is termed uncomplicated. ‡ CABG is generally preferred to PCI for patients with the following: Left main or left main equivalent disease Left ventricular dysfunction Diabetes 13/22 Also, lesions that are long or near bifurcation points are often not amenable to PCI. CABG = coronary artery bypass grafting; GP = glycoprotein; NSTEMI = Non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; PCI = percutaneous intervention; STEMI = ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Pharmacologic treatment of acute myocardial infarction All patients should be given antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, and if chest pain is present, antianginal drugs. The specific medications used depend on the reperfusion strategy and other factors; their selection and use is discussed in Medications for Acute Coronary Syndrome. Other medications, such as beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and statins, should also be given (see table Medications for Coronary Artery Disease). Patients with acute myocardial infarction should be given the following (unless contraindicated): Antiplatelet agents: Aspirin, clopidogrel, or both (prasugrel or ticagrelor are alternatives to clopidogrel) Anticoagulants: A heparin (unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin) or bivalirudin Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor when PCI is done Antianginal therapy usually nitroglycerin Beta-blocker ACE inhibitor Statin All patients are given aspirin 160 to 325 mg (not enteric-coated), if not contraindicated, at presentation and 81 mg once a day indefinitely thereafter. Chewing the first dose before swallowing quickens absorption. Aspirin reduces short-term and long-term mortality risk. In patients undergoing PCI, a loading dose of clopidogrel (300 to 600 mg orally once), prasugrel (60 mg orally once), or ticagrelor (180 mg orally once) improves outcomes, particularly when administered 24 hours in advance. For urgent PCI, prasugrel and ticagrelor are more rapid in onset and may be preferred. Either a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), unfractionated heparin, or bivalirudin is given routinely to patients unless contraindicated (eg, by active bleeding). Unfractionated heparin is more complicated to use because it requires frequent (every 6 hours) dosing adjustments to achieve target activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT). The LMWHs have better bioavailability, are given by simple weight- based
