Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


therapy in acute myocardial infarction For patients with STEMI: Immediate percutaneous coronary intervention or fibrinolytics For patients with NSTEMI: Immediate percutaneous coronary intervention for unstable patients or within 24 to 48 hours for stable patients For patients with STEMI, emergency PCI is the preferred treatment of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction when available in a timely fashion (door to balloon-inflation time < 90 minutes) by an experienced operator (4). If there is likely to be a significant delay in availability of PCI, thrombolysis should be done for STEMI patients meeting criteria (see Infarct extent). Reperfusion using fibrinolytics is most effective if given in the first few minutes to hours after onset of myocardial infarction. The earlier a fibrinolytic is begun, the better. The goal is a door-to-needle time of 30 to 60 minutes. Greatest benefit occurs within 3 hours, but the drugs may be effective up to 12 hours. Characteristics and selection of fibrinolytic drugs are discussed elsewhere. Patients with unstable NSTEMI (ie, those with ongoing symptoms, hypotension, or sustained arrhythmias) should be taken directly to the cardiac catheterization laboratory to identify coronary lesions requiring PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). 15/22 For patients with uncomplicated NSTEMI, reperfusion is not as urgent because a completely occluded infarct-related artery at presentation is uncommon. Such patients typically undergo angiography within the first 24 to 48 hours of hospitalization to identify coronary lesions requiring PCI or CABG. Fibrinolytics are not indicated for any patients with NSTEMI. Risk outweighs potential benefit. Choice of reperfusion strategy is further discussed in Revascularization for Acute Coronary Syndromes. Rehabilitation and post-discharge treatment Functional evaluation Changes in lifestyle: Regular exercise, diet modification, weight loss, smoking cessation Medications: Continuation of antiplatelet agents, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, and statins Patients who did not have coronary angiography during admission, have no high-risk features (eg, heart failure, recurrent angina, ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation after 24 hours, mechanical complications such as new murmurs, shock), and have an ejection fraction > 40% whether or not they received fibrinolytics usually should have stress testing of some sort before or shortly after discharge (see table Functional Evaluation After Myocardial Infarction). TABLE Functional Evaluation After Myocardial Infarction If ECG Is Not Exercise Capacity If ECG Is Interpretable Interpretable Submaximal or symptom- Exercise echocardiography Able to exercise limited stress ECG before or nuclear scanning or after discharge Pharmacologic stress Pharmacologic stress Unable to exercise testing (echocardiography testing (echocardiography or
