Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


Submaximal or symptom- Exercise echocardiography Able to exercise limited stress ECG before or nuclear scanning or after discharge Pharmacologic stress Pharmacologic stress Unable to exercise testing (echocardiography testing (echocardiography or nuclear scanning) or nuclear scanning) The acute illness and treatment of myocardial infarction should be used to strongly motivate the patient to modify risk factors. Evaluating the patient’s physical and emotional status and discussing them with the patient, advising about lifestyle (eg, smoking, diet, work and play habits, exercise), and aggressively managing risk factors may improve prognosis. On discharge, all patients should be on appropriate antiplatelet agents, statins, antianginals, and other medications based on comorbidities. Prognosis for Acute MI Risk should be estimated via formal clinical risk scores (eg, Thrombosis in Myocardial Infarction [TIMI]— see tables Mortality Risk at 30 Days in STEMI and Risk of Adverse Events at 14 Days in Unstable Angina or NSTEMI) or a combination of the following high-risk features: Recurrent angina/ischemia at rest or during low-level activity Heart failure Worsening mitral regurgitation High-risk stress test result (test stopped in ≤ 5 minutes due to symptoms, marked ECG abnormalities, hypotension, or complex ventricular arrhythmias) Hemodynamic instability Sustained ventricular tachycardia Diabetes mellitus PCI within past 6 months Prior coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) LV ejection fraction < 0.40 Overall mortality rate prior to the modern era of treatment with fibrinolytics and PCI was about 30%, with 25 to 30% of patients who did not receive fibrinolytics or PCI dying before reaching the hospital (typically due to ventricular fibrillation). In-hospital mortality is typically due to cardiogenic shock, which correlates with severity of left ventricular failure. The Killip classification categorizes patients with an acute MI based on physical examination findings suggestive of left ventricular failure, and higher scores predicting higher mortality risk (1) (see table Killip Classification and Mortality Rate of Acute MI). Most patients who die of cardiogenic shock have an infarct or a combination of scar and new infarct affecting ≥ 50% of LV mass. For patients receiving reperfusion (fibrinolysis or PCI), in-hospital mortality is approximately 5% (2). In- hospital mortality is generally lower for NSTEMI than with STEMI. Mortality rates tend to be higher in females and in patients with diabetes. 17/22 Most fatalities among patients who survive initial hospitalization occur in the first 3 to 4 months. Persistent ventricular arrhythmia, heart failure, poor ventricular function, and recurrent ischemia indicate high risk. Many authorities recommend stress
