Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI)
KEYWORDS: infarction, myocardial, patients, coronary, myocardial infarction, acute, ventricular, risk, elevation, left, cardiac, stemi, hours, ecg, st-segment


NSTEMI Scoring Risk Factor Points Age > 65 years 1 CAD risk factors (must have ≥ 3 for 1 point): Family history Hypertension 1 Current smoking High cholesterol Diabetes mellitus Known CAD (stenosis ≥ 50%) 1 Previous chronic use of aspirin 1 Two episodes of rest angina in past 24 1 hours Elevated cardiac biomarkers 1 ST elevation ≥ 0.5 mm 1 1–2 = low Risk level is based on total points: 3–4 = intermediate 5–7 = high Absolute risk Total Points Risk of Events at 14 Days (%)* 0 or 1 4.7 20/22 Scoring Risk Factor Points 2 8.3 3 13.2 4 19.9 5 26.2 6 or 7 40.9 * Events include all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, and recurrent ischemia requiring urgent revascularization. CAD = coronary artery disease; MI = myocardial infarction; NSTEMI = non–ST-segment elevation MI; TIMI = thrombolysis in MI. Based on data from Antman EM et al: The TIMI risk score for unstable angina/non-ST elevation MI: A method of prognostication and therapeutic decision making. JAMA 284:835– 42, 2000. CLINICAL CALCULATORS Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) Score for Unstable Angina Non ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction CLINICAL CALCULATORS Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) Score for ST Elevation Acute Myocardial Infarction Key Points Acute myocardial infarction (MI) is myocardial necrosis of heart muscle tissue due to acute obstruction of a coronary artery. Coronary atherosclerosis is present in 95% of patients with acute MI. Infarction location (right ventricle, inferoposterior, or anterior) and extent (transmural or nontransmural) affect symptoms, treatment, and prognosis. Symptoms typically include substernal aching or pressure (with or without radiation to the neck, back, or arms) dyspnea, diaphoresis, nausea, and/or vomiting. Women, older adults, and patients with diabetes are more likely to have atypical symptoms, and 20% of acute MIs are silent (asymptomatic). Diagnose with serial ECGs and cardiac biomarkers (troponin preferred). Treat immediately with oxygen, antiplatelets, nitrates, and anticoagulants. For patients with ST segment elevation MI (STEMI), treat with immediate angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI); if immediate PCI is not available, give intravenous fibrinolytics. For patients with non-ST segment elevation, perform angiography and PCI within 24 to 48 hours if stable; do immediate PCI for unstable patients (persistent chest pain, hypotension, unstable arrhythmias, or markedly elevated biomarkers). Initiate or continue antiplatelets, beta-blockers, ACE-inhibitors (or angiotensin II receptor blockers), and statins following initial treatment. After hospital discharge, arrange functional evaluation, manage risk factors (eg, hypertension, diabetes, smoking), and
