JOURNAL of MEDICINE and LIFE
KEYWORDS: torsion, omental, omental torsion, acute, primary, case, doi, abdominal, omentum, primary omental, pain, report, cases, case report, surg


JOURNAL of MEDICINE and LIFE JML | CASE REPORT Primary segmental omental torsion, mimicking acute appendicitis Paschalis Gavriilidis1* , Salomone Di Saverio2 , Mauro Podda3 , Nicola de’Angelis4 * Corresponding author DOI Paschalis Gavriilidis E-mail: Accepted: 1 January 2024 ABSTRACT Primary segmental omental torsion (PSOT) is a very rare cause of acute abdominal pain, and it may often imitate the omental torsion should be included in the differential diagnosis. Any misdiagnosis may lead to major complications such as intraabdominal abscesses and adhesions. A 63-year-old overweight man with a body mass index (BMI) of 41 Kg/m2 presented to the emergency department on a remote island with acute abdominal pain. His medical history included type 2 diabetes mellitus managed with insulin, essential hypertension, osteoarthritis, and no previous abdominal opera- tions. He reported a sharp pain originating in the epigastrium and the right hypochondrium that started five days prior. Physical examination revealed rebound tenderness and guarding across the abdomen with a positive McBurney sign. However, the patient did not report vomiting and was not nauseous. Vital signs were as follows: blood pressure 116/56 mmHg, heart rate 98 beats/min, respiratory rate 19 breaths/min, and a temperature of 38.2 0C. Laboratory results showed a white blood cell count of 10.6, neutrophils of 8.11, C-reactive protein (CRP) 74 mg/l, haemoglobin11.6 g/ gations were conducted. Diagnostic laparoscopy demonstrated diffused hemoperitoneum and necrotic mass at the site of the hepatic flexure. Initially suspected to be an advanced colon cancer, the decision was made to proceed with open surgery. The necrotic segment of the omentum was found at the right superior point of attachment of the omentum to the hepatic flexure. Consequently, the necrotic segment of the omentum was resected. A thorough investigation of the abdominal cavity did not detect any other abnormalities or pathologies. The patient recovered uneventfully and was transferred to the surgical ward. Torsion of the omentum is a very rare cause of acute abdominal pain. This case high- lights the necessity of considering PSOT in the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal pain, especially in cases where symptoms are suggestive of appendicitis but diagnostic findings are negative. KEYWORDS: primary omental torsion, hemoperitoneum, torsion to either a pathological condition or adhesions [4-7]. Primary INTRODUCTION omental torsion is more frequent in the right part of the omen- tum than the left due to its greater mobility, length, and weight The first documented case of primary omental torsion was
