JOURNAL of MEDICINE and LIFE
KEYWORDS: torsion, omental, omental torsion, acute, primary, case, doi, abdominal, omentum, primary omental, pain, report, cases, case report, surg


di- agnosis when the clinical picture of the acute appendicitis is not hospital on a remote island hospital with acute abdominal pain. acute onset of sharp pain non-radiating elsewhere . In our Past medical history included essential hypertension, type 2 dia- case, the patient reported sharp pain at the epigastrium five days betes mellitus managed with insulin, osteoarthritis, and morbid prior. This symptom is not compatible with the onset of acute ap- pressure 116/56 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 98 beats/min, respira- present with anorexia, nausea, and vomiting. In addition, inflam- tory rate 19 breaths/min, temperature 38.2 0C. Laboratory re- matory markers might be normal in most cases . In our case, sults were: white blood cell count 10.6 (normal range 4.0–11.0), the patient did not complain of nausea or vomiting. However, neutrophils 8.11 (normal range 2.5–6.0), C-reactive protein although the patient's white blood cell count was normal, indicat- (CRP) 74 mg/l (normal range 0–9), hemoglobin 11.6 g/dl (nor- ing no general inflammatory response, the CRP levels were sig- mal range 13.0–18.0), hematocrit 36.9% (normal range 40–54). nificantly elevated, highlighting an acute inflammatory process. Physical examination revealed a positive McBurney point, re- Given that primary omental torsion may present with gener- bound tenderness, and involuntary guarding across the lower ab- al symptoms associated with acute abdominal pain, it should be domen. Due to the absence of a radiographer during that period, considered in the differential diagnosis of other diseases. These further investigation with a CT scan was not feasible. include appendicitis, cholecystitis, caecal diverticulitis, perforated The patient consented to undergo diagnostic laparoscopy, with duodenal ulcer, bowel obstruction, ectopic pregnancy, ovarian the option to proceed based on findings. The presence of hemor- cyst torsion, salpingitis, Meckel diverticulum, mesenteric adeni- rhagic fluid in the abdominal cavity raised suspicion for a distinct tis and accessory spleen . A significant risk factor for pathology from appendicitis. A solid hemorrhagic mass was iden- primary omental torsion is the uneven distribution of fat in in- tified in the right hypochondrium and on the site of the hepatic dividuals with morbid obesity [4-7]. Therefore, in cases of mor- flexure. The rest of the abdominal organs were normal. Given bid obesity, as it was our patient, the diagnosis of morbid obesity the potential for the mass to represent a colonic tumor, the deci- should be included in the differential diagnosis. sion was made to transition to open surgery. A
