Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


Complete examination of all systems is essential to detect peripheral and systemic effects of cardiac disorders and evidence of noncardiac disorders that might affect the heart (1). Examination includes the following: General appearance Vital sign measurement Pulse palpation and auscultation Vein observation Chest inspection and palpation Cardiac percussion, palpation, and auscultation Lung examination, including percussion, palpation, and auscultation Extremity and abdomen examination Cardiac auscultation is discussed in a separate topic. Despite the ever-increasing use of cardiac imaging, bedside auscultation remains useful as it is always available and can be repeated as often as desired without cost. Examination also includes the collection of other patient data. Vital Signs Vital signs include Blood pressure Heart rate and rhythm Respiratory rate 1/14 Temperature Peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) Weight and height provide additional important data. Blood pressure (BP) is measured in both arms and, for suspected congenital cardiac disorders or peripheral vascular disorders, in both legs. The bladder of an appropriately sized cuff encircles 80% of the limb’s circumference, and the bladder’s width is 40% of the circumference. When measured by auscultation, the first sound heard as the mercury column falls is systolic pressure; disappearance of the sound is diastolic pressure (fifth-phase Korotkoff sound). Up to a 15 mm Hg pressure differential between the right and left arms is normal; a greater differential suggests a vascular abnormality (eg, dissecting thoracic aorta) or a peripheral vascular disorder. Leg pressure is usually 15 to 20 mm Hg higher than arm pressure due to normal pulse amplification (1). In many clinical settings, blood pressure is measured using an automated device (2). To obtain an accurate blood pressure measurement, the patient should Be seated in a chair (not on the examination table) for > 5 minutes, feet on floor, back supported Have the limb supported at heart level with no clothing covering the area of cuff placement Abstain from exercising, consuming caffeine, or using tobacco for at least 30 minutes before the measurement is taken Blood Pressure Measurement IMAGE JIM VARNEY/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Heart rate and rhythm are assessed by palpating the carotid or radial pulse, by using a pulse oximeter or automated blood pressure cuff with that function, or, if arrhythmia is suspected, by cardiac auscultation; some heartbeats during arrhythmias may be audible but do not generate a palpable pulse. Heart rate normally varies with respiration (respiratory sinus arrhythmia), increasing in inspiration due 2/14 to changes in
