Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


heartbeats during arrhythmias may be audible but do not generate a palpable pulse. Heart rate normally varies with respiration (respiratory sinus arrhythmia), increasing in inspiration due 2/14 to changes in venous return and vagal nerve tone; this effect is more pronounced in the children, adolescents, and healthy young adults. Respiratory rate, if abnormal, may indicate cardiac decompensation or a primary lung disorder. The rate increases in patients with heart failure or anxiety and decreases or becomes intermittent in patients who are moribund. Shallow, rapid respirations may indicate pleuritic pain. Temperature may be elevated by acute rheumatic fever or cardiac infection (eg, endocarditis). After a myocardial infarction, low grade fever is very common. Other causes are sought only if fever persists > 72 hours. Weight is collected at each clinic visit with the patient on a standing scale and, ideally, while wearing a similar amount of clothing. In patients with heart failure, weight gain may indicate hypervolemia, while weight loss may indicate cardiac cachexia (unintentional, non-edematous weight loss of > 5% within the last 12 months—3). History and additional findings from the physical examination (jugular veins, lung and extremity examinations) are required to determine whether weight changes are related to changes in volume status and/or amount of muscle or fat. Peripheral arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) (pulse oximetry) measures the oxygen saturation of hemoglobin in arterial blood and serves as a rapid, noninvasive estimation of tissue oxygenation. Pulse oximetry is obtained by using a probe attached to a finger or earlobe. SpO2 ≥ 95% is considered normal, whereas values < 95% suggest hypoxemia. Baseline oxygen saturation is lower in many patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); in these patients, when supplemental oxygen is used, the target SpO2 is typically 88 to 92%. When hypoxemia is present, potential cardiac etiologies include pulmonary edema in patients with heart failure and right-to-left intracardiac shunts (a patent foramen ovale in patients with pulmonary hypertension and cyanotic congenital heart disease such as tetralogy of Fallot). Ankle-brachial index (ABI) The ankle-brachial index (ABI) is the ratio of systolic blood pressure (BP) in the ankle to that in the arm. With the patient recumbent, the ankle blood pressure is measured in both the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial artery, and the arm blood pressure is measured in both arms at the brachial artery. The index is calculated for each lower extremity by dividing the higher of the dorsalis
