Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


artery, and the arm blood pressure is measured in both arms at the brachial artery. The index is calculated for each lower extremity by dividing the higher of the dorsalis pedis or posterior tibial pressure in that extremity by the higher of the 2 brachial artery systolic pressures. This ratio is normally > 1. A Doppler probe may be used to measure blood pressure at the ankle if the pedal pulses are not easily palpable. A low (≤ 0.90) ankle-brachial index suggests peripheral arterial disease, which can be classified as mild (index 0.71 to 0.90), moderate (0.41 to 0.70), or severe (≤ 0.40). A high index (> 1.30) may indicate noncompressible leg vessels, as may occur in conditions that are associated with blood vessel calcification (eg, diabetes, end-stage renal disease, Mönckeberg arteriosclerosis). A high index may suggest that further vascular studies are needed (toe-brachial index or arterial duplex studies). Orthostatic changes 3/14 Blood pressure and heart rate are measured with the patient supine, seated, and standing; a 1-minute interval is needed between each change in position. Orthostatic hypotension is typically defined as a decrease in systolic blood pressure of > 20 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure > 10 mm Hg within 3 minutes of standing; the difference in blood pressure tends to be a little greater in older patients due to loss of vascular elasticity (4). The patient should be asked about symptoms of cerebral hypoperfusion, including lightheadedness or vision changes. However, the sensitivity of these measurements to detect hypovolemia (eg, secondary to blood loss) is low. Causes of abnormal orthostatic vital signs include hypovolemia, baroreflex dysfunction (eg, due to neurodegenerative disorders such as autonomic neuropathies, peripheral neuropathies, older age) and, less commonly, valvular disease (eg, aortic stenosis), heart failure, or arrhythmias. Certain medications (eg, diuretics, vasodilators) can also contribute to abnormal orthostatic vital signs (5, 6). Additionally, heart rate changes may be helpful to diagnosis various conditions. For example, an increase upon standing of ≥ 30 beats per minute (≥ 40 beats per minute in adolescents) compared to supine or sitting can indicate hypovolemia or postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (7). Pulsus paradoxus Normally during inspiration, systolic arterial blood pressure can decrease as much as 10 mm Hg. An exaggeration of this normal response with a greater decrease in systolic blood pressure or weakening of the pulse during inspiration is considered pulsus paradoxus. Pulsus paradoxus occurs in Cardiac tamponade
