Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


distinguish bruits from cardiac murmurs. Murmurs originate in the heart or great vessels and are usually louder over the upper precordium and diminish toward the 5/14 neck. Bruits are higher-pitched, are heard only over the arteries, and seem more superficial. An arterial bruit must be distinguished from a venous hum. Unlike an arterial bruit, a venous hum is usually continuous, heard best with the patient sitting or standing, and is eliminated by compression of the ipsilateral internal jugular vein. TABLE Carotid Pulse Amplitude and Associated Disorders Carotid Pulse Amplitude Associated Disorder Bifid (double-peaked) with normal or Combined aortic stenosis and aortic delayed rise regurgitation Disorders with a rapid rise and fall of pressure (eg, patent ductus arteriosus) Bounding and prominent Hypermetabolic states with increased stroke volume Hypertension Diminished unilaterally or bilaterally, Extracranial carotid stenosis due to often with a systolic bruit atherosclerosis Bifid with a rapid rise Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Jerky, with full expansion followed by Aortic regurgitation sudden collapse (Corrigan’s or water- hammer pulse) Aortic stenosis (obstructing left Low in amplitude and volume with a ventricular outflow) delayed peak Shock Veins Peripheral veins The peripheral veins are observed for varicosities, arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), and shunts, and for overlying inflammation and tenderness due to thrombophlebitis. An AVM or a shunt produces a continuous murmur (heard on auscultation) and often a palpable thrill (because resistance is always lower in the vein than in the artery during systole and diastole). Neck veins 6/14 The neck veins are examined to estimate venous wave height and waveform. Height is proportional to right atrial pressure, and waveform reflects events in the cardiac cycle; both are best observed in the internal jugular vein. The jugular veins are usually examined with the patient reclining at 45°. The top of the venous column is normally just above the clavicles (upper limit of normal: 4 cm above the sternal notch in a vertical plane) (1). The venous column is elevated in right heart failure, intravascular volume overload, cardiac tamponade, constrictive pericarditis, tricuspid stenosis, tricuspid regurgitation, superior vena cava obstruction, or reduced compliance of the right ventricle. If such conditions are severe, the venous column can extend to jaw level, and its top can be detected only when the patient sits upright or stands. The venous column is low in hypovolemia. Jugular Venous Distention IMAGE DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Normally, the venous column can be briefly elevated by firm hand
