Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


upright or stands. The venous column is low in hypovolemia. Jugular Venous Distention IMAGE DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Normally, the venous column can be briefly elevated by firm hand pressure on the abdomen (hepatojugular or abdominojugular reflux); the column falls back in a few seconds (maximum 3 respiratory cycles or 15 seconds) despite continued abdominal pressure (because a compliant RV increases its stroke volume via the Frank-Starling mechanism). However, the column remains elevated (> 3 cm) during abdominal pressure in disorders that cause a dilated and poorly compliant RV or in obstruction of RV filling by tricuspid stenosis or right atrial tumor. Normally, the venous column falls slightly during inspiration as lowered intrathoracic pressure draws blood from the periphery into the vena cava. A rise in the venous column during inspiration (Kussmaul sign) occurs typically in chronic constrictive pericarditis, right ventricular myocardial infarction, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and can also occur in heart failure and tricuspid stenosis. Jugular vein waves (see figure Normal Jugular Vein Waves) can usually be discerned clinically but are better seen on the screen during central venous pressure monitoring (2). 7/14 Normal Jugular Vein Waves The a wave is caused by right atrial contraction (systole) and is followed by the x descent, which is caused by atrial relaxation. The c wave, an interruption of the x descent, is caused by the transmitted carotid pulse; it is seldom discerned clinically. The v wave is caused by right atrial filling during ventricular systole (tricuspid valve is closed). The y descent is caused by rapid filling of the right ventricle during ventricular diastole before atrial contraction. The a waves are increased in pulmonary hypertension and tricuspid valve stenosis. Giant a waves (Cannon waves) occur in atrioventricular dissociation when the atrium contracts while the tricuspid valve is closed. The a waves disappear in atrial fibrillation and are accentuated when RV compliance is poor (eg, in pulmonary hypertension or pulmonic stenosis). The v waves are very prominent in tricuspid regurgitation. The x descent is steep in cardiac tamponade. When RV compliance is poor, the y descent is very abrupt because the elevated column of venous blood rushes into the RV when the tricuspid valve opens, only to be stopped abruptly by the rigid RV wall (in restrictive cardiomyopathy) or the pericardium (in constrictive pericarditis). Veins references 1. Sinisalo J, Rapola J, Rossinen J, Kupari M: Simplifying the estimation
