Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


stopped abruptly by the rigid RV wall (in restrictive cardiomyopathy) or the pericardium (in constrictive pericarditis). Veins references 1. Sinisalo J, Rapola J, Rossinen J, Kupari M: Simplifying the estimation of jugular venous pressure. Am J Cardiol 100(12):1779–1781, 2007. doi:10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.07.030 2. Devine PJ, Sullenberger LE, Bellin DA, Atwood JE: Jugular venous pulse: window into the right heart. South Med J 100(10):1022–1004, 2007. doi:10.1097/SMJ.0b013e318073c89c Chest Inspection and Palpation Chest contour and any visible cardiac impulses are inspected. The precordium is palpated for pulsations (determining apical impulse and thus cardiac situs) and thrills. Inspection Chest wall deformities may occur in a number of disorders. 8/14 Pectus carinatum (a prominent birdlike sternum) may be associated with Marfan syndrome (which may be accompanied by aortic root or mitral valve disease) or Noonan syndrome (which may be accompanied by pulmonic stenosis, atrial septal defects, or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy). Rarely, a localized upper chest bulge indicates aortic aneurysm due to syphilis. Pectus excavatum (depressed sternum) with a narrow anteroposterior chest diameter and an abnormally straight thoracic spine may be associated with hereditary disorders involving congenital cardiac defects (eg, Turner syndrome, Noonan syndrome) and sometimes Marfan syndrome. Pectus Excavatum and Pectus Carinatum IMAGE DR P. MARAZZI / SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Shield chest is a broad chest with widely spaced nipples, often associated with Turner syndrome. 9/14 "Shield" Chest in Turner Syndrome IMAGE BY PERMISSION OF THE PUBLISHER. FROM SHULMAN D, BERCU B: ATLAS OF CLINICAL ENDOCRINOLOGY: NEUROENDOCRINOLOGY AND PITUITARY DISEASE. EDITED BY S KORENMAN (SERIES EDITOR) AND ME MOLITCH. PHILADELPHIA, CURRENT MEDICINE, 2000. Palpation The patient lays at approximately a 30 to 45° angle. Approaching the patient from the right side, the clinician systematically palpates the precordium. The apical impulse in healthy individuals should be palpable between the fourth and fifth intercostal space just medial to the midclavicular line and cover an area < 2 to 3 cm in diameter. A central precordial heave, also called a parasternal heave or lift, is a palpable lifting sensation under the sternum and anterior chest wall to the left of the sternum; it suggests significant right ventricular hypertrophy or dilation. Occasionally, in congenital disorders that cause severe RV hypertrophy, the precordium visibly bulges asymmetrically to the left of the sternum. A sustained thrust at the apex (easily differentiated from the less focal, somewhat diffuse precordial heave of RV hypertrophy) suggests LV hypertrophy. Abnormal focal systolic impulses in the precordium can sometimes
