Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


sustained thrust at the apex (easily differentiated from the less focal, somewhat diffuse precordial heave of RV hypertrophy) suggests LV hypertrophy. Abnormal focal systolic impulses in the precordium can sometimes be felt in patients with a dyskinetic ventricular aneurysm. An abnormal diffuse systolic impulse lifts the precordium in patients with severe mitral regurgitation. The lift occurs because the left atrium expands, causing anterior cardiac displacement. A diffuse and inferolaterally displaced apical impulse is found when the LV is dilated and hypertrophied (eg, in mitral regurgitation). Thrills are a palpable buzzing sensation present with particularly loud murmurs. Their location suggests the cause (see table Location of Thrills and Associated Disorder). TABLE 10/14 Location of Thrills and Associated Disorder Location of Thrill Associated Disorder Over the base of the heart at the second intercostal space, just to the right of the Aortic stenosis sternum, during systole At the apex during systole Mitral regurgitation To the left of the sternum at the second Pulmonic stenosis intercostal space To the left of the sternum at the fourth Small muscular ventricular septal defect intercostal space (Roger disease) A sharp impulse at the second intercostal space to the left of the sternum may result from exaggerated pulmonic valve closure in pulmonary hypertension. A similar early systolic impulse at the cardiac apex may represent closure of a stenotic mitral valve; opening of the stenotic valve sometimes can be felt at the beginning of diastole. These findings coincide with an augmented first heart sound (S1) and an opening snap of mitral stenosis, heard on auscultation. Lung Examination The lungs are examined for signs of pleural effusion and pulmonary edema, which may occur with cardiac disease such as heart failure. The lung examination includes percussion, palpation, and auscultation (1). Percussion is the primary physical maneuver used to detect the presence and level of pleural effusion. Finding areas of dullness during percussion signifies underlying fluid or, less commonly, consolidation. Palpation includes tactile fremitus (vibration of the chest wall felt while a patient is speaking); fremitus is decreased in pleural effusion and pneumothorax and increased in pulmonary consolidation (eg, lobar pneumonias). Auscultation of the lungs is an important component of the examination of patients with suspected cardiac disease. The character and volume of breath sounds are useful in differentiating cardiac from pulmonary disorders. Adventitious sounds are abnormal sounds, such as crackles, rhonchi, wheezes, and stridor. Crackles (previously called rales) and wheezes
