Cardiovascular Examination
KEYWORDS: pressure, cardiac, heart, blood, venous, blood pressure, pulse, pulmonary, disorders, examination, systolic, disease, stenosis, auscultation, patients


examiner’s fingers, which displaces the interstitial fluid). The area of edema is examined for extent, symmetry (ie, comparing both extremities), warmth, erythema, and tenderness. 12/14 With significant fluid overload, edema may also be present over the sacrum, genitals, or both. Pitting edema is graded on a scale of 1 to 4, but there is no agreed-upon definition for these grades. Tenderness, erythema, or both, particularly when unilateral, suggests an inflammatory cause (eg, cellulitis or thrombophlebitis). Nonpitting edema is more suggestive of lymphatic or vascular obstruction than fluid overload. Point-of-Care Ultrasound (POCUS) (See also Echocardiography.) Cardiac point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS), also called focused cardiac ultrasound (FoCUS), is a complement to the physical examination that uses small, inexpensive, portable ultrasound devices operated by the treating clinician at the bedside. Both 2-dimensional and color Doppler techniques can be used. A brief, focused ultrasound examination can improve detection of various cardiac anomalies and confirm findings from physical examination or sometimes make a diagnosis in the absence of physical findings. Common uses include identification of (1, 2, 3): Left ventricular systolic dysfunction (with global or regional wall motion abnormality) Left ventricular regional wall motion abnormality (with reduced or normal systolic function) Elevated left heart filling pressures (enlarged left atrium) Valvular abnormalities Pulmonary edema (vertical B-lines in the lung fields) Pleural effusion Systemic venous congestion (dilated inferior vena cava) Pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade Adequate training in doing brief ultrasound examinations is essential to ensure high image quality and accurate interpretation (2). Importantly, POCUS should be used to augment rather than replace the physical examination; neither does it replace complete echocardiography when that is indicated.
