Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


Medicine ® Narrative Review Autophagy in hepatic macrophages can be regulator and potential therapeutic target of liver diseases A review Jun Ge, MDa,b, Hao Li, PhDa, Jia-Qi Yang, MDb, Yuan Yue, MDb, Sheng-Yu Lu, MDb, Hong-Yun Nie, MDb, Tao Zhang, PhDa, Pei-Ming Sun, PhDa, Hong-Feng Yan, MDa, Hong-Wei Sun, PhDa, Jian-Wu Yang, MDa, Jin-Lian Zhou, MDc, Yan Cui, PhDa,b,* Abstract Hepatic macrophages are a complex population of cells that play an important role in the normal functioning of the liver and in liver diseases. Autophagy, as a maintainer of cellular homeostasis, is closely connected to many liver diseases. And its roles are not always beneficial, but manifesting as a double-edged sword. The polarization of macrophages and the activation of inflammasomes are mediated by intracellular and extracellular signals, respectively, and are important ways for macrophages to take part in a variety of liver diseases. More attention should be paid to autophagy of hepatic macrophages in liver diseases. In this review, we focus on the regulatory role of hepatic macrophages’ autophagy in a variety of liver diseases; especially on the upstream regulator of polarization and inflammasomes activation of the hepatic macrophages. We believe that the autophagy of hepatic macrophages can become a potential therapeutic target for management of liver diseases. Abbreviations: ALD = alcoholic liver disease, ALI = acute liver injury, ATP6V0D2 = V-ATPase D2 subunit, Eva1a = Eva-1 homologous gene A, HCC = hepatocellular carcinoma, HIRI = hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury, HMGB1 = high-mobility group box 1, HO-1 = heme oxygenase-1, HSCs = hepatic stellate cells, KCs = Kupffer cells, LAMP = lysosomal-associated membrane protein, LPS = lipopolysaccharide, Mtb = mycobacterium tuberculosis, NAFLD = non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, NASH = non- alcoholic steatohepatitis, NLRP3 = NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 protein, PINK1 = PTEN-induced kinase 1, PRRs = pattern-recognition receptors, SAHA = suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, TAMs = tumor-associated macrophages, Tim-3 = T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containing molecule-3, TIM-4 = T-cell immunoglobulin domain and mucin domain-4, UCNs = Upconversion nanoparticles, V-ATPases = Vacuole ATPase. Keywords: autophagy, kupffer, hepatic macrophages, liver diseases, polarization, inflammasomes 1. Introduction consequences. Upon regulation and functional roles, the autophagy manipulates polarization and activation of inflam- As we all know, hepatic macrophages are a class of macro- masomes to affect the progress of liver diseases. Polarization phages that lives in liver, with various origins and huge quan- means the activation of macrophages stimulated by external tity, playing an important
