Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


affect the progress of liver diseases. Polarization phages that lives in liver, with various origins and huge quan- means the activation of macrophages stimulated by external tity, playing an important role in both disease and normal state. environment, which will be involved in diseases development. Hepatic macrophages has been found to participate in various Similarly, the activation of inflammasomes refers to the forma- liver disease such as liver injury, ischemia reperfusion injury, tion of multiprotein complex in the cells, which will further non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), alcoholic liver disease promote the release of cytokines and pyroptosis. By elabo- (ALD), viral hepatitis, etc. Hence, it is worthwhile to con- rating complex regulatory functions of hepatic macrophages’ centrate on hepatic macrophages to find potential therapeutic autophagy in many liver diseases, we believe it can be a prom- target. ising target for liver diseases treatment. Notably, the regulation Autophagy is a process that cells achieve self-protection of polarization and inflammasomes of autophagy are 2 critical and homeostasis. Studies shows that the autophagy plays functions, by which hepatic autophagy regulates the progres- a protective role on cells. Meanwhile, it may bring adverse sion of liver diseases. Medical Center (21ZX13). This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose. Attribution License 4.0 (CCBY), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. Data sharing not applicable to this article as no datasets were generated or analyzed during the current study. How to cite this article: Ge J, Li H, Yang J-Q, Yue Y, Lu S-Y, Nie H-Y, Zhang T, Sun P-M, Yan H-F, Sun H-W, Yang J-W, Zhou J-L, Cui Y. Autophagy in hepatic macrophages can be regulator and potential therapeutic target of liver diseases: A review. Medicine 2023;102:19(e33698). April 2023 Ge et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:19 Medicine 2. Hepatic macrophages is associate with pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic functions. It is KCs that play dual roles in the Ischemia/reperfusion-in- Macrophages, as a kind of myeloid immune cell widely distrib- duced liver injury. Not only can KCs cause hepatocyte death, uted in all parts of the body, play a significant role in regulating endothelial damage and leukocytes recruitment, but it also has inflammatory processes. Their primary function is to recognize, a protective function. In the process of hepatic sterile inflam- engulf and degrade harmful substance such as cellular
