Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


but it also has inflammatory processes. Their primary function is to recognize, a protective function. In the process of hepatic sterile inflam- engulf and degrade harmful substance such as cellular debris, mation, activated KCs can secret inflammatory cytokines and foreign material, or pathogens. Hepatic macrophages are chemokines to recruit other inflammatory cells including mono- macrophages existing in liver, which can maintain the hemo- cytes to amplify the inflammatory signaling. stasis in both normal liver and liver disease. According to its In a word, hepatic macrophages are a group of cells with a origin, hepatic macrophages can be divided in to Kupffer cells wide heterogeneity including its origin, phenotype and function. It plays a critical role in the occurrence and development of liver rophages (recruited macrophages). KCs, named after Karl diseases. So, it is worthwhile to concentrate on figuring out the Wilhelm von Kupffer, a German anatomist, originates from yolk role of hepatic macrophages in many diseases and target it for sac and possesses self-renewal capacity independent of hemato- disease treatment. poietic stem cells. Meanwhile, circulatory monocytes give rise to monocyte-derived macrophages, whose precursor cells is 3. Autophagy Wang et al found that when liver injury happens, peritoneal macrophages can migrate into injured place to contribute to tis- The word “autophagy” comes from Greek meaning “eating sue repair. However, other study also shows that when KCs is of self,” created by Christian de Duve. Cells are in a state of exhausted, monocytes will take the place of KCs, which displays constant self-renewal, so they need to digest old substances the same phenotype with KCs. to provide raw materials for the production of new compo- Furthermore, hepatic macrophages have different cell sur- nents. Two major degradation systems exist in eukaryotic face markers. In mice, KCs’ markers are CD11blow, F4/80hi, cells including the lysosome and the proteasome. Autophagy Clec4F+, CD68+, CX3CR1-, while monocyte-derived macro- is used to describe the process by which cytoplasmic mate- phages are CD11blow, F4/80hi, Ly6C+, CSF1R+. In human, rial is transported to lysosomes and digested. There are 3 KCs’ marker is CD68+, and monocyte-derived macrophages’ types of autophagy: macroautophagy, microautophagy, and makers are CD14+, CCR2+.Circulating monocyte can also be chaperone-mediated autophagy. Macroautophagy requires divided into 2 subtypes: Ly-6Chi, Ly-6Clow. The character of the formation of autophagosomes to sequester substances Ly-6Chi is infiltrating tissue, while the hallmark feature of the in the cytoplasm, which then fuse with lysosomes and later
