Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


The character of the formation of autophagosomes to sequester substances Ly-6Chi is infiltrating tissue, while the hallmark feature of the in the cytoplasm, which then fuse with lysosomes and later is patrol, so hepatic macrophages are not a simple type of degrade the substances in them. Microautophagy engulfs cells but a kind of macrophages with heterogeneity. and digests tiny cytoplasmic components through lyso- Hepatic macrophages play an important role in both nor- somal membrane invagination. In the chaperone-mediated mal conditions and disease. The liver is the body’s reservoir of autophagy, proteins directly cross lysosomal membranes macrophages in mammalian body, because KSC comprises 80% mediated by chaperones. In fact, what we often call to 90% total tissue macrophages, not to mention hepatic mac- autophagy refers to macroautophagy. Autophagy regu- rophages from circulating monocytes. It is found that about lates adaptive metabolic responses and can be activated to 20 to 40 macrophages partner every 100 hepatocytes in the supply amino acids during starvation. Further research healthy liver of rodent. KCs also account for approximately found that these amino acids produced by autophagy were 25% hepatic nonparenchymal cells (including KCs, lymphocyte, mainly used to synthesize proteins to meet the needs of stellate cell and endothelial cell as well as biliary cell). As a starvation. Autophagy also plays an important role member of reticuloendothelial system in the liver, KCs mainly in processes of differentiation and development of mam- locates on the luminal side of the sinusoidal vessels. For this malian, and in immunity including direct elimination of reason, KCs forms the first line of defense, which is exposed to microbes, control of inflammation, antigen presentation, substances from the intestine such as bacterial endotoxins. lymphocyte homeostasis and secretion of immune. In Liver macrophages have strong plasticity; hence it can dis- the process of controlling inflammation, autophagy targets play different phenotypes with different stimuli. Due to on NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 those characteristics of hepatic macrophages (huge quantity, protein (NLRP3) inflammasome activators, inflammasome special location, plasticity), it participates in both maintain components, IL-1β signaling to orchestrate the activation liver hemostasis and the development of various liver dis- of NLRP3 inflammasome. eases. In steady state, KCs can induce immunological toler- Comparing with brain and other organs, liver has higher ance. As a kind of antigen presenting cells, KCs shows low baseline autophagic flux. Autophagy plays an important role levels of histocompatibility complex (MHC)-II, comparing in
