Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


organs, liver has higher ance. As a kind of antigen presenting cells, KCs shows low baseline autophagic flux. Autophagy plays an important role levels of histocompatibility complex (MHC)-II, comparing in maintain liver hemostasis and is involved in many liver CD11c + CX3CR1 + liver dendritic cells. What’s more, KCs diseases such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), possesses higher expression of the immune-suppressive costim- fibrosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, hyperammonemia, viral ulatory marker, programmed death ligand 1(PDL-1) than kid- infections. Hepatocytes cells with autophagy defects are not ney and spleen macrophages. Interestingly, KCs are able to able to eliminate cellular byproducts and prone to malignant promote the activation of regulatory CD4 + T cells to induce transformation. immune tolerance. Those immune tolerance induced by KCs can relief immune-related extrahepatic tissue injury (kidney). 4. Polarization and inflammasomes are 2 important In the inflamed liver microenvironment, hepatic macrophages processes regulated by autophagy composition will be out of proportion (the number of mono- cyte-derived macrophages increases), which will impair KCs’ Polarization and inflammasomes can be visualized as a process tolerogenic phenotype. by which cells are activated by internal and external stimuli, Hepatic macrophages also participate in the progress of respectively. Hepatic macrophages realize their functions mainly many liver diseases. KCs usually secrets chemokine (including through the release of various cytokine that is connect to 2 pro- IL-β, TNF-α) and chemokine (including CCL2, and CCL5), the cesses: polarization and activation of inflammasomes. Those 2 latter of which can recruit monocytes, so that the number of processes are closely relevant to liver diseases. Significantly, the hepatic macrophages increases rapidly. Infiltrated monocytes autophagy is the upstream regulator of polarization and activa- can transform their phenotype from Ly-6Chi to Ly-6C+, which tion of inflammasomes. Ge et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:19 www.md-journal.com 4.1. Macrophages polarization cytokine/chemokine and interferon can be produced to triggers pro-inflammatory and antiviral responses. Similarly, inflam- Polarization is used to describe the change of macrophages’ state masomes is multiprotein complex assembled after intracellular due to the stimulus of pathogenic microorganism, cytokines, or PRRs recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns and some physicochemical factors. Their phenotypes are related to danger-associated molecular patterns in the cytoplasm. This the microenvironment where macrophages locate. One of the process promotes the maturation and secretion of interleukins purposes of macrophages biology is to make a thorough inquiry (IL-1b and IL-18) that promote the inflammatory response to of polarization and its roles in physiological and
