Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


secretion of interleukins purposes of macrophages biology is to make a thorough inquiry (IL-1b and IL-18) that promote the inflammatory response to of polarization and its roles in physiological and pathological infection and injury. processes. In fact, the word “polarization” is similar to “acti- The canonical inflammasomes is compose of a cytosolic sen- vation.” Naive macrophages (Mφ or M0) can be activated to sor (including NLRs, ALRs), an adaptor protein ASC and an differentiate into 2 phenotype: M1 (classically activated mac- effector pro-caspase-1. Once sensor detects specific stimuli, rophages) and M2 (alternatively activated macrophages). it can recruit ASC to form a multimeric complex. Afterwards, M1 is related to pro-inflammatory, which is activated by Th1 pro-caspase-1 can be recruited and changes into biologically cytokines (IFN-γ and TNF-α), GM-CSF or lipopolysaccharide active caspase-1 by self-cleavage. On one hand, caspase-1 sub- (LPS). Since then, those macrophages can secret pro-inflam- units p20 and p10 cleaves pro-IL-1β and pro-IL-18 to IL-1β matory cytokines including TNF-α, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, and IL-18. On the other hand, caspase-1 actives pore-forming IL-23, COX-2, CXCL1~3, CXCL8-10, CCL2-5, CCL11, and gasdermin D to induce proptosis, whose character is cell swell- low levels of IL-10. Though M1 possesses the ability of ing, lysis and release of contents. As a member of NLR fam- anti-microbial and anti-tumoral, it also promotes tissue damage ily, NLRP3 is a classical inflammasome, activated in hepatic and wound healing. M2 is characterized as anti-inflammatory, macrophages, which plays an significant role in sundry liver which produces anti-inflammatory cytokine such as IL-10, TGF- disease. In NASH, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) released from β, and IL-12, when stimulated by IL-4, IL-13, IL-33. M2 is able mitochondria can active NLRP3 in KCs. He et al found to clear debris and apoptotic cells, promote tissue repair and that suppressing NLRP3 in KCs can alleviate inflammatory wound healing, and have pro-angiogenic and pro-fibrotic prop- and development of NASH. RIP1 kinase enhances the progress erties. M2 can be divided into other subtypes: M2a, M2b, of NASH, by activating NLRP3 inflammasome in liver mac- M2c, and M2d. rophages (hematopoietic-derived macrophages). HBeAg can In summary, macrophages polarization means active state of inhibit the activation of NLPR3 in KCs to promote the HBV macrophages in various organs. Polarization is the embodiment persistence and immune tolerance. Activation of NLRP3 in of macrophages’ plasticity. Macrophages mediate the initial and KCs contributes to liver fibrosis in schistosomiasis infection development of diseases
