Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


is the embodiment persistence and immune tolerance. Activation of NLRP3 in of macrophages’ plasticity. Macrophages mediate the initial and KCs contributes to liver fibrosis in schistosomiasis infection development of diseases by changing their active state. Once the through via NF-κB. state of M1/M2 polarization is out of control, homeostasis will To sum up, activated inflammasomes especially NLRP3 in be broken, leading to disease progression. hepatic macrophages plays an important part in pathological process of liver diseases. 4.2. Inflammasome activation Inflammasomes is a kind of multimeric protein complex that 5. Autophagy of hepatic macrophages in liver is assembled in the cell and mediates host protection against diseases infection and physiological abnormalities. As we all know, the operation of the innate immune system relies on the rec- Many liver diseases accompanied polarization and activation of ognition of microbial motifs by pattern-recognition receptors inflammasomes in liver macrophages. For example, in NAFLD (PRRs) on the surface of immune cells such as macrophages, the excessively activated inflammation is caused by M1 polar- monocytes, dendritic cells and neutrophils. After PRRs dis- ized macrophages. In acute liver injury, KCs exhibit higher tinguish various pathogen-associated molecular patterns, M1 polarization levels. On the other side, the activation Table 1 The autophagy regulating polarization and inflammasomes in liver diseases. Diseases Cell types Regulation References Regulatory polarization HFD-induced obesity Monocyte-derived macrophages, Kupffer Autophagy deficiency→M1(p)M2(i) ALI (TAA) Kupffer Enhancing autophagy→M1(i)M2(p) Liver injury (APAP) Kupffer Enhancing autophagy→M1(i)M2(p) ALI (TAA) Kupffer Inhibiting autophagy→M1(p)M2(i) ALI (TAA) Monocyte-derived macrophages Autophagy deficiency→M1(p) HCC Monocyte-derived macrophages Enhancing autophagy→M2(p) HCC Monocyte-derived macrophages Enhancing autophagy→M1(p) Regulatory inflammasome NAFLD (HFD) Kupffer Restoring autophagy flux→NLRP3(i) NAFLD Monocyte-derived macrophages Autophagy activation→NLRP3(i) ALD Monocyte-derived macrophages Autophagy deficiency→IL-1β, inflam- masome(p) ALI (CCL4) Kupffer Inhibiting autophagy→NLRP3(p) ALI (GalN/LPS) Monocyte-derived macrophages, Kupffer Autophagy deficiency→IL-1β, inflam- masome(p) ALI (CCL4, LPS) Kupffer Enhancing autophagy→NLRP3(i) IRI Kupffer Enhancing mitophagy→NLRP3(i) IRI Kupffer Enhancing autophagy→NLRP3(i) ALD = alcoholic liver disease, ALI = acute liver injury, APAP = acetaminophen, CCL4 = Carbon tetrachloride, GalN = D-galactosamine, HCC = hepatocellular carcinoma, HFD = high-fat diet, i = inhibit, IRI = ischemia-reperfusion injury, LPS = lipopolysaccharide, NAFLD = nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, P = promote, TAA = thioacetamide. Ge et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:19 Medicine of NLRP3 inflammasomes is common in NFALD. NLRP3 that increase proinflammatory M1 and decrease anti-inflam- inflammasomes is also plays an important role in ischemia-reper- matory M2 polarization in both protein and gene aspects. fusion injury. In a word, the
