Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


increase proinflammatory M1 and decrease anti-inflam- inflammasomes is also plays an important role in ischemia-reper- matory M2 polarization in both protein and gene aspects. fusion injury. In a word, the inflammation state of the liver Hence, autophagy deficiency in hepatic macrophages may lead is inseparable from polarization and NLRP3 inflammasomes their abnormal polarization (enhancing M1, inhibiting M2), of liver macrophages. The autophagy of hepatic macrophages which will cause hepatic inflammation and the progression to can inhibit M1 polarization and activation of NLRP3 inflam- liver injury. Using free fatty acid and LPS can significantly masomes to regulate the liver diseases including NAFLD, liver down-regulate the expression of Foxo3a, which can lead to injury, ischemia-reperfusion injury, hepatocellular carcinoma. the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome through dampening (Table 1, Fig. 1). autophagy. Liu et al proposes that improving Foxo3a-Bim transcription-facilitating autophagy flux-inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation axis can be a target for treating 5.1. NAFLD NAFLD. The feature of NASH is reduced autophagy flux and activated inflammasomes. Ezetimibe, a blocking agent of NAFLD is a kind of chronic liver disease related to obesity, cholesterol transporter NPC1L1, can attenuate steatohepatitis insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, by promoting autophagy through AMPK activation and TFEB hyperlipidemia, and metabolic syndrome. Mild NAFLD is just nuclear translocation. Furthermore, ezetimibe could inhibit characterized by simple steatosis, while sever NAFLD is also NLRP3 inflammasome-IL1β pathway depending on autoph- called NASH that will progress to cirrhosis or hepatocellular agy and extracellular vesicles from hepatocytes. The hypercho- carcinoma. Depletion of KCs can reduce the level of serum lesterolemia-treating drug Ezetimibe may have the potential to TNF-α and relief liver injury in methionine-choline-deficient treat steatohepatitis and fibrosis. Innate immune response diet mice model. To make out the role of autophagy in acti- in NAFLD is closely related to polarization and polarization vated KCs, KCs from Atg7-KO mice were stimulated with of hepatic macrophages, which can be regulated by autoph- LPS, which showed that it released about 1.5 times TNF-α of agy. Enhancing autophagy will be an effective measurement to cells from wild-type mice. Autophagy deficiency in KCs can ameliorate inflammation state in NAFLD. enhance its sensitivity to LPS (increased TNF-α) by enhanc- ing TLR signaling molecules, which contribute to the devel- opment of NASH. Atg5 knockout mice, treated with HFD 5.2. ALD to induce obesity model, suffers from systemic and hepatic inflammation under the stimuli of LPS. It is damaged auto- In 2014,
