Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


NASH. Atg5 knockout mice, treated with HFD 5.2. ALD to induce obesity model, suffers from systemic and hepatic inflammation under the stimuli of LPS. It is damaged auto- In 2014, the proportion of men and women who died from phagic flux in bone marrow-derived macrophages and KCs alcohol was 7.6% and 4.0% respectively. ALD is a kind of Figure 1. Many liver diseases are closely related to polarization of hepatic macrophage and activation of NLRP3 inflammasome in hepatic macrophage. The autophagy in hepatic macrophage can inhibit M1 polarization and activation of NLRP3 inflammasome, which can regulate the development of liver diseases and can be a target for the treatment liver diseases. NLRP3 = NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 protein. Ge et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:19 www.md-journal.com liver disease caused by chronic excessive alcohol consumption, inhibiting ATG5. Aged macrophages are prone to M1 polariza- whose spectrum ranges from simple fatty liver to more server tion, compared to young macrophages. In TAA induced ALI, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). KCs has been the restoration of autophagy in aged BMDMs will change its found to contribute to the development of ALD. The activa- polarization state (resemble M2 polarization) that protect liver tion of cannabinoid CB2 receptors (CB2) in KCs can inhibit from injury. Concentrating on autophagy in macrophages may M1 polarization through improving the expression of heme be a tactic to counter dysfunction caused by senescence. oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Then the KCs with the character of M1 In acute toxin-induced liver injury (GalN/LPS induced), auto- polarization inhibiting can prevent the lipid accumulation in phagy inhibition can lead to the release of IL-1β in both KCs hepatocytes. CB2mye-/- mice show severer inflammation and and monocyte-derived macrophages. Importantly the increase steatosis caused by alcohol. CB2 agonist obstructed alcohol-in- of IL-1β is not relevant to its mRNA levels, but corresponding duced liver inflammation and steatosis in wild-type mice, but it to inflammasome activation which facilitates cleavage of pro- loses its effects in ATG5mye-/- mice. So, there is a link between IL-1β. KCs in TAA-treated ALI mice with diabetes mellitus CB2 and autophagy in anti-inflammatory. It has been proved display the trait of NLRP3 inflammasome activation that leads that activation of CB2 receptor can relief steatosis and inflam- to severer liver injury than TAA-treated ALI mice without diabe- mation caused by alcohol, depending on activating autophagy tes mellitus. The reason is that hyperglycemia can inhibit auto-
