Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


and inflam- to severer liver injury than TAA-treated ALI mice without diabe- mation caused by alcohol, depending on activating autophagy tes mellitus. The reason is that hyperglycemia can inhibit auto- in KCs. phagy through AMPK/mTOR signaling pathway, which further Autophagy can remove cellular waste to maintain hemo- enhancing the formation of NLRP3 inflammasome. stasis, while in ALD miR-155 can destroy autophagic flux by Quiescent hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) are able to store reti- lowering the expression of lysosomal-associated membrane pro- noids (vitamin A) in its droplets. However, when HSCs is active, tein 1 (LAMP1) and LAMP2. Interestingly, the impairment of it will lose the ability to store droplets and participate in fibrosis. autophagy can induce the production of exosomes. The level All trans retinoic acid (ATRA), as main metabolite of vitamin A, of miR-155 in exosomes, secreted from KCs and hepatocytes is also one of important substance stored in HSCs. Interactions treated with alcohol, increases, which may be a method of cell between KCs and HSCs play an important role in ALI. In ALI self-rescue. So atypical exosomes secretion can compensate model caused by CCl4, HSCs can synthesis and secret more for lysosomal dysfunction to maintain homeostasis in ALD. ATRA, accompanied by the activation of HSCs. Next, ATRA Mice with macrophages autophagy deficiency are prone to can inhibit the autophagic flux through AKT/mTOR pathway getting hepatic and systemic inflammation initiated by innate in KCs, which lead to the accumulation of ROS. ROS will result immune response, when administered with ethanol and LPS. in the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome, which induces the The underlying mechanism is that autophagy deficiency in mac- release of IL-1β and pyroptosis. Hence, the liver injury in ALI rophages will improve the production of IL-1β arising from can partially attribute to that HSCs affect the autophagy in inflammasomes activation, rather than increasing the number of KCs. hepatic inflammatory cells. Therefore, autophagy in hepatic AMPK/mTOR signaling pathway may play a central role macrophages paly a protective role in ALD, it can remove cel- in restrain autophagic flux in KCs. TAM (TYRO3, AXL, and lular waste. What’s more, exosomes may counter autophagy MERTK) family of receptor tyrosine kinases, expressing in mac- breakage to clear up harmful substances. Macrophages’ autoph- rophages, has a function of curbing inflammation. In LPS and agy can relief liver injury caused by alcohol partly depending on CCl4 induce ALI, GAS6-AXL signaling can enhanced autophagy repressing
