Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


rophages, has a function of curbing inflammation. In LPS and agy can relief liver injury caused by alcohol partly depending on CCl4 induce ALI, GAS6-AXL signaling can enhanced autophagy repressing Inflammasome activation. Increasing autophagy in KCs, which will curb the formation of NLRP3 inflammasome may be a promising therapy for ALD. It is puzzling that acti- to limit the release of proinflammatory cytokines including vation of autophagy through CB2 receptor can relief steatosis, IL-1β and IL-18. It is worth noting that the signal transmission while Ghulam Ilyas et al pointed out the autophagy decreasing is dependent on autophosphorylation of 2 tyrosine residues and phagy in hepatic macrophages influence hepatic steatosis and domain-containing molecule-3 (Tim-3) existing in the surface of what cause the difference in conclusions deserve further study. monocytes and other immune cells, will drop from monocytes under the LPS, which can from sTim-3. In liver failure, sTim-3 plays a protective role. First, sTim-3 can inhibit the secretion 5.3. Acute liver injury (ALI) of inflammatory mediators such as HMGB1, by promote the autophagy in monocytes. sTim-3 can also decrease the number As we all know, the blood of the digestive tract finally flows of Ly-6C + monocytes (related to pro-inflammatory) and inhibit into the liver through the portal vein. The liver is the biochem- the infiltration of monocyte-derived macrophages in the liver ical factory of the human body and plays a role in catabolizing of D-GalN/LPS model. In ALI, autophagy paly a protective the substances absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract. Due to its role. On one hand, autophagy can inhibit M1 polarization and physiological function and anatomy, the liver is susceptible to promote M2 polarization of liver macrophages. On the other damage by harmful substances. At the same time, because hand, autophagy can downregulate the activation of NLRP3 of its location in the liver sinusoids and its role in maintain- inflammasome. In order to manipulate the autophagy of hepatic ing homeostasis, KCs are known as the gatekeepers of the liver. macrophages, AMPK/mTOR signaling pathway can be a target. Numerous articles related to the functions of KCs in acute liver injury have published. Polyamines, as a regulator of cell growth, cell differentiation, and synthesis of DNA, RNA, and 5.4. Hepatic ischemia‑reperfusion injury (HIRI) proteins, can alleviate carbon tetrachloride, ethanol and isch- emia/reperfusion inducing liver injury. Zhou et al found that Ischemia-reperfusion injury refers to the aggravation of dam- spermine (one of
