Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


injury (HIRI) proteins, can alleviate carbon tetrachloride, ethanol and isch- emia/reperfusion inducing liver injury. Zhou et al found that Ischemia-reperfusion injury refers to the aggravation of dam- spermine (one of polyamines) can promote autophagic flux by age to organs after the restoration of blood and oxygen supply. improving the expression of ATG5, which could curb the M1 HIRI of liver is usually connected to partial hepatectomy, liver polarization and facilitate M2 polarization of KCs to attenuate transplantation, hypovolemic shock and trauma. KCs mediate ALI associated to TAA. the liver injury in HIRI by producing reactive oxygen species In addition to multi-differentiation potential, mesenchymal and proinflammatory mediators. Suberoylanilide hydroxamic stem cells also have immunomodulatory functions. In order acid (SAHA) can alleviate orthotopic liver transplantation-in- to extenuate the ALI caused by Acetaminophen, human amni- duced HIRI in 2 ways, which depends on the existence of KCs. otic mesenchymal stromal cells can inhibit M1 polarization and First, it can restrict the M1 polarization of KCs through AKT/ enhance M2 polarization by promoting autophagy in KCs. GSK3β/NF-κB pathway. On the other hand, SAHA is able to Senescence can lead to the suppression of autophagy through induce autophagy via inhibiting AKT/mTOR signaling. Ge et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:19 Medicine Mitophagy, a type of microautophagy, is usually caused by During microorganism infection, the autophagy of liver mitochondrial depolarization, proteotoxic stress, dysregulated macrophages can enhance its ability to clear microorganism calcium signaling and molecular oxygen deficiency, which is an and promote the secretion of IL-10 to alleviate inflammation. important way that cells selectively eliminate their own mito- Autophagy of liver macropahges not only helps to clear infec- chondria to maintain their homeostasis. PTEN-induced kinase tion but also helps to control inflammation. 1 (PINK1)/Parkin is regard as the main regulator of ubiqui- tin-dependent mitophagy. In HIRI, reinforcing the expression of PINK1 can promote the autophagy of KCs, which further 5.6. Hepatocellular carcinoma inhibits the activation of NLRP3 activation to relief the liver Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are macrophages injury caused by KCs. Eva-1 homologous gene A (Eva1a) is involved in the formation of the tumor microenvironment and a kind of lysosomal and endoplasmic reticulum-related pro- are derived from circulating monocytes. There is also evidence tein related to autophagy and apoptosis, whose expression can that tissue-specific resident macrophages are also a source of increase in KCs during HIRI. Knockdown Eva1a in KCs can TAM. Like other macrophages, TAMs can
