Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


and apoptosis, whose expression can that tissue-specific resident macrophages are also a source of increase in KCs during HIRI. Knockdown Eva1a in KCs can TAM. Like other macrophages, TAMs can be divided into 2 inhibit the formation of autophagosomes, which will aggra- phenotypes, M1 and M2. M1 is characterized by tumor sup- vate inflammation in liver Ischemia-reperfusion through acti- pression, and M2 is closely associated with tumor cell prolifera- vating NLRP3 inflammasome. More specifically, Eva1a can tion, invasion, metastasis, and angiogenesis. Therefore, targeting orchestrate autophagy by prolonging autophagosome mem- TAMs can be a promising therapy for cancer. High-mobility brane depending on stimulating ATG12/ATG5 complex. group box 1(HMGB1) from HCC increases the production of Because the expression of Eva1a improves in liver Ischemia- ROS depending on NOX2, which is capable of trigging autoph- reperfusion, it may be a self-protection method to help liver agy through TLR2. The enhanced autophagy contributes to the immunity from HIRI. Lycopene can enhance autophagy via M2 polarization of TAMs, bringing about the increased propor- activating Nrf2/HO-1 pathway and further restrict the activa- tion of M2 macrophages in the tumor microenvironment. As tion of NLRP3 inflammasome in KCs to moderate the HIRI. mentioned before, M2 TAM promotes tumor cell growth, so the It is worth noting that autophagy downregulates the mRNA crosstalk between M2 TAMs formed a vicious circle. Attenuating and protein levels of NLRP3, ASC and IL-1β to dominate the the HCC growth by blocking ROS and HMGB1 could be a ther- formation of inflammasome. Vacuole ATPase (V-ATPases) apeutic target. In diethylnitrosamine-treated mice model, the is electronic proton pump on eukaryotic cell organelles ATG5Mye-/- group was more likely to develop liver cancer and and plays an important role in the formation of acidic pH, had a higher tumor burden and exhibits impaired immune cell which is indispensable to lysosomal degradation. The expres- recruitment and activation. More importantly, HCC cells can sion of ATP6V0D2 (V-ATPase D2 subunit) in macrophages promote expression of programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) increases in HIRI and the improvement of ATP6V0D2 can in macrophages through destroying autophagy. Conversely, enhance the autophagic flux to curb the formation of NLRP3 regulating autophagy with drugs can reduce programmed cell inflammasome. death-ligand 1 expression and promote the transition of mac- Obviously, autophagy activation plays a beneficial role in rophages to the M1 antitumor phenotype. In autophagy-de- liver ischemia-reperfusion injury. The induction of autophagy ficient KCs, mitochondrial ROS
