Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


transition of mac- Obviously, autophagy activation plays a beneficial role in rophages to the M1 antitumor phenotype. In autophagy-de- liver ischemia-reperfusion injury. The induction of autophagy ficient KCs, mitochondrial ROS can promote the production of can be exogenous such as SAHA and lycopene, and it can also IL1α/β to mediate liver inflammation and fibrosis via NF-kB- be the self-substance of liver macrophages to promote auto- associated pathways, which play a decisive role in hepatocar- phagy such as Eva1a and ATP6V0D2. In brief, autophagy of cinogenesis during the preneoplastic stage. liver macrophages regulates HIRI through 2 ways: inhibiting Overall, autophagy of hepatic macrophages has a dual role in M1 polarization and downregulating the activation of NLRP3 hepatocellular carcinoma. The enhancement of autophagy can inflammasome. promote the M2 polarization of macrophages to promote the growth of tumor cells, meanwhile, inhibition of autophagy can promote the expression of programmed cell death-ligand 1 and 5.5. Pathogenic microorganism infection leads to immunosuppression. In addition, autophagy deficiency of KCs can lead to liver inflammation which is related to for- After infection of schistosomiasis japonicum and schistosomiasis mation of HCC. mansoni, parasite eggs can cause granulomatous inflammation of the liver that eventually leads to liver fibrosis, portal hyper- tension, hemorrhage, and even death. Macrophages account for 5.7. Other liver diseases 30% of granuloma cells, which are recruited to wrap schisto- some eggs. In S. japonicum-infected mice, autophagy inhibition Sirtuin 1, a multifaceted histone deacetylase, is upregulated in caused by IL-7 via AMPK pathway regulates the host immune the liver macrophages of bile duct ligation mice and overexpres- responses including increasing the number of liver macrophages sion of which can cause the inflammation in cholestasis. The and promoting the granuloma development and collagen depos- mechanism is that Sirtuin 1 can enhance the activity of NLRP3 its. During mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection, alve- inflammasome and inhibit autophagy through mTORC1, which olar macrophages cannot completely eliminate Mtb and become lead to the activation of macrophages. What’s more, transplan- the niches for Mtb. On the contrary, KCs can effectively control tation of bone marrow cells overexpressing SIRT1 enhances the growth of Mtb. By comparing the metabolites of KCs and liver injury and fibrosis in a mouse model of cholestatic dis- alveolar macrophages infected with Mtb, it was found that KCs ease. Although the study did not mention the regulation of express higher levels of ornithine and imidazole, which affect autophagy on
