Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, autophagy, macrophages, kcs, hepatic, polarization, activation, injury, hepatic macrophages, diseases, cells, role, il-, liver diseases, inflammasome


macrophages infected with Mtb, it was found that KCs ease. Although the study did not mention the regulation of express higher levels of ornithine and imidazole, which affect autophagy on inflammation in cholestasis, differential expres- the growth of Mtb. Ornithine mediate autophagy via AMPK sion of SIRT1 could affect both autophagy and inflammasomes to restricts the growth of Mtb. Meanwhile imidazole wipes out activation. This co-altered signature suggests a possible link Mtb by reducing the activity of cytochrome P450. This study between autophagy and inflammasomes activation. clarifies the mechanism of KCs against Mtb and provides new With the development of technology, nanomaterials have been ideas for the treatment and defense of Mtb. gradually applied to biological imaging, drug delivery, tissue In an LPS-induced sepsis, superparamagnetic iron oxide repair and regeneration, and cancer treatment. Interestingly, nanoparticles can promote autophagy through Cav1-Notch1/ nanomaterials are prone to accumulate in liver, which can be as HES1 signaling pathway to enhance the secretion of IL-10 in a carrier for targeted drug delivery and cause damage to liver. macrophages, and further alleviate inflammation and injury in Upconversion nanoparticles (UCNs), a potential imaging nano- liver. material, can depletes KCs to induce liver injury. In fact, KCs Ge et al. • Medicine (2023) 102:19 www.md-journal.com can play a protective role, because the inhibition of autophagy is M2 polarization may be a measure to treat HCC. Although the beneficial to KCs’ survival that further prevent UCNs to disturb number of autophagy studies in liver macrophages is limited, to hepatocytes to initiate nanotoxicity. In most situations, the with the deepening of research, autophagy in hepatic macro- autophagy of liver macrophages can regulate inflammation and phages is expected to become a target for disease treatment. thus play a protective role, but excessive autophagy in UCN- Although the disease occurs as a result of the joint action of engulfing KCs affects cell survival and promotes nanoparticle multiple cells, macrophages play an important role in the pro- release. cess of liver diseases. In this review, we focus on the role of auto- phagy in hepatic macrophages. Understanding the mechanism and effect of autophagy in macrophages in the liver may bring 6. Conclusion new insight into effective management of the liver diseases. Inflammation play an important role in liver diseases such as NAFLD, ALD, ALI, HCC, which is closely connected Acknowledgments to polarization of hepatic macrophages and activation of inflam- autophagy in hepatic macrophages
