ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Myocarditis and Pericarditis:
KEYWORDS: heart, myocarditis, pericarditis, doctor, symptoms, pain, chest, inflammation, people, like, treatment, recovery, rest, imps, cause


What are Clinical Practice Guidelines? Clinical Practice Guidelines offer recommendations on diagnosis and treatment based on the best available medical and scientific evidence. They are primarily intended for doctors and medical staff to ensure that patients receive the best possible care. How will this document help me? This document explains the 2025 European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Clinical Practice Guidelines for the management of myocarditis and pericarditis for patients, families and carers. All statements are consistent with the text and recommendations in the main guidelines. This easy-to-understand document covers causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment and ways to cope and recover. It also includes tips for daily life, special situations (like sports and pregnancy) and what to discuss with your doctor. Real-life examples help you see how others manage their conditions. Remember, you are the most important part of your care team. By learning about your condition, you can work with your healthcare providers to manage your symptoms, make informed decisions and lead a healthy life. What are myocarditis and pericarditis? Myocarditis and pericarditis are conditions that involve inflammation of the heart. In myocarditis, the heart muscle (myocardium) itself becomes inflamed. In pericarditis, the lining that surrounds the heart (pericardium) becomes inflamed. Myocardium Pericardium Heart muscle Lining around the heart Lungs Heart wall Diaphragm Myocarditis and pericarditis often have the same cause but affect different parts of the heart. In some cases, because the pericardium and myocardium are close together, inflammation in one part can also affect the other. ‘Myopericarditis’ is mainly pericarditis with some myocarditis, while ‘perimyocarditis’ is mainly myocarditis with some pericarditis. The 2025 ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines introduce the new term ‘inflammatory myopericardial syndrome (IMPS)’ – this refers to the full spectrum of inflammatory myocardial and pericardial diseases, including those where both conditions overlap. This new umbrella term aims to increase awareness of the overlap and provide a new way for healthcare professionals to describe the condition during the diagnosis process. IMPS can occur in anyone – young or old, healthy or not – often following an infection or other trigger. Healthy heart Myocarditis Pericarditis Inflammation of the myocardium Inflammation of the pericardium (the heart muscle) (the lining around the heart) Inflammatory myopericardial syndrome (IMPS) What are the causes? Many things can trigger inflammation of the heart. The most common cause is infection, especially viruses. For example, common viruses, like those that cause colds, flu and COVID-19, can inflame
