ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Myocarditis and Pericarditis:
KEYWORDS: heart, myocarditis, pericarditis, doctor, symptoms, pain, chest, inflammation, people, like, treatment, recovery, rest, imps, cause


Many things can trigger inflammation of the heart. The most common cause is infection, especially viruses. For example, common viruses, like those that cause colds, flu and COVID-19, can inflame the heart muscle or its lining. Other possible causes include bacterial or fungal infections. Sometimes pericarditis is caused by tuberculosis or Lyme disease, especially in certain areas. Autoimmune diseases, where the immune system attacks the body – such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis – can also cause myocarditis or pericarditis. Certain medicines and treatments might be a cause too: cancer chemotherapy drugs, radiation to the chest, or even, very rarely, reactions to vaccines or certain medications. Some recreational drugs can also induce IMPS. Genetic factors can play a role in heart inflammation. If you have relatives with unexplained heart disease, mention that to your doctor. In many cases, the cause of the inflammation is unknown (called ‘idiopathic’). In all cases, the underlying trigger (e.g. virus, autoimmune attack, etc.) causes the immune system to become over-active and this leads to inflamed heart tissues. Infection Medicines and treatments Unknown Autoimmune diseases What are the common symptoms? Both myocarditis and pericarditis can cause chest pain and related symptoms, but the exact feelings vary. Symptoms are unspecific and may overlap with other heart diseases. Myocarditis symptoms Symptoms can be mild or severe and commonly include: • Chest pain or discomfort. This may feel similar to a heart attack or heavy pressure on the chest. • Shortness of breath. You may be out of breath doing everyday activities or even at rest if the heart isn’t pumping strongly. • Palpitations. You may feel your heart beating quickly, pounding or irregularly. • Fatigue, tiredness or weakness. You may tire easily or feel very low in energy. • Fever or flu-like symptoms. Because many cases follow an infection, you might have had fever, body aches, cough or a sore throat (respiratory infections), as well as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal pain (gastroenteritis). • Fainting or light-headedness. If the heart rhythm is very irregular, you might feel dizzy or faint. • Swelling in legs or abdomen. Fluid can back up and cause swelling (oedema) in severe myocarditis. Chest pain Breathlessness Palpitations Fatigue Flu-like symptoms Not everyone has all these symptoms. Some people only have mild illness and may not realise their heart is affected until they see a doctor. Other times, people go to the emergency room with
