ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Myocarditis and Pericarditis:
KEYWORDS: heart, myocarditis, pericarditis, doctor, symptoms, pain, chest, inflammation, people, like, treatment, recovery, rest, imps, cause


care can prevent complications. How is IMPS diagnosed? Diagnosing IMPS (myocarditis and/or pericarditis) involves a combination of medical history, physical examination and tests. Here’s how doctors find out what’s going on: • Medical history and exam: Your doctor will ask about symptoms (e.g. chest pain, recent illnesses, etc.) and your medical history, including family history and risk factors. They will listen to your heart with a stethoscope. In pericarditis, they might hear a scratchy pericardial rub sound. In myocarditis, heart sounds may be normal or faint if fluid has accumulated. • Blood tests: These check for markers of inflammation (e.g. CRP and ESR) and heart injury (troponin and BNP). Elevated troponin suggests heart muscle damage, which may be seen in myocarditis. Blood tests can also look for viral antibodies or autoimmune markers, but this is not usually necessary. • Electrocardiogram (ECG/EKG): This quick painless test records the heart’s electrical activity. Typical findings with pericarditis include a change in the shape of the electrical pattern. Myocarditis can cause ECG changes, irregular rhythms or delayed electrical activity. • Echocardiogram (echo): This type of scan uses ultrasound. In pericarditis, an echo can detect fluid or show if the heart is filling correctly. In myocarditis, an echo may detect a weak heart pump or heart enlargement. • Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR): This useful type of scan can directly visualise inflammation and scarring in the heart muscle to support myocarditis diagnosis. It may also show pericardial effusion and thickening of the pericardial layer. • Chest X-ray: This is often done to rule out other causes of chest pain (like pneumonia) or to check the size of the heart or the presence of fluid. It’s not definitive for IMPS but is helpful overall. • Cardiac catheterisation (coronary angiography): If doctors suspect a heart attack, they may do an angiogram to check if coronary arteries are blocked. Occasionally, a small biopsy of the heart muscle (endomyocardial biopsy) is taken, especially if myocarditis is severe or if specific treatments (immunosuppressants) are considered. • Coronary computed tomography (CT): This type of scan can rule out a blocked coronary artery. The decision to use CT or angiography depends on whether risk factors for blocked arteries are present. • Genetic testing may be performed during follow-up. Diagnosis is a process of putting all the pieces together. Often, pericarditis can be diagnosed with history, ECG and echo alone. Myocarditis can be
