Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA) - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: abdominal, aneurysm, aneurysms, aortic, abdominal aortic, risk, patients, rupture, repair, blood, complications, artery, endovascular, size, stent


Cystic medial necrosis (degeneration of the aortic media) Postsurgical anastomotic disruption Vasculitis (eg, Takayasu arteritis) Uncommonly, syphilis and localized bacterial or fungal infection, typically due to sepsis or infective endocarditis, weaken the arterial wall and cause infected (mycotic) aneurysms. Staphylococcus aureus is the number one cause of mycotic aneurysms, followed by Salmonella. Risk factors Risk factors for abdominal aortic aneurysms include Smoking (strongest risk factor) Hypertension Older age (peak incidence at age 70 to 80 years) Family history (in 15 to 25%) Race (more common among White patients than among patients with African ancestry) Male sex Inherited connective tissue disorders (eg, Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Loeys-Dietz syndrome) Symptoms and Signs of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Most abdominal aortic aneurysms are asymptomatic. Symptoms and signs, when they do occur, may be nonspecific but usually result from compression of adjacent structures. As AAAs expand, they may cause pain, which is steady, deep, boring, visceral, and felt most prominently in the lumbosacral region. Patients may be aware of an abnormally prominent abdominal pulsation. Although most aneurysms grow slowly, rapidly enlarging aneurysms that are about to rupture can be tender. The aneurysm may or may not be palpable as a pulsatile mass, depending on its size and patient habitus. The probability that a patient with a pulsatile palpable mass has a small aneurysm (ie, < 4 cm) is about 55% (positive predictive value); the probability exceeds 80% only when the mass is > 5 cm in diameter (1). A systolic bruit may be audible over the aneurysm. Patients with an occult AAA sometimes present with symptoms of complications or of the cause (eg, fever, malaise, or weight loss due to infection or vasculitis). Complications The main complications of abdominal aortic aneurysms include Rupture Distal embolization 2/9 Disseminated intravascular coagulation (uncommon) Rupture is most likely to occur on the left posterolateral wall 2 to 4 cm below the renal arteries. If an AAA ruptures, most patients die before reaching a medical facility. Patients who do not die immediately typically present with abdominal or back pain, hypotension, and tachycardia. They may have a history of recent upper abdominal trauma, often minimal, or isometric straining (eg, lifting a heavy object). Even patients who reach the hospital alive have about a 50% mortality (2). Distal embolization of thrombus or atheromatous material may dislodge and block arteries of the kidneys, bowel, and lower extremities. When a lower extremity artery is
