Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA) - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: abdominal, aneurysm, aneurysms, aortic, abdominal aortic, risk, patients, rupture, repair, blood, complications, artery, endovascular, size, stent


about a 50% mortality (2). Distal embolization of thrombus or atheromatous material may dislodge and block arteries of the kidneys, bowel, and lower extremities. When a lower extremity artery is blocked, patients typically present with sudden unilateral extremity pain and often pallor and loss of pulses (see also Acute Peripheral Arterial Occlusion). Uncommonly, large AAAs cause disseminated intravascular coagulation, perhaps because large areas of abnormal endothelial surface trigger rapid thrombosis and consumption of coagulation factors. Diagnosis of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Often an incidental finding on physical examination or a radiologic study Confirmation by ultrasound or abdominal CT scanning Sometimes CT angiography or magnetic resonance angiography Most abdominal aortic aneurysms are diagnosed incidentally when they are detected during physical examination or when abdominal ultrasound, CT, or MRI is done for other reasons. An AAA should be considered in older patients who present with acute abdominal pain or back pain whether a palpable pulsatile mass is present or not. Radiographic Images of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms 3/9 Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (Ultrasound) This patient has an abdominal aortic aneurysm measuring 3.4 cm (between the white crosses) as well as atherosclerotic plaque or mural thrombus (red arrow). Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (CT Scan) The white arrow shows an abdominal aortic aneurysm measuring 5 cm with heterogenous flow and mural plaque. Abdominal Aortic Pseudoaneurysm (CT Scan) The white arrow shows a suprarenal abdominal aortic pseudoaneurysm. There is also extensive plaque in the infrarenal aorta and iliac arteries. 4/9 When symptoms or physical examination findings suggest AAA, ultrasound, CT, or MRI of the abdomen are usually the tests of choice (1). Patients with symptoms should have immediate testing to make the diagnosis before catastrophic rupture. For patients who are hemodynamically unstable with presumed rupture, ultrasound provides bedside results more rapidly, but intestinal gas and distention may limit its accuracy. Laboratory tests, including a complete blood count (CBC), electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), and blood type and cross-match, are done in preparation for possible surgery. If rupture is not suspected, CT angiography (CTA) or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) can more precisely characterize aneurysm size and anatomy. If thrombi line the aneurysm wall, conventional angiography may underestimate true size; CT may provide a more accurate estimate. Aortography is sometimes necessary if renal artery or aortoiliac disease is suspected or if correction with endovascular stent grafts (endografts) is being considered. Plain abdominal radiographs
