Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA) - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: abdominal, aneurysm, aneurysms, aortic, abdominal aortic, risk, patients, rupture, repair, blood, complications, artery, endovascular, size, stent


a more accurate estimate. Aortography is sometimes necessary if renal artery or aortoiliac disease is suspected or if correction with endovascular stent grafts (endografts) is being considered. Plain abdominal radiographs are neither sensitive nor specific; however, if obtained for other purposes, radiographs may show aortic calcification outlining the aneurysm wall. If a mycotic aneurysm is suspected, bacterial and fungal blood cultures should be done. Screening males age > 65 years who have ever smoked with abdominal ultrasound decreases mortality, but the absolute reduction is small for males who are otherwise at low risk. Screening also can also provoke anxiety, particularly for aneurysms managed expectantly. Some authorities recommend shared decision-making. Treatment of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Medical management, particularly smoking cessation and blood pressure control Surgery or endovascular stent grafting Some abdominal aortic aneurysms enlarge at a rate of 10%/year. Enlargement often occurs in a stepwise pattern with periods of no growth observed. Other aneurysms enlarge exponentially. Control of atherosclerotic risk factors, especially smoking cessation and use of antihypertensive medications as appropriate, is important. If a small (< 4 cm) or moderate-sized (between 4 and 5 cm) aneurysm. When the aneurysm becomes > 5 cm in a female or > 5.5 cm in a male and if risk of 5/9 perioperative complications is lower than estimated risk of rupture, AAA repair is indicated (1). Risk of rupture versus that of perioperative complications should be discussed frankly with the patient. The need for surgical treatment is related to aneurysm size, which is linked to the risk of rupture (see table Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Size and Rupture Risk). TABLE Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Size and Rupture Risk* AAA Diameter Rupture Risk (%/year) < 4 cm 0 4–4.9 cm 0.5–5% 5–5.9 cm* 3–15% 6–6.9 cm 10–20% 7–7.9 cm 20–40% > 8 cm 30–50% * Elective surgical repair should be considered for aneurysms > 5.0–5.5 cm. AAA = abdominal aortic aneurysm. Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms require immediate open surgery or endovascular stent grafting. Without treatment, mortality rate approaches 100%. There is no clear difference in mortality for open surgical treatment compared with endovascular stent grafting (2). Mortality remains high because many patients have coexisting coronary, cerebrovascular, and peripheral atherosclerosis. Patients who present in hemorrhagic shock require fluid resuscitation and blood transfusions, but mean arterial pressure should not be elevated to > 70 to 80 mm Hg (permissive hypotension) because bleeding may increase. Preoperative blood pressure control and
