Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA) - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: abdominal, aneurysm, aneurysms, aortic, abdominal aortic, risk, patients, rupture, repair, blood, complications, artery, endovascular, size, stent


resuscitation and blood transfusions, but mean arterial pressure should not be elevated to > 70 to 80 mm Hg (permissive hypotension) because bleeding may increase. Preoperative blood pressure control and avoidance of hypertension are important. 6/9 CLINICAL CALCULATORS Mean Vascular Pressure (systemic or pulmonary) Pearls & Pitfalls In a patient with hypotension and a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, do not raise mean arterial pressure to > 70 to 80 mm Hg because bleeding may increase. Elective surgical repair is recommended for Aneurysms > 5 cm in females and > 5.5 cm in males (when risk of rupture increases to > 5 to 10%/year), unless coexisting medical conditions contraindicate surgery (1) Additional indications for elective surgery include Increase in aneurysm size by > 0.5 cm within 6 months, regardless of size Chronic abdominal pain Thromboembolic complications Iliac or femoral artery aneurysm that causes lower-limb ischemia Aneurysms > 4.5 cm in patients with Marfan syndrome Before elective repair, clinical consideration of coronary artery disease (CAD) is often needed and may or may not require further evaluation (see table Tests for Assessing Cardiac Anatomy and Function) because some patients with an AAA have significant risk of cardiovascular events. Aggressive medical treatment and risk factor control are essential. Routine preoperative coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery has not been shown to be necessary in most patients who can be prepared with good medical management before aneurysm repair; coronary revascularization should be considered only in patients with unstable coronary artery disease (eg, acute coronary syndrome, including unstable angina) or multiple risk factors for coronary artery disease. Surgical repair consists of replacing the aneurysmal portion of the abdominal aorta with a synthetic graft. If the iliac arteries are involved, the graft must be extended to include them. If an aorto-bifemoral repair is done, it is important to ensure flow to at least one internal iliac artery (hypogastric artery) to avoid vasculogenic erectile dysfunction and pelvic ischemia. If the aneurysm extends above the renal arteries, the renal arteries must be reimplanted into the graft, or bypass grafts must be created. Placement of an endovascular stent graft within the aneurysmal lumen via the femoral artery is a less invasive alternative that has a lower acute morbidity and mortality than open repair. This procedure excludes the aneurysm from systemic blood flow and reduces risk of rupture. The aneurysm eventually thromboses, and 50% of aneurysms decrease in diameter. Short-term results are
