Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA) - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: abdominal, aneurysm, aneurysms, aortic, abdominal aortic, risk, patients, rupture, repair, blood, complications, artery, endovascular, size, stent


open repair. This procedure excludes the aneurysm from systemic blood flow and reduces risk of rupture. The aneurysm eventually thromboses, and 50% of aneurysms decrease in diameter. Short-term results are good, and long-term results are favorable (3). Complications include angulation, kinking, thrombosis, migration of the stent graft, and endoleak (persistent flow of blood into the aneurysm sac after endovascular stent graft 7/9 placement). Thus, follow-up visits must be more frequent after endovascular stent graft placement than after a surgical repair. If no complications occur, imaging tests are recommended at 1 month, 6 months, 12 months, and every year thereafter. Complex anatomy (eg, short aneurysm neck below renal arteries, severe arterial tortuosity) makes routine endovascular stent grafting difficult in these patients; however, devices have been developed to overcome these issues. In general, for a successful endovascular repair, surgeons should choose a specific device that is appropriate for the patient's anatomic characteristics. In most cases, repair of aneurysms < 5 cm does not appear to increase survival. Aneurysms should be monitored with ultrasound or abdominal CT scans every 6 to 12 months for expansion that warrants treatment. Treatment of a mycotic aneurysm consists of vigorous antimicrobial therapy directed at the pathogen, followed by excision of the aneurysm. Early diagnosis and treatment improve outcome. Surgical complications Myocardial infarction is the leading cause of early postoperative death. Complications following abdominal aortic aneurysm repair include Major vein injury due to proximal cross clamping Erectile dysfunction (as a result of nerve damage or decreased blood flow) Graft infection Pseudoaneurysm Atherosclerotic occlusion of graft Key Points Abdominal aortic diameter ≥ 3 cm constitutes an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). AAAs typically enlarge at a rate of 10%/year, but some enlarge exponentially; about 20% remain the same size indefinitely. 8/9 Risk of rupture is proportional to the size of the aneurysm. Diagnose using ultrasound or abdominal CT; for unruptured aneurysms, CT angiography or magnetic resonance angiography can more precisely characterize aneurysm size and anatomy. Ruptured AAAs require immediate open surgery or endovascular stent grafting; even then, mortality is high. Elective surgical repair is recommended for aneurysms > 5 cm in females, for those > 5.5 cm in males, and for those that are rapidly enlarging or causing ischemic or embolic complications.
