Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


responsible for the largest number of deaths in the world by a single organism. Additionally, TB is among the top ten causes of death worldwide ( 1 ). Most cases of primary TB infections are clinically, bacteriologically, and radiologically inapparent. This primary infection in 5-10% patients leads to active disease after a period of latency within 2 years of contracting the infection. In another 5% the disease becomes active much later in life after a decline in general immunity. It is thought that over 25% of the world’s current population is infected with M. tuberculosis though active infections account only for a small percentage. In the year 2019 over 10 million patients were newly diagnosed with clinical TB. South East Asia accounted for over 44% of these along with Africa (25%), Western Pacific (18%), Eastern Mediterranean (8.2%), Americas (2.9%) and Europe (2.5%). The eight countries of India (26%), Indonesia (8.5%), China (8.4%), Philippines (6.0%), Pakistan (5.7%), Nigeria (4.4%), Bangladesh (3.6%) and South Africa (3.6%) account for two thirds of the world’s newly diagnosed cases last year ( 1 ). As previously noted most active TB infections are reactivation of latent primary TB though a small but significant percentage of patients have active TB related to new exogenous re-infection. The most common primary site of adult active TB are the highly aerated upper lobes of the lungs. The defining pathology includes the presence of granulomas containing epithelioid cells, Langhan’s giant cells surrounded by lymphocytes with a center of caseous necrosis and varying degrees of fibrosis. This chapter focuses on the endocrinology of tuberculous infection ( 2 , 3 ). ALTERED IMMUNE-NEUROENDOCRINE COMMUNICATION IN TUBERCULOSIS The two-way communication between the immune system and the neuroendocrine system is well known and documented. An activated immune cascade can affect all the endocrine systems of the body. Adrenal steroids are the primary hormones that modify immune responses. The up-regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis by inflammation related to infections is primarily mediated by the action of inflammatory cytokines on the hypothalamic releasing factors. Cytokines like Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) stimulate the secretion of corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) from the hypothalamus leading to corticotrophin (ACTH) secretion from the pituitary. The action of ACTH on the adrenal cortex leads to secretion of both cortisol and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). Cortisol inhibits the T- lymphocyte mediated Th1 response while DHEA antagonizes the cortisol action
