Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


action of ACTH on the adrenal cortex leads to secretion of both cortisol and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). Cortisol inhibits the T- lymphocyte mediated Th1 response while DHEA antagonizes the cortisol action on Th1 response. This intense immune-endocrine response to acute infection leads to early mobilization of the immune cells and a robust immune response by the host against the offending pathogen ( 4 , 5 ). However, in TB the chronic persistent activation of the immune-endocrine axis leads to misuse of the immune-endocrine axis and can exacerbate damage to the host. Primarily the prolonged activation of the HPA and resultant increase in glucocorticoid (GC) secretion leads to a change in the T-lymphocyte response from Th1 to Th2 response ( 6 ). Beyond this GCs can interfere with gene expression of certain transcription factors like nuclear factor kappa-β (NF-κβ) ( 7 ), inhibit the proliferation of effector T cells and cause an increased rate of apoptosis of the regulatory T cells ( 8 ). Clinical studies in patients with TB have shown increased circulating levels of cytokines like IL-6, IL-10, interferon-α (IFN-α) and cortisol. However, DHEA levels have been consistently shown to be well below normal levels. In summary, GCs appear to have an adverse effect on the anti-TB immune response while DHEA appears to have a favorable effect. This balance is adversely impacted with the chronic inflammation seen in TB. Some of these changes in immune-endocrinology have also been implicated in the morbidity associated with TB. In vitro studies suggest that negative immune response to mycobacterial antigens was associated with increased IL-6 production which in turn was associated with lower body weights among patients with TB. Higher circulating IL-6 was also associated with loss of appetite ( 9 ). The increased circulating GCs additionally mobilize peripheral lipid stores and inhibit protein synthesis and favor loss of lean body mass. Hypothalamic CRH secretion also appear to have direct catabolic effects on the body other than its effect mediated through increased GC secretion ( 10 ). Among the adipocyte hormones there is a decrease in leptin and increased secretion of adipocytokines in TB. In an acute infection the above adaptive response appears to be useful by directing limited energy stores to the immune response away from the body’s physiological needs. However, in chronic infections like TB these changes lead to a chronic metabolic deficit leading to cachexia which in turn then affects the
