Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


patients. The other common endocrine dysfunction noted in the study was a 72% prevalence of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism among male patients and a 64% prevalence of hyponatremia of whom almost half of them (17/50) had documented syndrome of inappropriate diuresis (SIAD). No patients in this study had clinically significant adrenal insufficiency and one patient had hypercalcemia ( 13 ). In disseminated TB, seeding of the various endocrine glands with mycobacteria and formation of tubercules is common. In an autopsy study performed in over 100 patients who succumbed to disseminated TB done in the eighties, 53% had involvement of the adrenals, 14% had seeding into the thyroid gland, 5% had direct involvement of the testes, and 4% had seeding into the pituitary gland. Among these 100 patients only one had antemortem clinical adrenal insufficiency ( 14 ). The full spectrum of possible endocrine abnormalities seen with tuberculosis is summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Endocrine Abnormalities Seen with Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Infection and with Anti-Tubercular Therapy View in own window Hypothalamus Diabetes Insipidus Pituitary Sellar mass lesion Tuberculous abscess Sellar Tuberculoma Thickened stalk with pituitary interruption syndrome Isolated hyperprolactinemia Incidental partial or complete hypopituitarism Isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism Pituitary dysfunction seen with Tuberculous meningitis Thyroid Tubercular thyroiditis Cold abscess of the thyroid Chronic fibrosing thyroiditis Sick euthyroid syndrome Para-amino-salicylic acid (PAS) related goiter Ethionamide and rifampicin related thyroid dysfunction Parathyroid Inflammation Pancreas Stress hyperglycemia Frank diabetes Pancreatic abscess Testes Isolated TB orchitis TB epididymitis Epididymo-orchitis Primary gonadal failure Ovaries Tubo-ovarian abscess Tubal blockage Unexplained infertility Water Metabolism Hyponatremia Syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuresis (SIAD) Cerebral salt wasting (CSW) Vitamin D-Calcium Metabolism Parathyroid hormone independent hypercalcemia Vitamin D deficiency/hypocalcemia related to isoniazid and rifampicin Adrenals Tubercular adrenalitis Addison’s disease Reversible adrenal insufficiency Isolated DHEA deficiency In this chapter we will review endocrine dysfunction and endocrinopathies associated with TB infection related to the adrenal, thyroid and pituitary glands. Additionally, functional derangement of sodium, and calcium homeostasis will be covered. Glucose intolerance, diabetes and tuberculosis is a large area of public health and will not covered in this chapter. ADRENALS AND TUBERCULOSIS TB can involve both adrenal glands primarily or the involvement may be part of disseminated TB. Both conditions may present with primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison’s Disease). Anti-tuberculous therapy (ATT)-related enzyme induction abnormalities can also lead to adrenal dysfunction and in some cases unmask subclinical adrenal insufficiency. Chronic steroid therapy used in the treatment of some
