Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


0.05 Adrenal Cytoplasmic Antibodies (%) 17% 50% < 0.05 PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF TUBERCULAR ADRENALITIS Adrenal TB develops from hematogenous or lymphatic spread, hence is often associated with extra-adrenal infection. The rich vascularity of the adrenal gland and high levels of local corticosteroids that suppress cell mediated immunity create an ideal microenvironment for the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( 20 ) . Adrenal involvement can be found in up to 6% of patients with active TB, however isolated adrenal involvement is seen only in a fourth of these (1.5-3% of cases with tubercular infection) ( 21 , 22 ). Clinical manifestations of AD appear only after 90% of the adrenal cortices have been compromised ( 23 ). The patterns of adrenal gland involvement in TB are summarized below and in Figure 2 ( 24 ): 1. Chronic infection of the adrenal gland, with clinical manifestations of primary adrenal insufficiency appearing years after initial infection. Pathologically these patients have small atrophic fibrous glands with or without calcification. 2. Isolated adrenal gland involvement early in the course of disease usually within 2 years of the primary infection. Pathologically these patients most commonly present with bilateral adrenal enlargement because of mass lesions secondary to production of cold abscesses within the adrenal glands. Milder enlargement can be seen in patients with extensive granulomas within the adrenal gland. Lastly, patients with isolated adrenal tuberculosis may also present with normal sized glands with granulomatous inflammation seen microscopically. Calcifications maybe seen in these cases as well. 3. Secondary adrenal insufficiency due to prolonged steroid therapy in disseminated TB or tubercular involvement of the pituitary or hypothalamus. 4. Subclinical steroid deficiency unmasked by ATT-related enzyme induction. Figure 2. Mechanisms of adrenal insufficiency with tuberculosis. Both primary adrenal failure and secondary adrenal insufficiency are possible. The presentation of primary adrenal failure can be both acute and chronic. In patients with acute presentation usually within 2 years of tuberculous infection, the pathological presentations could be one of the three noted. Chronic primary adrenal failure is pathologically defined by atrophic and fibrosed glands. [ATT-Anti-tuberculous therapy] CLINICAL FEATURES Adrenal TB can be found in any age, however is more commonly seen in adults. Rare cases have also been described in the pediatric age group ( 25 , 26 ). Thomas Addison’s first description of AD showed a constellation of symptoms like “general languor and debility, remarkable feebleness of heart’s action, and a peculiar change
