Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


( 25 , 26 ). Thomas Addison’s first description of AD showed a constellation of symptoms like “general languor and debility, remarkable feebleness of heart’s action, and a peculiar change in the color of the skin.” Classic manifestations of AD in the form of malaise or fatigue, anorexia, weight loss, nausea, vomiting, muscle and joint pain, orthostatic hypotension, skin hyperpigmentation and salt craving are often present. Mineralocorticoid deficiency leads to postural hypotension, while hyperpigmentation occurs due to activation of the melanocortin 1 receptors (MC1R) in turn because of high ACTH levels ( 27 ). In some patients, however, hyperpigmentation can be absent due to reduced stimulation of MC1R from adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH), resulting in an alabaster-like appearance ( 27 ). A prior history of TB may also be provided in some patients. RADIOLOGIC FINDINGS Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) are useful non-invasive tools in the diagnosis of adrenal TB. CT has been regarded as the modality of choice for diagnosing adrenal TB, and should include both non-contrast and contrast-enhanced techniques. Adrenal involvement is usually bilateral ( 28 ), and findings vary according to course of disease. Early stage: In the first two years, CT shows noncalcified enlarged adrenals with areas of lucency reflecting caseous necrosis, and a peripheral rim of contrast-enhanced parenchyma. Contours of the adrenal glands are generally preserved. Late stage: As disease progresses, the adrenals normalize in size, then shrink, and have calcific foci with irregular margins. Calcifications are best visualized on non-contrast CT scans. These may be either diffuse, focal or punctate in nature ( 22 ). These findings correlate with long-standing fibrosis and dystrophic calcification seen with tuberculous granulomas. LABORATORY FINDINGS Common findings in patients with adrenal TB include hyponatremia, hyperkalemia and normochromic anemia ( 27 ). Hyponatremia can occur due to decreased inhibitory control of vasopressin secretion, resulting in mild SIAD ( 29 ). The Mantoux (tuberculin) test usually is strongly positive and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is elevated. In primary AD, baseline serum ACTH levels are higher than 100 pg/ml, plasma renin levels are elevated and serum aldosterone levels are low. In secondary AD, ACTH levels will be low or inappropriately normal, while mineralocorticoid secretion will be normal ( 27 ). Serum DHEAS will also be low in patients with both primary and secondary AD ( 27 ). Adrenal insufficiency can be demonstrated by low morning plasma
