Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


normal ( 27 ). Serum DHEAS will also be low in patients with both primary and secondary AD ( 27 ). Adrenal insufficiency can be demonstrated by low morning plasma cortisol with a reduced response to synthetic ACTH ( 27 ). Impaired ACTH-stimulated cortisol responses have also been observed with lower baseline cortisol levels, and both higher and lower cortisol responses to ACTH stimulation in patients with isolated pulmonary TB without adrenal involvement ( 24 ). Injectable tetracosactide hexa-acetate, ACTH 1-24 (Synacthen®) (SST), is not marketed or easily available in many developing countries in the world including India. An alternative ACTH which is injectable long-acting porcine sequence, ACTH 1-39 (Acton Prolongatum®) (APST), is easily available and much cheaper. In a study done recently in India by Nair et al in 20 patients with established adrenal insufficiency and 27 controls, the area under the curve of APST (at 120 min) was 0.986 when compared to the standard SST, thus proving its high accuracy. A serum cortisol cut off value of 19.5 µg/dL at 120-min following APST showed a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 88% ( 30 ). PATHOLOGY OF ADRENAL TUBERCULOSIS Macroscopic involvement of the adrenal gland can be seen in up to 46% of patients with adrenal TB. Bilateral involvement is seen in nearly 70% of patients, however they may not be equally affected. Mean combined weight of adrenal gland ranges from 10-37 gm (mean 17 gm) ( 31 ). Caseous necrosis can be seen grossly within a large cavity or within multiple scattered tubercles. Histopathologically, destruction of both the cortex and the medulla is seen with the following patterns of adrenal gland involvement ( 24 ): 1. Presence of granulomas, with or without necrosis. The granulomas show epithelioid cell collections with typical Langhan’s giant cells and an admixture of lymphocytes and plasma cells. Ziehl-Neelsen stain is very useful for detecting acid fast bacilli (AFB) within the necrotic areas, as well as within the granulomas. 2. Glandular enlargement with destruction of parenchyma by necrotizing granulomas. 3. Mass lesion secondary to formation of cold abscesses. In these cases, CT-guided fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is helpful for demonstration of AFB, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and culture for Mycobacterium tuberculosis organisms. In most cases, a combination of histopathology, PCR and culture may be required to confirm the diagnosis. 4. Adrenal atrophy secondary to fibrosis resulting from long-standing tuberculous infection ( 32
