Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


In most cases, a combination of histopathology, PCR and culture may be required to confirm the diagnosis. 4. Adrenal atrophy secondary to fibrosis resulting from long-standing tuberculous infection ( 32 ). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS The differential diagnosis for adrenal enlargement includes primary or metastatic tumors, lymphomas, fungal infections like cryptococcus and histoplasma, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, hemangiomas and adrenal cortical hyperplasia ( 24 , 28 ). Tissue sampling for microbiological (PCR and culture) and pathological analysis should adequately distinguish between them. TREATMENT Treatment for active adrenal TB is similar to the regimen followed for extrapulmonary TB with use of multidrug ATT. Rifampicin induces hepatic enzymes that increase the metabolism of glucocorticoids; hence higher doses of replacement glucocorticoids may be required. Rarely, Rifampicin may trigger an adrenal crisis. In cases of chronic disease, adrenal gland function is unlikely to recover due to massive destruction of the gland ( 20 , 28 ). However, a few authors report improvement in adrenal function when patients are given ATT early in the course of disease ( 33 - 35 ). This may be in part due to the remarkable regenerative capacity of the adrenal cortex to undergo hyperplasia and hypertrophy during active infection ( 20 ). Hormone replacement for primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency related to TB follow the same principles as autoimmune or idiopathic primary AD or secondary adrenal insufficiency. In addition to appropriate glucocorticoid replacement mineralocorticoid replacement may be required. Care must be taken to educate patients about stress dosing and the need for parenteral steroids when the patient may not be able to take or absorb oral glucocorticoids. THYROID AND TUBERCULOSIS The thyroid gland is an uncommon site for infection by M. tuberculosis . Thyroid TB (TTB) is therefore very rare, even in places with a high prevalence of TB. The primary presentation of TTB is as a mass or a goiter. Overt hormonal dysfunction is very uncommon in TTB. However, in patients with tuberculosis affecting any organ clinically insignificant abnormalities in thyroid function tests are very common. ATT also causes both structural and functional thyroid dysfunction. Pre-operative diagnosis of TTB can be made only with a high index of suspicion while evaluating thyroid nodules especially in communities with a high prevalence of TB ( 36 ). Epidemiology M. tuberculosis has been documented to be involved in the thyroid gland of 0.1 to 1% of patients who underwent thyroid tissue sampling for any indication
