Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


( 36 ). Epidemiology M. tuberculosis has been documented to be involved in the thyroid gland of 0.1 to 1% of patients who underwent thyroid tissue sampling for any indication ( 37 - 39 ). In an autopsy series of patients with advanced disseminated TB occurring in the pre- and post-antibiotic era, 14% had evidence of thyroid gland involvement ( 14 ). In a large cohort of 2,426 patients from Morocco, only eight had evidence of TB (0.32%). These were in the form of goiter or as a solitary thyroid nodule. In a study from India, thyroid involvement has been seen in 0.43% of specimens obtained from FNAC ( 40 ), while among Turkish patients undergoing thyroidectomy, 0.25 - 0.6% showed thyroid involvement by M. tuberculosis ( 41 , 42 ). Pathogenesis Thyroid involvement in TB is very uncommon. A few postulated intrinsic properties of the thyroid which are proposed not to allow Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacilli to survive include ( 24 , 36 ): Presence of iodine-containing colloid possessing bacteriostatic activity. High blood flow within the thyroid gland with the presence of intracellular iodine. Increased phagocytosis within the gland, seen in hyperthyroidism. Rich lymphatic supply to the thyroid. Thyroid hormones themselves exercise anti-TB roles. TTB can be primary or secondary A. Primary TTB is involvement of the thyroid gland alone, with no evidence of TB elsewhere in the body. B. Secondary TTB is usually the result of hematogenous, lymphatic and/or direct spread from an active tubercular focus involving the cervical lymph nodes or larynx. Secondary TTB is much more commonly encountered than primary TTB, and TTB may go undiagnosed in many cases especially where clinical signs are non-specific ( 24 ). Clinical Features TTB occurs slightly more commonly in women as compared to men (M: F = 1:1.4) and occurs over a wide age range of 14 to 83 years, median age of 40 ± 16 years for men and 43 ± 17 years for women ( 36 ). TTB can manifest as a localized swelling with cold abscess mimicking carcinoma, as multinodular goiter, as a solitary thyroid nodule without cystic component, or very rarely as an acute abscess. The various presentations are summarized in Figure 3 . Rarely TTB may present as a goiter or a chronic fibrosing thyroiditis. Presence of cervical lymphadenopathy may raise suspicion of malignancy ( 36 ). Clinical presentation is often subacute, but may be
