Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


). On MRI the normal thyroid is homogenously hyperintense relative to the neck muscles on both T1 and T2-weighted images. TTB may show intermediate signal intensity due to granulomatous inflammation, however, this appearance is also seen in thyroid carcinoma. Abscesses appear hypointense on T1 and hyperintense on T2-weighted images, and may show peripheral rim of contrast enhancement ( 47 ). Thyroid function tests (TFT) are usually normal in patients with TTB. Thyrotoxicosis in the initial stage of rapid release of thyroid hormone, and myxedema in the later stage of thyroid gland destruction have also been noted, and patients may have abnormal TFT accordingly ( 24 ). Only 5.2% of patients with TTB have abnormal TFT ( 36 ). Pathology of Thyroid TB In most cases, TTB can be diagnosed on FNAC which typically shows epithelioid cell granulomas with Langhan’s giant cells, peripheral lymphocytic infiltration and purulent caseous necrosis. The yield of AFB by the Zeihl Neelsen stain is more with FNAC samples than in biopsies. The aspirates can be sent for TB culture or PCR. TB-PCR is much more sensitive in detecting M. tuberculosis deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from FNA samples, and is an alternative to rapid diagnosis of TB in AFB-negative cases ( 40 ). The diagnosis is substantiated by histopathology which typically shows granulomas, Langhan’s giant cells and necrosis ( Figure 4 ). Few cases show dense lymphocytic infiltrate with prominent germinal centers, resembling lymphocytic or Hashimoto thyroiditis ( Figure 5 ). Five pathological varieties of TTB have been described ( 36 ): 1. Multiple miliary lesions throughout the thyroid gland 2. Goiter with caseation necrosis 3. Cold abscess 4. Chronic fibrosing tuberculosis 5. Acute abscess Fig 4. Case of TTB showing granulomas within the thyroid parenchyma comprised of epithelioid cells with Langhan’s giant cells (yellow arrows) and foci of necrosis (black arrows). Hematoxylin and eosin, 100x. Figure 5. Case of TTB showing dense lymphocytic infiltrate with prominent germinal centers in the thyroid parenchyma (arrow). Hematoxylin and eosin, 100x . Differential Diagnosis TTB, although rare, should be considered in the list of differentials for solitary or multinodular thyroid nodules, and abscesses ( 36 ). Reidel’s thyroiditis may mimic chronic fibrosing tuberculosis clinically, however histopathology clinches the diagnosis ( 42 ). Treatment ATT remains the cornerstone of treatment. Surgery has a limited role with drainage of abscess, avoiding total destruction of gland and subsequent hypothyroidism. However inadvertent total thyroidectomies are
