Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


). Treatment ATT remains the cornerstone of treatment. Surgery has a limited role with drainage of abscess, avoiding total destruction of gland and subsequent hypothyroidism. However inadvertent total thyroidectomies are performed as the pre-operative diagnosis is commonly a malignancy. In cases were TB was diagnosed prior to surgery, ATT is well tolerated with resolution of symptoms, reduction in thyroid mass symptoms, and with favorable reversal of thyroid hormonal dysfunction. Standard ATT schedules are followed. Thyroid hormone levels should be monitored before, during, and after treatment. Despite strict ATT, recurrence and failure rate is 1% due to resistance to ATT drugs ( 48 ). Functional and Structural Alterations of Thyroid Functions with Active Tuberculosis and with Anti-tubercular Therapy Among hospitalized patients with TB without any evidence of involvement of the thyroid gland sick euthyroid syndrome with low free T3 is common. The estimates vary between 63-92% and probably is the commonest endocrinopathy seen in patients with TB ( 13 , 49 ). As with other unwell patients the degree of reduction in Free T3 serves both as a marker for severity of the disease and mortality. In the study by Chow et al, all patients who survived the hospitalization had normal TFT within one month of initiation of ATT. In community dwelling patients with TB, the prevalence of thyroid dysfunction is unclear. Thyroid hormones are metabolized in the liver and the kidneys. In the liver, the enzyme CYP3A4 belonging to the hepatic cytochrome P450 family is responsible for the metabolism. Rifampicin is a potent activator of the P450 system and this leads to an increase in T4 turnover. In most adults with normal a hypothalmo-pituitary-thyroid axis this increase in turnover is compensated by an increase in the production of thyroid hormones and a slight increase in thyroid volume. This may be noted biochemically as a slight increase in free T3 and total T3 levels after rifampicin administration. There are no changes in free T4 and TSH concentrations ( 50 ). Among patients with pre-existing thyroid disease with a limited capacity to increase production of thyroid hormones, the rifampicin-mediated increase in free T4 turnover might lead to the need for an increase in thyroid hormone replacement therapy. In a retrospective cohort of patients on levothyroxine replacement therapy, the addition of rifampicin as part of ATT led to a need for a 26% increase in dose in patients on thyroid hormone replacement therapy
