Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


patients on levothyroxine replacement therapy, the addition of rifampicin as part of ATT led to a need for a 26% increase in dose in patients on thyroid hormone replacement therapy and a 50% increase in patients on suppressive therapy post thyroidectomy for differentiated thyroid cancer ( 51 ). Older anti-tubercular agents have more profound effects on thyroid physiology. Studies by Munkner et al demonstrated an association between the use of p-amino salicylic acid (PAS) and the development of goiter ( 52 ). PAS and ethionamide were also associated with significant risk of developing hypothyroidism ( 53 , 54 ). However, these agents are currently not used as first line agents. It is prudent to monitor TFTs 6-8 weeks after initiation of any of these three agents in patients who have pre-existing thyroid dysfunction. PITUITARY AND TUBERCULOSIS Direct involvement of the pituitary gland by Mycobacterium Tuberculosis is very rare. Some of the earliest published reports of pituitary TB include von Rokitansky who noted tubercles in the hypophysis as early as 1844, Letchworth in 1924 who reported a case of primary pituitary tuberculoma on autopsy examination, and Coleman and Meredith documented a case of pituitary TB in 1940 ( 55 , 56 ). The spectrum of involvement ( Figure 6 ) of the pituitary gland with TB includes sellar, parasellar, and stalk tuberculomas and sellar tubercular abscesses. Patients with tuberculous meningitis exhibit a range of functional pituitary dysfunction even in the absence of any evidence of direct invasion/extension of the disease into the sella. Among survivors of tubercular meningitis hypopituitarism was noted 10 years after the primary disease. Hypothalamic pituitary dysfunction such as isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may accompany cachexia and weight loss that can complicate more extensive disease. Infiltrative tubercular disease of the stalk can produce pituitary interruption syndrome including isolated diabetes insipidus and hyperprolactinemia. In most cases the diagnosis of tuberculosis of the pituitary is established on histopathology, often in the absence of confirmatory culture studies or positive acid-fast stains ( 57 ). Although the diagnosis is difficult on clinical and radiological examination, pituitary TB should be considered in the differential of a suprasellar mass especially in developing countries, as the condition is potentially curable with ATT ( 58 , 59 ). Figure 6. Spectrum of structural and functional disease of the pituitary seen with tuberculosis Sellar Tuberculoma/Abscess EPIDEMIOLOGY The incidence of pituitary TB is very low. In an autopsy series
