Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


). Figure 6. Spectrum of structural and functional disease of the pituitary seen with tuberculosis Sellar Tuberculoma/Abscess EPIDEMIOLOGY The incidence of pituitary TB is very low. In an autopsy series of 3,533 cases, only 2 of 89 intracranial tuberculomas involved the sella turcica, while in another autopsy series of 14,160 cases, only 2 cases of TB were encountered involving the anterior pituitary lobe ( 50 ). In patients with late generalized TB, the incidence of pituitary involvement is 4% ( 14 ). Nearly 70% of pituitary TB reported worldwide has been reported from the Indian subcontinent, probably attributable to the higher prevalence of TB in this location ( 60 ). In the largest series from India, 18 cases of sellar TB were diagnosed based on histopathology from 1148 pituitary surgeries ( 60 ). PATHOGENESIS Pituitary TB can arise either from hematogenous seeding, in the presence or absence of miliary disease, or from direct extension from the brain, meninges or sinuses. TB can either involve the pituitary gland alone, or involve the adjacent and/or distant organs as well ( 60 ). Both the adenohypophysis and neurohypophysis may be involved by TB. Supra-sellar extension is common in pituitary TB with only rare cases confined to the sella ( 57 ). CLINICAL FEATURES Pituitary TB occurs at a mean age of 34.1 ± 13.6 years (age range 6 to 68 years), and is more common in women (F:M = 2.7:1). Young children are at high risk of progression of TB including CNS disease. Clinical presentation is often indolent. Duration of symptoms average 4 months ( 60 , 61 ). Pituitary involvement, either as a sellar abscess or tuberculoma presents primarily with symptoms of a sellar mass. The common presentations clinically are gradual onset of headache (85.2%), visual loss (48.1%) ( Figure 7 ), seizures and cranial nerve palsies. Patients with infiltration of the stalk by tuberculomas may present with central diabetes insipidus with polyuria (8.6%) or menstrual abnormalities related to hyperprolactinemia like amenorrhea in women (37.3%) and galactorrhea (23.7%) ( 60 , 61 ). Growth retardation and hypogonadism are rare findings in children with pituitary TB ( 61 ). Hyperphagia resulting in obesity or weight gain has also rarely been documented which may occur due to the loss of sensitivity of the appetite-regulating network in the hypothalamus to afferent peripheral humoral signals ( 62 ). Apoplexy, characterized by acute infarction and/or hemorrhage in
