Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


occur due to the loss of sensitivity of the appetite-regulating network in the hypothalamus to afferent peripheral humoral signals ( 62 ). Apoplexy, characterized by acute infarction and/or hemorrhage in the pituitary gland, is an uncommon presentation of pituitary TB ( 63 ). Systemic and constitutional symptoms may or may not be present; low grade fever may be seen in 14.8% of patients. Other organs may show evidence of TB in 26.9% ( 60 , 64 ). Tuberculous meningitis may be associated in a few cases. Figure 7. Bitemporal hemianopsia demonstrated on perimetry. RADIOLOGICAL FINDINGS The diagnosis of primary pituitary TB is challenging and often difficult. Radiologically pituitary TB can mimic pituitary adenoma, arachnoid cyst, pyogenic abscess, metastasis, or craniopharyngioma. MRI typically shows a sellar mass which may extend into the suprasellar region, involving the optic nerves and inter-carotid space ( Figure 8 ). T1-weighted MR images appear isointense. T2-weighted images show central hyperintensity corresponding to caseous necrosis, and gadolinium contrast imaging may show thick ring enhancement in the periphery with central hypointense areas. Meningeal enhancement with enhancement of the thickened pituitary stalk may favor non-adenoma etiology. Additional findings like sellar/suprasellar calcification and sellar floor erosion have also been described ( 57 , 63 - 65 ). Figure 8. Magnetic resonance imaging of a patient with pituitary tuberculosis shows a sellar mass lesion measuring 2.1 cm x 1.9 cm x 1.4 cm with suprasellar extension A) heterogenous predominantly increased signal intensity on T2 weighted imaging and B) hypointense on T1 weighted imaging. C and D) Significant homogenous post contrast enhancement of the mass lesion on axial (C) and sagittal (D) views, respectively. Involvement of the pituitary stalk and superior displacement of the optic chiasma is also seen. Bright signal of posterior pituitary is maintained. MR spectroscopy can detect elevated lipid peaks in a tuberculoma at 0.9, 1.3, 2.0 and 2.8 ppm, and a phosphoserine peak at 3.7 ppm. Lipid resonance at 0.9 and 1.3 ppm occur due to methylene and terminal methyl groups on fatty acids found in caseous necrosis ( 66 ) LABORATORY FINDINGS Panhypopituitarism may be encountered on evaluation of anterior pituitary hormones like thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), early morning cortisol, growth hormone, prolactin, luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Testing for HIV and immunocompromised states should be considered in the appropriate clinical setting. Positive tuberculin test and elevated ESR may be seen in patients with systemic
