Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Testing for HIV and immunocompromised states should be considered in the appropriate clinical setting. Positive tuberculin test and elevated ESR may be seen in patients with systemic involvement. PATHOLOGY OF PITUITARY TUBERCULOSIS The most common pattern of tuberculous involvement of the pituitary on histopathological examination is granulomas without caseation necrosis (59.6%) as show in Figure 9A . Granulomas may be miliary or may coalesce together to form a conglomerate mass. Reticulin stain helps demonstrate loss of normal reticulin pattern of the pituitary ( Figure 9B ). The granulomas are composed of epithelioid cells, Langhan’s giant cells, and lymphocytes ( Figure 9C-D ) . Immunohistochemistry (IHC) with CD68 can help confirm the presence of epithelioid histiocytes in cases of unequivocal morphology, while CD3, CD20 and CD138 can highlight a mixture of T-lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes and plasma cells, respectively ( Figure 10A-D ). Pus and caseation necrosis are seen less commonly, and in these cases the yield of AFB is greater than with cases without necrosis. As with other sites, demonstration of AFB on biopsy material is very low. In such cases growth of M. Tuberculosis organisms on culture and TB PCR aid in diagnosis. Figure 9. Pituitary tuberculosis. Biopsy of the pituitary showing nests of pituicytes (black arrows) destroyed and separated by confluent granulomas (red arrow). A) low power view, Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E), 100x; B) corresponding area showing reticulin-free zones (asterisks) occupied by granulomas, Gordon and Sweet’s silver reticulin stain, 100x; C & D) higher power views showing non-caseating granulomas comprised of epithelioid cells with occasional Langhan’s giant cells (top left) and lymphocytes, H&E, 400x. Figure 10. Immunohistochemistry in pituitary tuberculous granulomas shows mixed inflammatory infiltrate made up of epithelioid histiocytes (CD68), T-lymphocytes (CD3), B-lymphocytes (CD20) and occasional plasma cells (CD138) (A-D, respectively). Diamino benzidine chromogen, 100x. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Sarcoidosis must be considered in the differential of non-caseating granulomatous hypophysitis, and shows naked granulomas without infiltrating lymphocytes. IgG4-related disease typically shows increase in plasma cells of the IgG4 subtype with storiform fibrosis. Histiocytic lesions like Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) usually involve the infundibulum and typically show presence of Langerhans’s histiocytes with eosinophils. LCH is more common in children and young adults. Other inflammatory lesions involving the pituitary stalk are lymphocytic infundibuloneurohypophysitis (LINH), Wegener’s granulomatosis, and pituitary stalk parasitosis ( 67 ). Fungal granulomas involving the hypophyseal region can be ruled out by performing fungal stains on tissue sections
