Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


to the hospital with TB. Though data about the prevalence of hyponatremia among community treated patients with uncomplicated pulmonary TB is sparse, among inpatients admitted with TB, hyponatremia has been seen in 10-76% of patients ( 74 - 78 ). The commonest cause of hyponatremia is the SIAD. Other causes include untreated primary or secondary adrenal insufficiency, volume depletion, hyponatremia associated with volume excess, and hypoalbuminemia and rare cases of cerebral salt wasting seen with tuberculous meningitis ( 79 ) ( Figure 11 ). Hypernatremia is rarely encountered and usually signifies involvement of the hypothalamus or the pituitary stalk leading to diabetes insipidus. Figure 11. Causes of hyponatremia in patients with Tuberculosis. [SIAD-Syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuresis]. Green boxes are common causes, yellow is less common and the red boxes are rare. Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuresis (SIAD) In the absence of adrenal deficiency, patients with non-CNS TB who are adequately hydrated (euvolemic) the hyponatremia is almost always a consequence of retention of free water despite low serum osmolality (inappropriate antidiuresis). Wiess and Katz first noted the association between active untreated TB and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (SAID). In four patients with active TB and hyponatremia they noted excessive urinary sodium excretion. When these four patients were put on fluid restriction there was an improvement in the serum sodium levels. All patients who survived also had gradual normalization of serum sodium levels and SAID with treatment of TB ( 80 ). Three different mechanisms have been proposed for the development of SIAD in patients with tuberculosis without evidence of adrenal involvement. 1. The first proposed mechanism in common with other pulmonary diseases is the stimulation of baroreceptors by chronic hypoxemia that can accompany extensive pulmonary TB. There is release of anti-diuretic hormone (ADH) in response to baroreceptor stimulation which leads on to SIAD ( 81 ). 2. The second possible mechanism proposed is a shift of the “osmostat” towards the left as seen in patients with decreased effective circulating volume leading to ADH release at lower serum osmolality. Investigators have noted higher circulating ADH levels in the serum despite hyponatremia which subsequently declined when free water was administered. The intact response to hypoosmolality suggested that the osmoregulation set up in the hypothalamus was functioning normally but at a lower osmolar threshold for ADH release ( 82 ). 3. The third mechanism proposed is the ectopic secretion of ADH by the tubercular granuloma.
