Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


was functioning normally but at a lower osmolar threshold for ADH release ( 82 ). 3. The third mechanism proposed is the ectopic secretion of ADH by the tubercular granuloma. This mechanism was proposed by the authors of a case where a patient with well-established diabetes insipidus developed SIAD and hyponatremia after contracting pulmonary tuberculosis ( 83 ). Patients with CNS TB have a higher prevalence of hyponatremia compared to those with pulmonary infections. In adult patients with TBM the prevalence of a low sodium state has varied from 45-65% in different studies ( 84 - 86 ). In children with TBM the prevalence varied from 38-71% in different studies ( 87 - 89 ). In children with TBM and hyponatremia there appears to be an association with mortality and increased intracranial pressures ( 87 , 90 ). A recent review from India compiled data from over 11 studies comprising a total of 642 patients with TBM and found the prevalence of hyponatremia to be 44%. Unlike non-CNS TB the commonest etiology of hyponatremia among patients with CNS TB is cerebral salt wasting (CSW) rather than SIAD (36% vs 26%) ( 86 ). The other less common causes of hyponatremia encountered in TBM include the following 1. Dehydration and hypovolemic hyponatremia due to anorexia, vomiting, nausea and diarrhea 2. Drug induced including use of diuretics, osmotic agents like mannitol and anti-seizure medications like carbamazepine and phenytoin. 3. Secondary adrenal insufficiency and rarely primary adrenal insufficiency CLINICAL PRESENTATION AND TREATMENT OF SIAD ASSOCIATED WITH TUBERCULOSIS Most patients with SIAD and TB are asymptomatic and do not require any treatment. The hyponatremia accompanying SIAD self corrects itself when ATT is started ( 82 ). Fluid restriction is only required in symptomatic patients or in patients with severe hyponatremia. Prior to restricting fluids in patients with non-CNS TB it is important to rule out dehydration either by assessing volume status clinically, assessing volume status with urine spot sodium levels, or measuring central venous pressures in unwell patients. In patients with CNS TB, it is important to rule out CSW prior to initiating fluid restriction. Hypertonic saline infusions are limited to patients with life threatening symptoms like seizures and deep coma attributable to hyponatremia ( 86 ). Care should be taken to correct hyponatremia at a rate not faster than 8-10 mEq/L in 24 hours to avoid central pontine myelinolysis. Cerebral Salt Wasting (CSW)
