Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


( 86 ). Care should be taken to correct hyponatremia at a rate not faster than 8-10 mEq/L in 24 hours to avoid central pontine myelinolysis. Cerebral Salt Wasting (CSW) CSW refers to changes in renal salt handling that accompanies CNS disorders which leads to natriuresis and hypovolemia. The accompanying dehydration and decrease in effective circulating volume triggers ADH release via baroreceptors. The action of ADH on collecting tubules then leads to selective water resorption and relative water excess and hyponatremia despite overall hypovolemia. The putative renal natriuretic triggers include atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), and c-type natriuretic peptide. In TBM the most likely natriuretic trigger is BNP ( 91 ). What induces BNP release in patients with TBM is less well characterized. The putative mechanisms that trigger BNP release include sympathoadrenal activation, increase in intracranial pressure, and vasospasm in cerebral arteries ( 92 ). In patients with CNS TB statistically CSW is more likely to be the cause of hyponatremia and should always be ruled out prior to labelling them as SIAD and starting fluid restriction. A simple diagnostic criterion proposed by Kalita et al ( 86 ) includes meeting all the 3 essential criteria and meeting at least 3 out of 5 additional supportive criteria to label the patient has having CSW. Table 5 lists the clinical and biochemical differences between SIAD and CSW. Essential Criteria (meets all three) 1. Polyuria (>3 liters of urine in 24 hours over 2 days) 2. Documented hyponatremia 3. Exclusion of other cause of natriuresis like adrenal insufficiency, salt losing nephropathies, use of diuretics, hepatic and cardiac failure. Additional criteria (meet 3 out of 5) 1. Clinical evidence of hypovolemia and dehydration 2. Documented negative fluid balance either by careful weight monitoring or by strict intake and output records 3. Urine spot Sodium > 40 mEq/L 4. Central Venous Pressure (CVP) < 6 cm of water 5. Laboratory evidence of dehydration including an increase in hemoglobin and hematocrit, increase in blood urea nitrogen and increase in albumin than previously. Table 5. Differentiation Between Syndrome of Inappropriate Anti-Diuresis (SIAD) and Cerebral Salt Wasting (CSW) View in own window Parameter SIAD CSW Extracellular Volume Increased Decreased Body Weight Increased Decreased Fluid Balance Positive Negative Tachycardia - + Hypotension - + Hematocrit/Albumin/Blood Urea Nitrogen Normal Increased Central Venous Pressure Normal or slightly high Decreased TREATMENT OF CSW ASSOCIATED WITH TBM The primary
