Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


Balance Positive Negative Tachycardia - + Hypotension - + Hematocrit/Albumin/Blood Urea Nitrogen Normal Increased Central Venous Pressure Normal or slightly high Decreased TREATMENT OF CSW ASSOCIATED WITH TBM The primary treatment for CSW is fluid replacement with or without oral salt loading for as long as polyuria continues. Isotonic fluids are preferred for replacement. If the patient has a central venous line then the central venous pressure (CVP) measurements would guide the fluid replacements. In the absence of a CVP line fluid balance is needed by either meticulous intake and output charting or use of daily weight measurements. In patient’s refractory to fluid replacement and oral salt loading, oral fludrocortisone (OFC) has been tried as there is an inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) system in CSW. A recent randomized control trial was conducted in 36 patients with CSW associated with TBM. Half of them received OFC (0.4-1mg/day) plus fluid and oral salt and the other half received only fluids and oral salt. The patients who received OFC in addition had quicker normalization of serum sodium levels (4 days vs 15 days; p 0.04) and lesser cerebral infarctions related to vasospasm (6% vs 33%; p 0.04). However, OFC use was associated with severe hypokalemia and significant hypertension in 2 patients each and in one patient there was an episode of pulmonary edema. OFC had to be withdrawn in 2/18 patients because of these serious adverse events. There was no difference in mortality or disability at 3 and 6 months among patients who received OFC vs the patients who did not ( 93 ). CALCIUM ABNORMALITIES IN TUBERCULOSIS Hypercalcemia in Patients with Tuberculosis Hypercalcemia has been known to be associated with a number of granulomatous diseases. The three commonest granulomatous diseases causing hypercalcemia include sarcoidosis, TB, and fungal infection ( 94 ). The prevalence of hypercalcemia in patients with TB has ranged from 2-51% in studies done from South Africa (2%), Hong Kong (6%), India (10.6%), Sweden (25%), Malaysia (27.5%), Greece (25% & 48%) and Australia (51%) ( 13 , 95 - 101 ). In contrast, prospective studies from the United Kingdom, Belgium, and Turkey did not show any hypercalcemia among patients with newly diagnosed tuberculosis ( 102 - 104 ). The primary determinant in the development of hypercalcemia among patients with TB appears to be their Vitamin D status and nutritional calcium intake. In populations with high nutritional calcium intake
