Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


The primary determinant in the development of hypercalcemia among patients with TB appears to be their Vitamin D status and nutritional calcium intake. In populations with high nutritional calcium intake and adequate sunlight exposure like in Greece and Australia the prevalence of hypercalcemia is highest. Among countries with good sunlight exposure but poor nutritional calcium intake like most Asian countries there is a more modest prevalence of hypercalcemia. The countries with good nutritional calcium intake but poor sunlight exposure and low Vitamin D levels appear to have the lowest prevalence of hypercalcemia. This has been elegantly explained by Chan et al ( 105 ). However, some outliers like the higher prevalence in Sweden and moderate prevalence in India are not completely explained by this hypothesis alone. In a recent paper looking at retrospective records of patients admitted with TB at a tertiary care hospital in Vellore almost 20% of patients were found to have albumin-adjusted hypercalcemia. The authors looked at the risk factors for hypercalcemia by comparing them with the patients without hypercalcemia assuming that background nutritional calcium intake and Vitamin D levels were similar. The primary risk factors for the development of hypercalcemia within this group was presence of renal dysfunction or frank renal failure, use of diuretics, disseminated tuberculosis, and presence of co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension ( 106 ). MECHANISM OF HYPERCALCEMIA WITH TUBERCULOSIS The definitive mechanism that causes hypercalcemia among patients with TB is still unclear. Alternative etiologies for hypercalcemia including adrenal insufficiency, primary hyperparathyroidism, primary hyperthyroidism, milk alkali syndrome have been ruled out in many of the case series. Biochemically several investigators have shown an increase in the levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D along with low or normal levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels. This suggests an increase in the conversion of 25-hydroxy vitamin D to 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D ( 107 ). This conversion is mediated by the enzyme 1-α-hydroxylase found in the kidney. However, hypercalcemia is even reported in patients with chronic renal failure and among those with absent kidneys ( 108 , 109 ). This suggests a non-renal site of enzymatic activity. The tubercular granuloma is suggested as the site for the extra renal 1-α-hydroxylase activity ( 110 ). Activated macrophages can express 1-α-hydroxylase activity and in patients with active TB activated macrophages retrieved by broncho-alveolar lavage were able to synthesize 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D in vitro studies ( 111 ). The macrophage
