Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


1-α-hydroxylase activity and in patients with active TB activated macrophages retrieved by broncho-alveolar lavage were able to synthesize 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D in vitro studies ( 111 ). The macrophage production of 1-α-hydroxylase is probably important for the immune response to tuberculous infection. The binding of active Vitamin D (1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D) to Vitamin D receptors within the immune cells stimulates autophagy and production of cytokines that contribute to the clearance of the mycobacterium from the body ( 112 , 113 ). In addition, active Vitamin D contributes to the downregulation of the inflammatory response of the body to reduce damage to bystander host tissues ( 114 ). The increased intestinal absorption of calcium and observed hypercalcemia may be an unintended consequence of this immune-protective phenomenon. This also explains why patients with low levels of substrate (25-hydroxy vitamin D) for the enzyme or among those with poor calcium intake there is less likelihood of the development of hypercalcemia. CLINICAL PRESENTATION Most patients with hypercalcemia related to TB infection are asymptomatic. Rarely patients develop symptoms related to hypercalcemia including polyuria, anorexia, nausea, weakness and lethargy, more serious CNS symptoms like delirium. Patients may develop hypercalcemia later in the course of TB after commencement of therapy with improvements in nutritional and albumin status and improvement in nutritional calcium intake. TREATMENT A Cochrane review of Vitamin D supplementation in patients with TB did not show any benefits in terms of improved outcomes but there was also no increased risk of developing hypercalcemia ( 115 ). Most patients have gradual resolution of hypercalcemia on ATT over 1 to 7 months ( 96 ). Hypocalcemia in Patients Treated with Rifampicin and Isoniazid Hypocalcemia was noted for the first time in United Kingdom during a randomized control trial of anti-tubercular chemotherapy after several months of therapy. Fourteen out of the 325 patients on the trial developed hypocalcemia. In this trial none of the 325 patients was noted to have hypercalcemia. On the whole as a group the mean calcium levels dropped significantly during the course of the treatment trial. The mechanism is proposed to be the action of both Rifampicin and Isoniazid on vitamin D metabolism ( 102 ). When isoniazid is given to normal subjects there is a brisk decline in the levels of active Vitamin D (1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D). There is slower decline in the levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D accompanied by a
