Infections in Endocrinology: Tuberculosis
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, tuberculosis, adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, cases, tuberculous, free, disease, hyponatremia, primary, vitamin, hypercalcemia, involvement


there is a brisk decline in the levels of active Vitamin D (1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D). There is slower decline in the levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D accompanied by a compensatory increase in the levels of parathyroid hormones. In the same study isoniazid was shown to inhibit cytochrome p450 related hepatic mixed function oxidase and it is assumed that since the renal 1-α Hydroxylase is also related to cytochrome P450 system there would be decreased conversion of 25-hydroxy vitamin D to 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D ( 116 ). On the other hand, rifampicin is an inducer of hepatic hydroxylase which should in theory lead to an increase in active Vitamin D levels. However, when rifampicin was given to normal volunteers there was a fall in 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels with no changes to the levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D. The possible explanation for this decline is likely to be that the higher metabolic turnover of active Vitamin D induced by rifampicin is not compensated by an increase in dermal production or increased nutritional provision of vitamin D ( 117 ). Regardless, in treatment regimens that include both rifampicin and isoniazid there is a very real possibility of the development of not just hypocalcemia but unmasking of rickets and osteomalacia especially when the patient is poorly nourished. CONCLUSIONS TB can involve almost all endocrine glands as a primary disease-causing destruction and loss of function. In enclosed spaces like the pituitary fossa and neck the granuloma/tuberculoma/cold abscess can replace vital structures and cause symptoms related to a mass. This chapter did not cover direct tubercular involvement of the ovaries, testes, and the pancreas. Additionally, a whole range of functional hormone abnormalities can accompany the effect on chronic inflammation on the immune-endocrine pathways. Metabolic derangement in calcium and water metabolism are covered in detail. Abnormalities in glucose metabolism are not covered because of the vast amount of information now available on the public health aspects of TB and diabetes mellitus. Fortunately, most abnormalities are self-limited and resolve with successful ATT. However, one needs to consider the rare possibility of a hormonal emergency like an adrenal crisis, hypercalcemic emergency, or pituitary apoplexy in the context of TB. REFERENCES 1. World Health Organization. Global Tuberculosis Report 2020. https://apps ​.who.int ​/iris/bitstream/handle ​/10665/336069/9789240013131-eng.pdf (Accessed 28 Nov 2020) 2. Lyon SM, Rossman MD. Pulmonary tuberculosis. Microbiol Spectr (2017) 5:TNMI7–0032. doi: 10.1128/microbiolspec.TNMI7-0032-2016. [ PMC free article : PMC11687454 ]
