HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


infection, cerebral disorders and HIV-1-related malignancies, as not CMV disease and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, decreased all HIV-1 organ-specific manifestations are decreasing in significantly, but only after 3 months of HAART, whereas theHAARTera. the incidence of other OIs, including PCP, toxoplasmosis and Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS), decreased within 3 months of startingHAART.Thus,itshouldbenotedthatsomeOIsstill Organ-specific manifestations before and occur despite virologically successful HAART, while other after the introduction of HAART OIsstilloccurmainlyinpatientswhohavenothadaccess to therapy orwhofailed antiretroviral therapy. Pulmonary manifestations Similarly, accumulating evidence suggests that success- ful suppression of HIV RNA does not translate into Inthelastfewyears,ithasbecomeapparentthatthelung decreased replication of hepatitis C virus (HCV) , and is an important niche for the replication of HIV-1, which inflammation and fibrosis from HIVand HCV coinfection mayhaveimplicationsforHAART.Thelungisamajorsite worsened during antiretroviral therapy . It should be for opportunistic pathogens, such as PCP, Mycobacterium noted that most retrospective and prospective studies tuberculosis and pyogenic bacteria. Wolff et al. have concerning the impact of HAART on the incidence of clearlyshownthatPCPhasbeenalesscommondiagnosis AIDS-defining illnesses didnot fullyclarifythefrequency since HAART became available, whereas bacterial pneu- ofAIDSdiagnosesandthefrequencyofmortalityrelatedto monia has been more common in patients treated with these illnesses. HAART than in those treated in the pre-HAART era. In However, the introduction of HAART has seen the contrast, another study found a significant decrease in emergence of several complications, termed immune bacterial pneumonia in patients treated with HAART . reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), including No difference was found in the incidence of CMV CMVvitritis,MAClymphadenitis,paradoxicalresponsesto pneumonia in HIV-1-infected patients receiving or not treatmentfortuberculosis,andexacerbationofcryptococ- receiving HAART . In addition, Jones et al. cosis . This syndrome seems to be an unmasking of an observed that the risk for tuberculosis was much lower undiagnosed OI, or an exacerbation of a diagnosed OI in amongpatientstreatedwithHAART,andtheypointedout the setting of improved immune function that contributes that widespread use of HAART does reduce the risk of to thepathogenesis of the OI. tuberculosis,andmayhelpbringaboutfurtherdeclinesin Although OIs produce particular organ-specific mani- tuberculosis among HIV-1-infected patients. Finally, the festations during the course of the disease, other organ- impactofHAARTonpulmonarymalignancieshasnotbeen specific manifestations may be sustained by the HIV-1 fully investigated. Wolff et al. showed a significant itself, such as HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN), increase in non-Hodgkin lymphoma in patients receiving cardiomiopathy, HIV-1 encephalopathy and wasting syn- HAART compared with the pre-HAART era. Similarly, the drome. The widening of the clinical spectrum of organ- incidence of HIV-1-related lung cancer increased from r 2005 BritishHIVAssociation HIVMedicine(2005)6,66–78 HAARTandorgan-specificmanifestations 69 0.8/100 patient-years in the pre-HAART era to 6.7/100
