HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


drome. The widening of the clinical spectrum of organ- incidence of HIV-1-related lung cancer increased from r 2005 BritishHIVAssociation HIVMedicine(2005)6,66–78 HAARTandorgan-specificmanifestations 69 0.8/100 patient-years in the pre-HAART era to 6.7/100 Whereas the incidences of most neurological disorders patient-years in thepost-HAARTera . have reduced since HAART was introduced, the incidence of PML has not significantly changed between the pre- HAART and HAART eras . In addition, PML Neurological and psychiatric disorders outcomehasbeenfoundtobepoorinbothHAART-na¨ıve HIV-1 infection is often complicated by neurological and HAART-experienced patients who responded to anti- disorders in the advanced stage of the disease. Some HIV treatment . It should be noted that PML has been investigatorshavereportedadecreaseintheincidenceand associated with immune reconstitution , and that prevalence of OIs of the central nervous system (CNS), immune reconstitution as a result of HAART does not, whichmaybecorrelatedwiththeuseofHAARTsince1996 paradoxically,worsen the course of PML. , whereas during the pre-HAART era neurological Finally,psychiatricdisorders,includingacutepsychosis, disordersweretheinitialmanifestationsofAIDSin7–20% mainlydevelopinpatientswithadvancedHIV-1infection, of patients . In a recent study, Neuenburg et al. with a wide incidence range of 0.2–15% . This wide confirmed a decreased incidence of OIs of the CNS, range of incidence of psychiatric disorders is probably a sis. In particular, a progressive reduction in the incidence population, the fact that these studies were mainly of cerebral toxoplasmosis was observed in the HAARTera conducted in psychiatric wards, and finally varying [21–23],butthisinfectionstilltendedtooccurregularlyin diagnostic criteria for mentalillnesses. patients with advanced immunosuppression, especially in In a retrospective study, we evaluated the impact of those patients whofailed HAART. HAART on acute psychosis . Our study showed a The impact of HAART has also been investigated with significant increase of acute psychosis during the HAART regard to other neurological disorders, such as HIV-1 period.SinceHAARThasprolongedlifeexpectancy,itcan encephalopathy, primary CNS lymphoma, progressive be postulated that the riskof mentaldisorders mayreflect multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and distal sym- the proportion of HIV-infected individuals suffering from metric polyneuropathy. An autopsy study showed in- various chronic mentalconditions. creased HIV-1 encephalopathy from 1982 to 1993, and persistenceofmildHIV-1encephalopathyfrom1994–1998 Cardiac involvement . Thus, in the HAART era there has been a persistent increase in mild and moderate HIV-1 encephalopathy, Cardiac involvement is commonly reported in HIV-1- whereassevereHIV-1encephalopathy,whichwasuncom- infectedpatients,especiallyinthoseintheadvancedstage moninthepre-HAARTera,hasnotbeenobservedatallin ofthedisease.BeforetheHAARTera,pericarditiswas theHAARTera.Thetrendtowardsanameliorationof themostfrequentclinicalcardiacinvolvementobservedin HIV-1 encephalopathy in the HAART era might be the AIDS population , caused by specific organisms explained by direct inhibition of HIV within the brain, as such as M. tuberculosis, Streptococcus pneumoniae or well as improvement of immunological markers, by Staphylococcus aureus . In addition, cardiac involve-
