HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


by direct inhibition of HIV within the brain, as such as M. tuberculosis, Streptococcus pneumoniae or well as improvement of immunological markers, by Staphylococcus aureus . In addition, cardiac involve- HAART; moreover, HAART may lead to suppression of ment with cardiomyopathy, myocarditis and endocarditis inflammatory neurotoxins withinthe brain . was often related to opportunistic pathogens . The HAART prolongs life by restoring immune responses to course of HIV-1 infection, and particularly cardiac non-HIV-1 pathogens, but does not prevent direct HIV-1- involvement, has been profoundly modified by the related pathology in the brain, so long-term survival introduction of HAART, with OIs being less frequent and appearsto increase theriskof HIV-1 encephalopathy. survival having been prolonged. Maschkeetal.haveobservedasignificantreduction Pugliese et al. , in a retrospective study, showed in the prevalence of HIV-1-associated distal symmetric cardiacinvolvementin282of544patients(51.8%)before polyneuropathyduringtheHAARTera.Theseinvestigators the HAART era, but in only 93 of 498 patients (18.6%) suggested that HAART may be effective in this pathology during the HAART era. A significant reduction of through the suppression of macrophage activation and pericarditis, dilated cardiomyopathy, and ischemia was neurotoxin production in the peripheral nerve . observed in patients treated with HAART, although Another interesting aspect of neurological disorders in pulmonary hypertension significantly increased during the HAART era is the decline of primary CNS lymphoma the HAART era. However, pericarditis remains the com- . In addition, immune recovery induced by HAART monest cardiacinvolvement inthe HAARTera. inpatientswithprimaryCNSlymphomaleadstoimprove- In the last 7 years, the increased and long-term use of mentinthe survival ofthese patients . protease inhibitors (PIs) has raised concerns about an r 2005 BritishHIVAssociation HIVMedicine(2005)6,66–78 70 DTorreetal. increasedriskofcoronaryheartdisease.Retrospective in a similar expansion in the number of HIV-1-infected studies in large numbers of patients have produced patients whoprogress toend-stage renaldisease. conflicting results [39–42]. More recently, in a large, However, it should be noted that some antiretroviral prospective observational study of about 23500 HIV-1- drugs, including a PI, indinavir, and a nucleoside reverse infected patients, Friiss-Moller et al. observed a 27% transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), tenofovir, may cause ne- increase of risk factors for myocardial infarction for each phropathy.Inparticular,renalintoleranceofindinavirisa year of HAARTexposure up to 7 years. They also pointed rarebutimportantcomplicationinHIV-1-infectedpatients, out that overall myocardial infarction remains relatively andseveralcases of acute renalfailure, renalatrophy and rare (126eventsin 23500 patients). interstitial nephritis have been reported . Karras et al. have recently reported three cases of renal toxicity associatedwiththeuseoftenofovir,includingrenalfailure, proximal tubular dysfunction, and nephrogenic diabetes HIV-associated nephropathy insipidus. In the last 10 years, renal
