HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


been reported . Karras et al. have recently reported three cases of renal toxicity associatedwiththeuseoftenofovir,includingrenalfailure, proximal tubular dysfunction, and nephrogenic diabetes HIV-associated nephropathy insipidus. In the last 10 years, renal diseases have become frequent complications of HIV-1 infection, and the number of Gastrointestinal manifestations patients starting dyalisis has increased by 20% per year . In addition, HIV-1-related renal diseases were found Gastrointestinaldiseasehasbeenoneofthemostcommon to be the forth leading cause of end-stage renal disease features of HIV-1 infection, and since HIV-1 particularly among blackmen aged 20–64years . affects the mucosal immune system, the gastrointestinal HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN) is the most com- tract is a target for several OIs as well as various HIV-1- mon HIV-1-related renal disease , and it is probably associated diseases. relatedtoadirecteffectofHIV-1onthekidney.Otherrenal OIsarethemostfrequentgastrointestinalmanifestations lesions are membranous glomerulonephritis, immunoglo- of AIDS, including oesophageal disease, enterocolitis, and bulin A (IgA) nephropathy, and haemolytic uremic biliary tract and pancreatic diseases, and remain a major syndrome[46–48].Noeffectivetreatmenthasbeenfound, cause of morbidity and mortality in HIV-infected patients andthemajority ofpatients with HIVANbecome dyalisis- . Before the introduction of HAART, the most dependent. common oesophageal disease was oesophagitis caused by Several case reports and case series show the beneficial Candida albicans, CMV and herpes simplex virus (HSV). effect ofantiretroviral therapyonslowingtheprogression Diarrhoeaisfrequentlyobservedduringtheclinicalcourse ofrenaldiseases.Monotherapywithzidovudineresultedin of the disease ; the most common pathogens isolated betterrenaloutcomesinpatientswithHIVAN. Recent were protozoa such as Criptosporidium and Microspor- case reports support the effectiveness of HAART, particu- idium, viruses such as CMV, adenovirus and coronavirus larly PIs , in renal function in one patient with , and bacteria, including Clostridium difficile, Shigella HIVAN, and in two patients with membranous nephro- flexeneri,Salmonellaspp.,andCampylobacterspp.. pathy, respectively. More recently, Szczech et al. Monkemuller et al. have evaluated the effect of reviewedtheclinicalcoursesof19HIV-1-infectedpatients HAARTontheprevalenceofgastrointestinalOIsinHIV-1- with HIVAN or other HIV-related renal diseases. They infected patients evaluated endoscopically over a 3-year showed beneficial effects of PIs in association with period. They observed a markedreduction of gastrointest- prednisone on the progression of these nephropathies. inalOIs,includingCMVinfection,oesophagealcandidiasis, Fromthesestudies,itisdifficulttodeterminewhetherthis bacterial colitis and C. difficile colitis, in HIV-1-infected benefitisrelatedtothespecificuseofantiretroviraldrugs patients, and more interestingly the clearance of OIs in in suppressing viral replication, inasmuch as HIVAN these patients after HAART therapy was achieved despite involves a direct effect of HIV-1 expression in cells of persistentlylowCD4cellcounts.Severalauthorshavealso the kidney . shownthatHAARTcanrestoreimmunitytoCryptosporidium Inthepre-HAARTera,theprognosisforHIV-1-infected parvum and Enterocytozoon bieneusi in HIV-1-infected mortality rate reaching 50% 1 year after starting dyalisis histologicalresolution. .IntheHAARTera,themortalityrateisstillmorethan With increasing use of HAART, gastrointestinal OIs are 30%1yearafterstartingdyalisis.Despitethepotential becoming uncommon findings for patients
