HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


and Enterocytozoon bieneusi in HIV-1-infected mortality rate reaching 50% 1 year after starting dyalisis histologicalresolution. .IntheHAARTera,themortalityrateisstillmorethan With increasing use of HAART, gastrointestinal OIs are 30%1yearafterstartingdyalisis.Despitethepotential becoming uncommon findings for patients with AIDS. beneficial effects of HAART, Schwartz et al. estimate However,itshouldberememberedthatOIsmaystilloccur that the exponential increase in the number of patients in AIDS, especially when patients access care late in the withimprovedqualityoflifeandlifeexpectancywillresult course of the disease, orarenot adherent with therapy, or r 2005 BritishHIVAssociation HIVMedicine(2005)6,66–78 HAARTandorgan-specificmanifestations 71 whenresistance ofHIVtoantiretroviral drugsdevelops. It hasbeenreported.Thereareconflictingdataonthe is well known that most antiretroviral drugs are often effect of HAARTon the course of HCV viraemia and liver associated with gastrointestinal side-effects, including disease in HIV-1-infected patients. Some studies have nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, and these effects are the shown no significant changes in HCV RNA and alanine mostfrequentlycitedreasonfordiscontinuationofHAART aminotransferase serum levels during HAART . We . haveconfirmedtheseresults,andwealsoobservedthat,in Thus, in the era of HAART, diarrhoea still occurs as a agroupofpatientswhoshowedincreasedlevelsofalanine manifestation in HIV-1 patients; despite the relatively aminotransferase during HAART, HCV RNA levels did not small percentage of hospitalizations due to diarrhoea, this further increase . In contrast, other investigators clinical manifestation can have a debilitating impact on reported transient or persistent increases in HCV load HIV-1-infected patients . during HAART . In particular, Babik et al. demonstrated that, afterlong-term HAART,patients had a higher HCV load and increased quasispecies diversity, Liver manifestations suggestingthatHAARTdrivesHCVtoevolvemorerapidly Hepatobiliary manifestations of HIV-1 infection are in an attemptto createescape mutants. common but rarely fatal. The liver is a reservoir for Other investigators showed that HAART induces a HIV-1 infectionanda targetorgan forseveral OIs. decline or clearance of HCV RNA serum levels, and this BeforetheintroductionofHAART,mycobacterialinfec- is an encouraging finding for coinfected patients because tionoftheliverwasthemostcommoninfectiondiagnosed responsiveness to interferon-alpha therapy seems to be on liver biopsy in HIV-1-infected patients. MAC and M. inversely correlatedwith serum HCVRNA levels. tuberculosisweremorefrequentlyisolatedinpatientswith Finally, we may speculate that effects of HAART aCD4cellcounts lowerthan 50cells/mL .In addition, associated with different characteristics of the immune the liver is involved in other opportunistic infections response and HCV disease may explain the conflicting caused by CMV, T. gondii, Leishmania spp., and results that have been reportedto date. C. neoformans. After the introduction of HAART, as discussed above, a Mucocutaneous manifestations dramatic reduction was observed in disseminated infec- tions, mainly caused by Mycobacterium spp., CMV and Oral andcutaneous manifestationsarepresentin virtually C. neoformans, and consequently a reduction in liver OIs all patients with HIV-1 infection at some point in
