HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


tions, mainly caused by Mycobacterium spp., CMV and Oral andcutaneous manifestationsarepresentin virtually C. neoformans, and consequently a reduction in liver OIs all patients with HIV-1 infection at some point in the wasalsoobserved. course of their disease. The clinical spectrum of HIV-1- However,acriticalissueremainsconcerningcoinfection related oral and cutaneous manifestations has changed of HIV with various hepatotropic viruses in the era of over the last 15 years through increasing use of HAART. Several studies have shown that HIV-1 affects prophylactic drugs to prevent AIDS-related OIs,and,most outcomeforpatientswithchronicHBVandHCVinfections importantly,through availability of HAART. . ThemostfrequentoralmanifestationobservedinHIV-1- In fact, HIV-1 infection, along with an impaired cell- infected patients before the introduction of HAART was mediated response, produces increased HBV replication, oral candidiasis, while other common oral manifestations increased HBVDNA and consequently a reduced response included oral hairy leukoplakia, herpese simplex labialis, to interferon-alpha therapy. The impact of HAART on gengivitis-periodontitis, andKS . chronic viral hepatic infections has been extensively KShasanhighincidenceinHIV-1-infectedpatients,and investigated for HCV infection, and to a lesser extent for it is the most common cancer occurring in these patients HBV infection. Restoration of immunity to chronic HBV .Inthelast5years,severalstudieshaveevaluatedthe infectionmayoccurafterHAART,yetHAARTmayincrease impact of HAART on the incidence of cancers in HIV-1- the rate of progression of liver disease in HIV-1-infected infected patients. They showed a dramatic decline in the patients, through an increase in cytotoxic Tcells, PI liver incidence of KS in patients treated with HAART, and this toxicityortransaminaselevels.Moreover,HAARThas declinemaycontinueasnew,moreeffectiveantiretroviral been suggested to provoke HBV reactivation, either as a agents aredeveloped andwidely used [84–86]. result of direct effects of HAART or the accumulation of However, it is still unclear whether the treatment effect immuneescape mutants . results from the direct action of antiretroviral agents on HAART has improved survival rates among HIV-1- HIV-1,whichisknowntotriggerKS,orrepresentsadirect infected patients, but increased mortality related to antiviral potency against human herpesvirus 8. Sgadari progression of chronic HCV infection and liver failure etal.showedthatadministrationofthePIindinaviror r 2005 BritishHIVAssociation HIVMedicine(2005)6,66–78 72 DTorreetal. saquinavir to nude mice blocked the development and the introduction of HAART, representing a 99% reduction induced regression of angio-proliferative KS-like lesions since 1993. In addition, much longer remission duration promoted byprimary humanKS cells. from recurrent CMV retinitis has been reported after the Oralmanifestations ofHIV-1arechanging intheeraof introduction ofHAART,and theminimal HIV-1viral load HAART; in particular, oral candidiasis, herpes simplex reachedaftertheinitiationofHAARTtherapyappearstobe labialis,oralKSandperiodontaldiseasedecreasedbymore moreimportantinoneretrospective study,becauseallthe than 30% after the introduction of HAART . studiesaddressingdiscontinuationofmaintenancetherapy However, HSV infection, salivary-gland disease and oral were based mainly on CD4 cell count . Thus,
