HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


simplex reachedaftertheinitiationofHAARTtherapyappearstobe labialis,oralKSandperiodontaldiseasedecreasedbymore moreimportantinoneretrospective study,becauseallthe than 30% after the introduction of HAART . studiesaddressingdiscontinuationofmaintenancetherapy However, HSV infection, salivary-gland disease and oral were based mainly on CD4 cell count . Thus, the warts, along with oral candidiasis, appear to persist with introduction of HAART has had a major impact on the HAART therapy . natural history of CMV retinitis, with improved survival The spectrum of dermatological findings related to timeanddecreasedriskofprogressionfollowingdiagnosis. HIV-1 also includes a variety of cutaneous disorders. The However, complications of CMV retinitis such as retinal most frequent diagnoses before the era of HAART were detachment,uveitisandopticatrophyhavealsofrequently seborrheicdermatitis,dermatophytosisoftheskin,follicu- occurredin the eraof HAART. litis,papularpruriticdermatitis,herpessimplexandzoster virus infections, andscabies . S. aureusisthe most Lymphoproliferative manifestations common bacterial skin pathogen affecting HIV-1-infected patients . After the introduction of HAART, there was HIV-1-infectedpatientsareatincreasedriskofdeveloping also a change in the morbidity of cutaneous disorders in malignanciesoflymphoidorigin.Non-Hodgkinlymphoma HIV-1-infected patients. (NHL) and HD may occur with increased incidence, as Calista et al. showed a significant decrease in recentlyreportedinalargestudyincluding47936HIV-1- cutaneous disorders in patients treated with HAART; in infectedpatients . particular, there was a reduction in the incidence of A statistically significant reduction in the incidence of cutaneous infections from 301 of 456 patients (66%) not NHL has been demonstrated since the widespread intro- treated with HAART to 266 of 502 patients (53%) treated ductionofHAART,althoughthisreductionhasnotbeenas with HAART, whereas the incidence of adverse cutaneous dramatic as that for KS . Because most patients drug reactions rose from 8% to 20% in those patients respond to HAART with significant increases in CD4 cell treated with HAART. However, it should be noted that counts,atthepopulationleveltheoverallincidenceofNHL staphylococcalinfectionsoftheskinremainafrequentand is expected to decrease . However, it is unclear common cutaneous disorder in theeraof HAART . whether HAART is fully effective at reversing the B-cell stimulation that is associated with HIV-1 infection, and representsariskfactorforNHL.Ratneretal.showed Ocular manifestations that concomitant use of standard chemotherapy and Ophthalmic manifestations of AIDS fall into two major HAARTinHIV-1-infectedpatientswithNHLwaseffective categories: vascular disease of the retina andother tissues andsafe.Inaddition,theincidenceofallsubtypesofNHL and OIof theretina andchoroid. has decreased significantly, especially for primary brain The most common vascular lesions in HIV-1-infected lymphoma and immunoblastic lymphoma, in the era of patients are ‘cotton-wool’ spots, characteristic manifesta- HAART . tions of a diffuse retinal microvasculopathy and retinal Inalargestudy,Glaseretal.evaluated1752HIV- ischemia . 1-infected patients, and found HD in 13% of the patients Infections of the retina and choroid vary in prevalence, diagnosedinthepre-HAARTeraandin12%ofthepatients but CMV retinitis was the most common intraocular diagnosedinthepost-HAARTera.Theseresultsconfirmed infectioninHIV-1-infectedpatientsbeforetheintroduction the findings of a
