HIVMedicine (2005), 6, 66–78 r2005BritishHIVAssociation
KEYWORDS: haart, hiv-, patients, infection, manifestations, infected, incidence, disease, cmv, ois, infected patients, organ-specific, hiv- infected, era, treated


HD in 13% of the patients Infections of the retina and choroid vary in prevalence, diagnosedinthepre-HAARTeraandin12%ofthepatients but CMV retinitis was the most common intraocular diagnosedinthepost-HAARTera.Theseresultsconfirmed infectioninHIV-1-infectedpatientsbeforetheintroduction the findings of a previous large prospective study that ofHAART.Inanautopsystudy,Morinellietal.showed demonstrated no statistically significant change in the that CMV retinitis was by far the most common retinal incidence rates for HD in patients treated or not treated infection in these patients, with all other infections with HAART . probably accounting for (cid:1)5% of retinal infections. The secondmostcommoninfectionoftheretinawasnecrotiz- Genitourinary manifestations ingretinitis,causedbyvaricella-zoster,andthethirdmost common was retinochoroiditis, caused by T. gondii. In a AdvancedHIV-1infectionisassociatedwithanincreasein large retrospective study, Jalali et al. observed a cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions and infection dramatic decrease in the incidence of CMV retinitis after with oncogenic human papillomavirus (HPV) genotypes. r 2005 BritishHIVAssociation HIVMedicine(2005)6,66–78 HAARTandorgan-specificmanifestations 73 Heardetal.demonstratedthatHAARTmayresultina depthtoaddress several concerns,including thetimingof significant reduction of cervical squamous intraepithelial the two combined treatments (HAART and pegylated lesions despite theabsence of clearance of HPV infection. interferon-alpha plus ribavirin), the hepatotoxic effects of NostudyhasyetaddressedtheultimateeffectofHAART HAART in patients with chronic HCV infection, and the onpreventionofinvasivecervicalcancer.Lilloetal. pharmacologicalinteractionsbetweenantiretroviralagents showed that the risk of HPV infection and the risk of andanti-HCV drugs. squamous intraepithelial lesions both increased with There is a need to further investigate the effects of declining CD4 cell count, and there were no differences HAARTon certainmalignancies, such as invasive cervical in terms of persistence of high-risk HPV infection of cancer and other non-AIDS-defining cancers, including squamousintraepitheliallesions.Alargeprospectivestudy HD, and squamous-cell carcinoma of the head, neck and demonstrated that there was no substantial change in the anus. Mbulaiteye et al. clearly showed that risk of incidence of cervical cancer in HIV-1-infected patients cervical cancer was unrelated to CD4 cell count, and that treated with HAART . elevated risks of non-AIDS cancers may be a result of Bacterialinfectionoftheurinarytractisverycommonin lifestyle factors. Thus, these findings suggest that, in the patients with HIV-1 infection. De Gaetano Donati et al. future, new typical organ-specific manifestations may evaluated the effect of HAART on the incidence of occur with increased frequency and may contribute to bacterialurinarytractinfectioninHIV-1-infectedpatients the epidemiology ofOIs. during two periods: before HAART (1992–1995) and after HAART(1997–2000). Theyshowedasignificantreduction Effects of HAART on organ-specific intheincidenceofbacterialurinarytractinfectioninthese manifestations: the immune reconstitution patients, whenHAART became the standardtherapy. inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) The IRIS represents a restored capability of the host to Future directions mountaninflammatoryresponseagainstpersistentmicro- The era of HAART has produced some novel and bialantigens,andleadstothedevelopmentofsymptomsin unexpected developments. Firstly, long-term survival of HIV-1-infected patients with
