GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


(British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Canada), Oscar Ozmund Simooya Turkey), Mat Southwell (Coact, United Kingdom), Rosario Jessica Tactacan- Indonesia), Pham Thi Minh (Viet Nam Network of People who Use Drugs (VNPUD), Viet Nam), Marguerite Thiam-Niangoin (Ministère de la santé et de la lutte contre Vyas (Pathfinder International, India), Daniel Wolfe (Open Society Foundations, USA), Zindagi, Pakistan). Representatives of UN agencies and other partners Jenny Butler (United Nations Population Fund, USA), Monica Ciupagea (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Austria), Clifton Cortez (United Nations Development Programme Asia–Pacific Regional Centre, Thailand), Karl Dehne (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, Switzerland), Mauro Guarinieri (The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Switzerland), Fabienne Hariga (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Austria), Michel Kazatchkine (UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy on HIV/AIDS in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, Switzerland) and Mariângela Simão (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, Switzerland). WHO staff and consultants The following WHO staff members contributed to developing these guidelines: Avni the Eastern Mediterranean), Knut Lonnroth (Global TB programme), Rafael Mazin (AFRO Inter-country Support Team for West Africa) and Pengfei Zhao (Regional Office for the Western Pacific). x Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Special thanks to the following WHO consultants who contributed to the writing, coordination and research for the guidelines: Cadi Irvine, Alice Armstrong, Bradley Mathers, Michelle Rodolph, Amee Schwitters (CDC), and Graham Shaw. The following WHO consultants were also involved in developing these guidelines: Katie Curran, Cheryl Johnson and Kevin O’Reilly. Interns who supported the process: Carmen Figueroa, Pramudie Gunaratne and George Mugambi. WHO administrative support was provided by Nadia Hilal McDonald; and communication support was provided by Glenn Thomas and Oyuntungalag Namjilsuren. Ward Rinehart and Sarah Johnson (Jura Editorial Services) edited the document. Overall coordination Rachel Baggaley coordinated the overall guideline development process with Annette Verster and Cadi Irvine, under the supervision of Andrew Ball and Gottfried Hirnschall (Department of HIV). Funding The Unified Budget, Results and Accountability Framework of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) provided the funding to support this work, including the systematic reviews of evidence, evidence compilation, convening of the expert meeting, and development, editing, and printing of the guidelines. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria provided funding for the background work on transgender populations. These guidelines are
