GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and other closed settings are included in these guidelines also because of the often high levels of incarceration of the other groups and the increased risk behaviours and lack of HIV services in these settings. The key populations are important to the dynamics of HIV transmission. They also are essential partners in an effective response to the epidemic (1). Vulnerable populations are groups of people who are particularly vulnerable to HIV infection in certain situations or contexts, such as adolescents (particularly adolescent girls in sub-Saharan Africa), orphans, street children, people with disabilities and migrant and mobile workers. These populations are not affected by HIV uniformly across all countries and epidemics. These guidelines do not specifically address vulnerable populations, but much of the guidance can apply to them. Men who have sex with men refers to all men who engage in sexual and/or romantic relations with other men. The words “men” and “sex” are interpreted differently in diverse cultures and societies and by the individuals involved. Therefore, the term encompasses the large variety of settings and contexts in which male-to-male sex takes place, regardless of multiple motivations for engaging in sex, self-determined sexual and gender identities, and various identifications with any particular community or social group. People who inject drugs refers to people who inject psychotropic (or psychoactive) substances for non-medical purposes. These drugs include, but are not limited to, opioids, amphetamine-type stimulants, cocaine, hypno-sedatives and hallucinogens. Injection may be through intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other injectable routes. People who self-inject medicines for medical purposes – referred to as “therapeutic injection” – are not included in this definition. The definition also does not include individuals who self-inject non-psychotropic substances, such as steroids or other hormones, for body shaping or improving athletic performance. While these guidelines focus on people who inject drugs because of their specific risk of HIV transmission due to the sharing of blood-contaminated injection equipment, much of this guidance is relevant also for people who inject other substances. xiii Definitions of key terms People in prisons and other closed settings: There are many different terms used to denote places of detention, which hold people who are awaiting trial, who have been convicted or who are subject to other conditions of security. Similarly, different terms are used for those who are detained. In this guidance document, the term “prisons and other closed settings” refers to all places of detention within
