GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


of security. Similarly, different terms are used for those who are detained. In this guidance document, the term “prisons and other closed settings” refers to all places of detention within a country, and the terms “prisoners” and “detainees” refer to all those detained in criminal justice and prison facilities, including adult and juvenile males and females, during the investigation of a crime, while awaiting trial, after conviction, before sentencing and after sentencing. This term does not formally include people detained for reasons relating to immigration or refugee status, those detained without charge, and those sentenced to compulsory treatment and to rehabilitation centres. Nonetheless, most of the considerations in these guidelines apply to these people as well (3). People who use drugs include people who use psychotropic substances through any route of administration, including injection, oral, inhalation, transmucosal (sublingual, rectal, intranasal) or transdermal. Often this definition does not include the use of such widely used substances as alcoholic and caffeine-containing beverages and foods. Sex workers include female, male and transgender adults (18 years of age and above) who receive money or goods in exchange for sexual services, either regularly or occasionally. Sex work is consensual sex between adults, can take many forms, and varies between and within countries and communities. Sex work also varies in the degree to which it is more or less “formal”, or organized (4). As defined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), children and adolescents under the age of 18 who exchange sex for money, goods or favours are “sexually exploited” and not defined as sex workers (5). Transgender is an umbrella term for people Many individuals will relate to whose gender identity and expression does more than one key population. For not conform to the norms and expectations example, some men who have sex traditionally associated with the sex assigned with men and some transgender to them at birth; it includes people who are people may also engage in sex work transsexual, transgender or otherwise gender and/or inject drugs. non-conforming (6, 7). Transgender people may self-identify as transgender, female, male, transwoman or transman, trans-sexual or, in specific cultures, as hijra (India), kathoey (Thailand), waria (Indonesia) or one of many other transgender identities. They may express their genders in a variety of masculine, feminine and/or androgynous ways. The high vulnerability and specific health needs of transgender people necessitates a distinct and independent status
