GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


They may express their genders in a variety of masculine, feminine and/or androgynous ways. The high vulnerability and specific health needs of transgender people necessitates a distinct and independent status in the global HIV response. xiv Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Sexual risk differs among different subgroups within the transgender community. For example, sexual risk may be higher among transgender women (male to female) or transgender men (female to male) who have receptive anal intercourse with men than among transgender men or transgender women who have sex only with women. The prevalence of HIV among transgender women in many countries is as high as or higher than among men who have sex with men. Owing to these differing sexual risk profiles, the focus of this consolidated guideline is on transgender women or transgender men who have sex with men rather than on transgender women and transgender men who have sex only with women (8). Children: According to Article 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, “A child means every human being below the age of eighteen years unless, under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier”(5). Adolescents: Individuals between the ages of 10 and 19 years old are generally considered adolescents. Adolescents are not a homogenous group; physical and emotional maturation comes with age, but its progress varies among individuals of the to make important personal decisions and their ability to access services (9). This document primarily uses the term “adolescents”. Other terms covering overlapping age groups include: Youth: This term refers to individuals between the ages of 15 and 24 (10). Young people: This term refers to those between the ages of 10 and 24 (10). xv EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Purpose In this new consolidated guidelines document on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment all existing guidance relevant to five key populations – men who have sex with men, people who inject drugs, people in prisons and other closed settings, sex workers and transgender people – and updates selected guidance and recommendations. These guidelines aim to: provide a comprehensive package of evidence-based HIV-related recommendations for all key populations; increase awareness of the needs of and issues important to key populations; improve access, coverage and uptake of effective and acceptable services; and catalyze greater national and global commitment to adequate funding and services. The risk behaviours and vulnerabilities of key
