GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


populations; improve access, coverage and uptake of effective and acceptable services; and catalyze greater national and global commitment to adequate funding and services. The risk behaviours and vulnerabilities of key populations result in their being disproportionately affected by HIV in all countries and settings. These disproportionate risks reflect both behaviour common among members of these populations and specific legal and social issues that increase their vulnerability. Yet HIV services for key populations remain largely inadequate. In many settings HIV incidence in key populations continues to increase, even as incidence stabilizes or declines in the general population. To date, WHO has developed normative guidance separately for each of the five key populations, but, in general, guidance has not adequately addressed overarching issues relating to key populations. Similarly, the WHO global HIV guidance, including the 2013 consolidated ARV guidelines, did not specifically consider issues relating to key populations. These guidelines aim to address these gaps and limitations. Countries and other end-users have indicated the importance of consolidating WHO’s key population guidance to aid national programme managers and service providers, including those from community-based and community-led programmes, in planning for and implementing services for these populations. Thus, this consolidated guidance addresses the issues and elements for effective HIV service delivery that are common to all key populations as well as those specific to one or more groups. This edition includes updates with regard to recent new WHO recommendations, in particular on ARV treatment and on Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP). Format of the guidelines The guidelines are presented in seven chapters: Chapter 1: Background, context, rationale, guiding principles, objectives and the target audience. Chapter 2: Methods and process for developing the guidelines. Chapter 3: Comprehensive package of interventions. xvi Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Chapter 4: Clinical interventions for key populations. Chapter 5: Critical enablers required for successful implementation. Chapter 6: Service delivery issues and case studies. Chapter 7: Guidance on prioritizing and planning services, monitoring and evaluation, target setting, indicators and costing tools. Guidelines development methodology In October 2013 an External Steering Group met and reviewed all relevant existing WHO guidance and identified recommendations requiring updating and new areas to be addressed. This group consisted of people from key population networks and organizations, academics, researchers, programme managers and implementers, United Nations partner organizations, supported by a WHO secretariat. The External Steering Group proposed that the consolidated
