GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


people from key population networks and organizations, academics, researchers, programme managers and implementers, United Nations partner organizations, supported by a WHO secretariat. The External Steering Group proposed that the consolidated key populations guidelines provide recommendations along the continuum of HIV care – prevention, diagnosis, linkage, treatment and care – and include recommendations and guidance on the critical enablers that are essential to support provision of safe, effective and acceptable HIV services. New areas identified included re-reviewing evidence concerning the provision of pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV (PrEP) for men who have sex with men and assessing evidence concerning PrEP for people who inject drugs, a group not considered in the previous guidance. The External Steering Group also prioritized development of recommendations on the community delivery of naloxone for treating opioid overdose and updating of recommendations for people in prisons and other closed settings. Following the October 2013 meeting of the External Steering Group, a Guidelines Development Group was formed, comprising the majority of the External Steering Group members along with some additional expert members. Meeting in March 2014, the Guidelines Development Group unanimously supported a reworded PrEP recommendation for men who have sex with men; a majority vote determined the strength of the recommendation. In addition, the Guidelines Development Group reviewed and fully supported all other areas of the existing guidelines. In March 2014 a separate Guidelines Development Group reviewed proposed new guidance on community delivery of naloxone. Following these meetings the draft consolidated key populations guidelines were reviewed by external peer reviewers, UN agency reviewers and WHO staff members other WHO departments and regional teams. Recommendations The accompanying table summarizes the recommendations presented in this document. All recommendations and guidance in the document derive from existing WHO guidance with the exception of the new recommendations on PrEP and community opioid overdose management. The new PrEP recommendation constitutes a change from xvii Executive summary a recommendation for PrEP use in demonstration projects to a recommendation to consider PrEP as part of a package of prevention services for men who have sex with men. (See Chapter 2 for methodology and Chapter 4 for the updated recommendation.) The new recommendation on opioid overdose management supports providing naloxone to people in the community who might witness an overdose and instructing them on its administration. The updated evidence reviews for the HIV recommendations for people in prisons and other closed settings reinforced the existing recommendations.
