GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


might witness an overdose and instructing them on its administration. The updated evidence reviews for the HIV recommendations for people in prisons and other closed settings reinforced the existing recommendations. For all other recommendations, the original guidance documents, which are referenced in this document, describe how that guidance was developed. Implications for programming Both public health and equity considerations underlie the need to prioritize and improve HIV services for key populations. These guidelines for key populations aim to support countries to provide more effective and acceptable comprehensive HIV services for key populations, to increase coverage and to address current inequities in access. Countries will need to assess their specific situations, taking into account current population sizes and reviewing current coverage levels and the quality of programmes. It is also important to assess and, where possible, to address social and legal barriers to access and to make progress as country-specific circumstances allow. Further research service implementation science framework, highlighting key research priorities, including those for key populations. Summary of WHO recommendations concerning key populations HEALTH SECTOR INTERVENTIONS HIV PREVENTION 1 The correct and consistent use of condoms with condom-compatible lubricants is recommended for all key populations to prevent sexual transmission of HIV and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). 2 Oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) containing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) should be offered as an additional prevention choice for key populations at substantial risk of HIV infection as part of combination HIV prevention approaches. NEW RECOMMENDATION 3 Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) should be available to all eligible people from key populations on a voluntary basis after possible exposure to HIV. 4 Voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) is recommended as an additional, important strategy for the prevention of heterosexually acquired HIV infection in men, particularly in settings with hyperendemic and generalized HIV epidemics and low prevalence of male circumcision. HARM REDUCTION FOR PEOPLE WHO USE DRUGS 5 All people from key populations who inject drugs should have access to sterile injecting equipment through needle and syringe programmes. xviii Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 6 All people from key populations who are dependent on opioids should be offered and have access to opioid substitution therapy. 7 All people from key populations with harmful alcohol or other substance use should have access to evidence-based interventions, including brief psychosocial interventions involving assessment, specific feedback and advice. 8 People likely to witness an
