GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


populations with harmful alcohol or other substance use should have access to evidence-based interventions, including brief psychosocial interventions involving assessment, specific feedback and advice. 8 People likely to witness an opioid overdose should have access to naloxone and be instructed in its use for emergency management of suspected opioid overdose. NEW RECOMMENDATION HIV TESTING AND COUNSELLING (HTC) 9 Voluntary HTC should be routinely offered to all key populations both in the community and linked to prevention, care and treatment services, is recommended, in addition to provider- initiated testing and counselling. HIV TREATMENT AND CARE 10 Key populations living with HIV should have the same access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and to ART management as other populations. 11 All pregnant women from key populations should have the same access to services for prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) and follow the same recommendations as women in other populations. PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT OF COINFECTIONS AND CO-MORBIDITIES 12 Key populations should have the same access to tuberculosis (TB) prevention, screening and treatment services as other populations at risk of or living with HIV. 13 Key populations should have the same access to hepatitis B and C prevention, screening and treatment services as other populations at risk of or living with HIV. 14 Routine screening and management of mental health disorders (depression and psychosocial stress) should be provided for people from key populations living with HIV in order to optimize health outcomes and improve their adherence to ART. Management can range from co- counselling for HIV and depression to appropriate medical therapies. SEXUAL AND REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH 15 Screening, diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections should be offered routinely as part of comprehensive HIV prevention and care for key populations. 16 People from key populations, including those living with HIV, should be able to experience full, pleasurable sex lives and have access to a range of reproductive options. including those from key populations. 18 It is important to offer cervical cancer screening to all women from key populations. 19 It is important that all women from key populations have the same support and access to services related to conception and pregnancy care, as women from other groups. xix Executive summary CRITICAL ENABLERS 1 Laws, policies and practices should be reviewed and, where necessary, revised by policy- makers and government leaders, with meaningful engagement of stakeholders from key services for key populations. 2 Countries should work
