GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and practices should be reviewed and, where necessary, revised by policy- makers and government leaders, with meaningful engagement of stakeholders from key services for key populations. 2 Countries should work towards implementing and enforcing antidiscrimination and protective laws, derived from human rights standards, to eliminate stigma, discrimination and violence against people from key populations. based on the principles of medical ethics, avoidance of stigma, non-discrimination and the right to health. 4 Programmes should work toward implementing a package of interventions to enhance community empowerment among key populations. 5 Violence against people from key populations should be prevented and addressed in partnership with key population-led organizations. All violence against people from key populations should be monitored and reported, and redress mechanisms should be established to provide justice. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Key populations and vulnerable groups 2 1.2 HIV in key populations 4 1.2.1 Men who have sex with men 4 1.2.2 People in prisons and other closed settings 5 1.2.3 People who inject drugs 5 1.2.4 Sex workers 6 1.2.5 Transgender people 6 1.2.6 Overlapping vulnerabilities and differing risks 6 1.2.7 Adolescents and young people from key populations 7 1.3 Addressing key populations: a wise investment 7 1.3.1 Key to the dynamics of epidemics 8 1.3.2 Expanding coverage can make a difference 8 1.4 Scope of these key population guidelines 9 1.5 Using these guidelines 9 1.6 Goal and objectives 11 1.7 Target audience 11 1.8 Guidelines principles 11 Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 1 INTRODUCTION 1.1 Key populations and vulnerable groups Key populations. The risk behaviours and vulnerabilities of specific populations and their networks determine the dynamics of HIV epidemics. These guidelines focus on five key population groups, which in almost all settings are disproportionately affected by HIV: • men who have sex with men • people in prisons and other closed settings1 Without addressing the needs • people who inject drugs of key populations, a sustainable response to HIV will not be • sex workers and achieved. • transgender people. These disproportionate risks reflect both behaviour common among members of these populations and specific legal and social barriers that further increase their vulnerability. Key populations influence epidemic dynamics and play a key role in determining the nature and effectiveness of the response to HIV. People living with HIV are central to the response to HIV and, therefore, are also often considered as a
