GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


in determining the nature and effectiveness of the response to HIV. People living with HIV are central to the response to HIV and, therefore, are also often considered as a key population. This document, however, does not discuss all people living with HIV as a separate population. In most countries inadequate coverage and poor quality of services for key populations continue to undermine responses to HIV. All countries should consider the importance of reaching these key populations, understanding their needs and providing equitable, accessible and acceptable services. To accomplish this, it is essential to work with key population groups and networks as partners in developing and providing services (1). Vulnerable groups. In certain contexts other groups also are particularly vulnerable to HIV infection, for example, migrant workers, refugees, long-distance truck drivers, military personnel, miners, and, in southern Africa, young women. These populations are not uniformly vulnerable or equally affected across different countries and epidemic settings. Countries should also identify these additional populations specific to their settings and focus attention and develop and tailor services accordingly. A focus on key populations. Overall, countries should prioritize their HIV responses to focus on the populations that are most vulnerable, experience the greatest burden of HIV and are currently underserved. These populations will include both specific vulnerable populations and, in all settings, key populations. These guidelines provide recommendations for the five key populations listed above (both adults and adolescents), while recognizing that countries will need to tailor their response to the 1 UNAIDS currently defines ”key populations” as men who have sex with men, sex workers, persons who inject drugs and transgender people, but recognizes that prisoners, too, are particularly vulnerable to HIV and frequently lack adequate access to services. Chapter 1: Introduction size of these populations and also address the needs of vulnerable populations (see box). Detailed guidance on treatment and care of people living with HIV is provided in the WHO Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection (2). Without addressing the needs of key populations, a sustainable HIV response will not be achieved. To date, however, in most countries with generalized HIV epidemics, the response has focused almost exclusively on the general population. Even countries recognizing that HIV epidemics are concentrated in key populations often are reluctant to implement adequate interventions that reach those most in need. An effective response requires more than supporting
