GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


countries recognizing that HIV epidemics are concentrated in key populations often are reluctant to implement adequate interventions that reach those most in need. An effective response requires more than supporting services and programmes for key populations; it also requires systemic and environmental changes that only concerted action can bring about. For members of both key populations and vulnerable groups, many factors that influence a person’s risk are largely outside that person’s control. Particularly for key populations, social, legal, structural and other contextual factors both increase vulnerability to HIV and obstruct access to HIV services. Such factors include punitive legislation and policing practices, stigma and discrimination, poverty, violence and high levels of homelessness in some sub-populations. These factors affect how well individuals or populations can protect themselves from, and cope with, HIV infection; they can limit access to information, prevention services and commodities, populations are often scarce or non-existent – for example, gender affirming treatment for transgender people and harm reduction services for people who inject drugs. Geographic setting and social context also can affect a person’s vulnerability. Members of all key populations continue to experience intense stigma and discrimination, legal barriers and constraints to accessing services and often low Rationale for consolidated guidelines on key populations World Health Organization (WHO) guidance exists on each of the five key populations, but it has not adequately addressed issues common to all these key populations nor has it addressed countries’ needs for a coherent approach informed by situational analysis. This document seeks to bring together WHO and UN partners’ guidelines on the five key population groups into one document. This document also makes reference to WHO tools and other documents on programme monitoring and evaluation for key populations, along with publications from United Nations partners and new material to fill identified gaps. These guidelines consider the elements common to all key populations as well as highlighting specific issues and risks unique to each group. This approach is meant to help countries to plan, develop and monitor, more effectively and efficiently, acceptable and appropriate programmes for key populations relevant to their particular epidemiological context. The guidelines discuss implementation issues that services must address to achieve equity and maximize impact. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations community-based organizations provide important services for key populations. Better partnerships and linkages between community organizations and ministries of health populations are a high
