GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations community-based organizations provide important services for key populations. Better partnerships and linkages between community organizations and ministries of health populations are a high priority, requiring adequate domestic and external funding. 1.2 HIV in key populations There is a clear epidemiological rationale for HIV Key populations experience programmes to focus on key population groups. In significant HIV burden, and many settings HIV incidence in the general population they influence the dynamics has stabilized or fallen. However, globally, key of HIV epidemics. populations continue to experience significant HIV burden, and they influence the dynamics of HIV epidemics. populations than for general populations due to complexities in sampling (and lack of size estimation data), legal concerns and issues of stigma and discrimination. Laws criminalizing the behaviour of key populations make it difficult to collect representative data. Under such circumstances people are reluctant to be counted as members of these populations. 1.2.1 Men who have sex with men Epidemics of HIV in men who have sex with men continue to expand in most countries. In major urban areas HIV prevalence among men who have sex with men is on average 13 times greater than in the general population (3). One reason for the high HIV prevalence among men who have sex with men may be that HIV transmission through anal intercourse without a condom is more efficient than through vaginal intercourse without a condom, and individual-level risks for HIV acquisition among men who have sex with men include unprotected receptive anal intercourse, high number of male partners, and concomitant injecting drug use (4, 5, 6). By region, estimates of HIV prevalence among men Globally, epidemics of HIV in who have sex with men range from 3.0% in the Middle men who have sex with men East and North Africa to 25.4% in the Caribbean (4). continue to expand. In Kenya, the only African country with HIV incidence data, an annual incidence of greater than 20% was reported recently in Mombasa (4). Other countries in Africa report high prevalence, for example, Côte d’Ivoire, where the prevalence of HIV among men who have sex with men has been estimated at 18% (7, 8). In other regions where HIV incidence among men who have sex with men is reported or modelled, there is no evidence of decrease. In fact, for example, China and Thailand report increasing incidence. violence in many
