GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


among men who have sex with men is reported or modelled, there is no evidence of decrease. In fact, for example, China and Thailand report increasing incidence. violence in many countries pose major barriers to providing HIV services for men who have sex with men and limit their use of what services do exist. Many countries criminalize sex with the same gender (either male–male only or both male–male and female–female). As of December 2011 same-sex practices were criminalized in Chapter 1: Introduction 38 of 53 countries in Africa (9). In the Americas, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, 83 countries have laws that make sex between men illegal (10). The range of legal sanctions and the extent to which criminal law is enforced differs among countries (11). 1.2.2 People in prisons and other closed settings There are more than 10 million men and women in prisons and other closed settings, with an annual turnover of around 30 million moving between prison and the community (17). Globally, the prevalence of HIV, sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis B and C and tuberculosis in prison populations is estimated to be twice to ten times higher than in the general population (18). Higher HIV prevalence and HIV risk are seen among both prisoners and those working in prisons and their families in many settings (19). In addition to HIV risk behaviours in prison (unsafe sexual activities, injecting drug use and tattooing), factors related to the prison infrastructure, prison management and the criminal justice system contribute to increased risk of HIV, hepatitis B and C and tuberculosis in prisons (20). Due to the conditions of imprisonment, including overcrowding, sexual violence, drug use and lack of access to HIV prevention commodities such as condoms and lubricants, transmission risk is very high (18). In some settings HIV prevalence rates are higher among women in prisons than among men and much higher than among women in the general population. For example, in Moldova in 2005, HIV prevalence among female prisoners was 9.6% compared with male prisoners at 1.5–5% and women in the general populations at <0.5% (21). In Canada in 2002 HIV prevalence was reported at 3.71% among female prisoners compared with 1.96% among male prisoners and <0.5% among women in the general population (22). Because of the illegality of sex work, drug use, and same-sex behaviour in many countries, many people from various key populations are incarcerated at
