GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


women in the general population (22). Because of the illegality of sex work, drug use, and same-sex behaviour in many countries, many people from various key populations are incarcerated at some point in their lives. Since being held in detention is itself a risk factor for HIV, it further increases HIV risk for people from other key populations. Settings with forced gender segregation (e.g. prisons) are important contexts for male-to-male sexual activity not linked to homosexual identity. Access to HIV testing and counselling and to HIV prevention, treatment, and care programmes is often poor in prisons and other closed settings. Few countries implement comprehensive HIV programmes in prisons (18). Not only are such services needed in prison and other closed settings, but also they need linkages to HIV services in the community to maintain continuity after a person is released. 1.2.3 People who inject drugs Worldwide, 158 countries have reported injecting drug use, and 123 of these countries (78%) have reported HIV among people who inject drugs (12, 13). Prevalence data on the extent of injecting drug use is not available for almost half of these countries, in particular in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) jointly with WHO, UNAIDS and the World Bank estimated that in 2012 worldwide about 12.7 million (range: 8.9 million–22.4 million) people had Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations recently injected drugs and that, of these, 1.7 million (range: 0.9 million–4.8 million) people (13.1%) were living with HIV. Rates of HIV infection are high among people who inject drugs. For example, in Pakistan HIV prevalence among people who inject drugs is estimated at 37.8%, based on 2011 surveillance data, almost quadruple the rate in 2005 (15). In Indonesia HIV prevalence among people who inject drugs is estimated to be 36.4% (compared with 0.4% in the general population ages 15–49 years); in Ukraine at least 20% (compared with 0.9%), and in Myanmar 18% (compared with 0.6%) (16). Based on data from 49 countries, the risk of HIV infection averaged 22 times greater among people who inject drugs than among the general population. In 11 of these countries the risk was at least 50 times higher. In Eastern Europe an estimated 40% of new HIV infections occur among people who inject drugs and their sexual partners (3). 1.2.4 Sex workers Globally,
