GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


at least 50 times higher. In Eastern Europe an estimated 40% of new HIV infections occur among people who inject drugs and their sexual partners (3). 1.2.4 Sex workers Globally, the average HIV prevalence among sex workers is estimated to be approximately 12%. There is large variation within regions in HIV prevalence and odds ratios for HIV infection. In 26 countries with medium and high HIV prevalence in the general population, 30.7% of sex workers were HIV-positive (3, 23). For example, HIV prevalence among sex workers in Nigeria was estimated at 24.5% (compared with 3.7% among the general population ages 15–49 years), in Latvia at 22.2% (compared with 0.7% in the general population), and in Rwanda at 50.8% (compared with 2.9% in the general population) (3). Sex workers are at an increased risk due to exposure to multiple sexual partners and, sometimes, inconsistent condom use, often due to clients’ unwillingness or coercion. Legal issues, stigma, discrimination and violence pose barriers to HIV services for sex workers. 1.2.5 Transgender people A meta-analysis published in 2013 highlighted the particular vulnerability to HIV of transgender women. Data were available only for countries with male-predominant HIV epidemics, which included the United States of America, six Asia–Pacific countries, five in Latin America, and three in Europe. The pooled HIV prevalence was 19.1%. Among 7197 transgender women sampled in 10 low- and middle-income countries, HIV prevalence was 17.7%. Among 3869 transgender women sampled in five high-income countries, HIV prevalence was 21.6% (24). 1.2.6 Overlapping vulnerabilities and differing risks Many people from key populations engage in more than one high-risk behaviour (e.g. injecting drugs and sex work, or a man who has sex with other men who also injects drugs). Thus, they are likely to have higher HIV prevalence rates than those with only one type of risk. Subgroups of key populations may have especially high risk for HIV infection (25, 26). For example, a cross-sectional study of 1999 female sex workers in Viet Nam found that Chapter 1: Introduction HIV prevalence was significantly greater among street-based sex workers than among sex workers in entertainment establishments (3.8% versus 1.8%, p = 0.02) (27). The subgroups with higher risk for HIV are not efficiently covered by current surveillance or intervention programmes. 1.2.7 Adolescents and young people from key populations Adolescents and young people from key populations are at significant HIV risk, higher than that of their older peers
