GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


or intervention programmes. 1.2.7 Adolescents and young people from key populations Adolescents and young people from key populations are at significant HIV risk, higher than that of their older peers in these populations. Studies are limited, but they consistently show that adolescents and young people from key populations are even more vulnerable than older cohorts to STIs, HIV and other sexual and reproductive psychosocial and socio-economic factors and poor access to and uptake of services increase their vulnerability and risk (29). Particularly for those under age 18 years, policy and legal barriers related to age of consent often prevent access to a range of health services, including HIV testing and counselling (HTC), harm reduction and other services provided specifically for key populations (30). Such barriers also limit adolescents’ ability to exercise their right to informed and independent decision-making. Adolescents from key populations may face stigma, discrimination and violence even greater than that faced by older people from key populations. Fearing discrimination and/or possible legal consequences, many adolescents from key populations are reluctant to attend diagnostic and treatment services. Consequently, they remain hidden Reliable and representative epidemiological and behavioural data on adolescents and young people from key population groups remain limited (32). Young people remain largely invisible in routine HIV surveillance The specific needs of young people from and in research on HIV prevalence and risk. key populations are neglected both by This lack of data often leads to neglect programmes designed for youth generally of their specific needs by policies and and by programmes for adults from key programmes designed for youth generally populations. and by services for adults from key populations (32).1 1.3 Addressing key populations: a wise investment The recent move toward more strategic use of HIV resources (33) draws attention to the value of addressing HIV in key populations. In both concentrated and generalized epidemics, greater investment in a country’s key populations is likely to improve the cost-effectiveness of the response to HIV. To date, investments in most countries have focused on the general population. In concentrated epidemics, however, almost by definition the great majority of infections 1 WHO, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and key community networks have developed four technical briefs on young people from
