GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and key community networks have developed four technical briefs on young people from key populations. These policy briefs are based on reviews of epidemiological data, the literature on service delivery, a policy analysis, and qualitative research on the values and preferences of young people from key populations. These guidelines include key messages from this work. The technical briefs are available in Web Annex 6. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations are in key populations and, sometimes, specific vulnerable groups. Even in generalized epidemics key populations often account for a large share of HIV prevalence, and incidence in certain key populations often has continued to rise even when rates in the general population have stabilized or declined. Between 40% and 50% of all new HIV infections among adults worldwide may occur among people from key populations and their immediate partners.1 In countries in Asia and Eastern Europe and Central Asia, people from key populations account for more than half of new infections – from 53% to 62%. Even in the sub-Saharan African countries with generalized epidemics that have carried out modes of transmission (MOT) analyses, the proportion of new infections in key Between 40% and 50% of all new HIV populations is substantial, although it infections among adults worldwide occur varies greatly – for example, an estimated among people from key populations and 10% in Uganda, 30% in Burkina Faso, their immediate partners. 34% in Kenya, 37% in Nigeria, 43% in Ghana and 45% in Benin. 1.3.1 Key to the dynamics of epidemics Another reason that investment in key populations is cost-effective is the central role of key populations in the dynamics of epidemics. People from key populations can also transmit HIV to other populations – for example, sex workers’ clients and the sexual partners of people who inject drugs. Thus, infections in people from key populations can have a multiplier effect. In an analysis of six countries in West Africa, for example, the proportion of new infections occurring in the sexual partners of people considered at “higher-risk” ranged from 20% in Burkina Faso and Nigeria to around 30% in Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, and Ghana and possibly as high as 49% in Senegal (34). Meanwhile, the proportion of HIV prevention expenditures devoted specifically to programmes for sex workers,
