GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


30% in Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, and Ghana and possibly as high as 49% in Senegal (34). Meanwhile, the proportion of HIV prevention expenditures devoted specifically to programmes for sex workers, their clients, men who have sex with men and people who inject drugs was 1.7% in Burkina Faso, 0.4% in Côte d’Ivoire and 0.24% in Ghana, whereas the percentage of new infections estimated to occur in these population groups was 30%, 28% and 43%, respectively (35). 1.3.2 Expanding coverage can make a difference Projections suggest that the impacts For a country the impact of improved of improved service coverage of key coverage for key populations could range populations could range from averting a from averting a considerable number of considerable number of new infections new infections to stabilizing or even turning in countries with generalized epidemics around growing overall incidence rates. to stabilizing or even turning around growing incidence rates in countries with concentrated epidemics. For example, in Asia HIV transmission occurs primarily through unprotected commercial sex, injecting drug use, and unprotected sex between men. Increasing condom use 1 Preliminary estimates based on selected countries using either published analyses of modes of transmission, estimates of new infections modelled from estimates of HIV prevalence and of the size of the key population, or reported modes of transmission from reported HIV diagnoses (UNAIDS, 2014). Chapter 1: Introduction by sex workers and their clients, due to effective condom promotion, is credited with reversing the rising trend in prevalence in the mid-1990s. In recent years, however, annual incidence rates have changed little. Without further and well-focused investment, prevalence may start rising again (36). According to a 2008 estimate, an expanded programme of HIV interventions focused on these higher-risk behaviours would avert five million new infections between 2007 and 2020 – a number about equal to the number living with HIV in the region in 2007. In addition, the number of HIV-related deaths would decrease by 40%, and in 2020 there would be 3.1 million fewer people living with HIV (37). In 2011 the World Bank projected that, if Peru did not increase the coverage of programming for men who have sex with men, the number of new infections per year in the general population would grow from about 14 000 in 2008 to about 20 000 in 2015. In contrast, expanding coverage of programmes specifically for men who have sex with men would at
