GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


would grow from about 14 000 in 2008 to about 20 000 in 2015. In contrast, expanding coverage of programmes specifically for men who have sex with men would at least stabilize the number of new infections per year in the general population or even start to decrease it. Similarly, in Thailand full programme coverage for men who have sex with men would decrease the annual number of new infections in the general population from 22 500 in 2008 to 20 000 in 2015; otherwise, the number would rise to 27 200 (38). 1.4 Scope of these key population guidelines These guidelines outline a public health response to HIV for the five key populations. They present and discuss new recommendations and a range of recommendations and guidance from current WHO guidelines, including the 2013 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection (2). They summarize the components of a comprehensive package of interventions for key populations and consider implementation issues, challenges, and opportunities. The guidelines also provide help on prioritizing and planning services. A number of case studies appear in Chapters 5 and 6. They include considerations for each key population group, describing a diversity of interventions and service delivery approaches across a range of country and regional programme experiences. 1.5 Using these guidelines As in the consolidated ARV guidelines, these guidelines consider the need to support services across the cascade of HIV prevention, diagnosis, care and treatment (Fig. 1.1). Symbols used throughout the document: overarching WHO recommendations are in line with existing WHO recommendations and are shaded in blue (see below), and the source of the recommendation is provided for further reference, NEW new WHO recommendations developed specifically for this guidance, PIPELINE recommendations under development – key clinical areas where WHO is developing guidelines. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Fig. 1.1 Cascade of HIV prevention, diagnosis, care and treatment All people ■ Prevention opportunities for negatives HIV- Reached by ■ Prevention opportunities for people living with HIV prevention in the health sector HIV- People aware of HIV status HIV- Enrolled in HIV care Viral On ART suppression HIV+ HIV+ HIV+ HIV+ Prevention HTC demand Referral Retained Retained targeting creation Within these guidelines the heading “Good practice recommendations” indicates recommendations that may be helpful but do not need grading and are those in which it is sufficiently
