GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Retained targeting creation Within these guidelines the heading “Good practice recommendations” indicates recommendations that may be helpful but do not need grading and are those in which it is sufficiently obvious that desirable effects outweigh undesirable effects. They often pertain to human rights principles reflected in a number of international agreements and to issues of equity and ethics. Colour coding in this document: All key population groups Men who have sex with men People in prisons and other closed settings People who inject drugs Sex workers Transgender people Adolescents from key populations Chapter 1: Introduction The background documents developed to support these guidelines include studies of the values and preferences of key populations and service providers. The systematic reviews and GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) tables for new recommendations appear in full in Web Annexes 1 and 2. 1.6 Goal and objectives These guidelines seek to provide consolidated guidance to inform the development and implementation of HIV policies, programmes and services for key populations. The guidelines have the following specific objectives: • consolidate guidance for health sector interventions for HIV for each key population; • outline common HIV and related health service packages that are beneficial and acceptable for all key populations and additional services needed for specific key population groups; • update guidance for planning, delivering, monitoring and evaluating HIV prevention, diagnosis, care and treatment interventions for each key population; • provide gender- and age-specific guidance for HIV interventions for members of key populations, including adolescents. 1.7 Target audience These guidelines are addressed primarily to national HIV programme managers and other decision-makers within ministries of health and those responsible for health policies, programmes and services in prisons. In addition, the guidelines will be relevant for managers at national and sub-national levels responsible for services for TB, viral mental health; community-led civil society organizations and implementing programmes; and development and funding agencies. 1.8 Guidelines principles The framework for the development of these guidelines is based on human rights principles reflected in a number of international agreements (39, 40). • Human rights: Fundamental to development of Guiding principles these guidelines is the protection of human rights • human rights for all members of each key population. Legislators • access to quality health care and other government authorities should establish • access to justice and enforce antidiscrimination and protective laws, • acceptability of services derived from international human rights
