GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


access to quality health care and other government authorities should establish • access to justice and enforce antidiscrimination and protective laws, • acceptability of services derived from international human rights standards, • health literacy in order to eliminate stigma, discrimination and • integrated service provision. violence faced by key populations and to reduce their vulnerability to HIV (40). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations • Access to quality health care is a human right. It includes the right of members of key populations to appropriate quality health care without discrimination. Health- care providers and institutions must serve people from key populations based on the principles of medical ethics and the right to health (18). Health services should be accessible to key populations. This guidance can be effective only when services are acceptable and high quality and widely implemented. Poor quality and restricted access to services will limit the individual benefit and public health impact of the recommendations. • Access to justice is a major priority for people from key populations, due to high rates of contact with law enforcement services and the current illegality of their behaviours in many countries. Access to justice includes freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention, the right to a fair trial, freedom from torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment and the right, including in prisons and other closed settings, populations requires collaboration between health-care and law enforcement agencies, including those that manage prisons and other closed institutions. Detainment in closed settings should not impede the right to maintain dignity and health (18). • Acceptability of services is a key aspect of effectiveness. Interventions to reduce the burden of HIV among people from key populations must be respectful, acceptable, appropriate and affordable to recipients in order to enlist their participation and ensure their retention in care. Services for members of key populations often employ appropriate models of service delivery but lack expertise in HIV. Conversely, people from key populations may not find specialized HIV services acceptable. There is a need to build service capacity on both fronts. Consultation with organizations of people from key populations and including peer workers in service delivery are effective ways to work towards this goal (42). Mechanism of regular and ongoing feedback from beneficiaries to service providers will help inform and improve the acceptability of services to key populations. • Health literacy: People from
