GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


goal (42). Mechanism of regular and ongoing feedback from beneficiaries to service providers will help inform and improve the acceptability of services to key populations. • Health literacy: People from key populations often lack sufficient health and treatment literacy. This may hinder their decision-making on HIV risk behaviours and their health-seeking behaviour. Health services should regularly and routinely provide accurate health and treatment information to members of key populations. At the same time health services should strengthen providers’ ability to prevent and to treat HIV in people from key populations, including adolescents (42). • Integrated service provision: People from key populations commonly have multiple co-morbidities and poor social situations. For example, HIV, viral hepatitis, in key populations. Integrated services provide the opportunity for patient-centred prevention, care and treatment for the multitude of issues affecting key populations. In addition, integrated services facilitate better communication and care. Thus, wherever feasible, service delivery for key populations should be integrated. When should be established and maintained (43). METHODOLOGY AND PROCESS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE GUIDELINES 2.1 Overview 14 2.2 Establishing guideline groups 14 2.3 Defining the scope of the guidelines 15 2.4 Review of the evidence 16 2.4.1 Information on prisons and other closed settings 16 2.5 Development of the pre-exposure prophylaxis recommendations 16 2.6 Evidence assessment 17 2.6.1 How to interpret the quality of evidence 17 2.6.2 Determining the strength of a recommendation 17 2.7 Review of service delivery, implementation approaches and case studies 19 2.8 Producing the guidelines 19 2.9 Plans for dissemination 19 2.10 Updating 19 Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 2 METHODOLOGY AND PROCESS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE GUIDELINES 2.1 Overview The WHO Department of HIV led development of these WHO consolidated key populations guidelines, following the WHO procedures and reporting standards laid out in the WHO handbook for guideline development, 2012 (1). These guidelines combine existing WHO recommendations, new recommendations and guidance published by WHO together with UN partners. Key recommendations from the WHO 2013 Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection (2) are included, with specific considerations for each of the key population groups highlighted. 2.2 Establishing guideline groups The WHO HIV Department set up four groups to perform specific guideline development functions. Members of the groups were selected so as to ensure a range of expertise and experience, including appropriate geographical, gender and
