GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


up four groups to perform specific guideline development functions. Members of the groups were selected so as to ensure a range of expertise and experience, including appropriate geographical, gender and key population representation and expertise. The four groups and their functions were: The WHO Guideline Steering Group on HIV and Key Populations, chaired Programme, and the Global TB Programme. The External Steering Group, composed of a geographically and gender- balanced group of 25 academics, researchers, programme managers, implementers and people from key population networks and organizations, provided WHO with guidance on scope, content and new areas to be addressed. The 26-member Guidelines Development Group consisted of the majority of the External Steering Group along with some additional expert members. This group was responsible for formulating new WHO recommendations, good practice guidance and consensus on the final content. Chapter 2: Methodology and process for development of the guidelines The External Peer Review Group was selected in consultation with the WHO regional offices to assure geographical and gender balance. In total over 70 peer reviewers from academia, policy and research, implementing programmes and key population networks and organizations reviewed the guidelines. In general, reviewers made suggestions to improve the clarity of the document and provided minor additions and corrections to the narrative. Involvement of key population groups and networks Crucial to development of these guidelines has been the partnership with, and the engagement of, key population groups and networks at all stages of the process, both as members of the guidelines and peer review groups and as partners in developing the values and preferences investigation methodology and assessment, as described below. Conflicts of interest All External Steering Group participants, Guidelines Development Group participants and External Peer Review Group members submitted Declarations of Interest (DOI) to the WHO secretariat. The WHO secretariat and the Guidelines Development Group reviewed all declarations and found no conflicts of interest sufficient to preclude anyone from participating in the development of the guidelines. A full compilation of the declarations is available on request. 2.3 Defining the scope of the guidelines To develop these guidelines, the WHO Guideline Steering Group mapped all existing WHO HIV guidance specifically concerned with the five key population groups; then it reviewed these and other materials to identify gaps, overlaps, inconsistencies and determine relevance. The outcome of the mapping exercise was presented to the External Steering Group at a scoping meeting in October 2013.
