GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


other materials to identify gaps, overlaps, inconsistencies and determine relevance. The outcome of the mapping exercise was presented to the External Steering Group at a scoping meeting in October 2013. The group reviewed the mapping and made recommendations on the scope of the guidelines (populations and range of interventions to be covered) and noted two areas needing new guidance: 1) pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and 2) opioid overdose prevention and management. Since publication of these guidelines in 2014 new recommendations have been issued by WHO in 2015 on these two topics. In this edition reference is made to these new recommendations on PrEP and ART where relevant. Other guidelines under development The Department of HIV and other WHO departments currently are developing or updating a number of guidelines relevant to key populations. These include: • hepatitis C treatment (completed by the global hepatitis team during the development of these guidelines and included here) and hepatitis B treatment and hepatitis B and C screening (completed during 2015); • contraception and HIV guidance (completed by the Department of Reproductive Health and Research and included here); Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations • post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) guidance (completed by the HIV Department and included here eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1); • STI guidance (to be completed in 2016 by the Department of Reproductive Health and Research and included here bitstream/10665/145719/1/9789241508193_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1). Audience The External Steering Group identified the audience for these guidelines. Health services in low-resource settings will benefit most from the guidance presented here, as they face the greatest challenges in providing services tailored to key populations. However, these guidelines are relevant for all HIV epidemic and economic settings and are, therefore, considered global guidance. Regions and countries can adapt these global recommendations to local needs, HIV epidemic contexts and existing services in order to facilitate their implementation. 2.4 Review of the evidence These guidelines include both relevant existing recommendations and new recommendations. Development of the new recommendations began with systematic reviews of the evidence. The Guidelines Development Group recommended the commissioning of new literature reviews and appraisal of existing reviews and surveys investigating values and preferences, along with reviews of the costs and feasibility of implementation. Also, WHO commissioned new studies and reviewed existing studies of values and preferences related to existing recommendations to help ensure that the guidance appropriately reflects the concerns of key populations. 2.4.1 Information on prisons and
