GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and reviewed existing studies of values and preferences related to existing recommendations to help ensure that the guidance appropriately reflects the concerns of key populations. 2.4.1 Information on prisons and other closed settings In 2007 an extensive literature review was conducted to inform the development of the WHO publication Effectiveness of interventions to address HIV in prisons (3, 4). In 2014 this work was updated for these guidelines, using an abbreviated literature review focusing on materials developed between 2007 and 2014. Results supported the 2007 review; no new evidence was found that would change the recommendations made in the 2007 guidelines. The Guideline Development Group and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) reviewed, confirmed and accepted this conclusion. The 2014 review identified a need for further research in this area; Web Annex 4 includes potential research areas. 2.5 Development of the pre-exposure prophylaxis recommendations To inform recommendations on PrEP, evidence questions were framed in the PICO format: Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome. External researchers used the PICO questions to develop search protocols and perform systematic reviews of the scientific evidence; Web Annexes 1 and 2 present details. WHO convened the guideline development meeting in March 2014 to update recommendations regarding PrEP use among men who have sex with men (5) and Chapter 2: Methodology and process for development of the guidelines to look at the evidence for formulating a new recommendation on PrEP use among people who inject drugs, as well as to review all sections of the consolidated guidelines. Individuals representing a broad range of stakeholders participated in the guideline development meeting as either Guideline Development Group members or expert observers. Participants at this meeting assessed the evidence for both PICO questions concerning PrEP, along with the risks and benefits, values and preferences and cost-benefits/feasibility associated with each possible intervention and made recommendations (see Section 4.1.5.1). In 2015, new WHO guidance on PrEP has been issued and is included here were relevant at bitstream/10665/186275/1/9789241509565_eng.pdf?ua=1 2.6 Evidence assessment Under the WHO guideline development process, the guideline development group formulates the recommendations guided by the quality of available evidence. Other factors – values and preferences, costs and feasibility – are also taken into consideration when determining the strength of the recommendation. 2.6.1 How to interpret the quality of evidence The higher the quality of scientific evidence, the more likely that a strong recommendation can be made. The GRADE approach to
