GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


recommendation. 2.6.1 How to interpret the quality of evidence The higher the quality of scientific evidence, the more likely that a strong recommendation can be made. The GRADE approach to recommendation development, which WHO has adopted, defines the quality of evidence as the extent to which one can be confident that the reported estimates of effect (desirable or undesirable) available from the evidence are close to the actual effects of interest (6, 7, 8). The GRADE approach specifies four levels of quality of evidence (9) (Table 2.1). Table 2.1 Significance of the four GRADE levels of evidence Quality of evidence Rationale High Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. Moderate Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the effect. Low Further research is very likely to have an important impact on the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. Very low Any estimate of effect is very uncertain. 2.6.2 Determining the strength of a recommendation The strength of a recommendation reflects the degree of confidence of the guidelines group that the desirable effects of the recommendation outweigh the undesirable effects (Table 2.2). Desirable effects (potential benefits) may include beneficial Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations health outcomes (e.g. reduced incidence of HIV and reduced morbidity and mortality); reduction of burden on the individual and/or health services; and potential cost-savings services. Additional burdens considered include the resource use and cost implications of implementing the recommendations that programmes, care providers or patients would ramifications where certain practices are criminalized. The strength of a recommendation can be either strong or conditional. A strong recommendation (for or against) is one for which there is confidence that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation clearly outweigh the undesirable effects. A conditional recommendation (for or against) is one for which the quality of evidence may be low or may apply only to specific groups or settings; or the panel concludes that the desirable effects of adherence to the recommendation probably outweigh the undesirable effects or are closely balanced, but the panel is not confident about these trade-offs in all situations. If implemented, a conditional recommendation should be monitored closely and evaluated rigorously. Further research will be required to address the uncertainties and is likely to provide new evidence that may change the calculation
