GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


conditional recommendation should be monitored closely and evaluated rigorously. Further research will be required to address the uncertainties and is likely to provide new evidence that may change the calculation of the balance of trade-offs. The values and preferences of the end users (key populations), feasibility and cost as well as consideration of potential benefits and harms contribute to determining the strength of a recommendation. Table 2.2 Domains considered when assessing the strength of recommendations Domain Rationale Benefits and risks When a new recommendation is developed, desirable effects (benefits) need to be weighed against undesirable effects (risks), considering any previous recommendation or another alternative. The larger the gap or gradient in favour of the benefits over the risks, the more likely that a strong recommendation will be made. Values and preferences If the recommendation is likely to be widely accepted or valued (acceptability) highly, it is likely that a strong recommendation will be made. If there is a great deal of variability or strong reasons that the recommended course of action is unlikely to be accepted, it is more likely that a conditional recommendation will be made. Costs/financial Lower costs (monetary, infrastructure, equipment or human implications resources) or greater cost-effectiveness are more likely to support a strong recommendation. Feasibility If an intervention is achievable in a setting where the greatest impact is expected, a strong recommendation is appropriate. Chapter 2: Methodology and process for development of the guidelines Surveys, qualitative studies and literature reviews were commissioned and other available material was appraised to investigate the values and preferences of key populations and service providers and benefits, harms, cost and feasibility concerning new areas of guidance, existing recommendations and service provision issues. Specific attention was paid to the values and preferences of adolescents in key populations.1 Evidence on values and preferences included findings developed at workshops with members of key populations in a range of countries; a multi-regional, anonymous e-survey of men who have sex with men; in-depth key informant interviews with selected service providers and people who inject drugs; in-depth interviews with men who have sex with men; and a literature review of values and preference of key populations concerning PrEP. Web Annex 3 provides full reports and a table outlining the range of activities undertaken. 2.7 Review of service delivery, implementation approaches and case studies A large-scale call for examples of good practices was undertaken to identify effective and
