GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


outlining the range of activities undertaken. 2.7 Review of service delivery, implementation approaches and case studies A large-scale call for examples of good practices was undertaken to identify effective and acceptable delivery approaches for key populations. These case studies, presented in Chapters 5 and 6, offer insights into successful implementation of services for key population groups. Web Annex 5 presents more information on these case studies. 2.8 Producing the guidelines Following the Guideline Development Group consultation, the full draft guidelines were revised and circulated electronically to both the Guidelines Development Group and the External Peer Review Group for comments and feedback. All responses were considered and, as appropriate, addressed in the final draft. 2.9 Plans for dissemination The guidelines are being disseminated as a printed publication and electronically on the WHO web site including all Annexes. 2.10 Updating The Department of HIV has committed to providing regular updates of consolidated key population guidelines when new or revised evidence becomes available, including relevant new guidance developed by other WHO departments. 1 WHO, UNAIDS, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UNODC have developed four technical briefs on young people from key populations. These policy briefs are based on reviews of epidemiological data, the literature on service delivery, a policy analysis, and qualitative research on the values and preferences of young people from key populations. These guidelines include key messages from this work. See Web Annex 6. COMPREHENSIVE PACKAGE OF INTERVENTIONS 3.1 Services for all key populations 22 3.2 Specific considerations 23 3.2.1 Prisons and other closed settings 23 3.2.2 People who inject drugs 24 3.2.3 Adolescents from key populations 24 Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 3 COMPREHENSIVE PACKAGE OF INTERVENTIONS 3.1 Services for all key populations A combination of interventions is required to respond effectively to HIV among key populations. The following comprehensive package of interventions is recommended to assist countries with programming for HIV prevention and treatment among key populations. While Chapters 4 and 5 describe the interventions in much more detail, here we summarize the overarching headings. The package has two parts: a) Essential health sector interventions (see Chapter 4 for detail) 1. comprehensive condom and lubricant programming 2. harm reduction interventions for substance use, in particular needle and syringe programmes1 and opioid substitution therapy 3. behavioural interventions 4. HIV
