GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


for detail) 1. comprehensive condom and lubricant programming 2. harm reduction interventions for substance use, in particular needle and syringe programmes1 and opioid substitution therapy 3. behavioural interventions 4. HIV testing and counselling 5. HIV treatment and care 6. prevention and management of co-infections and other co- 7. sexual and reproductive health interventions.2 b) Essential strategies for an enabling environment (see Chapter 5 for detail) 1. supportive legislation, policy and financial commitment, including decriminalization of behaviours of key populations 2. addressing stigma and discrimination 3. community empowerment 4. addressing violence against people from key populations. 1 Needle and syringe programmes are important for people who inject drugs and also for transgender people who require sterile injecting equipment to safely inject hormones for gender affirmation. Other important areas include for tattooing, piercing and other forms of skin penetration, which are particularly relevant in prisons and other closed settings. 2 Including contraception, diagnosis and treatment of STIs, cervical screening, etc. (see Chapter 4). Chapter 3: Comprehensive package of interventions The interventions and strategies in this package The interventions and strategies are significantly interdependent. The health included in this package are sector interventions yield the most benefit significantly interdependent. when they are available in combination and when the necessary enabling environmental factors are in place. These health sector interventions should not be delayed because the enabling environmental factors are missing. The presence of the enabling factors will greatly increase their impact, however. Thus, while the enabling factors may be largely them jointly with other sectors. In addition to the interventions listed, people from key populations need access to general medical, social welfare and legal services so that they can attain the highest possible standards of health and well-being. 3.2 Specific considerations The comprehensive package outlined above is relevant for all people in key populations. Additional elements for specific key populations are summarized below and detailed in Chapters 4 and 5. 3.2.1 Prisons and other closed settings The services for prevention and treatment of HIV in the community should also be provided to people in prison and other closed settings. The proven efficacy of these interventions in the community will not change when they are delivered in prisons and other closed settings. However, there may be some specific considerations as to how best to deliver these services in prisons and other closed settings to maximize their should be given to assigning responsibility for prison
