GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


may be some specific considerations as to how best to deliver these services in prisons and other closed settings to maximize their should be given to assigning responsibility for prison health to the ministry of health rather than the ministry of justice or interior (3). In 2013 UNODC and partners agreed on a comprehensive package for effective HIV prevention and treatment in prisons and other closed settings. In addition to the recommended interventions for people in the community, interventions relevant to closed settings include: • prevention of HIV transmission through medical and dental services • prevention of transmission of HIV and other bloodborne diseases through tattooing, piercing and other forms of skin penetration • protecting staff from occupational hazards. Some other interventions are important and should not be overlooked, such as the distribution of toothbrushes and shavers in basic hygiene kits, adequate nutrition, intimate visit programmes, palliative care and compassionate release for terminal cases (4). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 3.2.2 People who inject drugs This package is essentially the same as the comprehensive package for HIV prevention, treatment and care for people who inject drugs that has been widely endorsed at the highest political level and by major donor agencies (1, 2). While the harm reduction interventions for substance use are part of this overall comprehensive package for key populations, it is important that countries where injecting drug use occurs prioritize immediate implementation of needle and syringe programmes and opioid substitution therapy (NSPs and OST). Implementation of these essential harm reduction services should facilitate and enhance access to HIV-specific services, such as HIV testing and counselling and antiretroviral therapy, and improve adherence to treatment. Harm reduction interventions for people who use drugs but who do not inject are also important. They should include evidence-based drug dependence treatment and provision of non-injecting drug use paraphernalia as appropriate to the local context and patterns of drug use. 3.2.3 Adolescents from key populations The comprehensive package of interventions is also relevant for adolescents from key populations. Programming for adolescents should also include: • HPV vaccination as part of national HPV programmes. Countries are encouraged to: • examine their current consent policies and consider revising them to reduce age- related barriers to access and uptake of HIV services. Critical knowledge gaps remain, however, concerning how best to implement programmes that address adolescents’ needs (5). However, it
