GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


7). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS The correct and consistent use of condoms with condom-compatible lubricants is recommended for all key populations to prevent sexual transmission of HIV and STIs (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (3, 8, 9, 10). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups MEN WHO HAVE SEX WITH MEN • Condoms and condom-compatible lubricants are recommended for anal sex (3). • Adequate provision of lubricants needs to be emphasized. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS Sexual activity takes place in prisons and other closed settings, but general access to condoms there is limited. It is important to introduce, and expand to scale, condom and lubricant distribution programmes in prisons and other closed settings, without quantity restriction, with anonymity and in an easily accessible manner (e.g. condom vending machines) (9, 11). SEX WORKERS (AND CLIENTS OF SEX WORKERS) PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS • Correct and consistent use of condoms and condom-compatible lubricants is • Condom programming is an essential component of the comprehensive harm recommended for sex workers and their clients (10). reduction package for people who inject drugs and their sexual partners (8). • Sex workers, female or male, often face power imbalances that limit their • Sexual transmission of HIV is often overlooked in people who inject drugs. ability to use condoms with clients. (See Chapter 5 on critical enablers.) Female However, there is significant HIV transmission to non-injecting sexual partners. sex workers who inject drugs may be particularly vulnerable to these power Furthermore, stimulant use, through both injecting and non-injecting routes, is imbalances. The female condom has the advantages over the male condom often associated with unsafe sexual behaviours (8, 12, 13). that the woman can initiate its use and it can be inserted up to several hours before intercourse (14). Peer-led and outreach approaches may help to increase knowledge, develop skills and empower sex workers to use condoms and lubricants consistently. TRANSGENDER PEOPLE • Condoms and condom-compatible lubricants are recommended for anal sex (3). • Adequate provision of lubricants for transgender women and transgender men who have sex with men needs emphasis. ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Adolescents’ emotional, intellectual and social capacities are continuously evolving. Young people from key populations, perhaps more so than their peers in the general population, experience power imbalances in sexual relationships that limit their ability to use
