GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


are continuously evolving. Young people from key populations, perhaps more so than their peers in the general population, experience power imbalances in sexual relationships that limit their ability to use condoms (5, 15, 16). Peer-led and outreach approaches may help to distribute condoms and lubricants, increase knowledge, develop skills and empower adolescents from key populations to use condoms and lubricants correctly and consistently (17). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Implementation considerations Legislation and law enforcement approaches need to support condom programming. Possession of condoms should not be used as evidence of criminal activity, and police should not harass those carrying condoms (10). Promote access. While condoms and lubricants may be widely sold in most countries, providing condoms with lubricants free to key populations removes any barrier that cost may pose (17, 18). Condoms, both male and female condoms in various sizes, should be available through multiple outlets that reach all the different key populations and particularly young people in these populations. Condom promotion campaigns should increase awareness, promote the acceptability and benefits of condom use and help to overcome social and personal obstacles to their use (10). Lubricant. Condom-compatible lubricant should always be distributed along with male and female condoms. Lubricant decreases the risk of condom breakage and slippage and can reduce discomfort during penetrative sex (10). Plenty of lubricant should always be used during anal sex (19). Lubricants that are water- or silicone-based do not damage latex condoms; oil-based lubricants do and so should not be used with latex condoms. Information and skills-building. Along with promotion and supply, programmes for key populations should offer information and skills-building in negotiating condom use (10). In addition, behavioural interventions can encourage consistent condom use. All condom programmes should address the complex gender, religious and cultural factors that can impede condom use. Particularly, before introducing condom distribution programmes in prisons, education and information for both prisoners and prison staff should be carefully planned (9). Further reading • Condom programming for HIV prevention: a manual for service providers. New York, UNFPA, 2005. • Comprehensive condom programming: a guide for resource mobilization and country programming. New York, UNFPA, 2010. documents/publications/2011/CCP.pdf • WHO, UNFPA, UNAIDS, NSWP, World Bank. Implementing comprehensive HIV/STI programmes with sex workers: practical approaches from collaborative interventions. (Chapter 4). Geneva, WHO, 2013. implementation/en/ • Male latex condom specification, prequalification and guidelines for procurement. Geneva, WHO, 2010.
