GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


comprehensive HIV/STI programmes with sex workers: practical approaches from collaborative interventions. (Chapter 4). Geneva, WHO, 2013. implementation/en/ • Male latex condom specification, prequalification and guidelines for procurement. Geneva, WHO, 2010. planning/9789241599900/en/ • WHO, UNFPA, FHI360. Use and procurement of additional lubricants with male and female condoms – advisory note. Geneva, WHO, 2012. bitstream/10665/76580/1/WHO_RHR_12.33_eng.pdf Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.1.2 Harm reduction for people who inject drugs Background and rationale People who inject drugs are at risk of HIV and other bloodborne viral infections (such as hepatitis B and C) through the sharing of contaminated injecting equipment. In some settings drug use may be more prevalent among people from other key populations than in the general population. The comprehensive package. A comprehensive package of evidence-based interventions to reduce harms associated with injecting drug use is outlined in the WHO, UNAIDS, UNODC technical guide for countries to set targets for universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug users (8). This publication and the package of interventions have been widely endorsed by the United Nations (20, 21, 22, 23, 24) and major international donors including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the United States President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). The comprehensive harm reduction package 1. Needle and syringe programmes (NSPs) 2. Opioid substitution therapy (OST) and other evidence-based drug dependence treatment 3. HIV testing and counselling 4. Antiretroviral therapy 5. Prevention and treatment of STIs 6. Condom programmes for people who inject drugs and their sexual partners 7. Targeted information, education and communication for people who inject drugs and their sexual partners 8. Prevention, vaccination, diagnosis and treatment for viral hepatitis 9. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of TB. Only the first two interventions, NSP and OST and other drug dependence treatment, are specific to drug use; they are discussed in this chapter. Community-based outreach. Community-based outreach is not listed as a separate intervention in the package, but it is an effective method of reaching people, particularly those who face barriers to obtaining mainstream services, as is often the case for people from key populations. Outreach is a highly effective means of delivering HIV prevention interventions such as NSPs, condom programmes and targeted communication, as well as a useful access point for referral to OST and ART. Hence, outreach is an essential component of all HIV-related programmes (25). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis,
