GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


as well as a useful access point for referral to OST and ART. Hence, outreach is an essential component of all HIV-related programmes (25). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations A number of other interventions are not included in the comprehensive harm reduction package because of insufficient evidence of their effectiveness for HIV prevention and treatment. However, one new recommendation on community distribution of naloxone is now included and described in detail at the end of this chapter. Reducing harms related to injecting substances for gender affirmation. Distinct from injecting drug use as described above is the injection of substances by transgender people for gender affirmation. Where hormone therapy for gender affirmation is used, it avoid incorrect dosing, and to properly manage any adverse events, as well as to reduce sharing of injection equipment. As yet, there is no WHO guidance on hormone therapy for gender affirmation. The injection of hormones is distinct from the injection of non-medical silicone preparations and other fillers for direct body modification (26, 27). Injection of disfigurement, migration of the injected substance within the body and systemic illness risks of these injections and afforded access to health-care services that provide safer methods for gender affirmation. Adolescents who inject drugs.1 Adolescents who inject drugs face additional risks and barriers to services due to multiple legal, developmental and environmental factors. Adolescents often have less knowledge of safer injecting practices and of services. In many countries age restrictions and/or parental consent requirements exclude adolescents from NSP and OST programmes. Adolescents and young people may require specific and more creative engagement strategies to promote uptake of services. Engaging parents of adolescents who inject drugs in harm reduction programmes may help to ensure adequate support to the adolescent. However, it is important to obtain the adolescent’s consent before involving the parents. 4.1.2.1 Needle and syringe programmes Background and rationale Once HIV is introduced in a population of people NSPs substantially and cost- who inject drugs and commonly share syringes effectively reduce HIV transmission and injecting equipment, prevalence rates can among people who inject drugs. reach epidemic proportions very quickly (31). Distributing free or low-cost sterile injecting equipment to people who inject facilitates the use of clean needles and syringes and reduces the number of injections with used needles and syringes (8, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37). NSPs substantially and cost-effectively reduce HIV transmission
