GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


of clean needles and syringes and reduces the number of injections with used needles and syringes (8, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37). NSPs substantially and cost-effectively reduce HIV transmission among people who inject drugs (36). NSPs may also reduce transmission of other bloodborne viruses, such as viral hepatitis B and C, among people who inject drugs (35, 36, 38, 39, 40). At the evidence of major unintended negative consequences of NSPs, such as initiation of 1 See also Web Annex 6, briefs on young key populations. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions injecting among people who have not injected previously or an increase in injecting at either the individual or societal level (41, 42, 43, 44). NSPs may serve as an important point of entry to other services. NSPs aim to engage their clients repeatedly on a regular basis. Thus, they have multiple opportunities to facilitate access to other health services such as OST and other drug dependence treatment, HTC, and treatment of HIV, TB and viral hepatitis (45). Also, NSPs may offer basic health care and address other specific issues that commonly affect people who inject drugs, such as wound care and overdose prevention. Various models of needle and syringe distribution and service delivery can be employed, including distribution at fixed sites such as pharmacies, automatic dispensing machines or vending machines, and mobile and outreach services (8, 36). Additionally, given the high incarceration rates of people who inject drugs, access to sterile injecting equipment and NSP are important components of prison health services (4). To prevent HIV transmission through injecting drug use, it is crucial to provide not low-cost sterile injecting equipment. Needle and syringe programmes also provide drug-dependence treatment. Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS All individuals from key populations who inject drugs should have access to sterile injecting equipment through needle and syringe programmes (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence) (8, 32, 36, 46). Additional remarks • It is suggested that needle and syringe programmes also provide low dead-space syringes (LDSS) along with information about their preventive advantage over conventional syringes (39). • Injecting equipment should be appropriate to the local context, taking into account such factors as the type and preparation of drugs that are commonly injected (8, 27). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND
