GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


commonly injected (8, 27). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • It is important to provide people in prisons and other closed settings with prevention measures, such as condoms and clean injecting equipment, and not just with information about avoiding risks. People in prisons and other closed settings should have easy, confidential access to NSPs (9). • Prison systems should pilot-test and evaluate safer tattooing initiatives to assess whether they reduce the sharing and re-use of tattooing equipment and, thereby, reduce infections (9, 11). TRANSGENDER PEOPLE Transgender people who inject substances for gender affirmation should use sterile injecting equipment and practice safe injecting practices to reduce the risk of infection with bloodborne pathogens such as HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C (3). ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS WHO guidance does not specify age restrictions for needle and syringe programmes. Implementation considerations Structural change is needed to create a supportive policy, legal and social environment that facilitates equitable access to HIV prevention and treatment for all, including NSPs for people who inject drugs (8). law enforcement agencies and the local community, to foster an environment that enables NSPs to function fully (8, 36, 45, 47). Criminalization counterproductive. If carrying used needles and syringes is a criminal offence or may be used as evidence of drug use, people who inject drugs may be reluctant to take used equipment to NSPs for disposal (27, 36, 45). Serving key populations. It is important that NSPs are sensitized to the health needs of each key population. Key population organizations can either provide these interventions themselves or have effective referral pathways to services that do (32). Other equipment. In addition to needles and syringes, other injecting-related equipment may also be provided, including alcohol swabs, ampoules of sterile water, filters, tourniquets, mixing vessels (e.g. spoons or “cookers”) and acidifiers (e.g. ascorbic acid or citric acid powders) (8, 27). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Safe disposal. NSPs should set up systems for safe disposal of injecting equipment and promote their use (8, 27). There are various models for safe disposal systems, including distributing puncture-resistant one-way containers. Effective safe disposal reduces the amount of contaminated equipment in the community, thus reducing reuse and unintended needle-sticks and limiting negative reactions from the community. Information provided also can cover
