GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Effective safe disposal reduces the amount of contaminated equipment in the community, thus reducing reuse and unintended needle-sticks and limiting negative reactions from the community. Information provided also can cover opportunities for reducing drug use in the longer term. Information and education in prisons and other closed settings. Prisoners and prison staff should receive information about the programmes and participate in their design and implementation. Carefully evaluated pilot programmes of prison-based NSPs may be important to pave the way for ongoing full-scale programmes, but expansion of programmes should not wait for results from pilot programmes, particularly where injecting is common in prisons (9). Further reading • WHO, UNODC, UNAIDS. Technical guide for countries to set targets for universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug users – 2012 revision. Geneva, WHO, 2012. • WHO, UNAIDS, UNODC. Guide to starting and managing needle and syringe programmes. Geneva, WHO, 2007. • Effectiveness of sterile needle and syringe programming in reducing HIV/AIDS among injecting drug users. Geneva, WHO, 2004. • Best practices for injections and related procedures toolkit. Geneva, WHO, 2010. http:// whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2010/9789241599252_eng.pdf 4.1.2.2 Opioid substitution therapy Background and rationale Interventions that effectively treat drug OST is highly effective in reducing dependence can reduce illicit drug use and, hence, injecting behaviours that put the frequency of injection, as well as improve opioid-dependent people at risk health and social functioning (8). For people for HIV. dependent on opioids, agonist opioid substitution therapy (OST) – sometimes referred to as medically assisted treatment (MAT) – is highly effective in reducing injecting behaviours that put opioid-dependent people at risk for HIV (33, 34, 48, 49, 50). OST can reduce opioid use and improve retention in HIV treatment (51, 52, 53). Access and adherence reduce criminal activity (55), result in better psychosocial outcomes (56) and decrease risk to pregnant women dependent upon drugs and to their infants (57). Methadone and buprenorphine, both of which are on the WHO list of essential medicines, are the most commonly used opioid agonists (58). Methadone is a synthetic Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations opioid used to treat heroin and other opioid dependence. It reduces opioid withdrawal symptoms and the euphoric effect when opioids are used. Methadone is taken orally on a daily basis; it is important to assure that the dose is sufficient (60–120 mg) and is given for sufficient duration (8,
