GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


opioids are used. Methadone is taken orally on a daily basis; it is important to assure that the dose is sufficient (60–120 mg) and is given for sufficient duration (8, 50). Buprenorphine is a partial agonist; its effectiveness in treating opioid dependence is similar to that of methadone. It is taken mainly in its sublingual form (8–24 mg/day). OST programmes should create supportive environments and relationships to facilitate coordinated treatment of co-morbid mental and physical health issues and address relevant psychosocial factors (50). • To achieve optimal coverage and treatment outcomes, opioid substitution therapy should be provided free of charge or covered by public health-care insurance and should be accessible to all those in need, including those in prison and other closed settings (50). • OST should not be compulsory; patients must give informed consent for treatment (8, 50). • To be most effective, OST should be provided as maintenance treatment for sufficient duration and at adequate doses (8, 50). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS All people from key populations who are dependent on opioids should be offered opioid substitution therapy in keeping with WHO guidance (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence) (8, 32, 50), including those in prison and other closed settings (9). Additional remarks • To maximize the safety and effectiveness of OST programmes, policies and regulations should encourage flexible dosing structures, without restricting dose levels or duration of treatment (50). Usual methadone maintenance doses should be in the range of a minimum of 60–120 mg per day, and average buprenorphine maintenance doses should be at least 8 mg per day (50). Take-home doses can be offered when the dose and social situation are stable and when there is little risk of diversion for illegitimate purposes (50). OST is most effective as a maintenance treatment for longer periods of time (treatment for years may be necessary). Detoxification or opioid withdrawal (rather than maintenance treatment) results in poor outcomes in the long term. However, patients should be helped to withdraw from opioids if it is their informed choice to do so (50). • OST should be used for the treatment of opioid dependence in pregnancy rather than attempt opioid detoxification (50, 59). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions • Psychosocial support should be available to all opioid-dependent people, in association with pharmacological treatments of opioid dependence. At a minimum this support should include assessment of psychosocial needs, supportive
