GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


• Psychosocial support should be available to all opioid-dependent people, in association with pharmacological treatments of opioid dependence. At a minimum this support should include assessment of psychosocial needs, supportive counselling and links to family and community services (50). • For opioid-dependent people with TB, viral hepatitis B or C or HIV, opioid agonists should be administered in conjunction with medical treatment. There is no need to wait for abstinence from opioids to start treatment for these conditions (50). • Treatment services should offer hepatitis B vaccination to all opioid-dependent patients (whether or not they are participating in OST programmes) (50). • Care settings that provide OST should initiate and maintain ART for eligible people living with HIV (4). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • Prison authorities in countries where OST is available in the community should urgently introduce OST programmes and expand them to scale as soon as possible (9). • Countries should affirm and strengthen the principle of providing treatment, education and rehabilitation as an alternative to conviction and punishment for drug-related offences (8). • Care should be taken to see that people on OST before entering prisons or other closed settings can continue OST without interruption while imprisoned and when transferred between settings (9, 50) and can be linked to community-based OST upon release (60). • Provision of OST before release can help reduce overdose-related mortality (61). TRANSGENDER PEOPLE There is no evidence of drug interactions between opioid substitution therapy and medications used for gender affirmation; however, research is very limited. ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS WHO guidance does not specify age restrictions for opioid substitution therapy. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Implementation considerations Documented processes should be established to ensure the safe and legal procurement, storage, dispensing and dosing of medicines, particularly methadone and buprenorphine (50). Supervision. In the early phase of treatment, administration of methadone and buprenorphine doses should be directly supervised (50). Take-home doses can be recommended when the dose and social situation are stable and when there is a low risk of diversion for illegitimate purposes (50). Involuntary discharge from treatment is sometimes justified to ensure the safety of staff and other patients, but failure to follow programme rules alone should not generally be cause for involuntary discharge. Before involuntary discharge reasonable measures to improve
