GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


ensure the safety of staff and other patients, but failure to follow programme rules alone should not generally be cause for involuntary discharge. Before involuntary discharge reasonable measures to improve the situation should be taken, including re-evaluation of the treatment approach (50). Further reading • Guidelines for psychosocially assisted pharmacotherapy for the management of opioid dependence. Geneva, WHO, 2009. • Technical guide for countries to set targets for universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug users – 2012 revision. Geneva, WHO, 2012. hiv/pub/idu/targets_universal_access/en/ • Operational guidelines for the management of opioid dependence in the South-East Asia Region. New Delhi, WHO Regional Office for South-East Asia, 2008. pub/idu/op_guide_opioid_depend/en/index.html • Guidelines for identification and management of substance use and substance use disorders in pregnancy. Geneva, WHO, 2014. pregnancy_guidelines/en/ 4.1.2.3 Other drug dependence treatment Background and rationale The objective of drug dependence The evidence on HIV prevention is not treatment is to achieve and maintain as strong as for NSP and OST. Still, other physical, psychological and social drug dependence interventions are strongly well-being by reducing the risk-taking recommended where non-opioid drugs are associated with drug use, reducing levels widely used or OST remains unavailable. of drug use, or completely abstaining from drug use. Because of the chronic, relapsing nature of drug dependence and the need to address social and psychological dimensions, achieving abstinence, if desired, is often a lengthy and difficult process. Providing “stepping stones” or “stabilizing strategies” – short-term, more achievable goals – can help to define and structure progress. It can also help to reduce drug-related harms, one of which is the transmission of bloodborne viruses such as HIV and hepatitis B and C (62). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions The available evidence on the impact of other forms of drug dependence treatment on HIV incidence is less compelling than that for OST (8, 63). Still, these other interventions are recommended where non-opioid drugs such as amphetamine-type stimulants, cocaine, sedatives and hypnotics are widely used and also where OST remains unavailable (8). Drug dependence treatment helps to prevent HIV by reducing injecting drug use, reducing the sharing of injecting equipment, reducing sexual risk behaviours and creating opportunities for HIV education and medical care (64). Treatment of drug dependence typically blends different treatment modalities, but approaches may be simply categorized as psychosocial (abstinence-based or behavioural interventions) or pharmacological. Pharmacological modalities can be further categorized as detoxification, relapse
