GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


drug dependence typically blends different treatment modalities, but approaches may be simply categorized as psychosocial (abstinence-based or behavioural interventions) or pharmacological. Pharmacological modalities can be further categorized as detoxification, relapse prevention and treatments to reduce drug craving and use (62). Detention is not treatment. In a number of countries, people who use or inject drugs are apprehended and confined to detention centres, ostensibly for the purpose of drug these centres lack medical supervision of drug withdrawal, and evidence-based drug dependence treatment is not offered. Detainees may be forced to engage in unpaid labour or military-style drills and may be subject to physical punishment. Following release from these centres, many relapse to drug use, and the risk of overdose may be increased (65). These approaches infringe on human rights. Furthermore, there is no evidence that they effectively treat drug dependence or reduce HIV transmission. Hence, they cannot be considered drug dependence treatment (8). For these reasons, WHO and other UN partners do not support these forms of detention and call on Member States to close compulsory drug detention and rehabilitation centres and to implement voluntary, evidence-informed and rights-based health and social services in the community (66). Containing the spread of HIV is more successful where there is a comprehensive and varied range of evidence-based services for drug dependence treatment (62). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS All key populations with harmful alcohol or other substance use should have access to evidence-based interventions, including brief psychosocial interventions involving assessment, specific feedback and advice (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (3, 46). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • People in prisons should have access to the same evidence-based treatment options for substance dependence as people in the community (9, 60). • To reduce over-incarceration and prison overcrowding, which increase the risk of HIV infection, it is important that countries review their laws and policies that criminalize people for their consumption of alcohol or drugs (9, 60). ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Treatment should be provided in the best interests of the adolescent concerned and in consultation with her or him. Implementation considerations Psychosocial interventions should be part of comprehensive treatment for drug dependence (39, 50). Alternatives to criminalization. Countries should affirm and strengthen the principle of providing treatment,
