GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


or him. Implementation considerations Psychosocial interventions should be part of comprehensive treatment for drug dependence (39, 50). Alternatives to criminalization. Countries should affirm and strengthen the principle of providing treatment, education and rehabilitation as an alternative to conviction and punishment for drug-related offences. Currently, many countries make major expenditures on imprisonment of drug dependent people, an approach associated with very high relapse rates soon after release. There is no evidence that such an approach is effective or cost-effective (8). Further reading • mhGAP intervention guide for mental, neurological and substance use disorders in non- publications/mhGAP_intervention_guide/en/index.htm • Technical briefs on amphetamine-type substances. Manila, WHO Regional Office for the Western Pacific, 2011. • Basic principles for treatment and psychosocial support of drug dependent people living with HIV/ AIDS. Geneva, WHO, 2006. basic_principles_drug_hiv.pdf Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.1.2.4 Opioid overdose prevention and management Background and rationale Worldwide, drug overdose is the leading cause of death among people who inject drugs and a common cause of non-HIV-related deaths among people with HIV. An estimated 69 000 people die from overdose each year (67). Opioid overdose is both preventable and, if witnessed, Opioid overdose is both treatable. OST provides the most effective prevention preventable and, if witnessed, among people dependent on opioids (50). Opioid treatable. overdose is treatable by respiratory support and via the short-acting opioid antagonist naloxone. Naloxone has a long clinical history of successful use for the treatment of opioid overdose. The medication has no effect if opioids are absent and has no potential for abuse. Naloxone is included on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines (68). a number of countries in several regions have recently started community-based distribution, i.e. allowing distribution and administration by people dependent on opioids and their peers and family members as well as by first-responders such as police and emergency services. Greater availability of naloxone through community-based distribution could help reduce the high rates of opioid overdose, particularly where access to essential health services is limited for people who inject drugs. Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • People likely to witness an opioid overdose should have access to naloxone and be instructed in its use for emergency management of suspected opioid overdose (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (69). • Naloxone is effective when delivered by intramuscular, intranasal, intravenous and subcutaneous routes. Persons administering naloxone should select the route based on formulation available,
