GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


very low quality of evidence) (69). • Naloxone is effective when delivered by intramuscular, intranasal, intravenous and subcutaneous routes. Persons administering naloxone should select the route based on formulation available, skills in administration, setting and local context (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (69). • In suspected opioid overdose, first-responders should focus on maintaining an airway, assisting ventilation and giving naloxone (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (69). • After successful resuscitation following administration of naloxone, the affected person’s level of consciousness and breathing should be closely observed – where possible, until the person has fully recovered (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (69). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS WHO guidance does not specify age restrictions for overdose management. Implementation considerations Legal and policy issues. There may be both legal and policy barriers to the access and use of naloxone by lay first responders, which may need to be reviewed in order to implement this recommendation. Dose. Where possible, efforts should be made to tailor the dose to avoid marked opioid withdrawal symptoms. The choice of initial dose will depend on formulation and context, however doses above 0.8mg IM/IV/SC are more likely to precipitate significant withdrawal symptoms. Further reading • Community management of opioid overdose. Geneva, WHO, 2014 and add int/iris/bitstream/10665/137462/1/9789241548816_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1. • WHO model list of essential medicines, 18th list. Geneva, WHO, 2013. medicines/publications/essentialmedicines/18th_EML_Final_web_8Jul13.pdf • UNODC, WHO. Discussion paper. Opioid overdose: preventing and reducing opioid overdose mortality. Vienna, United Nations, 2013. overdose.pdf 4.1.3 Behavioural interventions Background and rationale To reduce their risk of acquiring STIs or HIV, people Behavioural interventions must understand their risk and have the knowledge, help individuals support safer skills and belief in their self-efficacy to reduce that behaviours and sustain this risk. Behavioural interventions provide information, positive change. motivation, education and skills-building to help individuals reduce risky behaviours and sustain this positive change. Behavioural interventions may address individuals or groups. One-on-one counselling may focus on awareness of personal risk and risk reduction strategies; for example, counsellors or community workers may discuss risk behaviours, relate a participant’s activities directly to HIV risk, and consider strategies to reduce this risk. In contrast, peer-to-peer interventions and group sessions may focus more on awareness of risk overall, with group sessions offering the added benefit of group
