GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


consider strategies to reduce this risk. In contrast, peer-to-peer interventions and group sessions may focus more on awareness of risk overall, with group sessions offering the added benefit of group support for finding Chapter 4: Health sector interventions workable risk-reduction strategies. Social marketing campaigns also may help by promoting testing, treatment and other services. Behavioural change interventions can be delivered as part of the other interventions in the comprehensive package. They may take place face-to-face or through broadcast mass media and digital media such as the Internet. Choices of content and approach, as well as of the medium, should be based on good formative analysis of the local situation. Although the logic of behavioural interventions is primarily based on individual awareness and decision-making about risk, such interventions also can operate at the community level. For example, interventions may involve training opinion leaders to communicate with their peers, thus changing perceptions of social norms about risk and risk avoidance. Adolescents deserve specific consideration as at this stage the urge to explore and experiment normally develops ahead of decision-making ability (70). Adolescents’ evolving cognitive abilities are an important consideration in the design of behavioural interventions for them. Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS A range of behavioural interventions can provide information and skills that support risk reduction, prevent HIV transmission and increase uptake of services among all key populations. There is insufficient evidence to make general recommendations for all key populations. However, specific behavioural approaches for particular key population groups have been assessed and can be recommended. Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups MEN WHO HAVE SEX WITH MEN • The following strategies are recommended to increase safer sexual behaviours and increase uptake of HIV testing and counselling among men who have sex with men: – targeted Internet-based information – social marketing strategies – sex venue-based outreach (3, 32). • Implementing both individual-level behavioural interventions and community- level behavioural interventions is suggested (3, 32). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • A peer-based, comprehensive approach increases the effectiveness of prison- based HIV education efforts (9). • Information and education programmes about HIV and other infectious diseases are important for both prisoners and prison staff. Special attention should be paid to the needs of prisoners after release. PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS • People who inject
