GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


infectious diseases are important for both prisoners and prison staff. Special attention should be paid to the needs of prisoners after release. PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS • People who inject drugs and relevant community networks should participate in developing and delivering messages. • Behavioural interventions for people who inject drugs need to address risk related to both drug use and sexual behaviour (27). • For people who inject drugs, peer interventions are particularly effective for the prevention of HIV and viral hepatitis (39). • Information and education about safe injecting and overdose prevention are also important. SEX WORKERS Condom promotion programmes, including community-led programmes, can increase condom use by sex workers and their clients. Through peer- and community-led interventions, these programmes can provide information and skills- building for condom use and information and create demand for HIV testing, STI screening, and HIV treatment and care (71). TRANSGENDER PEOPLE The following strategies are recommended to increase safer sexual behaviours and increase uptake of HIV testing and counselling among transgender people: • targeted Internet-based information • social marketing strategies • sex venue-based outreach (3, 32) Implementing both individual-level behavioural interventions and community-level behavioural interventions is suggested (3, 32). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Skills-based interactive and participatory approaches for adolescents from key proved acceptable to adolescents and have shown promise in some contexts (72, 73). Further reading • Kennedy CE et al. Behavioural interventions for HIV positive prevention in developing 2010, 88(8):615–623. • Prevention and treatment of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections among men who have sex with men and transgender people. Geneva, WHO, 2011. pub/guidelines/msm_guidelines2011/en/ 4.1.4 Prevention of transmission in health-care settings The essential elements for preventing HIV transmission in health-care settings include: Primary prevention procedures • blood safety (see • prevention of unsafe injections; • emergency and essential surgical care that limit the need for blood transfusion; • standard precautions to minimize the spread of infection associated with health care and to avoid direct and indirect contact with blood, body fluids, secretions and non-intact personal protective equipment to prevent exposures, safe disposal of sharps and waste, and safe cleaning and disinfection of the environment and equipment; • identifying, eliminating and controlling exposure to hazards in the workplace and preventing needlestick injuries. Secondary prevention – that is, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) – is applicable in health-care settings when primary prevention has failed or when a health-care worker
