GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


the workplace and preventing needlestick injuries. Secondary prevention – that is, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) – is applicable in health-care settings when primary prevention has failed or when a health-care worker or patient has been exposed to the risk of HIV transmission, whether accidentally or through unsafe procedures (see Section 4.1.5.2). Further reading • Blood donor selection. Guidelines on assessing donor suitability for blood donation. Geneva, WHO, 2012. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 4.1.5 ARV-related prevention 4.1.5.1 Pre-exposure prophylaxis In 2015 WHO has developed new guidance concerning pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for inclusion in this publication. Full discussion of the guidance and its rationale is presented here. Background and rationale Oral PrEP is the use of ARV drugs by HIV-uninfected people to block the acquisition of HIV before exposure to HIV. Twelve trials of the effectiveness of oral PrEP have been conducted among serodiscordant couples, heterosexual men, women, men who have sex with men, people who inject drugs and transgender women. Where adherence has been high, significant levels of efficacy have been achieved, showing the value of this intervention as part of combination prevention approaches. In 2012, WHO recommended PrEP for use among serodiscordant couples, men who have sex with men and transgender people on the basis that demonstration projects were needed to ascertain optimal delivery approaches. (74) In the 2014 version of this document, PrEP was strongly recommended for men who have sex with men. (See annex 7) This new recommendation replaces previous WHO recommendations on PrEP and enables the offer of PrEP to be considered for people at substantial risk of acquiring HIV rather than limiting the recommendation to specific populations. The new recommendation will enable a wider range of populations to benefit from this additional prevention option. It also allows the offer of PrEP to be based on individual assessment, rather than risk group, and is intended to foster implementation that is informed by local epidemiological evidence regarding risk factors for acquiring HIV. More information on this recommendation is available in the WHO Guideline on when to start antiretroviral therapy and on pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. (4) For the text describing this recommendation from the 2014 version of this document, please see Annex 7. Recommendations and guidance NEW ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS Oral PrEP (containing TDF) should be offered as an additional prevention choice for key populations at substantial risk of HIV
