GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Annex 7. Recommendations and guidance NEW ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS Oral PrEP (containing TDF) should be offered as an additional prevention choice for key populations at substantial risk of HIV infection as part of combination prevention approaches. (strong recommendation, high quality of evidence) (4). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS • The priority interventions for HIV prevention among PWID remain covered by harm reduction, in particular needle and syringe programmes and opioid substitution therapy for those who are opioid dependent. (8). Further reading • Web Annexes 1, 2, 3 and 7. • Guidance on oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for serodiscordant couples, men and transgender women who have sex with men at high risk of HIV: recommendations for use in the context of demonstration projects. Geneva, WHO, 2012. bitstream/10665/75188/1/9789241503884_eng.pdf • Technical update on pre-exposure prophylaxis. Geneva, WHO, 2015. pub/prep/prep-technical-update-2015/en/ • Guideline on when to start antiretroviral therapy and on pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. Geneva, WHO, 2015. eng.pdf?ua=1 • WHO expands recommendation on oral pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV infection. Geneva, WHO, 2015. 4.1.5.2 Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) Background and rationale Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) is given to reduce PEP is the only way to the likelihood of acquiring HIV infection after possible reduce risk of infection after exposure. Since the early 1990s antiretroviral medicines exposure to HIV. have been prescribed for PEP following occupational exposure to HIV. This practice has been extended to non-occupational situations, including sexual assault. Other non-occupational exposures include those arising from sharing of injection equipment among people who inject drugs and possible exposure through consensual sex (79). PEP is currently the only way to reduce the risk of HIV infection in an individual who has been exposed to HIV. As such, it is widely considered an integral part of the overall prevention strategy (79). WHO PEP guidelines were updated in 2014 and are relevant for all populations. The NEW current recommended duration of PEP is 28 days; the first dose should be taken as soon as possible and within 72 hours after exposure. There has been a progressive trend favouring the adoption of better tolerated PEP regimens, often composed by once daily triple ARV drug combinations including nucleotide analogues and heat stable boosted protease inhibitors. More recently, other alternative drug classes such as non-nucleside analogues and integrase inhibitors have been considered. The 2014 WHO PEP guidance provides
