GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


nucleotide analogues and heat stable boosted protease inhibitors. More recently, other alternative drug classes such as non-nucleside analogues and integrase inhibitors have been considered. The 2014 WHO PEP guidance provides updated regimens for adults, adolescents and children. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Despite its short duration, reported completion rates for PEP are low. Therefore, counselling and other adherence support measures are recommended. PEP should not be considered 100% effective. It is, therefore, imperative that HIV post-exposure prophylaxis policies reinforce the importance of primary prevention and risk prevention counselling in all settings where HIV could be transmitted (79). Offering pre-exposure prophylaxis after completion of the 28 day PEP course could be considered for people who present with repeated high risk behaviour or for repeat courses of PEP. PEP should be available to all eligible people from key populations on a voluntary basis after possible exposure to HIV. Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS HIV post-exposure prophylaxis should be considered for people presenting within 72 hours of a sexual assault. Use shared decision-making with the survivor to determine whether HIV post-exposure prophylaxis is appropriate (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (80). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS PEP should be made accessible to all people in prisons and other closed settings who have possibly been exposed to HIV, just as in non-prison settings. Clear and other employees (9, 11). Implementation considerations An HIV risk assessment and counselling specific to HIV and PEP should be part of the PEP intervention (79). Comprehensive ongoing services should be available for people following PEP, including treatment and care for people who seroconvert (79). Further reading • Guidelines on post-exposure prophylaxis for HIV and the use of co-trimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-related infections among adults, adolescents and children WHO, 2014. who.int/hiv/pub/guidelines/arv2013/arvs2013upplement_dec2014/en/ • Responding to intimate partner violence and sexual violence against women: bitstream/10665/85240/1/9789241548595_eng.pdf Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.1.5.3 Early initiation of ART/ART regardless of CD4 count Background and rationale Viral load is the single greatest determinant Evidence supports early initiation of the risk of HIV transmission. When of ART in individuals, irrespective of CD4 someone is virally suppressed (viral load is count, to prevent HIV transmission. undetectable), the risk of HIV transmission is significantly reduced. There is increasing evidence of the potential of ART to reduce HIV
