GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


suppressed (viral load is count, to prevent HIV transmission. undetectable), the risk of HIV transmission is significantly reduced. There is increasing evidence of the potential of ART to reduce HIV transmission by lowering viral load. This evidence supports early initiation of ART in individuals, irrespective of CD4 count, for prevention of HIV transmission (4). New WHO ARV guidelines recommend initiation of ART regardless of CD4 count for all with priority of people coinfected with HIV and hepatitis B virus with severe hepatic disease and/or active TB. The 2015 WHO ARV consolidated guidelines recommend initiation of ART for all populations, including people from key populations. The rationale for initiating ART regardless of CD4 count for people in key populations living with HIV is both operational (to increase access to ART in populations that currently have low access, poor linkage and high loss to follow-up following diagnosis) and for the public health benefits of decreasing HIV transmission. Although ART has a significant HIV prevention effect, it should be used in combination with other biomedical interventions that reduce HIV risk practices and/ or reduce the probability of HIV transmission per contact event, including male and female condoms, needle and syringe programmes, opioid substitution therapy with methadone or buprenorphine, and voluntary medical male circumcision (4). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS NEW ART should be initiated in all individuals with HIV regardless of WHO clinical stage or CD4 count with priority of the following groups: • Individuals with HIV and active TB disease (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). • Individuals coinfected with HIV and hepatitis B virus (HBV) with evidence of severe chronic liver disease (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). • For programmatic and operational reasons, particularly in generalized epidemics, all pregnant and breastfeeding women with HIV should initiate ART as lifelong treatment (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) (4). • Partners with HIV in serodiscordant couples should be offered ART to reduce HIV transmission to uninfected partners (strong recommendation, high quality of evidence) (4). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Further reading • Guideline on when to start antirretroviral therapy and on pre exposure prophylaxis for HIV. WHO, Geneva, September 2015. 4.1.6 Voluntary medical male circumcision for HIV prevention Background and rationale There is compelling evidence from three Medical male circumcision reduces randomized controlled trials in Africa that the risk of female-to-male sexual medical
