GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


male circumcision for HIV prevention Background and rationale There is compelling evidence from three Medical male circumcision reduces randomized controlled trials in Africa that the risk of female-to-male sexual medical male circumcision reduces the risk of transmission of HIV by about 60%. female-to-male sexual transmission of HIV by approximately 60% (81, 82, 83). Thus, WHO and UNAIDS recommend voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) as an additional efficacious intervention for prevention of heterosexually acquired HIV, particularly in settings with generalized HIV epidemics (84). The most recent data from Uganda show that, in the five years since the Uganda trial was completed, high effectiveness has been maintained among the men who were circumcised, with a 73% protective effect against HIV infection (85). VMMC is safe when provided by well-trained health professionals in properly equipped local language and symbols, and be appropriate to the particular level of education and understanding of the population groups that they address. Messages should address both men and women (84). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • VMMC is recommended as an additional, important strategy for the prevention of heterosexually acquired HIV infection in men, particularly in settings with hyperendemic and generalized HIV epidemics and low prevalence of male circumcision (84). • VMMC service provision should serve as an opportunity to address the sexual health needs of men; such services should actively counsel and promote safer sexual behaviour (84). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups MEN WHO HAVE SEX WITH MEN • VMMC is not recommended to prevent HIV transmission in sex between men, as evidence is lacking that VMMC is protective during receptive anal intercourse (3). • Men who have sex with men may still benefit from VMMC if they also engage in vaginal sex. Men who have sex with men should not be excluded from VMMC services in countries in eastern and southern Africa where VMMC is offered for HIV prevention. PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS VMMC is not one of the recommended interventions in the prison package. If VMMC is offered to men in prisons in priority countries in eastern and southern Africa with generalized epidemics and low rates of male circumcision, it is crucial that it is provided with full adherence to medical ethics and human rights principles. Informed consent, confidentiality and absence of coercion should be assured. SEX WORKERS (AND CLIENTS
