GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


is crucial that it is provided with full adherence to medical ethics and human rights principles. Informed consent, confidentiality and absence of coercion should be assured. SEX WORKERS (AND CLIENTS OF SEX WORKERS) • Health messages and counselling should emphasize that resuming sexual relations before complete wound healing may increase the risk of HIV acquisition among recently circumcised HIV-negative men and may increase the risk of HIV transmission to female partners of recently circumcised HIV-positive men (84). • “Men’s health services” offering VMMC to clients of sex workers or other men at higher risk (such as in serodiscordant couples) may be a promising approach in the high-priority countries of eastern and southern Africa to reach men at greater risk of HIV infection. This approach has not been systematically reviewed and evaluated, however. TRANSGENDER PEOPLE VMMC is not recommended for HIV prevention among transgender women (3). ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Countries with hyperendemic and generalized HIV epidemics and low prevalence of male circumcision should increase access to male circumcision services as a priority for adolescents and young men (84). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Implementation considerations Partial protection. Male circumcision provides only partial protection against female- to-male HIV infection. Therefore, male circumcision services should not be delivered in isolation but rather as part of a recommended minimum package that also includes information about the risks and benefits of the procedure, counselling on safer sex practices, access to HIV testing, condom promotion and provision, and management of STIs (84). Opportunity to expand services. Introduction and expansion of VMMC services in high-priority countries of eastern and southern Africa should serve as an opportunity to expand HIV services to all males. Further reading • Male circumcision for HIV prevention. Geneva, WHO, 2014. malecircumcision/en/ • Clearinghouse on male circumcision for HIV prevention. Research Triangle Park NC, USA, FHI360, 2014. • New data on male circumcision and HIV prevention: policy and programme implications. Geneva, WHO, 2007. 4.2 HIV testing and counselling Background and rationale HIV testing and counselling (HTC) is the essential first step in enabling people with HIV to know their status and obtain HIV prevention, treatment and care services. For those who test negative, HTC is an important opportunity to put those at risk for HIV in contact with primary prevention programmes and to encourage later retesting (4). For key populations, especially those whose behaviour is criminalized,
