GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


important opportunity to put those at risk for HIV in contact with primary prevention programmes and to encourage later retesting (4). For key populations, especially those whose behaviour is criminalized, HTC services are sometimes used in punitive or coercive ways. To the contrary, HTC must always be clients of sex workers or within a prison or other closed setting (4, 8, 9, 10, 86). Like all testing and counselling, HTC for key populations needs to emphasize the WHO 5 Cs of HTC: consent, confidentiality, counselling, correct results and linkage to care (87) – particularly consent and confidentiality. Furthermore, HTC must be part of a HTC is the essential first step, but comprehensive prevention, care and treatment about half of people living with HIV do programme (4). It is important that there are not know their HIV status. clear and robust links between testing and HIV prevention, treatment and care services for those who test positive and with prevention services for those who test negative; poor linkages prevent people from acting on their test results. HIV testing among Chapter 4: Health sector interventions key populations should follow nationally validated testing algorithms, accord with WHO testing strategies and have appropriate quality assurance/quality improvement mechanisms in place (88). Unaware of HIV status. It is estimated that, globally, about half of the people currently access to HTC and, thus, knowledge of HIV status tend to be much less. People from key populations often test late and often fail to link from HTC to care and assessment for ART (88). Thus, many start treatment when already significantly immunocompromised, or at delivery, vertical HIV transmission – are more likely (4). Counselling is an essential component of testing. Pre-test counselling must provide accurate information about the test and the implications of a positive or negative result in order to enable the person seeking testing to make an informed choice. Post-test counselling must offer, among much else, support concerning disclosure of HIV status. Also, HTC offers a valuable opportunity to provide accurate information about safer sex and harm reduction that is relevant to the person being tested, reflecting the test result. Behavioural change and risk reduction counselling may also have value. Multiple settings. Rapid HIV testing enables health workers to provide clients with same-day results. Thus, HTC can be offered in a variety of settings, including primary providers, including outreach workers. Community-based testing, linked to prevention, care and
