GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


workers to provide clients with same-day results. Thus, HTC can be offered in a variety of settings, including primary providers, including outreach workers. Community-based testing, linked to prevention, care and treatment, has the potential to reach greater numbers of people than clinic-based HTC – particularly those unlikely to go to a facility for testing and those who are asymptomatic (89). It is important to have clear procedures in place, following national HIV testing strategies and algorithms, to confirm positive HIV test results and to link clients to treatment and care (9). Provider-initiated HIV testing and counselling (PITC), where HTC is offered routinely it is not compulsory, is not coercive and is linked to treatment and care, in line with WHO guidelines. Particular attention should go to providing accurate information; informed consent must always be obtained; and results should remain confidential. All forms of HTC should be voluntary and adhere to the five Cs: consent, confidentiality, counselling, correct test results and connections to care, treatment and prevention services. Quality assurance of both testing and counselling is essential to all HTC approaches (4, 90). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Voluntary HTC should be routinely offered to all key populations in both the • Community-based HIV testing and counselling for key populations, with linkage to prevention, care and treatment services, is recommended, in addition to provider-initiated testing and counselling (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence) (4). Additional remark Couples and partners should be offered voluntary HTC with support for mutual disclosure (92). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS It is important to guard against negative consequences of testing in prisons – for example, segregation of prisoners – and to respect confidentiality. It is also important that people who test positive have access and are linked to HIV care and treatment services (9, 93). • HIV testing and counselling should be voluntary (93). • The use of HIV rapid testing can increase the likelihood of prisoners receiving their results (93). • Testing in conjunction with other risk-reduction services such as the provision of condoms with lubricants and STI screening can increase the benefits of testing and counselling (93). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS In all epidemic settings accessible and acceptable HTC services must be
