GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


screening can increase the benefits of testing and counselling (93). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS In all epidemic settings accessible and acceptable HTC services must be available to adolescents and provided in ways that do not put them at risk (86). Countries are encouraged to examine their current consent policies and consider revising them to reduce age-related barriers to access and uptake of HTC and to linkages to prevention, treatment and care following testing (86). Young people should be able to obtain HTC without required parental or guardian consent or presence. • HIV testing and counselling, with linkages to prevention, treatment and care, is recommended for adolescents from key populations in all settings (generalized, low and concentrated epidemics) (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (4, 86). • Adolescents should be counselled about the potential benefits and risks of disclosure of their HIV status and empowered and supported to determine when, how and to whom to disclose (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (86). • Children of school age should be told their HIV-positive status (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence) (86). Implementation considerations Rapid tests. Rapid HIV diagnostic tests at point of care greatly facilitate access to testing, return of same-day results and appropriate referral and follow-up (4). Continuous supply. Mechanisms should be developed to provide a consistent supply of test kits and prevent stock-outs. quality assurance system at national, subnational, facility and community levels (95). Prison systems should be an integral part of national efforts to scale up access to HTC. Scaling up HIV HTC services in prisons should not be undertaken in isolation, but rather as part of a comprehensive HIV programme aimed at improving health care and achieving universal access to HIV prevention services in prisons and other closed settings (93). Couples HTC. There are many potential advantages to supporting couples to test together and mutually disclose their HIV status; together, they can make informed decisions about HIV prevention and offer each other support for obtaining and adhering to ART. HTC for couples or partners should be offered to anyone, regardless of how they define their relationships. The principle – and the policy – should be that providers support all people in a sexual relationship to receive testing as a couple or as partners, irrespective of their sexual orientation or the length or stability of their relationship. Self-testing for HIV (HIVST)
