GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


people newly diagnosed with HIV. The perceived stigma associated with attending an HIV clinic continues to be a barrier to early care enrolment. Lack of family support and fear of disclosure also hinder access. In addition, how people living with HIV perceive both their own health and the effectiveness of ART can affect Chapter 4: Health sector interventions their willingness to seek clinical care. People living with HIV who believe that alternative therapies will be effective, who fear the side-effects of ART, or who perceive that they are in good health are less likely to enrol in HIV care than those who do not have these perceptions (99). Also, injecting drug use is associated with poor linkage to and retention in care (100, 101). Several interventions to address these psychosocial barriers have been evaluated. Intensified post-test counselling combined with follow-up counselling by community health workers significantly increases the proportion who enrol in HIV care (102). People who inject drugs are more likely to start and stay in HIV treatment if they are participating in OST programmes (103). Economic constraints. Migration in search of employment opportunities (104) and enrolment in HIV clinical care. Health system factors affecting linkage to care include reliance on passive referral as the only linkage strategy, inadequate staffing, long wait times, poor service offered in Key operational issues need to be considered and addressed in order to improve linkage increased efforts to improve the quality of services (see Chapter 6). 4.4 HIV treatment and care 4.4.1 Antiretroviral therapy Background and rationale The use of ART for HIV in key populations should follow the same general principles and recommendations as for all adults (4). They should have the same access, as well. People in key populations may experience discrimination and marginalization that can impede people from key populations have equitable access to HIV treatment and care. Updated guidance. The 2013 and 2015 update of WHO ART guidelines includes new recommendations on when to initiate ART, what drug regimens to use for first- line, second-line and third-line treatment, and how to monitor people on ART. These guidelines (4) should be consulted for full details on ART management. Key populations living with HIV should have the same access to ART and care and the same ART management as other populations. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS ART
