GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and care and the same ART management as other populations. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS ART initiation • As a priority ART should be initiated in all individuals with severe or advanced HIV clinical disease (WHO clinical stage 3 or 4) and individuals with CD4 counts of ≤350 cells/mm3 (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). • ART should be initiated in all individuals with HIV regardless of WHO clinical stage (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (4). stage or CD4 count, with priority for the following people (4): – individuals with HIV and active TB disease (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence); – individuals co-infected with HIV and HBV with evidence of severe chronic liver disease (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence); – partners with HIV in serodiscordant couples, to reduce HIV transmission to uninfected partners (strong recommendation, high quality of evidence); – pregnant and breastfeeding women (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Additional remark There are no special clinical ART recommendations specific to any key population. However, because of stigma, discrimination and marginalization, they frequently present late for treatment. Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • HIV treatment adherence can be increased by addressing HIV stigma and discrimination, ensuring the confidentiality of a prisoner’s HIV status, and allowing people in prisons and other closed settings access to care and treatment without discrimination by prison officials. • If they are being transferred, people in prisons and other closed settings should be given a supply of ART to last until health care can be established at the new prison location or, if they are being released, until linkage can be made to community-based HIV care (60, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS • Current WHO guidance on the use of ART for treatment of HIV infection in adults and adolescents applies to people living with HIV who inject drugs (4). • When ART is provided in a supportive environment, people who inject drugs have treatment outcomes similar to others’ outcomes (115). ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Community-based approaches can improve treatment adherence and retention in care of adolescents living with HIV (86). Training of health-care workers can contribute to treatment adherence and retention in care of
