GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Community-based approaches can improve treatment adherence and retention in care of adolescents living with HIV (86). Training of health-care workers can contribute to treatment adherence and retention in care of adolescents living with HIV (86). Health-care providers can support adherence among adolescents by: • assisting them in exploring factors influencing their adherence • improving their understanding of HIV, ART and adherence • recognizing developmental needs while supporting their emerging independence • assisting them in integrating ART into daily life • offering simplified ART regimes • encouraging participation in peer support groups and community-based interventions (116, 117, 118). Implementation considerations ART service delivery. The 2013 WHO consolidated ARV guidelines and 2015 update (4) offer a number of service delivery recommendations, including decentralization of ART and services where OST is provided. Approaches to support ART delivery, retention in care and adherence. People from key populations often face more barriers than other populations to access to care and continuation in care. They often are hard to reach and mobile, have less access to and uptake of health services in general and may face stigma and discrimination in retention and adherence models. ART in prisons and other closed settings. HIV treatment, including ART, care and support, in prisons should be equivalent to that available to people living with HIV in the community and should be in line with national guidelines. People who are incarcerated have the additional risk of acquiring TB. However, with adequate support and structured treatment programmes, excellent outcomes can Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations be achieved in the prison setting (4, 9). Given the high incarceration rates in key populations, efforts should be made to ensure that ART (and TB treatment) is available Further reading • Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/85321/1/9789241505727_eng.pdf • Guideline on when to start antiretroviral therapy and on pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. Geneva, WHO, 2015. eng.pdf • Guidelines for the identification and management of substance use and substance use disorders in pregnancy. Geneva, WHO, 2014. bitstream/10665/107130/1/9789241548731_eng.pdf 4.4.2 Prevention of mother-to-child transmission Background and rationale Prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV, also known as prevention of vertical transmission, refers to interventions to prevent transmission of HIV from a mother living with HIV to her infant during pregnancy, labour and delivery or during breastfeeding. PMTCT also focuses on early initiation of ART in
