GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


prevent transmission of HIV from a mother living with HIV to her infant during pregnancy, labour and delivery or during breastfeeding. PMTCT also focuses on early initiation of ART in the mother and assuring the mother’s health. WHO recommends a four-pronged approach to a comprehensive PMTCT strategy: 1. Primary prevention of HIV infection among women of childbearing age 2. Preventing unintended pregnancies among women living with HIV 3. Preventing HIV transmission from women living with HIV to their infants 4. Providing appropriate treatment, care, and support to mothers living with HIV, their children and families. In the third prong, which focuses on the direct Direct interventions to prevent interventions to prevent vertical transmission, the vertical transmission consist of a preventive interventions consist of a cascade of cascade of services. services, from HIV testing and counselling, ART, safe delivery, safer infant feeding, postpartum interventions in the context of ongoing ART, early infant diagnosis and final diagnosis for HIV-exposed infants, through linkage of both the mother and child to appropriate care and treatment (prong 4). All pregnant women from key populations should have the same access to PMTCT services and follow the same recommendations as women in other populations. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Recommendations and guidance ALL PREGNANT WOMEN1 IN KEY POPULATION GROUPS • All pregnant and breastfeeding women living with HIV should initiate triple antiretrovirals (ARV), which should be maintained at least for the duration of risk of mother-to-child transmission. Women meeting treatment eligibility criteria should continue ART for life (CD4 <500 cells/mm3) (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (4). • For programmatic and operational reasons, particularly in generalized epidemics, all pregnant and breastfeeding women living with HIV should initiate ART and maintain it as lifelong treatment (option B+) (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) (4). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS Special consideration should be given to ensuring that pregnant female prisoners have ready access to PMTCT services, as women often face greater barriers to HIV testing, counselling, care, and treatment in prison than outside prison. PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS All pregnant women and their families affected by substance use disorders should have access to affordable prevention and treatment services and interventions delivered with a special attention to confidentiality, national legislation and international human rights standards; women should not be excluded from health care because of their substance
