GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


treatment services and interventions delivered with a special attention to confidentiality, national legislation and international human rights standards; women should not be excluded from health care because of their substance use (119). Implementation considerations Equity and overcoming barriers to access. In most countries women from key populations have less access to PMTCT than women in the general population. In particular, people who inject drugs, their partners, and sex workers have less access. Also, adolescent girls generally and adolescent girls from key populations in particular have less access to PMTCT interventions and have worse outcomes. Special efforts should be made to understand and overcome barriers to access and to provide acceptable services that reach adult and adolescent women from key populations. Later presentation. Adult and adolescent women from key populations often present late to antenatal care (ANC) or first present at labour without any ANC, and 1 This includes pregnant transgender men. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations consequently they access PMTCT interventions very late. Also, they often face special challenges to follow-up and ongoing interventions postpartum. This has adverse of PMTCT interventions. Strategies need to be developed to promote and support earlier attendance at ANC by pregnant women from key populations. Supporting adherence. Special effort and initiatives are needed to optimize access to care and adherence support for women from key populations and to support effective linkages to long-term treatment. This is especially true during breastfeeding, a period when follow-up is often poor. Further reading • Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/85321/1/9789241505727_eng.pdf • Guideline on when to start antiretroviral therapy and on pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. Geneva, WHO, 2015. eng.pdf • Guidelines for the identification and management of substance use and substance use disorders in pregnancy. Geneva, WHO, 2014. 10665/107130/1/9789241548731_eng.pdf 4.4.3 ART drug interactions Background and rationale Providers should be aware of all drugs that Possible drug interactions add people with HIV are taking when ART is initiated complexities when prescribing ARV and new drugs that are added during continuing drugs and monitoring treatment. treatment. For many from key populations, this may include recreational drugs, drugs for coinfections and co-morbidities, and among transgender people cross-sex hormones. Possible drug interactions add complexities when prescribing ARV drugs and monitoring treatment. Counselling on the possible consequences of drug interactions and an environment that promotes and enables reporting of concomitant
