GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Possible drug interactions add complexities when prescribing ARV drugs and monitoring treatment. Counselling on the possible consequences of drug interactions and an environment that promotes and enables reporting of concomitant medications are critical components of high-quality care for all people with HIV. Tuberculosis WHO TB treatment guidelines review key considerations for managing coinfection with TB and HIV (120). A key contraindicated drug combination is rifampicin and protease inhibitors (PIs). When people coinfected with TB and HIV are receiving a boosted PI, rifabutin may need to be substituted for rifampicin. If rifabutin is not available, only lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) can be concomitantly used for the duration of TB treatment, provided the boosting dose of ritonavir is increased or double the standard dose of LPV/r is used. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Hepatitis C Ribavirin and pegylated interferon alpha-2a are often used to treat chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Administration of these agents along with zidovudine (AZT) has been associated with increased risk of anaemia and hepatic decompensation. People co-infected with HCV and HIV and receiving AZT may need to be switched to tenofovir (TDF) (121). Hormones used for contraception ARV drugs have the potential to either decrease or increase the bioavailability of steroid hormones in hormonal contraceptives (122). Limited data suggest potential drug interactions between contraceptive hormones and many ARV drugs (especially some non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) and ritonavir (RTV)-boosted PIs). These interactions may alter the safety and effectiveness of both the hormonal contraceptive and the ARV drug. However, current WHO contraception guidelines conclude that none of the drug interactions between currently recommended ARVs for treatment and for PrEP, on one hand, and, on the other, hormonal contraceptives are significant enough to prevent their use together (122). If women receiving ART decide to initiate or continue using hormonal contraceptives, consistent use of condoms is recommended both to prevent HIV transmission and to compensate for any possible reduction in the effectiveness of the hormonal contraception. Hormones used in cross-hormonal treatment protocols for transgender women and men There are limited data on the interactions between ARVs and a variety of other drugs used in cross-hormonal treatment protocols for transgender women, particularly with anti-androgens (e.g. cyproterone acetate, flutamide). The same is true for androgens (e.g. dihydrotestosterone) commonly used by transgender men. Currently, there are no documented drug interactions between these medications and ARVs. However, this issue deserves more research, as transgender women and
