GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


androgens (e.g. dihydrotestosterone) commonly used by transgender men. Currently, there are no documented drug interactions between these medications and ARVs. However, this issue deserves more research, as transgender women and men often use several drugs combined and sometimes at high doses, with potential for multidirectional drug interactions. Meanwhile, as ARV treatment may lead to hormonal fluctuations among transgender women taking gender-affirming medications, close monitoring is recommended. (see Policy Brief Transgender people and HIV. Geneva, WHO, 2015. In addition, some ARV drugs may potentiate glucose and lipid metabolic abnormalities associated with alterations in hormone levels as well as increase the risk of thrombotic events and hepatic toxicity (123). All these risks are further increased by the frequent practice of self-medication, which often involves products and doses that are less safe than those typically prescribed by health workers. More research in these areas is also needed. Opioids WHO recommends methadone and buprenorphine to treat opioid dependence (50). Co-administering efavirenz (EFV) decreases methadone concentrations. This could subsequently cause withdrawal symptoms and increase the risk of relapse to opioid use. People receiving methadone and EFV should be monitored closely, and those experiencing opioid withdrawal may need to adjust their methadone dose (50). The limited evidence suggests no interactions between ARVs and recreational drugs. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations There can be dangerous interactions between recreational drugs, however. For example, concomitant amyl nitrite (“poppers”) and sildenafil may cause cardiovascular complications. Table 4.1 Key ARV drug interactions and suggested substitutions ARV drug Key interactions Suggested management AZT Ribavirin and peginterferon First-line: substitute AZT with TDF alfa-2a Second-line: substitute AZT with stavudine (d4T) Boosted Rifampicin Substitute rifampicin with rifabutin1 PI (ATV/r, Estrogen-based hormonal Advise additional use of male or female DRV/r, contraception condoms LPV/r) Methadone and buprenorphine Adjust methadone and buprenorphine doses as appropriate EFV Methadone Adjust the methadone dose as appropriate Estrogen-based hormonal Advise additional use of male or female contraception condoms Nevirapine Rifampicin Substitute NVP with EFV (NVP) Estrogen-based hormonal Advise additional use of male or female contraception condoms Further reading • HIV-drug interactions. The University of Liverpool. • Policy Brief Transgender people and HIV. Geneva, WHO 2015. transgender/transgender-hiv-policy/en/. 4.5 Prevention and management of coinfections and co-morbidities An essential part of HIV treatment and care is the management of opportunistic infections such as TB and viral hepatitis. Addressing HIV effectively also requires addressing other co-morbidities such as other
