GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


essential part of HIV treatment and care is the management of opportunistic infections such as TB and viral hepatitis. Addressing HIV effectively also requires addressing other co-morbidities such as other sexually transmitted bloodborne appropriate to seek opportunities to combine the delivery of HIV testing, treatment and prevention services with those for these coinfections and co-morbidities. 1 If rifabutin is not available, only LPV/r can be used, provided the boosting dose of ritonavir is increased or double the standard dose of LPV/r is used. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.5.1 Tuberculosis Background and rationale Despite being preventable and curable, TB is Tuberculosis is preventable and the leading cause of HIV-associated mortality, treatable, but it accounts for one accounting for one of every five HIV-related deaths. in every five HIV-related deaths. The risk of developing TB is 30 times higher among people living with HIV than among people who do not have HIV infection (124). In 2012 there were an estimated 1.1 million cases of TB among the 35 million people living with HIV worldwide (124). Independent of their HIV status, key populations, in particular people who inject drugs and prisoners, have an increased risk of TB, including multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) (50, 125, 126, 127, 128). In addition, outbreaks of TB and MDR-TB have been reported among men who have sex with men and transgender sex workers (129, 130). Common risk factors and social determinants that put key populations at increased risk of TB include HIV infection, poverty, malnutrition, stress, alcoholism, smoking, diabetes, indoor air pollution, drug use, incarceration and poor living and working conditions (131). Prisons play a key role in fuelling the epidemic of TB and MDR-TB, and TB is believed to be the leading cause of death among prisoners in high burden settings (132, 133). Similarly, other congregate settings frequently attended by people living with HIV and marginalized groups can expose them to increased risk of TB if adequate TB infection control measures are not in place. Such settings could include brothels, bars, drop-in To address TB among people living with HIV, including key populations, WHO recommends a 12-point package of collaborative TB/HIV activities. The package seeks to establish and strengthen mechanisms for delivering integrated TB and HIV services, to reduce the burden of TB among those living with HIV, and to reduce the burden of HIV in TB patients (4, 65, 137, 138, 139). Barriers to prevention and
