GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


to reduce the burden of TB among those living with HIV, and to reduce the burden of HIV in TB patients (4, 65, 137, 138, 139). Barriers to prevention and care for key populations need to be addressed to ensure access to integrated, client-centred services, preferably at the initial point of care, and to encourage treatment adherence (65). Prevention of TB. Isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT) and ART, given together, can reduce the risk of TB among people living with HIV by up to 97% (140). Alone, IPT has been shown to reduce the risk of TB among people living with HIV by 68% (137). Once active TB is ruled out, people living with HIV should be offered at least six months, IPT and support should be provided to ensure adherence. Also, appropriate TB infection control measures and contact tracing are essential to reduce transmission of TB in congregate settings (50, 125). Screening and diagnosis of TB. All people living with HIV should be screened regularly with the WHO-recommended four TB symptom screening algorithm – that is, worker (137). This screening helps determine eligibility for IPT by ruling out the likelihood of active TB and to identify those who need further evaluation, diagnosis and treatment for TB as necessary. WHO recommends using Xpert MTB/RIF as the first diagnostic test for all TB in all people living with HIV and for anyone suspected of MDR-TB (irrespective Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations of HIV status) (141). Stakeholders providing support to key populations can offer gateways to early TB detection and timely prevention and treatment of both TB and HIV. It is crucial, therefore, that personnel are aware of the symptoms of TB. TB treatment. TB treatment consists of a standardized regimen of antibiotics taken for at least six months, irrespective of HIV status. Completing TB treatment is critical to reducing mortality and avoiding the development and spread of drug-resistant TB. It is vital to provide a supportive, non-judgemental and non-discriminatory environment that enables people from key populations to complete treatment, provides additional adherence support measures to improve treatment outcomes, and reduces the risk of continued TB transmission (65). Timely initiation of ART significantly reduces the risk of mortality from HIV-associated TB. As TB is one of the most common AIDS-defining illnesses, all those with presumptive or diagnosed TB should be offered HIV testing and counselling as
