GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


of mortality from HIV-associated TB. As TB is one of the most common AIDS-defining illnesses, all those with presumptive or diagnosed TB should be offered HIV testing and counselling as a priority so that those testing positive can start ART as soon as possible, in any case no later than eight weeks after initiation of TB treatment, regardless of CD4 count. Programmes serving key populations need to ensure access to integrated, client-centred services, preferably at the initial point of care, including TB screening, prevention and treatment, and support for treatment adherence (65). Key populations should have the same access to TB prevention, screening and treatment services as other populations at risk of or living with HIV (138). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Routine HIV testing should be offered to all people with presumptive and diagnosed TB (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence) (138). • ART should be initiated in all individuals with HIV and active TB disease quality of evidence) (4). Additional remark • ART should be initiated as soon as possible, no later than eight weeks after initiation of TB treatment (4). used as reasons to withhold TB treatment (65). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • Systematic screening for active TB should be considered in prisons and other closed settings (124). It should be a priority where the prevalence of TB is high in the general population or in the prison population; where the incarceration rate is high; where the prevalence of HIV or MDR-TB is high; or where living conditions are poor. • Medical examination, including TB screening, upon entry and any time thereafter, conforming to internationally accepted standards of medical confidentiality and care, should be conducted for all prisoners (65). • Prisoners should obtain care equivalent to that provided for the general population (65). • Given the high risk for transmission of TB and high rates of HIV-TB co-morbidity in closed settings, all prisons should engage in intensified case-finding, provide isoniazid preventive therapy for people living with HIV, and introduce effective tuberculosis control measures (65). • Essential for TB prevention in prisons is the improvement of living conditions by limiting the number of prisoners per cell and providing adequate ventilation and nutrition (65). • People in prisons or other closed settings known or suspected to have infectious
