GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


conditions by limiting the number of prisoners per cell and providing adequate ventilation and nutrition (65). • People in prisons or other closed settings known or suspected to have infectious TB should be separated (in a clinical setting) from other people until adequately treated and shown to be non-infectious (65). • Education activities for all prisoners should cover coughing etiquette and respiratory hygiene (11). • Continuity of TB treatment in prisons and other closed settings is essential to prevent the development of resistance and must be ensured at all stages of detention, including during prison transfer, and following release. This requires close collaboration between health services providing care for the general population and those caring for detainees, prisoners and the like (11). PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS • People with TB who inject drugs should have equitable access to TB treatment (50). • Co-morbidity, including viral hepatitis infection, should not contraindicate TB treatment for people who inject drugs and should be properly managed (65). • For patients with TB, OST should be administered in conjunction with medical treatment; there is no need to wait for abstinence from opioids to commence either anti-TB medication or antiretroviral medication (50). • Rifampicin, one of the first-line drugs used to treat TB, can significantly reduce the concentration and effect of both methadone and buprenorphine, resulting in opioid withdrawal (142, 143, 144). See Section 4.4.3. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations SEX WORKERS Clinical programmes or community outreach services for sex workers can carry out TB screening and can support sex workers throughout the cycle of care, from TB prevention through diagnosis and treatment. They can teach sex workers to recognize TB symptoms and understand TB transmission, as well as to appreciate the importance of infection control and cough etiquette. They also can inform their clients of nearby health facilities for TB diagnosis and treatment (71). Implementation considerations Collaboration. TB and HIV programmes, social services, drug treatment services and prison health services should collaborate in referrals and services for people from key populations to ensure access to comprehensive TB and HIV prevention, treatment and care in a holistic, person-centred way – in one setting if possible – that maximizes access and adherence (65). Training. Health-care workers (including community-based persons assisting with treatment and prophylaxis) who serve key populations need specific training to provide quality TB and HIV care to people
