GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and adherence (65). Training. Health-care workers (including community-based persons assisting with treatment and prophylaxis) who serve key populations need specific training to provide quality TB and HIV care to people from key populations. Personnel, including prison staff, should also know how to protect themselves from occupational exposure to HIV and TB (65). TB infection control. Every health-care and other congregate setting should have a TB infection control plan (preferably included in the general infection control plan), supported by all stakeholders, that includes administrative, environmental and personal protection measures to reduce transmission of TB and surveillance of TB among workers (65). Mainstream TB treatment services should be accessible and responsive to the needs of key populations (65). Further reading • WHO, UNODC, UNAIDS. Policy guidelines for collaborative TB and HIV services for injecting and other drug users – an integrated approach. Geneva, WHO, 2008. • Integrating collaborative TB and HIV services within a comprehensive package of care for people who inject drugs.- Consolidated guidelines. Geneva, WHO, 2016. tb/publications/integrating-collaborative-tb-and-hiv_services_for_pwid/en/ • WHO policy on collaborative TB/HIV activities: guidelines for national programmes and other stakeholders. Geneva, WHO, 2012. • Guidelines for intensified tuberculosis case finding and isoniazid preventive therapy for people living with HIV in resource-constrained settings. Geneva, WHO, 2011. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.5.2 Viral hepatitis Background and rationale Viral hepatitis B and C disproportionally A comprehensive approach to affect key populations, as a result of sexual addressing viral hepatitis among transmission and the sharing of needles, key populations includes prevention, syringes and ancillary injecting equipment. screening, HBV vaccination, and It is estimated that, globally, 240 million treatment and care. people are chronically infected with HBV and more than 185 million with HCV1, 2. People who inject drugs account for approximately 1.1 million of those with HBV and 10 million of those with HCV (145). Worldwide, of the 35 million people living with HIV, chronic HBV infection affects an estimated 5–20% and HCV affects 5–15%. The burden of coinfection is greatest in low and middle income countries, particularly in South-East Asia, and, for HBV, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Among those living with HIV who are coinfected with HBV or HCV, liver disease progresses more rapidly and mortality is greater than among those with HBV or HCV who are not living with HIV. HCV seroprevalence rates in prisons are even higher than HIV rates, and in many countries a history of HCV infection
