GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


with HBV or HCV who are not living with HIV. HCV seroprevalence rates in prisons are even higher than HIV rates, and in many countries a history of HCV infection is associated with a history of incarceration (146, 147, 148, 149, 150). A comprehensive approach to addressing viral hepatitis among key populations includes prevention, screening, HBV vaccination, and treatment and care for people coinfected with HIV and HBV and/or HCV (4). Hepatitis B and C prevention The major modes of viral hepatitis transmission include unsterile medical injections or other procedures, transfusions of contaminated blood, unprotected sexual intercourse and unsafe injecting (39, 61, 149, 151, 152, 153). HCV is rarely transmitted through heterosexual sex. Over the past decade, however, several outbreaks of presumed sexually transmitted HCV infection have been reported among HIV-positive men who have sex with men. Similar HCV transmission among HIV-negative men who have sex with men and comparable drug-related behaviour has also been reported (154). Because modes of transmission for viral hepatitis overlap those for HIV, many interventions that prevent HIV also prevent HBV and HCV. Examples include correct and consistent condom use, needle and syringe programmes, OST and sterile tattooing practices. 1 Guidelines for the prevention, care and treatnment of persons with chronic hepatitis B infection. Geneva, WHO, 2015. 2 Guidelines for the screening, care and treatment of persons with hepatitis C infection. Geneva, WHO, 2014. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Hepatitis B vaccine HBV vaccine is safe, effective and fairly inexpensive. Most countries have both targeted and population-wide HBV vaccination programmes, including infant, catch-up and risk- group vaccination. Risk groups include people who inject drugs, men who have sex with men, sexual partners of people living with HIV, prisoners, and others such as recipients HBV vaccination into their national schedule as an integral part of national infant immunization (155). An estimated 79% of the 2012 birth cohort globally received three doses of the HBV vaccine (156). The implication of national HBV vaccination programmes is that HBV vaccination of high-risk groups will become less crucial over time as, increasingly, people are immunized in infancy and thus protected (39). There is currently no vaccine for HCV. Hence, there is an even greater need to intensify current efforts to prevent HCV transmission among key populations (39). Hepatitis B and C treatment It is important to manage HIV coinfection with HBV and/or HCV
