GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


greater need to intensify current efforts to prevent HCV transmission among key populations (39). Hepatitis B and C treatment It is important to manage HIV coinfection with HBV and/or HCV appropriately. Coinfection with HIV and HCV accelerates HCV-related progression of liver fibrosis and leads to a higher rate of end-stage liver disease and mortality (121, 151, 157). Key populations should have the same access to hepatitis B and C prevention, screening and treatment services as other populations at risk of or living with HIV. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATIONS Hepatitis B • Catch-up hepatitis B immunization strategies should be instituted in settings where infant immunization has not reached full coverage (3, 10, 32). • People from key populations with HIV and HBV coinfection who have severe chronic liver disease should be offered ART with a tenofovir (TDF) and lamivudine (3TC) (or emtricitabine (FTC))-based regimen irrespective of CD4 count or WHO Hepatitis C • HCV serology testing should be offered to individuals from populations with high HCV prevalence or who have a personal history of HCV risk exposure/behaviour (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (158). • An alcohol intake assessment is recommended for all persons with HCV infection, followed by the offer of a behavioural alcohol reduction intervention for persons with moderate-to-high alcohol intake (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (158). • Assessment for antiviral treatment of all adults and children with chronic HCV infection is recommended, including for people who inject drugs (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (158). • In addition, a number of recommendations on diagnosis and antiviral treatment regimens for HCV are available (158). Additional remarks • New WHO clinical guidance on hepatitis B treatment and screening strategies for NEW hepatitis B and C, have been developed in 2014 and 2015. • WHO HCV guidelines provide detailed guidance on treatment and care (158). • There are challenges in diagnosing and treating active HCV infection in certain populations such as people who inject drugs, particularly in settings with limited access to HCV antibody and RNA assays, diagnostic tools for staging of liver disease and HCV therapy. People receiving ART and HCV drugs require close monitoring for possible drug interactions (158, 159). 1 There is insufficient evidence or favourable risk-benefit profile to support initiating ART in everyone coinfected with HIV and HBV with recommended only for people with evidence of severe chronic liver
