GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


There is insufficient evidence or favourable risk-benefit profile to support initiating ART in everyone coinfected with HIV and HBV with recommended only for people with evidence of severe chronic liver disease, who are those at greatest risk of progression and mortality from liver disease. For people without evidence of severe chronic liver disease, ART initiation should follow the same principles and recommendations as for other adults. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • It is important that prisons offer hepatitis B vaccination (50, 60). • It is important to offer voluntary HCV/HBV testing, treatment and care for people living with HIV soon after entry to prison, with assessment for and provision of treatment in accord with current WHO recommendations. Harm reduction measures should also be offered to prisoners. PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS In addition to the comprehensive harm reduction package of nine interventions for people who inject drugs (8), which include most importantly NSP and OST, specific recommendations include: • offering the rapid hepatitis B vaccination regimen to people who inject drugs (39); • needle and syringe programmes should also offer low dead-space syringes (39); • offering peer interventions to reduce transmission of viral hepatitis among people who inject drugs (39). It is important also to consider the following: • A higher-dose HBV vaccine should be used with the rapid regimen.1 • When the rapid vaccine regimen is not available, the standard regimen should be offered. • For both the standard and rapid regimens, delivery of the first dose is the priority. • To reduce transmission of viral hepatitis, needle and syringe programmes should offer all types of syringes and other equipment used for the preparation of injecting drugs, including cookers, sterile water, alcohol swabs, filters and tourniquets, as appropriate to local needs. Implementation considerations Lost opportunities. Opportunities to vaccinate people who inject drugs often may be lost because of their poor access or reluctance to be vaccinated (160). Providing incentives to people who inject drugs and offering convenient access may increase uptake and completion of the HBV vaccination schedule (87, 152). Even partial immunization confers some immunoprotection, however (89). The decision whether to offer incentives depends on local acceptability and resources (161). 1 The standard vaccination schedule for infants and unvaccinated adults is 0, 1, and
