GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


immunoprotection, however (89). The decision whether to offer incentives depends on local acceptability and resources (161). 1 The standard vaccination schedule for infants and unvaccinated adults is 0, 1, and 6 months, while the rapid schedule is 1, 7 and 21 days (39). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Immunosuppression. Individuals with inadequately treated HIV or with chronic HCV may have suppressed immune response. Therefore, they may benefit more from the standard HBV vaccine regimen than the rapid regimen (39). Further reading • Hepatitis B, Fact sheet N° 204. Geneva, WHO, 2014. factsheets/fs204/en/ • Hepatitis C, Fact sheet N°164. Geneva, WHO, 2014. factsheets/fs164/en/ • Guidelines for the screening, care and treatment of persons with hepatitis C infection. Geneva, WHO, 2014. • Guidance on prevention of viral hepatitis B and C among people who inject drugs. Geneva, WHO, 2012. • Guidelines for the prevention, care and treatment of persons with chronic hepatitis B infection. Geneva, WHO, 2015. bitstream/10665/154590/1/9789241549059_eng.pdf 4.5.3 Mental health Background and rationale People living with HIV – including those from key populations – and their families and caregivers may have a wide range of mental health needs. Common mental health co-morbidities include depression and anxiety. Dementia and other cognitive disorders are also associated with longer-term HIV infection. HIV care settings can provide an opportunity for the detection and management of mental health problems among people living People from key populations may face the double burden of issues. mental health issues associated with HIV infection and of marginalization, In addition to being disproportionately burdened discrimination and stigma. by HIV, key populations experience higher rates of depression, anxiety, smoking, harmful alcohol use and alcohol dependence, other substance use and suicide as a result of chronic stress, social Studies suggest that mental health disorders in people living with HIV may interfere with treatment initiation and adherence and lead to poor treatment outcomes (162). forgetfulness or poor organization, motivation or understanding of treatment plans. Psychosocial support, counselling, appropriate drug therapies, and interventions such as case management may help to improve adherence to ART and retention in care (4). The WHO Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) intervention guide for Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations recommendations related to general mental health care that can be relevant to people living with HIV, including those from key populations (4, 46). Adolescents from key populations. Mental health co-morbidities among adolescents are
