GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


general mental health care that can be relevant to people living with HIV, including those from key populations (4, 46). Adolescents from key populations. Mental health co-morbidities among adolescents are a particular concern. Suicide is one of the leading causes of death of adolescents worldwide; unipolar depressive disorders and self-harm are major causes of disability- adjusted life years (DALYs) lost in 10–19-year-olds (163). Adolescents from key populations may face social isolation, harassment and discrimination, which may add to Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS Routine screening and management for mental health disorders (particularly depression and psychosocial stress) should be provided for people from key populations living with HIV in order to optimize health outcomes and improve adherence to ART. Management can range from co-counselling for HIV and depression to appropriate medical therapies (4). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Peer support groups and safe spaces can help improve self-esteem and address self-stigma. Additionally, individual and family counselling can address adolescents’ mental health co-morbidities. The involvement of supportive parents or guardians can be beneficial, especially for those requiring ongoing treatment and care. It is important, however, to have the adolescent’s express permission before contacting parents or care-givers (86). Implementation considerations Integrated and comprehensive services provide the opportunity for patient-centred affecting key populations. In addition, integrated services enhance the likelihood of improved communication among, and thus of better care by, the different service providers working with key populations (39). Further reading • mhGAP intervention guide for mental, neurological and substance use disorders in non- publications/mhGAP_intervention_guide/en/ Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.6 General care 4.6.1 Nutrition Background and rationale Low energy intake combined with increased Collaboration between HIV energy demand because of HIV infection and programmes and existing national related infections or conditions often leads to programmes for nutritional HIV-related weight loss and wasting. In addition, support is necessary and feasible. an altered metabolism, reduced appetite, and diarrhoeal diseases may lower nutrient intake and absorption and so can also contribute to nutrient losses (164). These effects may be magnified in low-income and food-insecure contexts, such as those experienced by many key populations. In turn, poor nutritional status can hasten the progression of HIV disease; low body mass index (BMI) in adults (BMI less than 18.5 kg/m2) is an independent risk factor for HIV disease progression and mortality (4). Collaboration between HIV programmes and existing
