GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


low body mass index (BMI) in adults (BMI less than 18.5 kg/m2) is an independent risk factor for HIV disease progression and mortality (4). Collaboration between HIV programmes and existing national programmes for nutritional support is necessary and feasible to achieve optimal health outcomes in food-insecure settings. Consideration should be given to providing nutritional support to people from key populations living with HIV in food-insecure circumstances (4). ART in conjunction with nutritional support could accelerate recovery. WHO is currently developing recommendations for nutritional care and support of NEW adolescents and adults living with HIV. Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key populations PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS Inadequate nutrition is a major problem for many people in prisons and can have a significant impact on people with HIV or TB, jeopardizing treatment outcomes and adherence. Protecting and promoting the health of people in prisons and other closed settings should include provision of adequate nutrition, including access to safe drinking water and nutritional supplements (11). 4.6.2 Sexual and reproductive health interventions Members of key populations, regardless of whether Health-care providers or not they are living with HIV, should be able to often overlook the sexual and experience full, pleasurable sexual lives and have reproductive health of people access to a range of reproductive options. Women living with HIV. from key populations should enjoy the same reproductive health rights as all other women; it is important that they have access to family planning and other reproductive health services, including reproductive tract cancer prevention, screening and treatment (32). For many women from key populations, their main concerns often are not just HIV and Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations overlook the sexual and reproductive health of people living with HIV. 4.6.2.1 Sexually transmitted infection prevention, screening and treatment Background and rationale Globally, STIs are a major cause of acute illness, infertility, long-term disability and death. Several STIs may facilitate the sexual transmission of HIV infection (165). In both men and women, STIs, particularly those involving genital ulcers, increase susceptibility to HIV infection. Also, acute STIs are an important marker for unsafe sexual behaviour and risk of HIV transmission. Men who have sex with men, sex workers and transgender people are often at increased risk of STIs. who present with STIs, in keeping with existing WHO guidance (138). In the absence of laboratory tests, syndromic
