GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


sex workers and transgender people are often at increased risk of STIs. who present with STIs, in keeping with existing WHO guidance (138). In the absence of laboratory tests, syndromic management can be used. Testing and treatment should always be voluntary and free from coercion. Because the majority of STI cases are asymptomatic, particularly in women, STI screening programmes should be made available to key population groups. PIPELINE Full updating of WHO STI guidelines is underway and should be completed by the end of 2016. Screening, diagnosis and treatment of STIs should be offered routinely as part of comprehensive HIV prevention and care for key populations (4). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Screening, diagnosis and treatment of STIs are crucial parts of a comprehensive response to HIV; this includes services for key populations (4). STI management should accord with existing WHO guidance and be adapted to the national context (166). Also, it should be confidential and free from coercion, and patients must give informed consent for treatment (32, 166). • Periodic screening of people from key populations for asymptomatic STIs is recommended (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence) (4, 10). • In the absence of laboratory tests, symptomatic people from key populations should be managed syndromically in line with national STI management guidelines (166). Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS Health-care providers need to be alert to provide STI control and management for people who inject drugs. People who inject drugs may also engage in sex work, and men who inject drugs may have sex with other men, and thus they face higher STI risks (153, 167). SEX WORKERS • We suggest offering periodic presumptive treatment (PPT) for asymptomatic STIs to female sex workers in settings with high prevalence and limited clinical services (conditional recommendation, moderate to high quality of evidence). • PPT should be implemented only as a free, voluntary, confidential, short-term measure as part of comprehensive sexual health services and while HIV/STI services are being further developed in settings where STI prevalence is high, e.g. >15% prevalence of N. gonorrhoea and/or C. trachomatis infection (10). TRANSGENDER PEOPLE Health-care providers should be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the specific collection can be uncomfortable or upsetting whether or not the person has undergone genital reconstructive surgery (32). Implementation considerations Possible strategies to increase STI
