GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


to and knowledgeable about the specific collection can be uncomfortable or upsetting whether or not the person has undergone genital reconstructive surgery (32). Implementation considerations Possible strategies to increase STI screening and treatment rates include the following (3): • Mainstream STI treatment services should be accessible and responsive to the needs of key populations. • In settings where key populations are largely marginalized, specific and targeted services should be considered, including outreach and peer support. • Active referral pathways should be established, and screening and testing programmes should be integrated with other services used by key populations. • STI diagnosis and treatment services should be co-located with HIV services used by key populations. Prisons and other closed settings should provide STI testing and related treatment that are voluntary, confidential and ensure the informed consent of the patient. If Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations services in the community (11). Further reading • Guidelines for the management of sexually transmitted infections. Geneva, WHO, 2004. • Training modules for the syndromic management of sexually transmitted infections. Geneva, WHO, 2007. index.html • WHO, UNFPA, UNAIDS, NSWP, World Bank. Implementing comprehensive HIV/STI programmes with sex workers: practical approaches from collaborative interventions. Geneva, WHO, 2013. • UNFPA, MSMGF, UNDP, WHO, USAID, PEPFAR, Wold Bank Implementing Comprehensive HIV and STI programmes with men who have sex with men. Practical guidance for collaborative interventions. UNFPA, 2015. and-sti-programmes-men-who-have-sex-men-practical-guidance 4.6.2.2 Contraceptive services Background and rationale Contraception is a service that is often overlooked It is important that for key populations (32). It is important that health- health-care providers strongly care providers strongly recommend dual protection recommend dual protection. to all persons at significant risk of HIV – either the simultaneous use of condoms with other methods or the consistent and correct use of condoms alone (122). Full updating of WHO contraception guidelines is currently underway and will be completed in 2015. Members of key populations, including people living with HIV, should be able to experience full, pleasurable sex lives and have access to a range of reproductive options (32, 122). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS It is important that contraceptive services are free, voluntary and non-coercive for all people from key populations. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS It is important that prison health services
