GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


populations. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS It is important that prison health services offer contraception to women in closed settings (9, 169, 170, 171, 172). PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS It is important that health-care providers in contact with women who use drugs offer contraception, including hormonal contraceptives, as part of a standard package of care. SEX WORKERS Women at higher risk of HIV, including sex workers, initiating or using hormonal contraceptives should be strongly advised always to use condoms, male or female, and other HIV prevention measures because of evidence, albeit inconclusive, of possibly increased risk of HIV acquisition among women using progestogen-only injectable contraception (4, 168). Additional remarks Female sex workers should be offered contraceptive counselling to explore pregnancy intention and offered a range of contraceptive options including dual protection. TRANSGENDER PEOPLE • It is important to counsel transgender women who use oral contraceptive pills for feminization about the higher risk of thrombotic events with ethinyl estradiol than with 17-beta estradiol. • Consideration should be given to offering transgender men who have sex with men appropriate contraceptive options that do not lead to unwanted systemic feminization. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS • In order to meet the educational and service needs of adolescents, it is contraceptive information and services, be provided for adolescents without mandatory parental and guardian authorization/notification (173). abuse and exploitation. Appropriate and confidential referral, if and when requested by the adolescent, can provide linkage to other services and sectors for support (73). Further reading • Ensuring human rights in the provision of contraceptive information and services: guidance and recommendations. Geneva, WHO, 2014. bitstream/10665/102539/1/9789241506748_eng.pdf • Medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use: fourth edition. Geneva, WHO, 2010. http:// whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2010/9789241563888_eng.pdf. Currently updating, next edition 2015. 4.6.2.3 Safe abortion and post-abortion care Abortion laws and services should protect the health and human rights of all women, including those from key populations. Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups ALL WOMEN FROM KEY POPULATIONS • Where abortion is legal, it is important to establish linkages to safe abortion services. risks. Women from key populations should be informed about these risks (174). • Access to appropriate post-abortion care is essential to reduce morbidity and mortality. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions ADOLESCENTS
