GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


Women from key populations should be informed about these risks (174). • Access to appropriate post-abortion care is essential to reduce morbidity and mortality. Chapter 4: Health sector interventions ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Adolescents may be deterred from accessing health services if they think they will be required to obtain permission from their parents or guardians; this can increase the likelihood that they will go to providers of unsafe abortion (174). Implementation consideration Safe abortion services. To the full extent permitted by law, safe abortion services should be readily available and affordable to all. This means services should be available at the primary care level, with referral systems in place for all required higher-level care. Further reading www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/unsafe_abortion/9789241548434/en/ 4.6.2.4 Cervical cancer screening and treatment Cervical cancer screening and treatment is performed to detect cervical cancer or cervical changes that are precursors to cervical cancer and to treat adequately. Women living with HIV are at increased risk for human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and HPV- related tumours, including cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or 3 (CIN2/3) and invasive cervical carcinoma (175). The prevalence of HPV and CIN has been reported to increase with the increase in immunosuppression (176, 177). It is important to offer cervical screening to all women from key populations, and to transgender men where appropriate, as indicated in the WHO 2013 cervical screening guidelines (178). Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups ALL WOMEN FROM KEY POPULATIONS It is important in areas with high rates of endemic HIV infection to offer cervical cancer screening to sexually active girls and women as soon as they have tested positive for HIV (178). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations TRANSGENDER PEOPLE Specific considerations are needed for transgender men (178): • Transgender men who retain their female genitalia often miss out on cervical excluded from those services. As a result, they face increased risk of ovarian, uterine and cervical disease. • Following total hysterectomy, if there is a history of high-grade cervical dysplasia and/or cervical cancer, a Papanicolaou test of the vaginal cuff can be performed annually until three normal tests are documented, and then every two to three years. • Following removal of ovaries, but where the uterus and cervix remain intact, WHO cervical screening guidelines for natal females can be followed. This may be deferred if there is no history of genital
