GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


ovaries, but where the uterus and cervix remain intact, WHO cervical screening guidelines for natal females can be followed. This may be deferred if there is no history of genital sexual activity. It is important to inform the pathologist of current or prior testosterone use, as cervical atrophy can mimic dysplasia. ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS • HPV vaccination does not replace cervical cancer screening. In countries where the HPV vaccine is introduced, screening programmes may need to be developed or strengthened (179). • The WHO recommended target group for HPV vaccination is girls ages 9–13 years who have not yet become sexually active, including those living with HIV (179). 4.6.2.5 Screening for anal cancer People infected with HIV are at least 20 times more likely to be diagnosed with anal cancer than uninfected people (180). Like cancer of the cervix, anal cancer is associated with human papillomavirus (HPV). Screening can be performed for anal cancer and its precursors, known as anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), particularly for men who have sex with men, transgender people and other people from key populations who are more likely to engage in anal sex. Further reading • WHO guidelines for screening and treatment of precancerous lesions for cervical cancer prevention. Geneva, WHO, 2013. cancers/screening_and_treatment_of_precancerous_lesions/en/ Chapter 4: Health sector interventions 4.6.2.6 Conception and pregnancy It is important that all women from key populations have the same support and access to services related to conception and pregnancy care as women from other groups, as indicated by WHO guidelines. Related recommendations and contextual issues for specific key population groups ALL WOMEN FROM KEY POPULATIONS • All adult and adolescent women from key populations who are living with HIV and are pregnant should receive appropriate HIV treatment and care, in line with WHO guidance, to prevent HIV transmission from mother to child (4). • Women living with HIV and those in serodiscordant couples who wish to have children should be provided information and support to help them to conceive as safely as possible. • Many women from key populations, in particular adolescents, have inadequate access to antenatal care, attend late in pregnancy and have less access to PMTCT services (see Section 4.4.2). CRITICAL ENABLERS 5.1 Law and policy 86 5.1.1 Legal barriers 86 5.1.2 Critical enablers 86 5.2 Stigma and discrimination 92 5.2.1 Barriers 92 5.2.2 Critical enablers 92 5.3 Community empowerment 96 5.3.1 Barriers 96 5.3.2
