GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


policy 86 5.1.1 Legal barriers 86 5.1.2 Critical enablers 86 5.2 Stigma and discrimination 92 5.2.1 Barriers 92 5.2.2 Critical enablers 92 5.3 Community empowerment 96 5.3.1 Barriers 96 5.3.2 Critical enablers 96 5.4 Violence 101 5.4.1 Barriers 101 5.4.2 Critical enablers 101 Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 5 CRITICAL ENABLERS HIV epidemics, particularly among key populations, continue to be fuelled by stigma and discrimination, gender inequality, violence, lack of community empowerment, violations of human rights, and laws and policies criminalizing drug use and diverse forms of gender identity and sexuality. These socio-structural factors limit access to HIV services, constrain how these services are delivered and diminish their effectiveness. Thus, it is important to understand the varied political, geographic and social contexts in which key populations live and where HIV services for them are delivered. It also needs to be recognized that each key population group is heterogeneous, and effective programmes must account for this diversity. Despite the challenges of marginalization, criminalization of the behaviour of certain key populations and in some settings direct human rights abuses, it remains necessary and feasible to deliver HIV-related services and to do so in ways that protect the safety and well-being of people from key populations and of service providers. Health- care providers have an ethical obligation to care for and treat people impartially and equitably. Programmes and countries can ensure confidentiality of services, facilitate safety allows, people from key populations should be encouraged and supported to participate in designing and delivering HIV prevention and response efforts. Despite legislative restrictions people from key populations in most countries persevere, still finding ways of acting in association to provide support, and they may also be reached online and through regional networks. Integrating HIV and related health services into primary health care can contribute to increased and more equitable access to HIV services for key populations. To increase the from understanding gender identity and the diversity of sexual behaviours and identities, as well as drug use and dependence, and how to address these when providing services. The health sector can take action to change the attitudes and behaviours of health-care providers to reduce stigma and discrimination, particularly that relating to homophobia, resources, training and support to provide services to key populations. At the same based on professional ethics and internationally agreed human rights principles (1). Monitoring and evaluation is
