GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


to homophobia, resources, training and support to provide services to key populations. At the same based on professional ethics and internationally agreed human rights principles (1). Monitoring and evaluation is important to ensure not only technical quality and impact of services but also the spirit in which they are provided and, thus, their acceptability to people from key populations. “Critical enablers”, as used in this document, means strategies, activities and approaches that aim to improve the accessibility, acceptability, uptake, equitable Chapter 5: Critical enablers coverage, quality, effectiveness and efficiency of HIV interventions and services. Enablers operate at many levels – individual, community, institutional, societal and national, regional and global. They are crucial to implementing comprehensive HIV programmes for key populations in all epidemic contexts. Critical enablers aim to overcome major barriers to service uptake, including social exclusion and marginalization, criminalization, stigma and inequity. If left unaddressed, such barriers will undermine the provision of HIV services, especially for key populations (2). The barriers and critical enablers outlined in this chapter apply to both adults and adolescents in key populations. For adolescents from key populations, these factors may be further exacerbated by their rapid physical and mental development and complex psychosocial and socioeconomic vulnerabilities. Also, adolescents from key populations experience socio-structural barriers to services, notably policy and legal barriers related to age of consent. Those close to people from key populations, including partners and children, also can experience stigma and discrimination and so face the same difficulties in access to services. Thus, including dependents in the provision of HIV services can be important. The health sector has an important role to Successful implementation of play, but successful implementation of critical critical enablers requires collaboration enablers requires collaboration across different across different sectors. welfare and labour. It also requires multiple partners from government, civil society and the private sector. Full involvement of key populations and people living with HIV also is crucial (3, 4). This chapter outlines a range of barriers that compromise access to appropriate and good-quality HIV services for key populations, identifies critical enablers to overcome these barriers (as illustrated in Fig. 5.1) and makes a number of good- practice recommendations. These good practice recommendations are based on earlier WHO documents addressing key populations. While these barriers and enablers are interrelated, we attempt to discuss each individually. Fig. 5.1 Critical enablers for key populations 1. Reviewing laws, policies 2. Reducing stigma
