GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


addressing key populations. While these barriers and enablers are interrelated, we attempt to discuss each individually. Fig. 5.1 Critical enablers for key populations 1. Reviewing laws, policies 2. Reducing stigma and practices (includes and discrimination decriminalization & age of consent) Critical enablers 4. Preventing violence 3. Empowering the community Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 5.1 Law and policy 5.1.1 Legal barriers Sixty percent of countries report having laws, regulations or policies that are barriers to effective HIV services for key populations and vulnerable groups (5). In particular, over 100 countries criminalize some or all aspects of sex work. At least 76 countries criminalize sexual relations between people of the same sex. Indeed, some countries impose the death penalty for convictions under such laws. Additionally, transgender people are legally unrecognized in many countries (5) and face restrictive policies toward their gender expression. In many settings punitive policies on drug use call for harsh penalties for the possession of small amounts of drugs for personal use, and in some settings policies mandate compulsory detention as “treatment” for people who use or inject drugs (5). In many prisons and other closed settings, HIV services are sub-standard or entirely lacking (6). While laws vary, in many settings adolescents under 18 years of age are classified legally as minors and, therefore, must have parental consent for medical care, including HIV- related services. Such laws and policies can be barriers to or can discourage adolescents from seeking services (7). These restrictions may create complex dilemmas for providers who endeavour to act in the best interest of their clients but who may have concerns about their own legal liability as well as for the safety of their young clients. 5.1.2 Critical enablers Reviewing laws and policies Laws and policies can help to protect the human rights of key populations – both those living with HIV and those at risk for HIV. Legal reforms, such as decriminalizing sexual behaviours and drug use, legal recognition of transgender status, and lowering the age of consent and considering exceptions to a standard age of consent policy (such as mature minors), are critical enablers that can change a hostile environment for key populations to a supportive environment (8). Specific consideration should be given to such legal reforms as part of any revision of policies or programmes for key populations. For example, in many countries possession,
