GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


supportive environment (8). Specific consideration should be given to such legal reforms as part of any revision of policies or programmes for key populations. For example, in many countries possession, use and sale of clean needles and syringes or of condoms remains justification for arrest. If so, this warrants review. Decriminalizing the behaviour of key populations Supporting the health and well-being of key Without protective policies and populations whose sexual behaviours, drug efforts to decriminalize the behaviour use, gender expression or perceived sexual of key populations, barriers to essential orientation are currently criminalized may health services will remain. require changing legislation and adopting new policies and protective laws in accordance with international human rights standards. Without protective policies and decriminalization many people from key populations may fear that seeking health care will expose them to adverse legal consequences (9). Chapter 5: Critical enablers Laws, legal policies and practices should be reviewed and, where necessary, revised by policy-makers and government leaders, with meaningful engagement of stakeholders from key population groups, to allow and support increased access to services for key populations (10, 11, 13). Good practice recommendations concerning decriminalization ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS Countries should work toward decriminalization of behaviours such as drug use/ injecting, sex work, same-sex activity and nonconforming gender identities, and toward elimination of the unjust application of civil law and regulations against people who use/inject drugs, sex workers, men who have sex with men and transgender people (10, 11, 12, 13, 14). MEN WHO HAVE SEX WITH MEN Countries should work toward developing policies and laws that decriminalize same- sex behaviours (11). PEOPLE WHO USE AND/OR INJECT DRUGS • Countries should work toward developing policies and laws that decriminalize injection and other use of drugs and, thereby, reduce incarceration. • Countries should work toward developing policies and laws that decriminalize the use of clean needles and syringes (and that permit NSPs) and that legalize OST for people who are opioid-dependent. • Countries should ban compulsory treatment for people who use and/or inject drugs (12, 13, 14). SEX WORKERS • Countries should work toward decriminalization of sex work and elimination of the unjust application of non-criminal laws and regulations against sex workers. • The police practice of using possession of condoms as evidence of sex work and grounds for arrest should be eliminated (10). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations TRANSGENDER PEOPLE
