GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


possession of condoms as evidence of sex work and grounds for arrest should be eliminated (10). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations TRANSGENDER PEOPLE • Countries should work toward developing policies and laws that decriminalize same-sex behaviours and nonconforming gender identities. • Countries should work towards legal recognition for transgender people (11). Good practice recommendations concerning age of consent policies and laws ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS • Countries are encouraged to examine their current consent policies and consider revising them to reduce age-related barriers to HIV services and to empower providers to act in the best interest of the adolescent (7). contraceptive information and services, be provided for adolescents without mandatory parental and guardian authorization/notification (15). Case study: Decriminalizing drug use in Portugal GIRUBarcelos, APDES, Portugal As of 2012, 21 countries globally had taken steps to decriminalize drug use and possession (16). For example, Portugal changed its legislation in 2001 to turn possession of controlled drugs into an “administrative offence”, with those caught with drugs for personal use being sent to a “dissuasion board” rather than face prosecution and possible jailing. An independent study (17) examined the impact of the changes and found that: • The number of drug users in treatment expanded from 23 654 in 1998 to 38 532 in 2008. • Between 2000 and 2008 the annual number of new cases of HIV among drug users fell from 907 to 267, a decrease attributed to the expansion of harm reduction services. • Contrary to predictions, major increases in drug use did not take place; instead, evidence indicated reductions in problematic use, drug-related harms and overcrowding of the criminal justice system. Community organizations continue to be essential to tackling stigma and discrimination and improving access to services. Agência Piaget para o Desenvolvimento (APDES), founded in and education, seeking to empower these populations and reinforce social cohesion. They run GIRUBarcelos, a multidisciplinary outreach team working primarily with heroin and cocaine users and sex workers in northern Portugal, focusing their efforts on harm reduction. care professionals, has been reduced following regular meetings, mediation efforts between communities and service providers, debates and a radio programme on a local radio station entitled “GIRU Conversations”. The presence of a peer educator on the team and the constant involvement of people who inject drugs are the cornerstones of GIRUBarcelos’ interventions and considered critical to its success. Chapter 5:
