GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


of a peer educator on the team and the constant involvement of people who inject drugs are the cornerstones of GIRUBarcelos’ interventions and considered critical to its success. Chapter 5: Critical enablers Addressing other policy issues for key populations Along with decriminalization efforts, there are other policy changes that can enable people from key populations to exercise their human and health rights. Some common current policies limit access to the justice system and to health services. Key considerations are these: Recognize transgender people in the law. For transgender people the legal recognition of preferred gender and name may be important to reduce stigma, discrimination and ignorance about gender variance. Such recognition by health services can support better access, uptake and provision of HIV services (11). Case study: In Uruguay a national dialogue supports legislative change In 2010 the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) launched the Global Commission on HIV and the Law to develop actionable, evidence-based answers and recommendations for a response to HIV that protects and promotes the human rights of people living with and who are more vulnerable to HIV ( The Commission’s work focuses on generating constructive dialogues between civil societies and governments on issues related to HIV and the law, going beyond identifying problems to develop and share practical solutions. In Uruguay a national inter-sectoral commission was organized jointly by the Ministry of HIV/AIDS Response (CONASIDA), the Federation of Sexual Diversity and the Parliamentarian Commissioner for Prisons. This commission called for a national dialogue on HIV and human rights to harmonize and improving national legislation related to the HIV response. Conducted with the strong support of the UNDP Regional Office, UNFPA and UNAIDS, the two-month initiative provided an opportunity for people affected by and vulnerable to HIV to present evidence on issues that have been silenced or were unknown. Individuals and civil society organization presented almost three dozen selected cases of human rights violations. Those involved, in particular civil society organizations, provided technical support for the development and presentation of HIV-related issues of sexual orientation and gender identity; discrimination intellectual property; and the human rights of people living with HIV. This national dialogue contributed to the on-going development of a new, comprehensive HIV law. The final report of the dialogue, presented to parliament in May 2014, identifies gaps in legislation, laws detrimental to the HIV response and the lack of implementation of laws that would promote
