GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


report of the dialogue, presented to parliament in May 2014, identifies gaps in legislation, laws detrimental to the HIV response and the lack of implementation of laws that would promote the response. In addition, it suggests best practices and makes recommendations from a human rights perspective. The advocacy and mobilization of civil society , in particular people living with HIV and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups have driven this dialogue, along with the concerted efforts and the partnerships of UN agencies, the government and academia. CONASIDA-CMM (National Council for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS – Country Coordination Mechanism) will implement and follow up the main recommendations from the dialogue to support the HIV Law Project. Additionally, the recently developed National contributing, monitoring and advocating the implementation of the updated laws. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Improve access to justice and legal support for key populations. Policies that criminalize and punish the behaviour of key populations constrain people from obtaining justice and legal services. Policies and procedures are needed to ensure that individuals from key populations can report rights violations such as discrimination, gender-based violence, issues with policing, violations of informed consent, violations of medical confidentiality and denial of health-care services. Reporting options beyond going to the police will encourage reporting of human rights violations. For example, persons from key populations can be trained as paralegals; an organization that works with key populations can serve as a third-party reporter of complaints. Improve policies on access to health services and information. Ensuring that people from key populations are aware of their legal and human rights as individuals, populations are often the target of exploitation, marginalization, criminalization, stigma and discrimination, programmes are particularly needed to ensure that key populations know their legal and human rights, including applicable protective laws and where and and support programmes can help improve awareness (18). If better informed, key population groups can better organize to advance their rights and raise awareness of their rights, needs and the policies and legal issues that critically affect them (10, 19, 20). with key populations (e.g. laws that make it illegal for outreach workers to carry condoms or clean needles and syringes for distribution). Law enforcement can play an important role by ensuring that the human rights of key populations are not violated. Police should receive continual training on ways to support including
