GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


distribution). Law enforcement can play an important role by ensuring that the human rights of key populations are not violated. Police should receive continual training on ways to support including not arresting people leaving drug treatment clinics; avoiding confiscation of drug treatment medication; avoiding surveillance of harm reduction centres; and not using possession of clean needles or condoms to justify arrest. Systems to promote good policing practices and to provide safe avenues for reporting human rights violations will help ensure that police are protecting both the public health and the human rights of all persons. Ensuring that medical records are kept confidential is one step that health-care providers can take to increase trust between health services and key populations. Good practice recommendations for other policy issues ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Countries should work toward developing non-custodial alternatives to incarceration of drug users, sex workers and people who engage in same-sex activity (12). • It is recommended that third-party authorization requirements be eliminated, including spousal authorization requirements for women obtaining contraceptives and related information and services (15). Chapter 5: Critical enablers Additional remark: It is important that countries secure political commitment, with appropriate investment in advocacy and adequate financial resources for HIV- related key population programmes and health services. PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • As countries work toward developing non-custodial strategies, targets can be set for reducing prison overcrowding generally (12). SEX WORKERS • The police practice of using possession of condoms as evidence of sex work and grounds to arrest sex workers should be eliminated (10). • The wide latitude of the police to arrest and detain sex workers without cause, including police extortion, should be eliminated (10). TRANSGENDER PEOPLE • Countries should work towards legal recognition for transgender people (11). Case study: In Indonesia methadone maintenance treatment in prison Australia Indonesia Partnership for HIV (AIPH) – HIV Cooperation Program for Indonesia (HCPI) Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) for incarcerated injecting drug users was pilot-tested in Kerobokan Prison, Bali, in 2005 after prison officials visited MMT programmes in Australian prisons. Accomplishments of the Kerobokan Prison pilot project include: • Establishment of comprehensive harm reduction services (including MMT) and high levels of participation among prisoners with opioid dependence; • The scaling-up of MMT, education and care, support and treatment services in 11 other prisons, detention centres and parole services; Kerobokan prison provides ongoing mentoring to many of these
