GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


• The scaling-up of MMT, education and care, support and treatment services in 11 other prisons, detention centres and parole services; Kerobokan prison provides ongoing mentoring to many of these facilities; transition from prison to community MMT programmes (and vice versa) and early or continuing access to HIV treatment. Additionally, HIV testing and treatment now have been efficiently implemented in many prisons. More than 90% of high-risk prisoners have been tested, and a high proportion of those testing positive have begun ART. Directorate of Corrections signed a memorandum of understanding that the MOH would fully cover the cost of methadone. HCPI continues to provide training and limited financial support. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 5.2 Stigma and discrimination 5.2.1 Barriers People from key populations are often particularly subjected to stigma, discrimination and negative attitudes related to their behaviour – and doubly so if also living with HIV health facilities and law enforcement services. It may seem to be tacitly endorsed by the lack of national laws and policies against discrimination. The effects of such HIV- related stigma and discrimination against key populations can be delayed HIV testing, concealment of positive serostatus, and poor uptake of HIV services (21, 22, 23, 24, 25). It can undermine the efforts of national health programmes to effectively link people to HIV care and to engage and retain them in long-term care (26, 27). Within the health sector stigma and discrimination can take many forms at the individual and systems levels. The lack of training and educational programmes to inform health contributes to marginalization. It leaves providers ill-equipped to address health needs and perpetuates stigmatizing and discriminating practices, even to the point of refusing services. 5.2.2 Critical enablers Efforts to reduce stigma and discrimination at a national level, such as promoting antidiscrimination and protective policies for all key populations, can foster a supportive most effective when they simultaneously address individual, organizational and public policy factors that enable or allow stigma and discrimination (28). Programmes, within policies and codes of conduct. Monitoring and oversight are important to ensure that standards are implemented and maintained. Additionally, mechanisms should be made available to key populations to anonymously report occurrences of stigma and/or discrimination when they try to obtain health services. Good practice recommendations for implementing and enforcing anti-stigma and antidiscrimination and protective policies ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Countries should work
