GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and/or discrimination when they try to obtain health services. Good practice recommendations for implementing and enforcing anti-stigma and antidiscrimination and protective policies ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Countries should work towards implementing and enforcing antidiscrimination and protective laws, derived from human rights standards, to eliminate stigma, discrimination and violence against people from key populations. together with civil society organizations in their efforts to monitor stigma, confront discrimination against key populations and change punitive legal and social norms (3, 10, 11, 12, 13, 19). Chapter 5: Critical enablers Providing key population-friendly services populations and to tailor these services to their needs (20). Interventions and services for key populations, including adolescents from key populations, can adopt principles friendly to key populations, paying particular attention to accessibility and the expertise and attitudes of staff members (7). Approaches to making services friendly to key populations include: providers, such as providing ARVs at drug treatment centres; • scheduling service hours that are regular, dependable and suit the intended clients; • locating services strategically where key populations congregate or transit; • involving the peer community in service development, promotion, delivery, and monitoring and evaluation; • training staff to work with different key populations; • taking steps to ensure that law enforcement activities do not interfere with clients’ access to HIV services (11, 12, 13, 20). Case study: Sensitizing health-care workers in South Africa and Discrimination by public health-care providers towards people from key populations and outcomes (29). A multi-partner project in South Africa has developed an integrated approach to sensitizing health-care providers on issues affecting key populations and to empower public health staff members to interact appropriately (regarding both their attitude and their clincial expertise) with people from key populations. Trainings have been conducted in preparation for the implementation of the National Operational Guidelines for HIV, STIs and TB Programmes for Key Populations in South Africa. The full training programme includes in-person training and mentoring. Thirty trainers participated in an initial training of trainers (TOT) workshop and were in six months. Where these trainings took place, people from key populations have reported improvements facilities, where the sensitization training has been linked with peer outreach and the prevention activities of civil society organizations. Further evaluation is planned to inform scale-up. Training and sensitizing health workers Creating inclusive health services requires sensitizing and educating providers and other staff members in health care and social services. This can be
