GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


to inform scale-up. Training and sensitizing health workers Creating inclusive health services requires sensitizing and educating providers and other staff members in health care and social services. This can be done in both pre-service and in-service training, through on-the-job support and supervision, and by creating an organizational norm of inclusiveness and non-discrimination. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Attitudes. Health-care providers working with adults or adolescents from key populations should be non-judgemental, supportive, responsive and respectful and should understand the issues that people from key populations face (7, 10, 11, 20). Training, with the involvement of key population representatives and groups, can be confidentiality, non-coercive care and informed consent. Skills. It is important that health workers be able to respond to the specific needs of key populations and provide quality services, know what interventions, tools and materials are available to provide information, can advise on HIV risk reduction strategies, and know how to support treatment adherence and retention in care (20). Improving and maintaining providers’ attitudes and skills is a continual process consisting of multiple components such as formal training events, job aids, supportive supervision, training follow-up and mentorship. Multi-disciplinary trainings and work environments can strengthen linkage to community-based providers so that referrals and adequate follow-up are more available. Particularly where there are workforce shortages, it is important that all providers receive adolescent-specific training, including lay counsellors, to enable task-shifting (7). key populations, based on the principles of medical ethics, avoidance of stigma, Good practice recommendations for providing key population-friendly services ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Health-care workers should receive appropriate recurrent training and sensitization to ensure that they have the skills and understanding to provide services for adults and adolescents from key populations based on all persons’ • It is recommended to make contraceptives affordable to all, including adolescents, and that law and policy support access to contraception for disadvantaged and margfrom inalized populations (3, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15). Chapter 5: Critical enablers ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS • Services for adolescents from key populations should include psychosocial support, through counselling, peer support groups and networks, to address self-stigma and discrimination. Additional provision of counselling for families, including parents – where appropriate and requested by the adolescent – may be important to support and facilitate access to services, especially where parental consent is required (7). • Health-care providers should ensure adolescents from
