GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and requested by the adolescent – may be important to support and facilitate access to services, especially where parental consent is required (7). • Health-care providers should ensure adolescents from key populations know their they can advocate for themselves and seek the types of support they are entitled to (7). • Services should provide developmentally appropriate, comprehensive information and education, focusing on skills-based risk reduction (7). • Services should be safe spaces that increase protection from the effects of stigmas and discrimination, where adolescents can freely express their concerns, and where providers demonstrate patience, understanding, acceptance and knowledge about the choices and services available to the adolescent (7). Case study: In South Africa expanding competence to serve men who have sex with men www.anovahealth.co.za vulnerable and marginalized groups including men who have sex with men. The project’s goal is to institutionalize competence in serving men who have sex with men in existing public clinics. The process involves: • sensitization, to change attitudes • medical training, to expand knowledge • mentoring, to translate knowledge into skill • on-going technical support including consultation, training and mentoring and provision of educational materials. Excellence, in Cape Town and Johannesburg, each supported by satellite clinics. The clinics provide services for men who have sex with men, while outreach activities stimulate demand for services. Health4Men has developed innovative training content and materials to equip nurses, counsellors and medical officers to respond to the special needs of men who have sex with men project establishes at least one Regional Leadership Site in each province to serve as the hub for competency development; nurse mentors and outreach teams operate from these sites. As of 64 clinics in four provinces have been declared medically competent to serve men who have sex with men. By the end of 2014, there will be over 120 competent sites across six provinces and, by the end of 2015, over 160 sites nationally. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 5.3 Community empowerment 5.3.1 Barriers Key populations often have little or no control over HIV risk factors driven by the legal, political and social environment and the context of their lives. For instance, sex workers are frequently exposed to HIV and other STIs, but they may not have the power to negotiate consistent condom use (30, 31). This lack of control is exacerbated if people are unaware of available
