GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


HIV and other STIs, but they may not have the power to negotiate consistent condom use (30, 31). This lack of control is exacerbated if people are unaware of available HIV-related services and of their legal and human rights, In particular, few young people from key populations receive adequate information and education for their sexual lives. Instead, they receive conflicting or confusing messages about gender and sexuality. This leaves young people vulnerable to coercion, abuse and exploitation and to unintended pregnancy and STIs, including HIV (18). The lack of community empowerment, too, and of community-wide awareness and knowledge limits the overall effectiveness of interventions to reduce HIV risk (10, 20). 5.3.2 Critical enablers Evidence shows that health policies and programmes are more effective and have a more positive impact on health outcomes when affected populations take part in their development (32). Community empowerment is a guiding principle for all HIV programming and activities. Community empowerment is a collective process that and well-being; make social, economic and behavioural changes; and improve access to health services (10). Community empowerment can foster the wider reach and greater effectiveness of services for key populations (10). Community empowerment has been undertaken in various settings, such as for sex workers (Fig. 5.2). Community empowerment is a critical enabler for improving key populations’ redressing violations of the human rights of people from key populations. Community empowerment can take many forms, such as meaningful participation of people from key populations in designing services, peer education, implementation of legal literacy and service programmes, and fostering key population-led groups and key population-led programmes and service delivery (10, 20). Key populations are heterogeneous and mobile. Therefore, to be effective, programmes which people from key populations live and must remain sensitive to a diversity of cultures (20). This flexibility, responsiveness and adaptability are essential to community empowerment initiatives. Initiatives should be able to evolve over time to meet the changing needs of key populations. Programmes led by key-population organizations It is important to foster and support services, facilities and research led by organizations of people from key populations. Key population-led organizations, collectives and Chapter 5: Critical enablers service agencies, facilitating interaction with the communities of key populations, and managing services. In fact, they may have special strengths in providing community- based and outreach services. Case study: Building health literacy among young injecting drug users in Mexico Programa de Política de Drogas (Espolea,
