GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


they may have special strengths in providing community- based and outreach services. Case study: Building health literacy among young injecting drug users in Mexico Programa de Política de Drogas (Espolea, A.C), Mexico Espolea, a youth-led organization in Mexico City, opened its Drug Policy and Harm Reduction Programme in 2008 and has since developed online and face-to-face channels to provide objective information about drugs and risk reduction to young people ages 15–29 years. The organization has found that information is most effective when disseminated at places where young people use drugs, particularly electronic dance music festivals, rock concerts and cultural gatherings. At these events Espolea sets up a stand as a safe space for young people to obtain information about drugs that may be being consumed. The organization also facilitates workshops in schools and in communities with concentrations of most-at-risk young people. Espolea has an active outreach strategy, using social media, including Facebook and Twitter as well as Internet blogs. One blog – www.universodelasdrogas.org – serves as a databank on drugs and has become the axis of the programme’s harm reduction campaign. Staff members, collaborators, and young people produce the information. Printed materials offer facts and recommendations about nightlife, alcohol consumption, risky sexual behaviours, HIV and other STIs. Fig. 5.2 Key elements of community empowerment among sex workers (20) While this figure refers to sex workers, these community empowerment elements could be adapted for other key populations. Working with communities of sex workers Fostering sex Sustaining the worker-led movement outreach Shaping policy and creating Community Developing sex worker enabling Empowerment collectives environments Adapting to Strengthening local needs the collective and contexts Promoting a human-rights framework Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Meaningful participation Even if key population-led organizations are not taking the lead, the meaningful participation of representatives of the community in programming is critical to assure the appropriateness and acceptability of services to the intended clientele. It is also important for building trusting relationships between the community and service providers, who may be accustomed to establishing the parameters by which services are provided and prescribing how relationships or partnerships are to be conducted (20). Meaningful participation means that key populations: 1) choose whether to participate; 2) choose how they are represented, and by whom; 3) choose how they are engaged in the process; and 4) have an equal voice in how partnerships are managed.
