GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


participate; 2) choose how they are represented, and by whom; 3) choose how they are engaged in the process; and 4) have an equal voice in how partnerships are managed. Meaningful participation can mean not only Policies and programmes are more having a voice in decision-making but also effective when affected populations contributing to service delivery. For example, take part in their development. adolescents from key populations can be given opportunities, empowered and trained as peer educators, counsellors, trainers and advocates (33). Peer education is a successful strategy for improving young people’s HIV knowledge, testing and counselling, and linking to care; it is more likely to lead to behaviour change than many other interventions. Additionally, peer education can help to mobilize communities and social networks (34). Partnerships are crucial, but they must be built and maintained in a way that risks no harm to the persons involved. The success of interventions that facilitate participation is measured not only by effectiveness of outcomes but also by the degree to which key populations are engaged and by the process and mechanisms of engagement (35). Key population-led groups and organizations should be made essential partners and Good practice recommendations for community empowerment ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Programmes should implement a package of interventions to enhance community empowerment among key populations (10, 11, 12, 15). • Programmes should be put in place to provide legal literacy and legal services to key populations so that they know their rights and applicable laws and can receive support from the justice system when aggrieved (10, 11, 12, 15). Chapter 5: Critical enablers MEN WHO HAVE SEX WITH MEN • Men’s health groups and organizations of men who have sex with men are essential partners in providing comprehensive training on human sexuality and delivering services and so should be actively engaged. They also can facilitate interaction with members of sexually diverse communities, thereby generating greater understanding of their emotional health and social needs and the cost of inaction against homophobia (11). PEOPLE WHO USE AND/OR INJECT DRUGS • Community empowerment and mobilisation are important elements in addressing the stigma and marginalisation of people who inject drugs within the health sector. Involvement of people who inject drugs in planning and delivering services is crucial, in particular peer education and training on safer injecting, harm SEX WORKERS • Programmes should be put in place to sensitize and educate health-care
