GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


planning and delivering services is crucial, in particular peer education and training on safer injecting, harm SEX WORKERS • Programmes should be put in place to sensitize and educate health-care providers on non-discrimination and sex workers’ right to high-quality and non-coercive care, confidentiality and informed consent (10). • Programmes should implement a package of interventions to enhance community empowerment among sex workers (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (10). • Community empowerment is a necessary component of sex worker interventions and should be led by sex workers. TRANSGENDER PEOPLE • Organizations of transgender people are essential partners in delivering comprehensive training on human sexuality and gender expression. They also can facilitate interaction with members of communities with diverse gender identities and expressions, thereby generating greater understanding of their emotional health and social needs and the cost of inaction against transphobia (11). ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS It is recommended that sexuality education programmes for adolescents, both in and outside of schools, be scientifically accurate and comprehensive and include information on contraceptives, including how to use them and where to get them (15). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Case study: In Nepal meaningful participation of people who inject drugs www.nayagoreto.org.np Recognizing the lack of specific laws or policies in Nepal to support people who inject drugs and the lack of services at the community level, Naya Goreto created “Bridging the Gap: Health and Human Rights Programme for the Key Population”. This programme aims to engage Naya Goreto emphasizes the meaningful participation of people who inject drugs at all levels of the programme. More than 200 people from the community have been trained to lead activities ranging from situation analysis to advocacy campaigning and programme monitoring. The programme also has brought together various stakeholders, including former politicians, the health and human rights of people who inject drugs. Empowerment activities have included the following: • conducting advocacy programmes in stigma-free small group environments, such as meetings at a local cafe, which make possible more personal and meaningful discussion of issues; • forming key population-led networks such as Lalitpur Drug User’s Advocacy Network; • linking people who inject drugs with experts and other concerned stakeholders for easy access to adequate information on programmes and budgets; • mobilization of trained people from the community to participate in consultation meetings people who inject drugs. Naya Goreto has built strong
