GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


access to adequate information on programmes and budgets; • mobilization of trained people from the community to participate in consultation meetings people who inject drugs. Naya Goreto has built strong partnerships among people who inject drugs, creating a shared feeling of solidarity to collectively address the issues that directly affect them. Such issues are now included in the yearly action plans of local government and civil society organizations. Annual budgets have been secured from local government bodies to conduct drug awareness programmes by and for communities. There is now a seat for a community member on the District AIDS Coordination Committee. At a civil society level, there has been a rise in positive community awareness – for example, through national media – of issues that affect people who inject drugs. Case study: Youth-led advocacy, leadership, and empowerment of young key populations Youth LEAD, NewGen leadership programme, Asia–Pacific Youth LEAD is a network of and for young key populations most affected by HIV in 20 countries across Asia and the Pacific. In 2011 Youth LEAD created the NewGen Asia leadership course, a five-day youth-led programme for young people in advocacy, leadership, and empowerment. The course was pilot-tested in the Philippines; evaluations led to revisions and the development of training materials. A seven-day training of trainers took place the following year with 21 participants from five countries. This led to the implementation of NewGen and the adaptation of national trainings in Myanmar, the Philippines and Indonesia. Chapter 5: Critical enablers NewGen uses a range of participatory activities to help young people to think critically about the way in which social, political and institutional environments influence the well-being of members of key populations. Participants learn formal advocacy and communication skills and the use of data through speech-making and participation in meetings as representatives of their communities. Overall, participants rate NewGen very highly. Participants find the training particularly useful for learning new leadership and advocacy skills, and they enjoy the participatory training methodology. Through working and learning together, participants develop a sense of community. Course graduates have helped establish new community networks of young people from key populations in many countries, often through social media. 5.4 Violence 5.4.1 Barriers Violence against people from key populations has been shown to be a risk factor for HIV acquisition (36). Such violence is common. It can take various forms – physical, sexual or psychological (37). Violence is
