GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


populations has been shown to be a risk factor for HIV acquisition (36). Such violence is common. It can take various forms – physical, sexual or psychological (37). Violence is fuelled by the imbalance in the power dynamics of gender and by prejudice and discrimination against persons perceived to depart from conventional gender and sexuality norms and identities. Also, multiple structural factors influence vulnerability to violence, including discriminatory or harsh laws and policing practices and cultural and social norms that legitimate stigma and discrimination. Women, especially young women, from key populations, including female drug users, female sex workers and transgender women, experience particularly high rates of physical, sexual, and psychological abuse (38, 39, 40). Reported rates of violence against sex workers and transgender women are high (41, 42, 43) but nonetheless are likely to be underreported where certain behaviours of key populations are illegal. Homophobic violence, too, is increasing in some countries, as more policies and laws have banned same-sex activity and made it a criminal offense (44). This is likely to increase HIV risk (45). 5.4.2 Critical enablers Efforts to address violence against people from key populations must involve environment to promote physical, sexual, and emotional well-being and safety. Critical enablers include mechanisms for documenting and monitoring violence, training people from key populations and other stakeholders to understand human rights and fostering the accountability of law enforcement officials to prevent and respond to violence and infringements of human rights (46). Prevention of violence against key populations Law enforcement practices can increase the risk of violence faced by key populations. Indeed, law enforcement officers themselves can be perpetrators. Work with law officers Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations can involve training on the human rights of key populations as well as promoting accountability for rights-based law enforcement (46). Efforts to prevent violence can be promoted through advocacy for law and policy reforms that protect the rights and safety of key populations, by increasing awareness of reporting mechanisms and disciplinary action, by conducting sensitization workshops for people with pivotal roles religious leaders), through the creation of safe spaces, and by creating early warning and rapid response mechanisms with the involvement of key population community representatives into these efforts also helps to create channels of communication among key populations, civic officials and police (47). Support for persons experiencing violence Those who experience sexual violence need timely
