GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


into these efforts also helps to create channels of communication among key populations, civic officials and police (47). Support for persons experiencing violence Those who experience sexual violence need timely access to post-rape care, including emergency contraception, post-exposure prophylaxis for HIV and other STIs, hepatitis B immunization and psychosocial care and support, as well as referrals to police and legal care and support for survivors of violence, in line with WHO guidelines for responding to sexual violence (46). Survivors may need treatment for physical injuries and longer-term can assist survivors’ access to justice. Supportive services also include hotlines staffed by trained peer counsellors to offer psychosocial support as well as crisis response interventions, with multi-disciplinary teams, linking survivors to various services and safe spaces (10). It also is important to monitor and document incidents of violence, both as evidence for advocacy and to inform programme design. Documenting the levels of violence faced by key populations is often the first step in creating awareness. Good practice recommendations for reducing violence ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • Violence against people from key populations should be prevented and addressed in partnership with key population-led organizations. All violence against people from key population groups should be monitored and reported, and redress mechanisms should be established to provide justice (10, 11, 12, 46). • Health and other support services should be provided to all persons from key populations who experience violence. In particular, persons experiencing sexual violence should have timely access to comprehensive post-rape care in accordance with WHO guidelines. • Law enforcement officials and health- and social-care providers need to be trained to recognize and uphold the human rights of key populations and to be held accountable if they violate these rights, including perpetration of violence (10, 11, 12, 46). Chapter 5: Critical enablers PEOPLE IN PRISONS AND OTHER CLOSED SETTINGS • Prison authorities should provide adequate staffing, effective surveillance, disciplinary sanctions, and education, work and leisure programmes for prisoners. • Prisons and other closed settings and their staffs should make efforts to change institutional culture that tolerates rape and other sexual violence. Prisons should adopt multiple approaches to combating sexual violence, including policies and programmes for prevention (e.g. prisoner education, classification, and structural interventions such as better lighting, better shower and sleeping arrangements), staff training, investigation, disciplinary action, victim services (e.g. medical and mental health) and documentation of incidents (12). Case study: Building partnerships
