GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


tool: costing programmes to reduce stigma and discrimination and increase access to justice in the context of HIV. Geneva, UNAIDS, 2012. document/2012/The_HRCT_User_Guide_FINAL_2012-07-09.pdf • UNAIDS guidance note: key programmes to reduce stigma and discrimination and increase access to justice in national HIV responses. Geneva, UNAIDS, 2012. org/en/media/unaids/contentassets/documents/document/2012/Key_Human_Rights_ Programmes_en_May2012.pdf • Understanding and acting on critical enablers and development synergies for strategic investment. New York, UNDP, 2011. documents/unaidspublication/2012/201211_UNAIDS_UNDP_Enablers_and_Synergies_ en.pdf • Guidance for HIV testing and counselling and care for adolescents living with HIV. Geneva, WHO, 2013. SERVICE DELIVERY 6.1 Overview 106 6.2 Key service delivery strategies 108 6.2.1 Integration of services 108 6.2.2 Decentralization of services 110 6.2.3 Task-shifting the delivery of services 112 6.2.4 Community-based approaches 113 6.3 Key factors to consider when providing services for all key populations 116 Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 6 SERVICE DELIVERY 6.1 Overview The comprehensive package of interventions, outlined in Chapters 3 and 4, includes health interventions common to all key populations as well as additional services for specific population groups. Most of these interventions are the same HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care interventions as for the general population (1). However, there are often complex challenges and barriers, as discussed in Chapter 5, to implementation and delivery of these services to key populations. Programmes need to address these challenges and barriers and provide sustainable HIV services for diagnosis, linkage, retention and adherence for key populations. To maximize impact, services should be made 1) accessible, 2) acceptable, 3) affordable and 4) equitable. Furthermore, key populations need to be made aware of the available services. This chapter focuses on the service delivery elements important to the comprehensive package of health interventions for key populations. Box 6.1 lists a number of WHO tools that can help guide implementation. Box 6.1 WHO guidance on HIV-related service delivery approaches The consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection (1) provides broad guidance in six essential operational and service delivery areas: • adherence to ART • retention across the continuum of care • service delivery, comprising service integration and linkage and decentralization of HIV care and treatment • human resources, including task shifting • laboratory and diagnostic services • procurement and supply management systems. Chapter 6: Service delivery Implementation tools to support HIV programming for key populations WHO and other UN agencies have produced normative guidance on
