GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and community-based approaches are integral to these strategies, particularly for key populations. Given the heterogeneity of key populations and of social and epidemiological contexts, their application will need to be based on a situational assessment and undertaken in consultation with key population groups and service providers. 6.2.1 Integration of services WHO recommends the integration of HIV services with a range of other relevant clinical reproductive health services and drug dependence treatment (1). Integration of services facilitates provision of comprehensive and consistent care. It allows individuals to take care of their various health needs at the same time and in the same location. Integration of services involves not only providing WHO recommends integration related services in a single setting but also linkage of HIV services into other relevant systems to share information and provisions for referrals across settings and among providers (1). viral hepatitis, MCH, sexual and Collaboration between programmes at every level reproductive health services and of the health system is important to the success of drug dependence treatment. HIV and other related health and social services. Aspects of coordination that need consideration include mobilizing and allocating drugs and other medical supplies; and monitoring and evaluation. The goal of programme planning should be to create delivery systems that best facilitate access. Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS Delivering ART in antenatal care and maternal and other child health settings • In generalized epidemic settings ART should be initiated and maintained in eligible pregnant and postpartum women and in infants at maternal, newborn and ART where appropriate (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (1). Chapter 6: Service delivery Delivering ART in TB treatment settings and TB treatment in HIV care settings • In settings with a high HIV prevalence (≥5%) among TB patients, ART should be initiated for HIV-positive individuals with TB in TB treatment settings, with linkage to ongoing HIV care and ART (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (1). • In settings with a high burden of HIV and TB, TB treatment should be provided for individuals with HIV in HIV care settings where TB diagnosis has also been made (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (1). PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS ART in settings providing opioid substitution therapy • In settings where opioid substitution therapy is provided, ART should be initiated and maintained in people with HIV who are eligible for ART (strong recommendation, very
