GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


opioid substitution therapy • In settings where opioid substitution therapy is provided, ART should be initiated and maintained in people with HIV who are eligible for ART (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (1). Case study: Integrated services for sex workers in Zimbabwe CeSHHAR, Zimbabwe The nongovernmental organization Centre for Sexual Health and HIV AIDS Research (CeSHHAR) Zimbabwe runs the Sisters with a Voice programme, which provides integrated services for sex workers in multiple sites across Zimbabwe on behalf of the National AIDS Council. Collaboration workers in implementation have contributed greatly to the programme’s successes. Supported by a network of peer educators trained in participatory community mobilization and empowerment, the Sisters with a Voice programme offers HTC, syndromic STI treatment, are being trained in visual inspection and treatment of pre-cancerous lesions using cryotherapy. Peer educators run community mobilization sessions. The 36 sessions cover issues for sex workers themselves (self-worth, behaviour change, contraception, HIV and cervical cancer), issues relating to clients and partners (communication, assertiveness, serodiscordance, sexual networks and multiple concurrent partnering) and issues relating to the “sisterhood” (advocacy, stigma, rights and support). Since 2009 the programme has expanded from five sites to a comprehensive network of 36 sites nationally. By 2013 the six fixed facilities and 30 outreach sites together served more than 14 000 women. Moreover, at a site where two population-based surveys were conducted, the proportion of HIV-negative women that reported having a recent HIV test increased from 35% in 2011 to more than 70% in 2013. Over the same period the proportion of women living with HIV who were obtaining ART increased from 28% to 45%. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations An example of integrating services is provided by the next case study, where specific health services for transgender people are provided within a general health facility. Case study: Comprehensive transgender services within a community health clinic Transgender Family Program, Community Healthcare Network, United States of America The Transgender Family Program was established in 2004 at the Community Healthcare Network clinics in New York City to improve access to HIV prevention and linkages to primary health care. To understand how best to integrate comprehensive transgender services into a community learning from similar programmes. Importantly, the programme asked patients to form the Client Advisory Board to help guide integration and implementation of services for the transgender community. Integrated services include
