GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


learning from similar programmes. Importantly, the programme asked patients to form the Client Advisory Board to help guide integration and implementation of services for the transgender community. Integrated services include transgender care, HTC, medical case management, support for and nutritional services. In addition, the programme provides risk reduction counselling, support groups, outreach, bilingual educational workshops and referrals to legal and social services. Recruitment strategies of staff members and trained peer leaders include face-to-face contacts, community-based activities and online methods including advertising and social media tools. Clients are encouraged to engage family members. This has proved to be an important strategy to encourage access and attendance. Over 750 people have received transgender-specific services. Identified benefits of integrated transgender services include: • improved tolerance of, sensitivity to and long-term acceptance of this population in the larger community • improved accessibility through convenient location of services • flexible hours as a result of larger capacity • increased access to a range of in-house support services. In addition, in-depth evaluation has found significant decreases in sex work, needle sharing and unregulated hormone injections and increased likelihood of regular condom use. 6.2.2 Decentralization of services Decentralization aims to deliver all HIV services closer to the individual. In many settings transport costs and long waiting times in central hospitals are significant barriers to access to services and retention in care. Particularly in rural areas, decentralization can reduce the difficulty and cost of travel and shorten waiting times. If carefully planned and implemented, decentralization may provide safer, discreet and more accessible services for key populations may not always be appropriate or acceptable. In some settings general HIV services may provide greater anonymity. Chapter 6: Service delivery WHO recommends decentralization of ART services specifically. Decentralization of a full range of HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care and support services for key populations can also be considered. Decentralizing HIV care and treatment can further facilities, and may improve access to services, care-seeking behaviour and retention in care (1). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS • The following options should be considered for decentralization of ART initiation and maintenance: facilities (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). – Initiation of ART and maintenance of ART in peripheral health facilities (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). community-based organizations) (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (1). Case study: Mobile outreach to sex workers in South Africa Re-Action Consulting, South Africa to reduce new
