GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


low quality of evidence). community-based organizations) (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence) (1). Case study: Mobile outreach to sex workers in South Africa Re-Action Consulting, South Africa to reduce new HIV infections among sex workers and their clients in two rural districts in Mpumalanga province of South Africa. Currently, the programme reaches about 4100 female sex workers. A nursing team offers multiple free services including health risk screening and testing social services through a mobile clinic. The team visits locations at least twice per week at times convenient to their clientele. With the help of a 28-day calendar, sex workers know where they ART, in the clients’ workplaces. them into the appropriate ART services. The nurses supply patients with medication from to treatment. When a client defaults on treatment, outreach workers provide assistance and follow-up. The programme has a very low default rate of 2.3%, most of it attributed to women moving elsewhere. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 6.2.3 Task-shifting the delivery of services Task shifting involves the rational redistribution Task shifting can enable the existing of tasks among health-care workers. Where workforce to serve more people. appropriate, tasks are reassigned from highly qualified health workers to health workers with shorter training and fewer complementary qualifications (1). Many countries face a shortage of health-care workers; task shifting can increase the effectiveness and efficiency of available personnel, enabling the existing workforce to serve more people. Community-led organizations can also play important roles in reaching key populations, engaging with them, linking them to services and providing ongoing care and support. Peer-support workers can provide valuable services and can link the community and and supervision (1). They should receive adequate wages and/or other appropriate incentives (14). Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). • Trained and supervised community health workers can dispense ART between Case study: Community distribution of naloxone in India Social Awareness Service Organisation (SASO), Manipur, India In the state of Manipur, India, since 2000 the Social Awareness Service Organisation (SASO) has provided, among other services, opioid overdose management with free naloxone, through outreach (e.g. at “shooting sites”) and at drop-in centres. Also, through small meetings, one-to- one contacts and counselling, SASO provides information and education about drug overdose and its management to all people who inject drugs and their family members. The
