GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


through small meetings, one-to- one contacts and counselling, SASO provides information and education about drug overdose and its management to all people who inject drugs and their family members. The programme was scaled up and strengthened in 2008–09 by involving key stakeholders to facilitate community implementation of naloxone to ensure wider coverage. Ethical concerns about non-medical staff dispensing a medication to people who inject drugs have been overcome through the demonstration of the life-saving nature of overdose management. Between 2004 and 2012 more than 450 overdoses were managed at five centres, and over 90% of those lives were saved. In addition, more than one-third of overdose clients have increased Chapter 6: Service delivery 6.2.4 Community-based approaches Community-based approaches to service delivery can increase accessibility and acceptability for key populations. Outreach, mobile services, drop-in centres and venue- based approaches are useful for reaching those with limited access to, or underserved Section 6.2.2). Community-based programmes can also refer to programmes that are led and delivered by members of the key population community. Staff members, including peers, involved in community-based approaches need to be appropriately supported, in terms both of training, supervision and management and of incentives and remuneration. Community-led services, in which community The community plays a vital members take the lead in delivering outreach and role in the HIV response. overseeing an HIV prevention programme, have demonstrated significant benefits in terms of HIV outcomes. They also enable community members to address structural barriers to the exercise of their rights and empower them to change social norms, thus reducing vulnerabilities that go beyond HIV. Community-led services are interventions designed, delivered and monitored by community members. They can play many roles – for example: • providing adequate and reliable access to commodities (condoms, lubricants, and needles and syringes) and clinical services through outreach and referrals; • responding to violence against community members and implementing other structural interventions; • supporting the safe and effective use of naloxone in the community by people who witness an opioid overdose; • promoting behavioural and social change that strengthens not only knowledge but also skills and systems in order to sustain prevention and retention in care and treatment; • offering formal and informal means for the community to provide feedback on the quality of services and to engage with services beyond the HIV programme (2). Peer interventions – also termed peer-based or peer-driven interventions – are an important
