GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


provide feedback on the quality of services and to engage with services beyond the HIV programme (2). Peer interventions – also termed peer-based or peer-driven interventions – are an important modality for delivering services and exchanging information and skills that promote safer behaviours to individuals or networks of people from key populations. Beyond providing services, peers can act as role models and offer non-judgemental and respectful support that may contribute to reducing stigma, facilitating access to services and improving their acceptability. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Recommendations and guidance ALL KEY POPULATION GROUPS In all HIV epidemic settings, WHO recommends community-based HIV testing and counselling with linkage to prevention, care and treatment services for key populations in addition to provider-initiated testing and counselling (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence) (1). PEOPLE WHO INJECT DRUGS See Section 4.1.2.4 for specific recommendations on peer support and community delivery of naloxone. ADOLESCENTS FROM KEY POPULATIONS Community-based approaches can improve treatment adherence and retention in care of adolescents living with HIV (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) (15). (See Box 6.2.) Case study: Community-led service delivery centres in Pakistan Naz Male Health Alliance is a community-based organization in Pakistan serving the community of men who have sex with men and of transgender people. As part of its on-going work to empower the community, the organization operates six service delivery centres in five cities, with 47 000 registered clients. Each service delivery centre is divided into a clinic and a drop-in centre that provides a safe and relaxing atmosphere for the low-income beneficiaries. The centres are located strategically close to “hotspots” for men who have sex with men and where there are concentrations of hijra deras (dwellings of transsexual people). Drop-in centres and outreach activities are complementary: The drop-in centres allow the establishment of long- lasting relationships with the clients, and outreach provides linkage to the drop-in centre. Service sites are separate for each key population community in order to effectively address their different needs. Each centre has a multidisciplinary staff of about 15 people, including STI members; more than 95% of staff staff are men who have sex with men and transgender people. Chapter 6: Service delivery Box 6.2 Adolescents from key populations The service delivery approaches and considerations discussed in this chapter for all key populations are applicable for adolescents from key populations. However, additional
