GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


delivery Box 6.2 Adolescents from key populations The service delivery approaches and considerations discussed in this chapter for all key populations are applicable for adolescents from key populations. However, additional considerations are required. It is essential that services for adolescents from key populations are designed and delivered in ways that take into account the multiple, overlapping vulnerabilities that confront adolescents from key populations and the diversity of their needs, based on their age, their specific behaviours and the complexities of their social and legal environment. Additional considerations and approaches for adolescents from key populations include:1 • Acknowledge and build upon the strengths, competencies and capacities of adolescents from key populations, especially their ability to articulate what services they need. Engage them in decisions about services, recognizing their evolving capacity and their right to have their views taken into account. This is an important consideration when addressing issues of parental consent for services and treatment (see Section 5.1.2). • Give primary consideration to the best interests of young people in all laws and policies aimed at protecting their rights (Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 3) (16). • Make the most of existing services and infrastructure for youth and add components for reaching and providing services to adolescents from key populations, ensuring that services are friendly to youth from key populations as well as to other youth. • Adopt a multidisciplinary approach, ensuring that services are as comprehensive as possible so as to address overlapping vulnerabilities. • Provide developmentally appropriate information and education for adolescents from key populations, focusing on skills-based risk reduction. Information can be disseminated via multiple media, including the Internet, mobile phone technology and participatory approaches. • Provide psychosocial support, through counselling, peer support groups and issues. Additional provision of counselling for families, including parents – where appropriate and requested by the adolescent – may be important to support and facilitate access to services, especially where parental consent is required (7). • Facilitate access to social services and state benefits, including immediate shelter and long-term housing, and address food security issues, including nutritional assessments. • Support access to livelihood development and economic strengthening, and encourage adolescents to stay in school or, if out of school, to return to school, where appropriate. • Address social norms and stigma concerning sexuality, gender identities and sexual orientation through comprehensive sexuality education in schools, supportive discrimination policies in employment. 1
