GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


return to school, where appropriate. • Address social norms and stigma concerning sexuality, gender identities and sexual orientation through comprehensive sexuality education in schools, supportive discrimination policies in employment. 1 See also Web Annex 6 briefs on young key populations. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 6.3 Key factors to consider when providing services for all key populations In summary, assuring access, acceptability and affordability requires attention to multiple, specific elements of programme design and delivery. Action on all these elements, appropriate to the specific context, will yield programmes that best serve key populations. ACCESS Generate demand Demand for HTC and prevention services can be generated through targeted campaigns in identified key population settings, using community-based outreach, mobile phone technology, social networking and broadcast and online media. Case study: Online strategies to increase uptake of HTC services in Bangkok Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, Bangkok, Thailand In Bangkok the Men’s Health Clinic provides comprehensive and friendly services to men who have sex with men. One of the Clinic’s tools to increase uptake of HTC has been the first bilingual (Thai/English) edu-tainment web site for men who have sex with men ( launched in 2011. The web site’s goal is to encourage regular HIV testing among men who have sex with men. To link web site visitors to HTC services, a section titled “HIV testing site near you” offers information about how to obtain HTC at sites that are friendly to men who have sex with men in Bangkok and other provinces. Other means of continuous demand creation for HTC services include mass media and targeted media activities such as regular columns in gay magazines, peer-driven interventions and celebrity meet-and-greet HIV testing events. The number of clients who have obtained HTC services has increased almost fivefold, from 967 in 2008 to 4371 in 2012. The Adam’s Love web site attracted more than 500 000 visitors in two years and has its own Facebook page as well, with more than 15 000 fans. One-quarter of clients of the Men’s Health Clinic report obtaining HTC services because of the site. Address age barriers Age of consent laws should be examined to determine their effect on access to services. Countries can consider revising age of consent policies and creating exceptions to age limits (i.e. mature minor status). Countries also can consider how best to assess adolescents’ capacity
