GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


to services. Countries can consider revising age of consent policies and creating exceptions to age limits (i.e. mature minor status). Countries also can consider how best to assess adolescents’ capacity to consent. Make services convenient Programmes can consider offering mobile and/or drop-in services and weekend and/ or night service times that facilitate access. Outreach, including venue-based and home-visiting services, also can increase access. Decentralize services Shifting services from centralized locations to community-based and/or mobile based sex education, peer counselling and community-level activities can disseminate behavioural messages, promote follow-up on referrals to services, improve adherence to treatment and increase people’s participation in their own health care. Chapter 6: Service delivery Case study: In Vietnam decentralization facilitates earlier access to HIV services Vietnam Authority of HIV/AIDS Control/Ministry of Health and WHO Vietnam In 2012 the Vietnam Authority of HIV/AIDS Control in the Ministry of Health started pilot-testing a project to expand earlier access to HIV services among key populations, particularly to people who inject drugs, and thus to maximize the therapeutic and preventive benefits of ART by enabling people to start treatment as soon as possible. The pilot project involved decentralizing HTC services from district facilities to commune health stations in Dien Bien and Can Tho provinces. The pilot project introduced such innovations in Vietnam as a fixed dose combination ARV formulation, point-of-care HIV and CD4 testing, and decentralized follow-up. The project actively engaged community partners, including peer educators, self-support groups regular meetings to discuss outreach activities and challenges. Commune health station staff received training on HIV service delivery, including HIV testing using rapid tests, pre- and post-test counselling, adherence support, basic care and dispensing ARV drugs. This decentralized, community-based model has been shown to promote earlier diagnosis and treatment. People diagnosed at communes have significantly higher median CD4 counts when starting ART (median 294 cells/mm3) than those diagnosed at district facilities (median 88 cells/mm3). Community outreach and trust-building are recognized as critical to facilitating earlier access to HIV services among people who inject drugs. Integrate services and assure referrals and linkage to care Service integration, including integrated HTC and care services and integrated HIV and drug dependence services (e.g. OST, NSP), makes services more convenient and thus facilitates access. To decrease loss to follow-up, standard operating procedures should specify linkages to care and help with transport from HTC to ART sites. Systems that share information between clinics (e.g. TB and HIV
