GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


loss to follow-up, standard operating procedures should specify linkages to care and help with transport from HTC to ART sites. Systems that share information between clinics (e.g. TB and HIV clinics), use of outreach workers for follow-up and support from peers can facilitate retention in care. Case study: Promoting regular testing and supporting linkage to care in Spain Projecte dels NOMS-Hispanosida (BCN Checkpoint), Spain BCN Checkpoint is a community-based centre in the gay district of Barcelona for the detection of HIV and other STIs among men who have sex with men. Managed by the nongovernmental organization Projecte dels NOMS-Hispanosida, BCN Checkpoint offers free rapid HIV and syphilis testing by encourage annual repeat HIV testing, BCN Checkpoint uses e-mail, text messages and telephone reminders. Between 2007 and 2013 the programme performed over 22 000 HIV tests, detecting 756 new infections. For those with HIV-positive results, BCN Checkpoint offers an education and information programme with trained HIV-positive peer counsellors and referrals within one week to the hospital’s HIV treatment unit. To ensure linkage to care, all recently diagnosed individuals are followed through a register. Currently, nearly 90% are linked directly to care, while 5% find their own care, and about 4% are in Barcelona only temporarily and obtain care in their home countries. Less than 2% are lost in linkage to care. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Invest in critical enablers Countries can support key populations’ access to services by investing in critical enablers such as integrated treatment and rights literacy programmes, legal services, workers and law enforcement personnel. Case study: Using social media in Ghana to reach men who have sex with men SHARPER project, FHI360, Ghana sharper The SHARPER project tested use of social media by community liaison officers to identify unreached networks of men who have sex with men. The project launched MSM.net in two locations through informal mapping of the community’s networks. Community liaison officers were selected from services. They used social media on smart phones and laptop computers to reach men who have sex with men. “Reached” is defined as receiving a risk assessment, information on HIV prevention and a referral to HIV testing and counselling (or another HIV service). In 2013 more than 15 000 men who have sex with men were reached through Facebook (45.6%), WhatsApp (13.4%) and other social media platforms. In Accra 82% of the men
