GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


In 2013 more than 15 000 men who have sex with men were reached through Facebook (45.6%), WhatsApp (13.4%) and other social media platforms. In Accra 82% of the men reached by this approach had not had previous contact with a peer educator. In Kumasi 66% had never been reached before by any intervention. The community liaison officer in Accra identified eight male sex worker brothels and networks previously unknown to the project and other MSM organizations. Social media proved to be an important means to reach men who have sex with men that peer educators would not usually reach. MSM reached by community liaison officers tended to be older, more educated, single, have a higher monthly income, and (in Accra) to report a larger social network of men who have sex with men than those reached by peer educators. ACCEPTABILITY Train health-care providers peer outreach workers, support staff and management) on issues specific to key populations and on non-discriminatory practices and eliminating stigma, using pre- service and in-service training, job aids, supportive supervision, and training follow- up. Where possible, training should involve representatives of key populations. Create a safe and supportive environment Safe spaces (for both health-care and social services) and confidential and stigma- free environments can encourage access by people from key populations. For example, providing separate and well-lit entrances or locating services in an appropriate setting can decrease barriers to services. Chapter 6: Service delivery Provide high-quality services Services should be acceptable and of high quality. One way to assess quality is monitoring clients’ experience, using national and global indicators. Assure voluntary and informed consent Programmes must promote individuals’ right to decide on their own treatment and accept their right to refuse services. All services should be voluntary, without any feeling of coercion or conditional requirements for obtaining services or commodities such as HIV testing, condoms or clean needles. Information on services and treatment should be clear, explicit and in the appropriate language. Additionally, information for adolescents needs to be suited to their specific developmental stage. Ensure confidentiality Attention should be devoted to protecting privacy and confidentially, e.g. closing the consultation room door or finding a private place to talk. Clients should be reassured of confidentiality, e.g. seeking permission before disclosing information to other health-care providers. Programmes should address the complexities of maintaining confidentiality in community, outreach and peer approaches particularly. Case study: Confidential and anonymous services
