GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


seeking permission before disclosing information to other health-care providers. Programmes should address the complexities of maintaining confidentiality in community, outreach and peer approaches particularly. Case study: Confidential and anonymous services in Lebanon to the public in a friendly environment free of stigma and discrimination against age, sex, gender and sexual orientation. Intended clients are youth, unmarried sexually active women and marginalized with men and transgender people. Clients’ anonymity and confidentiality when they obtain Marsa services play a key role in attracting the clientele. The center uses a unique file number for each client as a form of identification. The client decides if they would like to provide identifying information for their file. In addition, the staff of experienced and sensitized professionals is required to maintain confidentiality. Clients feel comfortable to open up to their care providers, disclose intimate details about their lifestyles and seek information from specialists, knowing that their identity will not be disclosed, even among staff members. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Case study: Online and telephone counselling assures anonymity for young men who have sex with men living with HIV in the Russian Federation Positive Life programme, menZDRAV Foundation & Phoenix PLUS NGO, Russia In partnership with a nongovernmental organisation, the menZDRAV Foundation offers services to young men who have sex with men, ages 18–25, living with HIV in six regions of the Russian Federation. Many young men are reluctant to attend support groups for fear that their sexual orientation or HIV status will be publicly identified, and so the Positive Life programme offers individual counselling via phone, social media and Skype. In each of six cities, peer counsellors staff a telephone hotline with a publicized number. Counselling is also offered via Skype, and young men can send questions to counsellors via email, Facebook, Vkontakte or via a counsellor’s profile on gay-oriented web sites. Counsellors offer callers information on sexuality, safe sex, STIs, adherence to ART, ARV side-effects and disclosure of HIV status to sexual partners. Callers are informed about project services and encouraged to visit the project office for assessments or referrals. Those who are reluctant to visit for fear of being identified can be referred to one of 20 medical specialists across the six regions who have been trained and sensitized to the specific needs of men who have sex with men living with HIV and will provide
