GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


20 medical specialists across the six regions who have been trained and sensitized to the specific needs of men who have sex with men living with HIV and will provide services without stigma or discrimination. There are about 80 trained peer counsellors, both project staff members and volunteers. All Positive Life counsellors take part in a centralized training. They receive further training and supervision at the project’s regional offices as well as from central project staff who travel to the regions. In 2013 Positive Life counsellors provided almost 1900 phone consultations and 1350 online consultations. Engage members of key populations Members of the key population should be involved in the design of programmes, including their planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation. Such involvement can increase the community’s sense of ownership and, thus, programme success. People from key populations also can be involved as service providers and advocates. Case study: Capacity building for transgender community services in the USA The mission of the Center of Excellence for Transgender Health is to increase access to communities. The ultimate goal is to improve the overall health and well-being of transgender people by developing and implementing programmes in response to community-identified needs. Core faculty and staff with diverse backgrounds and experience offer programmes informed by a national advisory board of 14 trans-identified leaders from throughout the United States of America. The projects of the Center of Excellence address a wide range of health issues for transgender people. One activity is developing guidelines on a range of primary care topics, including primary and online ( In addition, the Transitions Project helps build the capacity of community-based organizations to adapt, implement and evaluate evidence-based HIV prevention interventions for transgender communities. Chapter 6: Service delivery Case study: Capacity building and training sessions in Tanzania Médecins du Monde, Tanzania Médecins du Monde, Tanzania, provides comprehensive harm reduction services, including needle and syringe programmes and referral to OST, as well as income generating activities and legal aid. More broadly, Médecins du Monde is involved in building the capacity of nongovernmental and community-based organizations to run harm reduction services, especially drop-in centres with needle and syringe programmes; these include dedicated centres for women, with additional services offered for their children. In 2013 more than 2000 stakeholders were trained in harm reduction approaches and interventions. The organization also has helped create national and district-level harm reduction committees with representation from governmental
