GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


In 2013 more than 2000 stakeholders were trained in harm reduction approaches and interventions. The organization also has helped create national and district-level harm reduction committees with representation from governmental and nongovernmental institutions. Sub-committees at both levels focus on resource mobilization. A continuous dialogue with municipal, district and national authorities and sensitization sessions for police, medical staff and journalists have been important elements of the work. AFFORDABILITY Ensure monetary resources Government commitment and funding are important. Public–private partnerships can spread costs. Minimize or eliminate fees Wherever possible, services should be provided free of charge or at reduced price. Insurance or health subsidies should cover any fees for services. Reduce costs Costs to the health system and for the user can be reduced through the integration and decentralization of services, community outreach and venues, and convenient locations. Costs to the individual can be reduced also by shortening waiting times at the facility through a flexible appointment systems and separating clinic consultation visits from picking up medicines. DEVELOPING THE RESPONSE: THE DECISION-MAKING, PLANNING AND MONITORING PROCESS 7.1 Introduction 124 7.1.1 Guiding principles 125 7.2 Understanding the situation 126 7.3 Planning and implementing the response 129 7.4 Monitoring and evaluating the response 130 7.5 Ongoing planning and development of the response 131 Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations 7 DEVELOPING THE RESPONSE: THE DECISION-MAKING, PLANNING AND MONITORING PROCESS 7.1 Introduction Action on the recommendations in these guidelines requires a strategy informed by evidence and appropriate to the local context. Planning, decision-making and monitoring are parts of an ongoing process: Once an evidence-based plan is developed and implemented, it must be monitored and evaluated. The resulting findings then inform revision of the strategy and its implementation (Fig. 7.1). Fig. 7.1 The programme planning, implementation and evaluation cycle Understand the situation Monitor and Plan and evaluate the implement the response response Chapter 7: Developing the response: the decision-making, planning and monitoring process 7.1.1 Guiding principles An effective process for developing and implementing a national or sub-national response to HIV among key populations follows these guiding principles: • An ethical and rights-based approach should inform all decision-making. The planned response to HIV among key populations, and the decision-making process itself, should be non-discriminatory and accountable to the populations it seeks to serve, respecting and upholding their autonomy and rights. Principles of fairness and equity should be followed. • Meaningful participation
