GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


should be non-discriminatory and accountable to the populations it seeks to serve, respecting and upholding their autonomy and rights. Principles of fairness and equity should be followed. • Meaningful participation by affected communities is critical to ensure that the decisions made, the plans formulated and the programmes developed are acceptable to community members, equitable, and responsive to community needs. Representatives from key population constituencies should be involved at all stages from designing the response through its implementation to monitoring and evaluation (M&E) (1). Successful community empowerment (see Section 5.3) develops the capacity of community members and organizations to participate in these processes in a meaningful way. Community-led organizations play a crucial role in delivering services that best meet the needs of key populations. • Involvement of all stakeholders. Addressing HIV among key populations requires a multisectoral response. Accordingly, planning of the response needs to involve multiple sectors. Box 7.1 lists potential stakeholders to include in the planning process. • Coordinated approach. The national HIV programme manager and an appropriate body such as a national HIV/AIDS commission should take responsibility for managing the overall planning process and facilitating stakeholder and community participation. Designating an individual to work specifically on developing and coordinating services and issues related to key populations within the national AIDS commission (or similar peak body) may facilitate this. In large and diverse countries, developing a national programme requires formulating strategies at the local and sub-national levels as well, with guidance and coordination centrally, at the national level. • Openness and transparency. The evidence and rationale for decisions should be publicly available, including information on expected effectiveness and risk and the distribution of health benefits and burdens for different groups. • Evidence-based. Policies, interventions and approaches should be based on sound evidence or experience. • Equity. Programmes should aim to achieve equitable health outcomes across all populations and settings and to promote gender equity. • Efficiency and sustainability. Programmes should seek to deliver effective services most efficiently and to ensure that they are sustainable over the long term. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Box 7.1 Potential stakeholders to include in the planning process in both the public and private sectors: HIV programmes and clinics (HIV testing • civil society, including people living with HIV, women’s and youth groups, religious leaders, people with disabilities; • technical specialists in specific areas, such as laboratory
