GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


and clinics (HIV testing • civil society, including people living with HIV, women’s and youth groups, religious leaders, people with disabilities; • technical specialists in specific areas, such as laboratory services, pharmacology, • government partners, including representatives of relevant ministries, such as regional (such as provincial) authorities; • nongovernmental organizations, including international agencies, faith- based organizations, other local nongovernmental and community-based organizations, and private-sector service organizations; economists; • academic institutions, including experts in operational research, implementation science, ethics, training and supervision; • professional associations of various cadres of health workers (such as 7.2 Understanding the situation The efficacy of the interventions in the essential package is well proven. Experience in multiple countries has demonstrated the generalizability of these interventions in diverse impact. It is critical to understand local epidemic dynamics; the characteristics of the populations affected; the physical, social and political environments that influence risk and vulnerability; the needs of people from key populations and any factors that might enable or hinder efforts to address these needs; and the health systems and community infrastructure. With this information in hand, an evidence-based plan can be developed and implemented. People from key populations face greater HIV risk than the general population and have specific health-related needs. While many of these risks and needs may be common to people from key populations in different settings, some factors will differ among key populations, and some will be specific to a particular context. Accordingly, for a local Chapter 7: Developing the response: the decision-making, planning and monitoring process response to be appropriate, acceptable and most effective, these risks and needs must be examined locally, and local people from key populations must be consulted and actively involved in the situational analysis. It is also important to recognize the considerable diversity and varying levels of risk within each key population. Those most at risk are likely to be people who could be considered members of more than one key population; for example, some men who have sex with men may also inject drugs or engage in sex work. Thus, they risk exposure to HIV by several routes. People from key populations may also have other characteristics that could increase their risk or vulnerability or create additional health or welfare needs. For example, people from key populations may be homeless, experience mental health conditions or have other acute or chronic health concerns. Key population size and distribution Data
