GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


or welfare needs. For example, people from key populations may be homeless, experience mental health conditions or have other acute or chronic health concerns. Key population size and distribution Data should guide the response, but lack of vary from place to place. To determine data is not a reason to stop or not initiate a the required scale of the response, the response to HIV among key populations. appropriate balance among different interventions and where interventions should be targeted, it is important to appreciate the size and distribution of key populations, among other factors (see Box 7.2 and Section 7.3). It is critical that information gathering processes, and the information itself, serve to protect, and not put at risk, the safety and privacy of people from key populations. At all times ethical principles must be observed, and the human rights of people from key populations, protected. In some circumstances, determining population size or mapping key populations can unintentionally endanger community members or subject them to stigma by identifying these populations and where they are located. Such information could also lead to arrest or imprisonment of people from key populations whose behaviour is criminalized. When undertaking information-gathering exercises, it is important to strictly maintain privacy, confidentiality and the security of the information collected. If the safety and the human rights of people from key populations cannot be protected, collection of certain data, such as mapping where people from key populations congregate, is better avoided. various contextual and environmental factors. Ongoing M&E will identify changing parameters and make it possible to refine or refocus the response. A situational analysis will almost certainly identify gaps in knowledge. An agenda for further research can address these gaps. It is also important, whenever analysing and interpreting data, to evaluate the quality of the data and the presence of any sources of bias. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Box 7.2 Key information required for decision-making and planning Information required Source of information (see also Box 7.4) Key population size • population size estimation HIV prevalence among key • sero-surveillance populations Key population location/geographic • mapping exercises distribution Key population characteristics, risk • demographic surveys behaviours and health concerns • behavioural surveys • general health surveys Important structural factors, barriers • audit of current legislation, policy and practice to implementing a response to HIV, • consultation with community members, and
