GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


behavioural surveys • general health surveys Important structural factors, barriers • audit of current legislation, policy and practice to implementing a response to HIV, • consultation with community members, and the needs of key populations community-led organizations and other stakeholders • behavioural surveys Accessibility, coverage, quality, • programmatic (administrative) data outcome and impact of intervention • disease notification registries • integrated bio-behavioural surveys. (See Box 7.3 for further description of national programme monitoring and evaluation framework.) Rapid assessment and response guides are available to help guide initial and ongoing assessments, using multiple methods to gather data and to conduct analyses at multiple levels: • Rapid assessment and response adaptation guide on HIV and men who have sex with men. Geneva, WHO, 2002. msmrar.pdf?ua=1 • The rapid assessment and response guide on injecting drug use (IDU-RAR). Geneva, WHO, 1998. IDURARguideEnglish.pdf?ua=1 • The rapid assessment and response guide on psychoactive substance use and sexual risk behaviour (SEX-RAR). Geneva, WHO, 2002. entity/mental_health/media/en/686.pdf?ua=1 • Rapid assessment and response adaptation guide for work with especially vulnerable young people. Geneva, WHO, 2004 prev_care/en/youngpeoplerar.pdf?ua=1 Chapter 7: Developing the response: the decision-making, planning and monitoring process 7.3 Planning and implementing the response The following are some of the decisions that need to be taken while developing and implementing a national response to HIV among key populations. Targeting the response • Which key populations and which sub-groups within key populations are most at risk? • Which legislation, policies and guidelines need to be developed or revised? Implementation • Which interventions need to be implemented, and how should their implementation be prioritized? • Where and at what scale do interventions need to be provided?1 • What targets and timelines should be set for the implementation and scale-up of interventions? • How and to what extent should services be decentralized and integrated to provide the best service coverage for key populations? • Which modes of service delivery are most appropriate? • What are the roles and responsibilities of the various stakeholders in implementing the response and achieving the agreed targets? Resources required • Do the costs of implementing the response outweigh the costs of inaction? • What financial, human and other resources and infrastructure are required to implement the response? What resources are currently available, what additional and other workers are required, and how will they be recruited and trained? How can task shifting and sharing optimize the use of available
