GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


resources are currently available, what additional and other workers are required, and how will they be recruited and trained? How can task shifting and sharing optimize the use of available human resources and expand service delivery? • How will economies of scale and synergies among HIV interventions and with other health interventions save on costs and improve service provision? Monitoring and evaluation • How will implementation of the response be monitored and evaluated? • How do strategic information systems for M&E need to be strengthened? 1 For ART the WHO Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection (2013) provides information on considerations for implementing and scaling up services in line with key recommendations. Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Risks, outcomes and impacts • What are potential risks and vulnerabilities of the planned response, and what strategies would mitigate their impact? Risks might include domestic factors such as of drug resistance. External factors could include loss of external financial support, political instability, and natural disasters. 7.4 Monitoring and evaluating the response A monitoring and evaluation system is needed to assess both structural and health sector components of the response to HIV in key populations. It is critical that these systems are practical, not overly complicated, and that they collect information that is current, useful and readily used. WHO and UN partner agencies have developed An M&E system is an essential frameworks for monitoring the response to HIV in part of the HIV response for key the general population and key populations. The populations. following documents described these frameworks: • Tool to set and monitor targets for HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations. Geneva, WHO, 2015. • Technical guide for countries to set targets for universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug users – 2012 revision. Geneva, WHO, 2012. WHO, 2015. eng.pdf Each of these frameworks recommends a set of national-level indicators. These indicators assess key factors related to the enabling environment; measure the availability, coverage and quality of specific interventions; and examine their outcome and impact (Box 7.3). The indicators can also be used when preparing proposals or reporting progress to donor organizations. The following documents provide additional guidance on M&E, including how to undertake assessments at the sub-national level: • Operational guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of HIV programmes
