GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


to donor organizations. The following documents provide additional guidance on M&E, including how to undertake assessments at the sub-national level: • Operational guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of HIV programmes for sex workers, men who have sex with men and transgender people. Geneva, UNAIDS, 2012. • Operational guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of HIV programmes for people who use drugs. Geneva, UNAIDS, 2011, draft. tools/hiv-aids/operational-guidelines-for-m-e-of-hiv-programmes-for-people-who- inject-drugs/idu-service-delivery-level-guidelines/view The M&E process requires data from a variety of sources, including behavioural and sero-surveillance surveys, programmatic and administrative data, as well as information Chapter 7: Developing the response: the decision-making, planning and monitoring process gathered through reviewing policy documents and legislation and consultation with experts and stakeholders (Box 7.4). The quality and limitations of these data should be assessed and considered when undertaking analysis and interpretation. 7.5 Ongoing planning and development of the response Setting clear, achievable but ambitious targets is crucial when planning to scale up interventions to meet the objectives of the HIV response. Targets concretely define what a successful national programme or project should achieve within a specified time frame. Targets can be set for both intervention-specific indicators and cross-cutting outcome and impact indicators (Box 7.3). Intervention and enabling environment indicators reflect the availability, coverage and quality of an intervention or service or assess changes in environmental factors, such as revision of legislation, within a specified timeframe. Targets are set with the aims of achieving reductions in HIV and STI risk sufficient to control the epidemic and ensuring the adequate provision of appropriate treatment and care for those living with HIV or with an STI. Outcome and impact indicators seek to gauge the impact that interventions have had on outcomes that affect exposure to risk, such as changes in risk behaviours (for example, the percentage of people who use condoms consistently) or on impacts on the course of HIV or STI epidemics (for example, reductions in incidence of HIV or STIs). Like planning overall, the target-setting process should be collaborative, involving the range of stakeholders. Those setting the targets should consider whether they are realistic and whether data can be practically collected. Targets, in keeping with programme strategies, should be tailored to the local epidemic and what the strategy can realistically achieve with obtainable funding and resources. Modelling can help to identify how different target levels would affect the epidemic. Baseline assessment. Initial assessment should measure the scale of the current
