GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


achieve with obtainable funding and resources. Modelling can help to identify how different target levels would affect the epidemic. Baseline assessment. Initial assessment should measure the scale of the current response, assessing the availability, coverage, and quality of current interventions, and appraising current environmental enablers and barriers. This information serves as a baseline for tracking progress. Also, currently available resources and technical capacity must be determined in order to estimate what more is needed and how to scale the intervention appropriately. From this information, realistic, achievable targets can be set and the time frame, specified. Estimating cost. Estimating the costs associated with implementation is a key step in planning the roll-out. Several costing tools and resources are available. Spectrum, for example, is a suite of models and analytical tools to support decision-making. It comprises several software applications, including AIM (AIDS Impact Model) and Goals (Cost and Impact of HIV Interventions). Most countries already have AIM files prepared as part of their national epidemiological estimates, and so both modules can be rapidly applied. Spectrum can be accessed online at: datatools/spectrumepp2013/. OneHealth is a software tool designed to strengthen health system analysis and costing and to develop financing scenarios at the country level. It is specifically designed for Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations low- and middle-income countries. It provides planners with a single framework for planning, costing, impact analysis, budgeting and financing of strategies for all major diseases and health system components. OneHealth can be downloaded free of charge UNAIDS has developed The human rights costing tool (HRCT), a flexible tool for costing investments in critical enablers (such as integrated treatment and rights literacy programmes, legal services, stigma and discrimination reduction programmes, and training along with a user guide (2,3) at: documents/data-and-analysis/tools/The_Human_Rights_Costing_Tool_v_1_5_May- 2012.xlsm and document/2012/The_HRCT_User_Guide_FINAL_2012-07-09.pdf Box 7.3 Indicators for monitoring and evaluating the response To understand how well the response is functioning and its effects, its various key requirements need to be monitored for each key population. For each of these requirements there are a number of useful indicators. These indicators are described in detail in WHO key population guidance: Tool to set and monitor targets for HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations. Geneva, WHO, 2015. kpp-monitoring-tools/en/; and Technical guide for countries to set targets for universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug users – 2012 revision, Successful
