GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


populations. Geneva, WHO, 2015. kpp-monitoring-tools/en/; and Technical guide for countries to set targets for universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug users – 2012 revision, Successful implementation and impact requires supportive policy, legislation and other structural factors. Measured by structural (or enabling environment) indicators: • audit of current legislation and policy • number of key population-led organizations • meaningful involvement of people from key populations in policy and strategy formulation • legal support services for key populations • support services for people from key populations who experience violence • sensitization training on key populations for law enforcement officers • sensitization training on key populations for health-care and social services providers. Chapter 7: Developing the response: the decision-making, planning and monitoring process Interventions need to be accessible to people from key populations. Measured by availability indicators: • the number of sites where the intervention is available • the number and percentage of key population-focused programme sites where the intervention is provided • the number and percentage of mainstream programme sites where the intervention is provided and that meet key population sensitization standards • the percentage of all sites where the intervention is currently provided that are either mainstream programmes meeting key population sensitization standards or are key population-focused programmes • the percentage of the key population sample reporting that the intervention is readily accessible • geographic mapping of key populations in relation to where interventions are provided. Interventions must reach those who need them. Measured by coverage indicators: • number and percentage of key population provided with the intervention during a specified reporting period • number of consumable items (such as needles and syringes or condoms) distributed per member of key population during a specified reporting period • percentage of the key population sample reporting that they received the intervention during a specified reporting period. Interventions need to be properly implemented to be effective. Measured by quality indicators: • review of programme policy and practice using programme quality assessment checklist • percentage of staff that has received key population sensitization training • percentage of key population reporting intervention was received and also a specific important activity or service was delivered (such as the provision of compatible lubricant with condoms) • percentage of occasions when intervention was provided along with specific important activity of service (see previous). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key
