GUIDELINES
KEYWORDS: hiv, key, populations, people, key populations, treatment, prevention, guidelines, care, services, sex, men, interventions, use, drugs


with condoms) • percentage of occasions when intervention was provided along with specific important activity of service (see previous). Consolidated guidelines on HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations Intended aims should be achieved. Measured by outcome and impact indicators: • prevalence of risk behaviour in key population • incidence of infection in key population • prevalence of infection in key population • incidence of HIV-related mortality in key population • prevalence in key population of experiencing stigma or discrimination • incidence of violence against people from key population. Box 7.4 Data sources Behavioural and sero-surveillance surveys of key populations can provide prevalence data and information on the experiences, risks and service utilization of people from these groups. Many countries already undertake bio-behavioural surveys of key populations periodically as part of the ongoing monitoring of the HIV epidemic. The generalizability of survey findings depends on how representative the sample is of the entire key population; it is important to consider selection bias in how participants were recruited. Behavioural surveys are susceptible to bias toward socially desirable responses and to recall bias. Programmatic or administrative data. Most programmes routinely record at least some basic information when providing a service. This might include the number of people who received a service, basic information about the client, and numbers of supplies used or distributed. To assess services provided to people from key populations, programme data must be disaggregated by key population. Key population-focused programmes may be able to provide data specific to the populations they serve, but this information is not commonly available from programmes that provide services to many different groups or to the general population. Desk review and expert consultation. Reviewing various policy documents and legislation can identify the presence or absence of various laws or policies that may affect people from key populations. Population size estimation. Deriving reliable population size estimates for key populations can be challenging. Various methods can be employed; each has its own advantages and limitations. Common methods include census and enumeration, general population surveys, and capture-recapture, multiplier, and network scale-up methods. Deriving multiple estimates through different methodologies and triangulating the results is helpful. Definitions of key populations should be clear. Chapter 7: Developing the response: the decision-making, planning and monitoring process Sources of guidance • Tool to set and monitor targets for HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care for key populations. Geneva, WHO, 2015.
