The Role of Parents in the Care of Children with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: child, health, parent, healthcare, parents, care, clinician, visit, adult, parenting, information, clinic, medical, clinicians, family


ABSTRACT Parents should be viewed as an integral part of the child’s healthcare team, being both legally and morally responsible for providing proper care to the child. In this paper, we discuss the role of parents as critical members of the healthcare team in caring for youth with dyslipidemia and how clinicians can best leverage this important resource. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Providing healthcare to a child with a chronic medical condition requires a multidisciplinary team of specially trained and experienced healthcare professionals. Cooperation, empathy, and effective communication between the child, caregivers, and the healthcare team all play key roles in achieving success. This unique model, consistently applied in the healthcare setting, is a cornerstone in promoting physical and emotional wellbeing, and improving outcomes. The development of effective communication takes time and practice, with the goal of developing trust, enhancing bidirectional understanding, and facilitating shared decision-making. Parents should be viewed as an integral part of the child’s healthcare team, being both legally and morally responsible for providing proper care to the child. In this paper, we discuss the role of parents as critical members of the healthcare team in caring for youth with dyslipidemia and how clinicians can best leverage this important resource. THE CLINICIAN-CHILD-PARENT RELATIONSHIP In contrast to adult healthcare, the treatment of children (<18 years-old) is triangulated between the child, parent, and clinician ( 1 ). As in all medical encounters, clinicians are provided intimate details about the child and family, based upon perceptions of respect for their autonomy and assurances of confidentiality. Pediatric healthcare professionals routinely consider a child’s age, developmental level, and likes/interests in their clinical interactions and recommendation for care. Their approach is modified as the child grows and matures, building upon a foundation of trust and mutual respect. Yet, given their pivotal role, few clinicians are trained to assess the best way to communicate with the parent based upon the latter’s communication and parenting style. Establishing trust in clinical encounters takes time and a conscious effort by the clinician, and includes getting to know the child and family, providing factual information in a timely manner, use of simple language and examples, and most importantly, the clinician’s willingness to listen. Parents need to feel included and assured that the healthcare team is there to support them in providing for their child’s
