The Role of Parents in the Care of Children with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: child, health, parent, healthcare, parents, care, clinician, visit, adult, parenting, information, clinic, medical, clinicians, family


examples, and most importantly, the clinician’s willingness to listen. Parents need to feel included and assured that the healthcare team is there to support them in providing for their child’s health and wellbeing. Thus, it is the clinician’s responsibility to find ways to build trust, facilitate effective communication, and identify barriers to success that best serve the needs of the child and their parents. THE “PERSONALIZED “CLINIC NOTE “Parents don’t care how much you know, until they know how much you care.” High quality healthcare is more than addressing a child’s chief complaint. During the initial clinical encounter, a clinician should strive to get to know the child and the family, developing an understanding of who they are, where they come from, what they do for a living, personal interests, and healthcare beliefs. Inclusion of personal information in a child’s clinic note can provide insight into the social determinants of health that may affect the child’s care and the parent’s resources in providing for their child’s needs. Such information can provide clues as to how best to assist the family and what additional services and resources may be needed ( 2 ). The following are two brief examples of a “personalized” clinic note: Eric is a 12-year-old boy who is homeschooled, plays soccer, and has a schnauzer named “Ringo”. His father is a minister, the mother a CPA. There are 2 siblings, one of whom is autistic. Eric was referred by his primary care physician for high cholesterol noted following a routine screening test. Julie is a 16-year-old girl who attends a public school and wants to become a beautician. Her mother is a single parent who works in retail and has 3 other children. Julie is concerned about her weight and has combined dyslipidemia. Personal details included in clinic notes may provide a nonthreatening context to discuss potentially sensitive topics such as diet, physical activity, weight, healthcare beliefs and practices, and potential barriers to achieving goals ( 3 ). This information can be invaluable in helping guide the healthcare team’s approach to patient education and treatment. THE ROLE OF THE PARENT In addition to their many roles, parents of children with dyslipidemia have extended responsibilities, including but not limited to: 1. Modeling healthy behaviors. 2. Educating themselves and their child about the child’s condition. 3. Overseeing the child’s medical care, including: a. Scheduling and attending clinic visits. b. Completing
