The Role of Parents in the Care of Children with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: child, health, parent, healthcare, parents, care, clinician, visit, adult, parenting, information, clinic, medical, clinicians, family


to: 1. Modeling healthy behaviors. 2. Educating themselves and their child about the child’s condition. 3. Overseeing the child’s medical care, including: a. Scheduling and attending clinic visits. b. Completing laboratory tests and procedures. c. Overseeing medication(s), if prescribed. d. Helping implement recommendations such as therapeutic lifestyle changes. e. Managing healthcare costs. As such, parents play an integral role in the successful outcome of the child with a chronic health condition. By engaging parents in their child’s care, clinicians can increase the likelihood of the child’s compliance with lifestyle changes and treatment recommendations ( 4 ). PARENTING STYLES Psychologists suggest that there is a close relationship between a parent’s parenting style and their child’s behavior. Different parenting styles can also contribute to a child’s short- and long-term health outcomes ( 5 ). Figure 1. Parenting styles. As clinicians get to know the child and family through clinical interviews, certain questions can be used to gauge a caregiver’s parenting style, which are summarized below. Table 1. Characteristics of Various Parenting Style View in own window AUTHORITATIVE AUTHORITARIAN PERMISSIVE NEGLECTFUL Warm and Receptive Unresponsive Warm/Responsive Cold/Unresponsive Clear Rules Strict Rules Few or No Rules No Rules High Expectations High Expectations Indulgent Uninvolved Supportive Value Independence Expected Blind Obedience Lenient Indifferent During a clinic visit, a few simple questions can often provide insight about parenting styles. For example, you may ask the child: Do you have any household chores? If so, what happens if you fail to do them? The interpretation of the answers is shown in table 2 . Table 2. Examples of a Child’s Response Based Upon Parenting Style View in own window AUTHORITATIVE AUTHORITARIAN PERMISSIVE NEGLECTFUL “Yes” “Yes” “Sometimes” “No” “My mom helps me.” “I can’t play video games for a week.” “I do them if I remember or have time.” “Nothing." Based on the parenting style, a clinician can determine how best to engage the parent in the child’s care. The following is an example of a common clinical scenario and how caregivers with different parenting styles might respond. Arturo is a 14-year-old boy with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). He has a confirmed pathologic variant in the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor. He plays the trombone in the school band. His father had a fatal MI at 42 years-of-age; the mother, who has T2D, works as a bank teller and has one other child. His current medications include atorvastatin 20 mg
