The Role of Parents in the Care of Children with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: child, health, parent, healthcare, parents, care, clinician, visit, adult, parenting, information, clinic, medical, clinicians, family


be successful. DETERMINANTS OF CLINICAL BEHAVIOR Psychologists have identified two basic dimensions of clinician behavior during a clinic visit. 1. Control - For most clinician's this is the dominant form of behavior, such as frequent interruptions or a louder voice often used to: a. Obtain “pertinent information.” b. Control the direction and tempo of the interview; and c. Stay within the time allocated for the visit. 2. Affiliation - This behavior reflects friendliness and psychosocial orientation (e.g., showing concern, smiling, offering help). It comes as no surprise that there is a positive association between a clinician’s affiliative behavior and parental perception. But what about clinicians who focus on control? Studies of clinician speech complexity and interruptions have shown that interrupting behavior is negatively associated with recall of medical information and parental satisfaction, especially when used by male clinicians, and that parents report lower satisfaction when clinicians employ more complex language ( 7 ). Some forms of interruption, however, may be perceived as positive, such as when clinicians employ them to enhance understanding, provide assistance, communicate support, or ask for clarification. Here are some examples: “Pardon me for interrupting, [respect] but I want to be clear on what you just shared with me.” [interest, asking for clarification] “I can understand how difficult it must be talking about the loss of your husband. [empathy] If you would like, we can talk about this later”. [concern, compassion] EFFECTIVE CLINICIAN COMMUNICATION Communication during a clinic visit is often facilitated by asking the parents open-ended questions, such as the following. What concerns, if any, do you have about your child’s cholesterol? What has been your experience with medications to lower cholesterol? How would you feel about treating your child with medication to lower his/her cholesterol? During follow-up clinic visits, it is often informative to ask children and parents to share what they have learned about their condition at previous visits. For example, ask the child or parent: 1. What they remember about their last clinic visit. 2. To explain their understanding of cholesterol and triglycerides, and what effects high levels may have on their health. 3. What medication the child is taking and the proper way to take it. 4. The likelihood early treatment can prevent heart disease in adulthood. Another way to assess understanding is to ask the child or parent to explain the child’s medical condition and need for medication and monitoring to
