The Role of Parents in the Care of Children with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: child, health, parent, healthcare, parents, care, clinician, visit, adult, parenting, information, clinic, medical, clinicians, family


prevent heart disease in adulthood. Another way to assess understanding is to ask the child or parent to explain the child’s medical condition and need for medication and monitoring to a medical student or resident present during the clinic visit. Some children and parents may be more comfortable answering theoretical questions or discussing 3 rd person examples. For example, you may ask a parent: “Before we talk about your son, John, today, I would appreciate your advice. I saw a 10-year-old boy this morning whose 42-year-old father recently survived a heart attack. Like his father, the son has a very high blood cholesterol level. Having experienced something similar in your family, do you have any advice as to how I can best help this family? What do you feel would be the mother’s main concerns and how should they be addressed?” TRANSITIONAL CARE As they become young adults, the roles and responsibilities of the child verses those of the parents change, necessitating a change by the treating physician. Children are considered adults when they are 18 years-of-age and older. Unless declared incompetent, they have the legal right to make medical decisions for themselves. At 18, health care providers and clinic staff are not legally permitted to disclose a young adult’s medical information or discuss his/her health status or treatment with anyone - even the parent - although the young adult may still be covered by their parent’s health insurance plan. Thus, at 18, it is the responsibility of the young adult to decide who can be involved in and have information pertaining to their care, as well as whether they consent to treatment. According to the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which expanded health care coverage up to 26 years-of-age, as the primary insurance policy holder, a parent may receive a detailed explanation of benefits (EOB) from private insurers, which includes what doctor(s) the young adult visited, what type(s) of procedure(s) took place, and if specimens were sent to a lab for analysis ( 8 ). Therefore, one of the unintended consequences of the ACA is that it provides parents access to their adult child’s health information, if that child is still using their parents’ health insurance, which could inherently violate a young adult’s privacy. Information related to sexual or mental health are sensitive topics in many families, and revealing a young adult’s information regarding sexual or mental healthcare could cause
