The Role of Parents in the Care of Children with Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: child, health, parent, healthcare, parents, care, clinician, visit, adult, parenting, information, clinic, medical, clinicians, family


a young adult’s privacy. Information related to sexual or mental health are sensitive topics in many families, and revealing a young adult’s information regarding sexual or mental healthcare could cause relational issues within a family ( 9 ). When planning transition into adult health care, it is helpful to review the family’s knowledge of the child’s diagnosis, key findings (e.g., pre- and post-treatment test results, pertinent family history, treatment goals, and risk enhancers such as lipoprotein(a) and genetic test results), reproductive health, family planning, and genetic transmission. Provide recommendations for appropriate future healthcare, discuss how long prescription refills will be available, and review how to access healthcare records. Discuss the importance of timely follow-up, healthcare costs, health insurance, and legal responsibilities and restrictions. Suggest the young adult/parent investigate the potential benefits of: HIPAA waiver - Granting the parents (or another trusted adult) access to their records; and their health care provider permission to talk with the parents and other health care providers about their care. Medical power of attorney - Appoint an individual to make health care decisions on their behalf should they become incapacitated due to serious injury or illness. Durable power of attorney - Enables the parent to handle their child’s financial affairs if they were to become incapacitated. Living will - Specifies personal choices about life-extending medical treatment in the event that a person cannot communicate their wishes themselves. CONCLUSION In partnering with parents, clinicians should always strive to treat them with dignity and respect. Listen to their point of view and consider the family’s values, beliefs, and cultural background when discussing your recommendations, and respect their choices. When sharing information, explain all options, treatments, and results in an informative, unbiased, and timely manner. Encourage and empower the parents to participate in all decisions regarding their child and prepare the young adult to do so in the future. Ultimately, by including parents in their child’s care, clinicians can equip children and their families to optimally manage their chronic medical condition both now and in the future. REFERENCES 1. Tates K, Meeuwesen L. Doctor–parent–child communication. A (re)view of the literature. Soc Sci Med. 2001;52(6):839-851. doi:10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00193-3 [ PubMed : 11234859 ] [ CrossRef ] 2. Andermann A. Taking action on the social determinants of health in clinical practice: a framework for health professionals. CMAJ. 2016;188(17-18):E474-E483. doi:10.1503/cmaj.160177 [ PMC free article : PMC5135524 ] [ PubMed : 27503870 ] [
