NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, liver, steroids, anabolic, jaundice, year, developed, old, year old, anabolic steroids, hepatic, months, bilirubin


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Androgenic Steroids. [Updated 2020 May 30]. Bookshelf URL: Androgenic Steroids Updated: May 30, 2020. OVERVIEW Introduction Androgenic steroids are used for male sex hormone replacement and in the therapy of malignancies. Th e androgens also have anabolic effects and are used in catabolic or muscle wasting states. In addition, the synthetic anabolic steroids are now widely used illicitly for exercise and athletic performance enhancement. Many synthetic androgenic steroids are capable of causing cholestatic liver injury and long term use of androgens is associated with development of liver tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatic adenoma and vascular changes (peliosis hepatis). Background Testosterone is the major male sex hormone and is produced by the male testes in men and to a lesser extent by the adrenal glands in both men and women. Unmodified testosterone is not orally available, so it must be given intramuscularly, sublingually or by transcutaneous patch. Modifications of testosterone have been developed that are more bioavailable or have a longer duration of action. Modification by C-17β esterification (testosterone cypionate, enanthate and propionate) maintains the virilizing effects of testosterone, but increases potency and duration of action. Alkylation of the C-17α position of testosterone allows for oral administration by inhibiting metabolic deactivation in the liver and often alters the relative anabolic potency in relation to the masculinizing effects. The C-17 alkylated testosterones include methyltestosterone (meth" il tes tos' ter one), methandrostenolone (meth an" droe stene' oh lone), oxymetholone (ox" i meth' oh lone), danazol (dan' a zol), epistane (ep is tane’), fluoxymesterone (floo ox" i mes' ter one), stanozolol (stan oh' zoe lol), norethandrolone (nor eth' an droe lone), and oxandrolone (ox an' droe lone), and have been extensively evaluated as a means of increasing weight gain and muscle development in catabolic states as well as to improve athletic performance. They have also been used to treat aplastic anemia and bone marrow failure of several causes. They are often well tolerated and have limited virilizing activity. However, the C-17α alkylated androgenic steroids have all been implicated in cases of liver injury, including prolonged cholestasis, peliosis hepatis, nodular regeneration, hepatic adenomas and hepatocellular carcinoma. In contrast, the C-17β esterified testosterones have only rarely been implicated in causing cholestasis, although their long term use may increase the risk of hepatic tumors and nodular transformation, but seemingly at a
