NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, liver, steroids, anabolic, jaundice, year, developed, old, year old, anabolic steroids, hepatic, months, bilirubin


C-17β esterified testosterones have only rarely been implicated in causing cholestasis, although their long term use may increase the risk of hepatic tumors and nodular transformation, but seemingly at a much lower rate than the 17α alkylated testosterones. Currently approved uses of androgenic steroids include androgen deficiency, delayed puberty, breast cancer, postpartum breast engorgement, hereditary angioneurotic edema, endometriosis and fibrocystic breast disease. Th e androgenic steroids are also used off label and illegally as a means of increasing muscle mass and athletic performance. The abuse of anabolic steroids is particularly common among body builders and young male Recently, anabolic steroids have been found in some nutritional supplements available over-the-counter or via 2 LiverTox the internet which are advertised as increasing a sense of wellbeing and muscle mass or as an aid to body building. Hepatotoxicity Androgenic and anabolic steroids have been implicated in four distinct forms of liver injury: transient serum enzyme elevations, an acute cholestatic syndrome (“bland cholestasis”), chronic vascular injury to the liver (peliosis hepatis) and hepatic tumors including adenomas and hepatocellular carcinoma. These adverse events have been most closely linked with the C-17α alkylated testosterones, although tumors have also been associated with unmodified and esterified testosterone preparations. Use of androgenic steroids is associated with a variable rate of serum enzyme elevations which are usually asymptomatic and self-limited. Such elevations have been most closely linked to danazol and oxymetholone, but are usually transient and do not require dose adjustment or discontinuation. More importantly, therapy with anabolic steroids is linked to a distinctive form of acute cholestasis often referred to as “bland cholestasis”. The liver injury generally arises within 1 to 4 months of starting therapy, but may be delayed to as long as 6 to 24 months (Case 1). The onset is usually insidious with development of nausea, fatigue and itching followed by dark urine and jaundice. Jaundice and pruritus can be prolonged even if the anabolic steroids are discontinued promptly. Typically, serum enzyme elevations are quite modest, with ALT and alkaline phosphatase levels that are less than 2 to 3 times elevated and that are sometimes normal despite deep jaundice. Serum ALT levels may be somewhat high early during injury, but then fall to moderate or low levels. Liver biopsy typically shows a bland cholestasis with minimal inflammation and hepatocellular necrosis. Bile duct injury is typically absent or mild and vanishing bile duct syndrome rarely ensues. The
