NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, liver, steroids, anabolic, jaundice, year, developed, old, year old, anabolic steroids, hepatic, months, bilirubin


no history of liver disease or risk factors for viral hepatitis and took no other medications. On examination, he was muscular and physically fit but deeply jaundiced. He had an enlarged liver but no rash, fever or splenomegaly. Laboratory testing showed a total serum bilirubin of 53 mg/dL, but only modest elevations in serum aminotransferase and a normal alkaline phosphatase level (Table). His prothrombin time was normal. Tests for hepatitis A, B and C were negative. Abdominal ultrasound showed no evidence of biliary obstruction. Liver biopsy was not done. He was treated symptomatically for pruritus with antihistamines, cholestyramine and ursodiol. His jaundice gradually improved and pruritus waned. Six months after the onset of jaundice, he was asymptomatic, had regained most of his weight loss (40 pounds), serum bilirubin was 1.5 mg/dL and serum enzymes were normal. Key Points Medication: Anabolic steroids (nandrolone, stanozolol) Pattern: Bland cholestasis Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 16 months Recovery: 0.6 months Other medications: Various herbal products and dietary supplements Laboratory Values Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Comments Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/L) Anabolic agent use for ~1.5 years 6 weeks 237 129 21 8 weeks 90 121 53 10 weeks 203 91 51 Ursodiol started 12 weeks 119 81 22 14 weeks 116 67 8 4 months 58 50 4 5 months 33 75 1.5 Asymptomatic Normal Values <56 <139 <1.2 Comment A very typical case of severe cholestasis due to anabolic steroid use. Because the steroids were being used without medical supervision, the dose and actual duration of use of each preparation was unclear, but cholestasis usually arises within 4 to 12 weeks of starting a C-17 alkylated androgenic steroid. The jaundice can be severe and Androgenic Steroids 5 prolonged and accompanied by severe pruritus and marked weight loss. The serum enzymes are typically minimally elevated except for a short period immediately after stopping therapy. The pattern of enzyme elevations can be hepatocellular, cholestatic or mixed. Liver biopsy reveals a “bland” cholestasis with minimal inflammation and hepatocellular necrosis. Ma Huang has also been implicated in cases of drug induced liver injury, but is associated with an acute hepatocellular pattern of injury. PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Danazol – Generic, Fluoxymesterone – Androxy®, Methandienone – Dianabol® Methenolone – Primobolan®, Nibal® Methyltestosterone – Generic, Android®, Methitest®, Testred® Nandrolone – Generic, Deca-Durabolin® Norethandrolone – Generic, Nilevar®, Pribabol® Oxandrolone – Generic, Oxandrin® Oxymetholone – Anadrol® Stanozolol – Winstrol®
