Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


1 Recommendations 1.1 Ivabradine is recommended as an option for treating chronic heart failure for people: • with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class 2 to 4 stable chronic heart failure with systolic dysfunction and • who are in sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 75 beats per minute (bpm) or more and • who are given ivabradine in combination with standard therapy including beta-blocker therapy, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and aldosterone antagonists, or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated and • with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less. 1.2 Ivabradine should only be initiated after a stabilisation period of 4 weeks on optimised standard therapy with ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists. 1.3 Ivabradine should be initiated by a heart failure specialist with access to a multidisciplinary heart failure team. Dose titration and monitoring should be carried out by a heart failure specialist, or in primary care by either a GP with a special interest in heart failure or a heart failure specialist nurse. 2 The technology 2.1 Ivabradine (Procoralan, Servier Laboratories) is a heart-rate-lowering agent that selectively and specifically inhibits the cardiac pacemaker If current, which controls the spontaneous diastolic depolarisation in the sinus node that regulates the heart rate. Ivabradine is 'indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA class 2 to 4 with systolic dysfunction, in patients in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is 75 bpm or higher, in combination with standard therapy including beta-blocker therapy or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated'. Ivabradine is administered orally at a recommended starting dose of 5 mg twice daily. This dose may be increased after 2 weeks of treatment to 7.5 mg twice daily if the resting heart rate is above 60 bpm, or decreased to 2.5 mg (half of the 5 mg tablet) twice daily if the resting heart rate is below 50 bpm. For full details of dosage see the summary of product characteristics. 2.2 The summary of product characteristics lists the following adverse reactions for ivabradine: luminous phenomena (phosphenes), bradycardia, atrioventricular first degree, ventricular extrasystoles, blurred vision, headache, dizziness and uncontrolled blood pressure. For full details of adverse reactions and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 2.3 Ivabradine is available in 5 mg and 7.5 mg tablets at a net price of £40.17 per 56-tablet pack (excluding VAT; BNF edition 63). The manufacturer's submission quoted an average
