Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


Ivabradine is available in 5 mg and 7.5 mg tablets at a net price of £40.17 per 56-tablet pack (excluding VAT; BNF edition 63). The manufacturer's submission quoted an average monthly cost of £42.10 (excluding VAT) based on the proportion of patients using 2.5 mg (7%) and either 5 mg or 7.5 mg (93%) in the SHIFT study (see section 3.1). Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 The manufacturer's submission The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by the manufacturer of ivabradine and a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG). 3.1 The manufacturer conducted a systematic literature search and identified only 1 randomised controlled trial that assessed the effect of ivabradine in people with heart failure, known as SHIFT (systolic heart failure treatment with the If inhibitor ivabradine trial). SHIFT was an international, multicentre, randomised, double- blind, placebo-controlled trial comparing ivabradine with placebo for the treatment of moderate to severe heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction. The trial was carried out in 625 centres in 37 countries and lasted from 12 to 36 months in the active double-blind treatment period, extended to a maximum duration of 52 months. The clinical-effectiveness evidence presented in the manufacturer's submission was based on this trial alone, but results were also provided for the SHIFT patient-reported outcomes (SHIFT-PRO) study. SHIFT-PRO was carried out to evaluate the effects of ivabradine compared with placebo on health-related quality of life in a representative sample of the main trial population. 3.2 Patients with symptomatic heart failure with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or lower who were in sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 70 bpm or more and were receiving stable background treatment for heart failure were considered eligible for participation in SHIFT. After screening, 6,505 patients were randomised to receive either ivabradine or placebo in addition to ongoing optimal therapy (standard care) for heart failure (as assessed by the investigator responsible for the patient). All patients received 5 mg of ivabradine or matching placebo twice daily at day 0. This dose was maintained, or increased to 7.5 mg twice daily or reduced to 2.5 mg twice daily depending on resting heart rate and tolerability. All analyses were based on intention to treat even though a total of 1,190 patients died, withdrew consent or were lost to follow-up. 3.3 The trial groups in SHIFT were well
