Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


analyses were based on intention to treat even though a total of 1,190 patients died, withdrew consent or were lost to follow-up. 3.3 The trial groups in SHIFT were well balanced in patient baseline characteristics. The mean age was 60.4 years, 76% of the patients were men and mostly white. Mean heart rate was 79.9 bpm and mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 29%. Heart failure was ischaemic in 68% of the patients and patients were equally distributed between NYHA class 2, 3 or 4. Alcohol consumption and smoking status were also similar between the trial groups, with less than 20% of the patients being current smokers in both groups. The background therapies were also similar in both arms (ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers: 91%; diuretics: 84%; beta-blockers: 89%; aldosterone antagonists: 61% and cardiac devices [implantable cardioverter defibrillators: 3% and cardiac resynchronisation therapy: 1%]). 3.4 Subgroups were predefined in terms of age, sex, beta-blocker intake at randomisation, primary cause of heart failure, NYHA class, presence of diabetes, presence of hypertension and heart rate above and below the median of 77 bpm. The manufacturer stated in its submission that another subgroup was identified after the committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use recommended identifying the heart rate threshold at which there is a statistically significant mortality benefit. This subgroup consisted of people with a baseline heart rate of 75 bpm or more (n=4,150) and was identified post hoc. Data from this subgroup were used to identify the population to be covered by the marketing authorisation. The manufacturer's economic model was also based on this post hoc subgroup. Other post hoc subgroups identified were based on age (75 years or older and 70 years or older). 3.5 The baseline characteristics of the subgroup with a baseline heart rate of 75 bpm or more (the population covered by the marketing authorisation) were similar to the main trial population. The mean age for this subgroup was 59.6 years and, like the main trial population, they were mostly men (77%) and mostly white. There were no baseline differences between the treatment groups in this population including mean heart rate (84.5 bpm) and distribution of NYHA class. The background therapies received were also similar to the main trial population for both treatment groups (ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers: 90%; diuretics: 84%; beta-blockers: 88%; aldosterone antagonists: 62% and cardiac devices). 3.6 The primary outcome in
