Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


the main trial population for both treatment groups (ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers: 90%; diuretics: 84%; beta-blockers: 88%; aldosterone antagonists: 62% and cardiac devices). 3.6 The primary outcome in the SHIFT main trial population was a composite endpoint of first event of cardiovascular death or hospital admission for worsening heart failure. This was carried out using a survival analysis based on time-to-first event estimated by the Kaplan–Meier method. Secondary and other efficacy outcomes included mortality, hospital admission, change in heart rate, change in NYHA class, change in global assessment of heart failure symptoms and efficacy in patients aged 70 years or older (post hoc analysis in the main trial population). 3.7 In the SHIFT-PRO study (n=5,038), which studied a subset of the main SHIFT population, health-related quality of life was estimated using the EuroQol-5 dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaire and 'Kansas City cardiomyopathy questionnaire' (KCCQ). Analysis in this study was also performed according to the same predefined subgroups specified in the main trial population, with the exception of presence of diabetes and hypertension. An additional subgroup was specified according to whether or not patients had received at least half the target dose of beta-blockers at randomisation. The manufacturer's submission noted that there were no relevant differences in baseline demographics and disease characteristics among the main trial population, the population covered by the marketing authorisation and the population in the SHIFT-PRO study. Main SHIFT population 3.8 In the main trial population, the primary outcome of first event of cardiovascular death or hospital admission for worsening heart failure was analysed using a Cox proportional hazards model adjusted for beta-blocker intake at randomisation. The hazard ratio (HR) estimate was 0.82; (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.75 to 0.90, p<0.0001), representing a statistically significant relative risk reduction of 18% for ivabradine compared with placebo. This composite endpoint was driven more by the rate of hospital admission for worsening heart failure (HR 0.74; 95% CI 0.66 to 0.83) than by the rate of cardiovascular death (HR 0.91; 95% CI 0.80 to 1.03) because people are often admitted to hospital before they die. 3.9 Further analysis was carried out by the manufacturer to assess the impact of baseline beta-blocker dose on the efficacy of ivabradine in the main SHIFT population. For the primary composite endpoint, the relative effects of ivabradine compared with placebo for the 5 categories of beta-blocker intake were: • HR 0.71; 95% CI 0.55 to
