Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


for the population covered by the marketing authorisation. The KCCQ disease-specific measure was also used and it showed a statistically significant difference of 2.6 (95% CI 0.7 to 4.5, p=0.008) for ivabradine compared with placebo for the 12-month analysis, which was also similar to the main analysis and the analysis of surviving patients. 3.15 The safety population (n=6,492 main trial cohort; n=4,141 population covered by the marketing authorisation) was the population who received at least 1 dose of any study treatment. The adverse events that occurred on treatment (between the first study drug intake and last intake plus 2 days) were analysed in this safety population. The following adverse events occurred more frequently with ivabradine than with placebo in the population covered by the marketing authorisation: symptomatic bradycardia (4.1% and 0.7% respectively), atrial fibrillation (7.9% and 6.8% respectively) and phosphenes (2.8% and 0.5% respectively). There were similar results for the main trial population. However, other serious adverse events and fatal events were higher in the placebo group in the 2 populations. The manufacturer noted that the tolerability of ivabradine was not affected by baseline heart rate because there were no differences in the adverse events leading to withdrawal between the main trial population and the population covered by the marketing authorisation. 3.16 After a request from the ERG during the clarification stage, the manufacturer provided the absolute numbers for the primary composite outcome and key secondary outcomes for the subgroups of the population covered by the marketing authorisation according to their beta-blocker category, age and NYHA class (details of the analyses are in section 3.22). The manufacturer also provided separate scenario analyses of the impact of using a regression model for NYHA progression adjusted for patient baseline characteristics, using updated standard care drug costs and different assumptions for modelling mortality. In addition, the manufacturer provided details of the patients who experienced symptomatic bradycardia and atrial fibrillation, and follow-up data on the reduction in heart rate at various time points for the population covered by the marketing authorisation. Evidence review group comments – population covered by the marketing authorisation 3.17 The ERG stated that the literature search conducted by the manufacturer was appropriate, all relevant studies had been identified and that SHIFT, on which the manufacturer's submission was based, was relevant to the decision problem in its analysis. The ERG was satisfied that SHIFT was a well-designed randomised controlled trial with
