Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


SHIFT, on which the manufacturer's submission was based, was relevant to the decision problem in its analysis. The ERG was satisfied that SHIFT was a well-designed randomised controlled trial with a robust method of randomisation. However, it highlighted that only 12 patients (0.2%) in the study were recruited from the UK, but noted the manufacturer's comment about the difficulties gaining study approval in the UK. The ERG also stated that the low UK patient numbers may have resulted from the difficulty in identifying eligible patients if patients were attending heart failure centres and had good titration of beta-blocker therapy. It also noted that the population covered by the marketing authorisation was younger, included a higher proportion of men and patients with more severe heart failure than a typical UK heart failure patient population, but it recognised that the baseline characteristics of the population covered by the marketing authorisation were similar to those reported for other key heart failure studies. However, the ERG considered that the results of SHIFT were robust and generalisable to a UK population because there was evidence to suggest that the patients in the trial received standard treatments. 3.18 The ERG noted that the clinical-effectiveness evidence for ivabradine was based on a post hoc subgroup of patients with a resting heart rate of 75 bpm or more without prior stratification based on resting heart rate, but in line with ivabradine's marketing authorisation. Therefore, it considered that the evidence presented should be interpreted with a level of caution because there is likely to be an imbalance between the groups in terms of heart rate and potential unknown confounders. However, the ERG acknowledged that the baseline characteristics were well balanced between the treatment groups in the main trial population and the population covered by the marketing authorisation. 3.19 The ERG was aware that only approximately 26% of the main trial population and the population covered by the marketing authorisation were each treated with the recommended target dose of beta-blocker, and 55.4% of the trial population covered by the marketing authorisation were treated with 50% or more of the recommended dose of beta-blocker despite the recommendations in the SHIFT protocol. It was concerned that the patients who were not treated with the target dose of beta-blocker may not have been optimally treated. The ERG also noted the low use of cardiac devices in SHIFT and considered that this could have
