Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


also explored the efficacy of ivabradine according to NYHA class and in patients aged 70 years or older. It noted that the analysis in the NYHA class 4 subgroup was based on small numbers, creating uncertainty about the benefit of ivabradine observed in this subgroup. Because the input data used in the exploratory analyses were marked as academic-in-confidence by the manufacturer, the results have also been marked as confidential and so cannot be shown here. However, the ERG emphasised that these analyses are speculative and based on subgroups of subgroups and should be interpreted with caution. Cost-effectiveness evidence 3.23 In a systematic review of the literature, the manufacturer did not identify any study on the cost effectiveness of ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure. No cost-effectiveness data were presented for the main SHIFT population, and so the economic evaluation carried out by the manufacturer was based only on the post hoc subgroup of patients from SHIFT with a baseline heart rate of 75 bpm or more. The manufacturer stated that this subgroup reflected the marketing authorisation for ivabradine; that is, people with chronic heart failure NYHA class 2 to 4 with systolic dysfunction, in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is 75 bpm or more, who are being treated with ivabradine in combination with standard therapy including beta-blockers, or for whom beta-blockers are contraindicated or not tolerated. 3.24 The manufacturer developed a Markov cohort model consisting of 2 states (alive and dead). The difference in quality of life of patients was captured according to NYHA class in the 'alive' state of the model without modelling the NYHA classes as separate health states. The model has a lifetime time horizon consisting of monthly cycles, includes a half-cycle correction, and both costs and benefits were discounted at 3.5%. The analysis was performed from the perspective of the NHS and personal social services. Standard care was modelled in line with SHIFT because the use of heart failure medications in the trial was higher than current standard care treatment patterns in the UK. The regression equations for mortality, NYHA class distribution, hospital admission and quality of life used in the analysis were based on data from the entire SHIFT cohort rather than developing risk equations based solely on the population covered by the marketing authorisation. This was to avoid breaking randomisation and reducing the predictive power of the risk equations because of smaller sample
