Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


equations based solely on the population covered by the marketing authorisation. This was to avoid breaking randomisation and reducing the predictive power of the risk equations because of smaller sample size. However, the risk equations for mortality, hospital admission and quality of life were adjusted for baseline heart rate to predict estimates for the population covered by the marketing authorisation with a heart rate of 75 bpm or more. 3.25 The manufacturer estimated the risk of non-cardiovascular death based on age- adjusted and sex-adjusted UK national life table data from the Office for National Statistics rather than SHIFT data because it provided a larger, UK-specific data source. This risk was assumed to be the same across treatment groups and no treatment effect was modelled for this endpoint. The risk of cardiovascular mortality (both heart failure and other non-heart-failure cardiovascular death) for the within-trial period was estimated using a Gompertz parametric survival regression model based on the full SHIFT cohort in the base-case analysis. Survival models based on exponential and Weibull parametric distributions, and as Kaplan–Meier data were included as part of the sensitivity analyses. The cardiovascular mortality risk equation was estimated adjusting for a series of baseline patient characteristics (including age, sex, NYHA class, heart failure duration, body mass index, medical history, baseline use of heart failure medications) to generate different estimates of mortality. The Gompertz distribution was also used to extrapolate cardiovascular mortality beyond the trial period. Mortality was approximately 17% in the standard care group of SHIFT. Because of the uncertainty generated by using a small proportion to extrapolate mortality for the rest of the cohort, the manufacturer considered mortality data from an external data source (CARE-HF data; Cleland 2010) in the sensitivity analyses. The extrapolation assumed that 50% of the cohort would have died after 2,000 days (65 months). 3.26 The distribution of patients in each NYHA class over time was estimated from a generalised ordered regression (a proportional odds model) developed from SHIFT data. It predicted the distribution of NYHA class adjusting for treatment and time covariates but not patient baseline characteristics. By the third year the proportion of patients in class 3 and 4 reduced from 40.2% to 36.9% in the ivabradine arm and from 44% to 40.6% in the standard care arm, whereas those in class 2 increased from 58.4% to 61.4% and from 54.9% to 58.1% in the ivabradine arm and standard care
