Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


44% to 40.6% in the standard care arm, whereas those in class 2 increased from 58.4% to 61.4% and from 54.9% to 58.1% in the ivabradine arm and standard care arm respectively. Because of the lack of any evidence to predict the distribution of patients by NYHA class beyond the trial period, the model assumed that the proportions remained fixed after the trial based on the last observation in the trial at 29 months (although the absolute numbers in each category were expected to vary according to the number of patients alive). 3.27 The rate of heart failure, cardiovascular and all-cause hospital admission per person month was estimated using a Poisson regression model based on the entire SHIFT cohort and converted into a monthly transition probability in the economic model. The hospital admission endpoints were modelled separately to capture the appropriate resource use for each admission type and to permit sensitivity analysis on the treatment effect of ivabradine. However, the base-case analysis was based on all-cause hospital admission. Admission to hospital after the trial was modelled to be equivalent to the within-trial period and assumed to occur at a constant rate throughout the model irrespective of the ageing population. 3.28 The treatment effect of ivabradine on cardiovascular mortality (including heart failure death) compared with placebo was estimated as a hazard ratio of 0.90 (95% CI 0.80 to 1.03) from the parametric model to the underlying mortality risk in the standard care group. It was assumed that the treatment effect of ivabradine continues after the trial and is equivalent to that seen in SHIFT. To support this assumption, the manufacturer highlighted that the heart-rate-lowering effect of ivabradine was shown to be maintained throughout SHIFT and also over a 7-year study period for ivabradine in patients with angina. The treatment effect of ivabradine on the rate of admissions to hospital was estimated using a rate ratio of 0.83 (95% CI 0.78 to 0.93) derived from the Poisson regression model. The treatment effect was modelled on all-cause admission because cardiovascular and heart failure admissions were assumed to be implicitly captured in all-cause admission and ivabradine was shown to have a statistically significant effect on all-cause admission in the main trial and populations covered by the marketing authorisation. The length of stay associated with hospital admission was estimated using external data based on expert clinical advice. In the base-case model, the average length of
