Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


by the marketing authorisation. The length of stay associated with hospital admission was estimated using external data based on expert clinical advice. In the base-case model, the average length of stay was varied according to diagnosis on hospital admission (heart failure: 7.57 days, other cardiovascular: 3.97 days and non- cardiovascular: 5.13 days) and was based on a weighted average of elective and non-elective NHS reference cost data. 3.29 The utility values used in the model were derived from the SHIFT-PRO study, in which health-related quality of life was captured with the EQ-5D questionnaire. EQ-5D index scores were calculated using UK population tariff values and then analysed using a mixed regression model. Quality of life was modelled to reflect patients' baseline characteristics, severity of the disease over time by NYHA class, rate of hospital admission (which includes serious adverse events) and treatment group. The resulting utility scores by NYHA class without any hospital admission ranged from 0.82 in class 1 to 0.46 in class 4. Decrease in quality of life because of hospital admission was estimated as decreases in utility of 0.07, 0.03, 0.08 and 0.21 for NYHA class 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively. The effect of ivabradine on quality of life was modelled and showed a small utility increase in the ivabradine group compared with the baseline estimates used for the placebo (standard care) group. Treatment-related adverse events were assumed not to have any measurable impact on quality of life and the manufacturer indicated that they had been captured by the treatment covariate in the regression model. Quality of life was assumed to remain the same for each NYHA class in the post- trial period and in the base case and the model estimates were not based on an ageing population. This implies that the utility values for the patients in later cycles were higher than they should be and this was assumed to have favoured ivabradine because additional survival time was associated with greater quality- adjusted life year (QALY) benefits. In the sensitivity analysis, quality of life was adjusted for the increasing age of the modelled cohort by resetting the baseline age for each cycle. 3.30 The average monthly cost of ivabradine (£42.10; excluding VAT) used in the model was estimated according to the proportion of patients who received 2.5 mg (7%) and either 5 mg or 7.5 mg (93%) in the SHIFT study. The 5 mg and
