Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


model was estimated according to the proportion of patients who received 2.5 mg (7%) and either 5 mg or 7.5 mg (93%) in the SHIFT study. The 5 mg and 7.5 mg tablets cost £40.17 per 56-tablet pack (excluding VAT; BNF 63), and the price of the 2.5 mg dose was assumed to be half the price of the 5 mg tablet. Average monthly standard care costs (£9.54) were estimated according to the proportion of patients using each standard care medication in SHIFT. The unit costs of the standard care drugs used such as beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, diuretics, aldosterone antagonists, angiotensin receptor blockers and cardiac glycosides were also taken from the BNF. The manufacturer assumed that there were no extra costs in administering ivabradine and the standard care drugs. However, additional costs were included for ivabradine therapy titration (1 specialist visit) and an electrocardiogram (ECG). This increased the total monthly cost in the ivabradine group from £52 to £202 for the first month. 3.31 The hospital admission costs used in the model were estimated using the NHS reference costs for heart failure admissions (general ward: £2,308 and cardiac ward: £3,295), cardiovascular admissions (general ward: £1,942 and cardiac ward: £1,730) and non-cardiovascular admissions (general ward: £2,644). It was assumed that there was an equal probability of being in a general ward or a cardiac ward. Serious adverse events were captured using these hospital admission endpoints, but non-serious adverse events were not included. The monthly cost of managing heart failure, including physician visits, outpatient procedures and diagnostic tests, was estimated to be £27 from British Heart Foundation statistics. 3.32 The base-case results of the economic analysis, which was based on the population covered by the marketing authorisation, was estimated by applying individual patient profiles from SHIFT to the risk equations sequentially, 1 at a time. It showed that the incremental costs and incremental QALYs gained from treating chronic heart failure with ivabradine plus standard care compared with standard care alone were £2,376 and 0.28 QALYs respectively. This gave an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £8,498 per QALY gained. 3.33 The manufacturer highlighted that the deterministic, probabilistic and structural sensitivity analyses were performed using average covariate values in the regression equations to shorten analysis time and that this may have caused some loss in accuracy in the ICER estimates. The base-case ICER using this method was £7,743 per QALY gained. The one-way deterministic
