Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


analysis time and that this may have caused some loss in accuracy in the ICER estimates. The base-case ICER using this method was £7,743 per QALY gained. The one-way deterministic sensitivity analyses were performed on several model parameters using their 95% confidence intervals. The cost-effectiveness result was most sensitive to changes in cardiovascular mortality risk, with the resulting ICERs ranging from £5,655 to £40,638 per QALY gained. The base-case ICER also showed some sensitivity to changes in the rate of hospital admission (£6,384 to £10,424 per QALY gained) and treatment effect of ivabradine on quality of life (£6,283 to £9,253 per QALY gained). Changes in hospital length of stay and ivabradine treatment effect on NYHA class had much less impact on the ICER, £6,938 to £8,549 and £7,232 to £8,349 per QALY gained respectively. 3.34 The manufacturer's probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that ivabradine plus standard care would have a more than 95% chance of being cost effective compared with standard care alone if the maximum acceptable ICER was £20,000 per QALY gained. 3.35 The manufacturer carried out different scenario analyses to manage uncertainties about some of the assumptions in the base-case model. The scenario analyses explored the effect on the ICER of: varying the treatment duration of ivabradine; ivabradine's treatment effect stopping after 5 and 10 years; using alternative models to estimate the risk of cardiovascular mortality; increasing the median length of hospital stay based on the 'National heart failure audit' data; and excluding the costs of the titration visit and the ECG. The manufacturer also carried out other scenario analyses, including: using a within-trial time horizon; using external data to extrapolate cardiovascular mortality and utility values; including age-adjusted utility values; and assuming a 5% change in the distribution of NYHA classes (from 1 to 2, from 2 to 3, and from 3 to 4) in the post-trial period. After a clarification request, the manufacturer also provided a scenario analysis in which a new regression equation was developed to predict NYHA class distribution. This was adjusted for treatment, time covariates and patient baseline characteristics, and drug prices were updated to those in BNF 63. These scenario analyses all gave ICERs below £9,000 per QALY gained except for the assumptions of the treatment effect of ivabradine stopping after 5 and 10 years and using the within-trial time horizon, which gave ICERs ranging from £13,964 to £15,200 per QALY gained. 3.36 The
