Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


the treatment effect of ivabradine stopping after 5 and 10 years and using the within-trial time horizon, which gave ICERs ranging from £13,964 to £15,200 per QALY gained. 3.36 The manufacturer carried out several subgroup analyses based on individual patient characteristics from the population covered by the marketing authorisation. These subgroups were based on age, NYHA class, beta-blocker doses, heart failure duration, level of left ventricular ejection fraction, and prior medical history (coronary artery disease and diabetes). The results showed that ivabradine plus standard care was still cost effective when compared with standard care alone. The estimated ICERs for the subgroups were all below £11,000 per QALY gained and ranged from £5,197 to £10,427 per QALY gained. The manufacturer also carried out additional subgroup analyses based on a population representative of a UK chronic heart failure patient group. This population was specified as western European men with a median age of 78 years, receiving at least half the target dose of beta-blockers. The ICER generated for this subgroup was £8,735 per QALY gained, and the ICER for a UK chronic heart failure patient group taking the target dose of beta-blockers was £9,185 per QALY gained. Evidence review group comments 3.37 The ERG was satisfied with the manufacturer's modelling approach, which was transparent, used patient-level data and was consistent with other published economic studies on heart failure treatments. The ERG stated that the manufacturer did not carry out an analysis in a patient population with a disease severity reflective of the UK population. However, it agreed with the manufacturer that using values for patient characteristics beyond the SHIFT population range may generate unreliable results. The ERG was satisfied that the standard care treatments used in SHIFT and the economic model reflected UK clinical practice. 3.38 The ERG accepted the manufacturer's use of Office for National Statistics UK life tables to provide estimates of non-cardiovascular mortality in the base case because this is standard practice in heart failure cost-effectiveness analyses. However, it noted that the risk of non-cardiovascular mortality was higher in SHIFT than in the UK life tables. The ERG noted that there were some uncertainties associated with the regression analyses performed for cardiovascular and heart failure mortality, which limited the potential of ivabradine to reduce the risks of these 2 outcomes. The treatment effect of ivabradine in the regression analysis was not statistically significant for cardiovascular mortality (p=0.38) and was
