Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


potential of ivabradine to reduce the risks of these 2 outcomes. The treatment effect of ivabradine in the regression analysis was not statistically significant for cardiovascular mortality (p=0.38) and was borderline statistically significant (p=0.06) for heart failure mortality (although these results had been statistically significant for the population covered by the marketing authorisation only). By contrast, beta-blockers given at 50% or more of the target dose were associated with a statistically significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular mortality for ivabradine compared with placebo and beta-blockers at any dose were associated with a statistically significant reduction in the risk of heart failure mortality for ivabradine compared with placebo. Because baseline heart rate was adjusted for in the regression analysis, the ERG thought that the risk reduction of ivabradine and beta-blockers was in addition to the attenuating effect of heart rate. 3.39 The ERG indicated that the regression model for health-related quality of life in the manufacturer's submission was clinically plausible and the disutility associated with hospital admission was likely to have captured any serious impact of adverse events on quality of life because hospital admission would be the main consequence of serious adverse events. The ERG noted that the impact of age adjustment for health-related quality of life was minimal (it increased the ICER by £216 per QALY gained). Therefore, it accepted the exclusion of age adjustment from the base-case analysis because of the time needed to re-run each cycle to adjust for age throughout the model's time horizon. The ERG was satisfied with the costing approach taken by the manufacturer in the economic analysis. 3.40 The ERG considered that the manufacturer's base-case ICER of £8,498 per QALY gained (incremental costs of £2,376 and incremental QALYs of 0.28) was likely to represent the expected cost effectiveness of adding ivabradine to standard care, although the ERG believed it was biased against ivabradine. The ERG was satisfied with the manufacturer's pragmatic approach of conducting the sensitivity analyses using average patient characteristics because of the longer analysis time needed to use individual patient profiles for the base case. It indicated that the reduced level of accuracy with this method was unlikely to alter any conclusions drawn from the evidence presented. The ERG was particularly interested in the cost-effectiveness results for the subgroups of patients at different doses of beta-blockers. It noted that the ICERs for these subgroups and all other subgroups analysed remained
