Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


particularly interested in the cost-effectiveness results for the subgroups of patients at different doses of beta-blockers. It noted that the ICERs for these subgroups and all other subgroups analysed remained below £11,000 per QALY gained. However, the ERG noted that the regression equations used were based on the main trial population of SHIFT or the population covered by the marketing authorisation, rather than the particular subgroups of patients considered. It accepted that breaking randomisation and smaller patient numbers would compromise any analyses based on regression equations developed from subgroups. The ERG highlighted that the hazard ratios estimated from regression equations based on the main trial population of SHIFT or the population covered by the marketing authorisation may over (or under) estimate the effect of ivabradine treatment in particular patient populations. 3.41 Overall, the ERG considered the modelled results to be conservative because they underestimated the risk of cardiovascular mortality, the rate of hospital admission and the relative effect of treatment with ivabradine plus standard care compared with standard care alone. It stated that the sensitivity and subgroup analyses sufficiently addressed any areas of uncertainty. 3.42 Full details of all the evidence are in the manufacturer's submission and the ERG report. 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The appraisal committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of ivabradine, having considered evidence on the nature of chronic heart failure and the value placed on the benefits of ivabradine by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. Clinical effectiveness 4.2 The committee considered the clinical need for treatment in people with heart failure who are covered by the marketing authorisation of ivabradine. The committee noted that the clinical specialists indicated that ivabradine is primarily a heart-rate-lowering drug for people with left ventricular systolic dysfunction who are in sinus rhythm and for whom beta-blockers are not suitable. The committee heard from the clinical specialists that people with chronic heart failure have a poor quality of life. It also noted the comment from the patient experts that chronic heart failure can impact on everyday tasks, with comorbidities increasing the impact of the disease and usually requiring lifestyle changes. The patient experts also stated that ivabradine may provide symptomatic and prognostic benefit in a small number of chronic heart failure patients unable to take beta-blockers. The committee
