Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


lifestyle changes. The patient experts also stated that ivabradine may provide symptomatic and prognostic benefit in a small number of chronic heart failure patients unable to take beta-blockers. The committee considered the clinical specialists' comment that it may be difficult to increase beta-blocker dosage for people with low blood pressure, a group who would benefit from ivabradine. It noted that ivabradine is contraindicated in severe hypotension (less than 90/ 50 mmHg). The committee recognised the impact of chronic heart failure on quality of life and concluded that there were potential treatment benefits with ivabradine for people who are covered by the marketing authorisation. 4.3 The committee considered the generalisability of the SHIFT trial to UK clinical practice. The committee was aware that the population covered by the marketing authorisation in SHIFT was younger, included a higher proportion of men and people with more severe chronic heart failure than the typical chronic heart failure population in the UK. It also noted that only a few people from the UK were included in the trial and the use of cardiac devices in the trial was low. The clinical specialists and the ERG indicated that the differences in age and severity of chronic heart failure may be caused by patient recruitment from specialist heart failure centres, which is common with randomised trials. The committee considered the comments from the clinical specialists and the ERG that the results of the trial could be extrapolated to a UK setting because the standard therapies used in SHIFT could be regarded as optimal and were given at similar dosing levels to UK clinical practice. Despite the differences between the trial and the UK population, the committee concluded that SHIFT was relevant to UK clinical practice. 4.4 The committee examined the clinical evidence from SHIFT, which compared ivabradine plus standard care with standard care plus placebo. The committee noted that it was a well-conducted clinical trial and that the relevant clinical outcomes of mortality and hospital admission were assessed. It also noted that health-related quality-of-life data were collected in SHIFT-PRO using both generic and disease-specific instruments, and was aware that improved quality of life was an important outcome for chronic heart failure patients and that this is considered to be 1 of the main aims of managing chronic heart failure. The committee noted that the committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use had asked the manufacturer to identify
