Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


to be 1 of the main aims of managing chronic heart failure. The committee noted that the committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use had asked the manufacturer to identify the heart rate threshold at which there was a significant mortality benefit with ivabradine, because this benefit was not observed in the main SHIFT population. So the manufacturer then examined a post hoc subgroup of people with a baseline resting heart rate of 75 bpm or more, and this subgroup formed the population for whom ivabradine has a marketing authorisation. The committee noted that the results from this subgroup demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in all primary and secondary endpoints assessed. This included cardiovascular death, which reduced by 17% with ivabradine compared with placebo, unlike in the main SHIFT population, in which the 9% reduction in cardiovascular death was not statistically significant. The committee was aware that baseline resting heart rate was not a stratification factor at randomisation and that this subgroup was identified post hoc, but it was also aware that recommendations could only be made within ivabradine's marketing authorisation. The committee concluded that SHIFT was well conducted and there was it was plausible biologically that a statistically significant mortality benefit will be observed in the subgroup of people with a baseline resting heart rate of 75 bpm or more, which reflects the marketing authorisation of ivabradine. However, they were aware the evidence presented should be interpreted with a level of caution because the subgroup was identified post hoc. 4.5 The committee noted that a previous hospital admission for worsening heart failure in the past 12 months was an inclusion criterion for SHIFT. The committee agreed that this was an important consideration because people with a prior hospital admission in the past 12 months may have more severe chronic heart failure than would be observed in clinical practice, with a higher risk of further hospitalisations, which was the key driver of the clinical and cost-effectiveness estimates. The committee noted that the marketing authorisation for ivabradine depended on the efficacy of ivabradine in a specific post hoc subgroup with more severe heart failure (with a baseline heart rate of 75 bpm or more) to demonstrate a cardiovascular mortality benefit. The committee heard from the clinical specialists that prior hospital admission should not be a factor for considering ivabradine treatment because there are no data to prove that the efficacy of
