Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


committee heard from the clinical specialists that prior hospital admission should not be a factor for considering ivabradine treatment because there are no data to prove that the efficacy of ivabradine is limited to the population who have been admitted to hospital in the previous 12 months. The clinical specialists also highlighted that people had to be stabilised for 4 weeks on standard therapy as an entry criterion into the trial. The committee considered that prior hospital admission did not affect mortality, and the marketing authorisation did not make any reference to prior admission status. The committee was aware that ivabradine was contraindicated for people with unstable heart failure. Therefore, when discussing ivabradine, it understood it could only be initiated after prior stabilisation therapy. The committee concluded that all people for whom treatment with ivabradine is suitable, according to the marketing authorisation, should be able to receive ivabradine regardless of hospital admission status, but that people should be stabilised for 4 weeks on standard therapy first. 4.6 The committee considered the adverse event profile associated with ivabradine plus standard care compared with placebo plus standard care. The committee noted that symptomatic bradycardia, atrial fibrillation and phosphenes occurred more frequently in the ivabradine group compared with the placebo group, although other serious adverse events were higher in the placebo group. It noted the comments from the clinical specialists that phosphenes are recognised adverse effects of ivabradine, which usually resolve in most patients during treatment. The clinical specialists also stated that ivabradine appeared to be much simpler and safer to use compared with most heart failure drugs. The committee was concerned that an unusually high proportion of people in the population covered by the marketing authorisation who received a beta-blocker were not treated with the target dose because of hypotension, especially because the mean systolic blood pressure in the population covered by the marketing authorisation was 121 mmHg. It also noted that it would be unusual for people with heart failure to have hypotensive symptoms with this level of blood pressure. It noted the ERG's comment that it has been reported that only 3% to 5% of patients eligible for treatment with beta-blockers are unable to tolerate them because of hypotension or bradycardia. The committee concluded that ivabradine plus standard care had a manageable adverse event profile in the population covered by the marketing authorisation. 4.7 The committee examined the exploratory analysis
