Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


bradycardia. The committee concluded that ivabradine plus standard care had a manageable adverse event profile in the population covered by the marketing authorisation. 4.7 The committee examined the exploratory analysis performed by the ERG on the efficacy of ivabradine according to beta-blocker dose received by the population covered by the marketing authorisation in SHIFT. The committee noted the impact of the beta-blocker doses on the effectiveness of ivabradine, particularly in terms of cardiovascular mortality. However, the committee agreed that this analysis was based on subgroups of a subgroup and should be interpreted with caution. The clinical specialists stated that these results further highlight the need for beta-blockers to be used at optimal doses before ivabradine is initiated, because there is good evidence that beta-blockers reduce cardiovascular mortality at optimal doses. They also emphasised that ivabradine would be less effective in people with chronic heart failure who are optimally treated with beta- blockers because both treatments are primarily heart-rate-lowering agents, although beta-blockers are known to have additional effects beyond their heart- rate-lowering properties. The committee concluded that, given the results of these exploratory analyses, the effectiveness of ivabradine with increasing beta- blocker doses is uncertain. 4.8 The committee also discussed the exploratory analysis performed according to NYHA class by the ERG for the population covered by the marketing authorisation. It heard from the clinical specialists that it was debatable whether the NYHA class 4 subgroup could be considered to be in a stable condition given the severity of their heart failure and that ivabradine is contraindicated in unstable heart failure. The committee also heard from the clinical specialists that the benefit observed in this subgroup of people would be expected because they are the population with the greatest risk of cardiovascular mortality. However, the committee noted that the analysis in this subgroup of people with NYHA class 4 heart failure was based on small numbers, which limits the robustness of the results. Therefore, the committee concluded that the effectiveness of ivabradine in people with NYHA class 4 heart failure was uncertain because of the small patient numbers in the analysis, which meant that these people could not be considered separately as a subgroup. 4.9 The committee discussed the position of ivabradine in the treatment pathway for chronic heart failure, noting that it is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA class 2 to 4 with systolic dysfunction, for people in sinus rhythm
