Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


in the treatment pathway for chronic heart failure, noting that it is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA class 2 to 4 with systolic dysfunction, for people in sinus rhythm whose heart rate is 75 bpm or more, and in combination with standard therapy including beta- blocker therapy or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated. The committee heard from the clinical specialists that ACE inhibitors, beta- blockers and aldosterone antagonists used routinely for managing chronic heart failure should always be the initial treatments, because there is robust evidence that they are effective in managing chronic heart failure and improving survival. The clinical specialists all agreed that ivabradine is an additional therapy for a subset of people with chronic heart failure who are in sinus rhythm, and not as a replacement for the recommended standard therapies such as ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists. They suggested that ivabradine should be considered only when patients are still symptomatic after being stabilised on optimal initial standard therapies at maximally tolerated doses, or when beta-blockers are contraindicated or not tolerated. The clinical specialists expressed their concerns that introducing ivabradine earlier than specified in the marketing authorisation would limit efforts to optimise the use of other standard drugs, particularly beta-blockers. They stressed the need for enough time to titrate beta-blockers to optimal doses according to the 'start low, go slow' recommendations in NICE's previous guideline on chronic heart failure (now replaced by NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults). The committee concluded that ivabradine should be initiated only after standard treatment with ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists has been optimised. 4.10 The committee explored what optimising standard therapy with beta-blockers meant in clinical practice. It heard from clinical specialists that it can take several months to appropriately titrate beta-blockers to the optimal dose for a patient. The committee was aware that to optimise and ensure adherence to beta-blocker therapy, continuous monitoring and education and support of the patient by members of the heart failure multidisciplinary team are needed. The committee also noted comments from consultees and commentators that there have been misconceptions that beta-blockers are contraindicated in, for example, the elderly, or in people with non-reversible chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease or erectile dysfunction. It noted that, in line with NICE's previous guideline on chronic heart failure (now replaced by NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in
