Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


mellitus, peripheral vascular disease or erectile dysfunction. It noted that, in line with NICE's previous guideline on chronic heart failure (now replaced by NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults), these groups of people should receive beta-blockers. The committee re-emphasised their conclusion in section 4.9 on the importance of optimising beta-blockers before initiating ivabradine. 4.11 The committee also considered the comments from consultees and commentators that there is a recent analysis that shows that digoxin may confer benefits similar to ivabradine for patients in sinus rhythm and with heart failure caused by left ventricular systolic dysfunction. However, the committee noted that digoxin was not included as a comparator in the scope for this appraisal and there was no evidence to support its benefit in this population. The committee concluded that considering digoxin as a comparator to ivabradine is beyond the scope of this appraisal. 4.12 The committee also considered the position of cardiac devices, particularly cardiac resynchronisation therapy, in the treatment pathway for chronic heart failure because the manufacturer proposed positioning ivabradine before them. The clinical specialists were uncertain about this and proposed several different options about the most appropriate choice if people still have symptoms after they are treated with ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists. The committee noted that very few patients in SHIFT received cardiac resynchronisation therapy. It therefore considered that more evidence would be useful to determine the position of ivabradine in relation to cardiac devices, particularly cardiac resynchronisation therapy, in the treatment pathway. However, the clinical specialists said that choosing whether to treat with ivabradine or cardiac resynchronisation therapy will depend on clinical need and that ivabradine will only be considered if the person is in sinus rhythm as indicated in ivabradine's marketing authorisation. The committee was aware that ivabradine is contraindicated in people whose heart rate is dependent on a pacemaker. The committee recognised that there was some uncertainty about the appropriate choice of treatment when people are eligible for both ivabradine and cardiac resynchronisation therapy, and concluded that the decision will likely be based on the judgement of the treating clinician. 4.13 The committee considered the comments from the consultees and commentators that ivabradine should only be given to people with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less. It noted that the patients in SHIFT had left ventricular systolic dysfunction, which was associated with an ejection fraction of 35% or
