Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less. It noted that the patients in SHIFT had left ventricular systolic dysfunction, which was associated with an ejection fraction of 35% or less, and it was aware that this was an entry criterion for the trial. The committee was aware that an ejection fraction level was not specified in the marketing authorisation for ivabradine. However, it considered that ivabradine could not be recommended in people with an ejection fraction that is above 35% because there is no evidence of its effectiveness in that group. The committee discussed how the ejection fraction level will be determined in clinical practice and whether the required tests will be readily available to people who will potentially benefit from ivabradine. It heard that ejection fraction level is usually demonstrated with an echocardiogram and additional tests will not necessarily be required before initiating ivabradine. Therefore, the committee concluded that ivabradine should only be initiated in people with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less, normally shown on an echocardiogram. 4.14 The committee considered how ivabradine will be prescribed in clinical practice. It heard from clinical specialists that a heart failure specialist in secondary care with access to a multidisciplinary team should initiate ivabradine. The clinical specialists also stated that titration and monitoring of ivabradine could then take place in primary care by a GP with a special interest in heart failure or a heart failure specialist nurse, supported by a multidisciplinary team. They highlighted that this may help ensure the appropriate patients are treated with ivabradine after optimising treatment and stabilising patients on maximally tolerated doses of ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists. However, the manufacturer anticipated that ivabradine would be prescribed by a clinician experienced in managing chronic heart failure as recommended in the summary of product characteristics. The committee discussed the emergence of increasing heart failure expertise outside secondary care. It noted that NICE's previous guideline on chronic heart failure (now replaced by NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults) defined a specialist as a physician with a subspecialty interest in the management of heart failure and who leads a specialist multidisciplinary heart failure team of professionals with appropriate competencies from primary and secondary care. The committee concluded that ivabradine should be initiated by a heart failure specialist (in line with the NICE guideline) with access to a multidisciplinary heart failure team and
