Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


secondary care. The committee concluded that ivabradine should be initiated by a heart failure specialist (in line with the NICE guideline) with access to a multidisciplinary heart failure team and dose titration and monitoring should then be carried out by a heart failure specialist or in primary care by either a GP with a special interest in heart failure or a heart failure specialist nurse. Cost effectiveness 4.15 The committee considered the manufacturer's economic model and the ERG's critique of this model. The committee was aware that the manufacturer had based the economic evaluation on the subgroup of patients with a baseline resting heart rate of 75 bpm or more. The committee noted that this was the subgroup for whom ivabradine has a UK marketing authorisation. The committee concluded that the appropriate population for the economic evaluation of ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure had been captured in the model. 4.16 The committee discussed the assumptions made by the manufacturer in developing the economic model. The committee noted the ERG's comment that the manufacturer's model was transparent and made use of patient-level data in the base-case analysis. It agreed with the ERG that the standard care treatments used in the economic model reflected UK clinical practice. The committee was satisfied that the utility values applied in the model were derived from SHIFT, which was the pivotal trial used in the economic analysis, and considered the approach taken by the manufacturer to obtain the final utility estimates to be plausible and robust. The committee was also satisfied with the costs used by the manufacturer and that the clinical inputs to the model reflected UK practice. The committee was aware that the sensitivity analyses conducted by the manufacturer were robust for the base-case estimate, except for the risk of cardiovascular mortality (see sections 3.33 and 3.35), and that the ICERs for all the subgroup analyses were below £11,000 per QALY gained. The committee concluded that the manufacturer's model was robust and the assumptions were realistic and conservative. 4.17 The committee considered the uncertainty around the benefit of ivabradine on cardiovascular mortality given that the ICER ranged between approximately £5,600 and £40,600 per QALY gained when the risk of cardiovascular mortality was varied using the 95% confidence interval around the mean from the trial data. The committee noted the ERG's comments that there were uncertainties associated with the regression analyses for cardiovascular and
