Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


using the 95% confidence interval around the mean from the trial data. The committee noted the ERG's comments that there were uncertainties associated with the regression analyses for cardiovascular and heart failure mortality used in the economic model presented by the manufacturer. The committee noted that the treatment effect of ivabradine in the regression analysis had a p value of 0.38 for cardiovascular mortality and a p value of 0.06 for heart failure mortality. For the population covered by the marketing authorisation in the clinical effectiveness analysis, the p value for cardiovascular mortality was 0.02, and for heart failure mortality was less than 0.01. On the other hand, beta-blockers given at 50% or more of the target dose were associated with a statistically significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular mortality, and beta-blockers at all doses were associated with statistically significant reductions in the risk of heart failure mortality. The committee considered that this further highlights the importance of optimising beta-blocker therapy before treatment with ivabradine. However, the committee noted the ERG's comment that the absence of a statistically significant effect with ivabradine in the model may be a result of the adjustment of patient characteristics not accounted for in the clinical analysis. The committee was also aware that the manufacturer's regression analyses were conservative in favour of placebo, which made the analyses likely to underestimate the risks of cardiovascular and heart failure mortality, and so generated different results from those observed in the population covered by the marketing authorisation of the SHIFT trial. The committee concluded that the additional treatment effect of ivabradine was uncertain compared with the effect of beta-blocker doses. 4.18 The committee considered whether the base-case ICER of approximately £8,500 per QALY gained (incremental cost of approximately £2,400 and incremental QALY of 0.28) of adding ivabradine to standard care estimated by the manufacturer was the most plausible ICER. The committee considered that the ICER suggested that ivabradine was cost effective if a threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained was applied. The committee considered that the effect of ivabradine on the hospital admission endpoints was the key driver of the cost effectiveness of ivabradine plus standard care compared with standard care alone. It noted that ivabradine plus standard care was more effective and cost more than standard care. Additionally, it noted that ivabradine was still accruing more QALYs when the confidence interval for the hazard ratio for
