Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


standard care was more effective and cost more than standard care. Additionally, it noted that ivabradine was still accruing more QALYs when the confidence interval for the hazard ratio for mortality crossed 1 and favoured standard care alone in the model, which suggested that ivabradine has a large impact in reducing hospital admissions. The committee agreed that the wide range of sensitivity and subgroup analyses conducted by the manufacturer sufficiently addressed any areas of uncertainty in the economic analysis, including the beta-blocker subgroups, and all produced ICERs below £11,000 per QALY gained. It also considered that the modelled results and most of the model assumptions were conservative and biased against ivabradine. The committee therefore concluded that the manufacturer's ICER estimate of approximately £8,500 per QALY gained was plausible and was likely to represent the expected cost effectiveness of adding ivabradine to standard care for treating chronic heart failure in the population covered by the marketing authorisation. 4.19 The committee recognised the novel mode of action of ivabradine as a heart- rate-lowering agent for patients in sinus rhythm for whom beta-blockers are contraindicated or not tolerated. It also considered the manufacturer's comment that ivabradine is the only non-surgical treatment available for people with chronic heart failure whose prognosis remains poor after recommended optimised therapy for chronic heart failure. However, the committee considered that there were no additional gains in health-related quality of life over those already included in the QALY calculations. The committee therefore concluded that the innovative aspects of ivabradine were already incorporated in the economic model and analyses. 4.20 The committee discussed potential equality issues and gave particular consideration to avoid unlawful discrimination against any group of people on the grounds of race, gender, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity. The committee noted the potential equality issue raised by the patient experts about the higher prevalence of non-revascularisable coronary artery disease in the Asian population because of the impact of diabetes as a risk factor. It highlighted that higher prevalence rates are not an equality issue that technology appraisal guidance can address. Nevertheless, the committee did not consider that the wording of the recommendations affected access to treatment by this group. The committee also noted that older people and women were under-represented in SHIFT. But it considered that the recommendation for ivabradine was not based on sex or age, does not vary according
