Ivabradine for treating chronic heart failure
KEYWORDS: ivabradine, heart, failure, heart failure, committee, population, manufacturer, patients, standard, marketing authorisation, marketing, authorisation, shift, treatment, noted


also noted that older people and women were under-represented in SHIFT. But it considered that the recommendation for ivabradine was not based on sex or age, does not vary according to the sex or age of the patient, and that all patients would benefit from ivabradine. The committee considered that these were not equality issues under the legislation. The committee therefore concluded that its recommendations do not have a particular impact on any of the groups whose interests are protected by the legislation and that there is no need to alter or add to its recommendations. 4.21 Overall the committee considered the effectiveness of ivabradine in the subgroup of patients with a resting heart rate of 75 bpm or more derived from SHIFT, the generalisability of the trial to UK clinical practice, the adverse event profile of ivabradine, the position of ivabradine in the treatment pathway of chronic heart failure (that is after optimisation on standard care therapy with ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists) and the way ivabradine will be prescribed in clinical practice. It also considered the robustness of the economic model, the realistic nature of the assumptions used in the model, the plausibility of the base-case ICERs and the range of sensitivity analyses presented by the manufacturer. The committee noted that there were uncertainties associated with the effectiveness of ivabradine with increasing beta-blocker doses. However, it was convinced of the benefits of adding ivabradine to the standard care therapies for chronic heart failure in the group of people covered by the marketing authorisation. The committee therefore concluded that ivabradine could be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources for treating chronic heart failure in people covered by the marketing authorisation. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated care boards, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 3 months of its date of publication. 5.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the final
