Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Background and the potential identification of novel adjunctive Community-acquired respiratory infections represent therapies. Methods/Design nificantly to illness and mortality worldwide. Seasonal respiratory infections continue to afflict the human RESPIRO is a multi-centre, observational, prospec- population, and the lack of universally effective long- tive study. The protocol is intentionally structured to be term vaccines or preventative measures exacerbates the adaptable for implementation in various hospital set- problem. Moreover, new viral respiratory pathogens are tings. It accommodates a range of study intensities to emerging with increasing frequency. These can have facilitate the swift collection and analysis of clinical data devastating impacts, as underscored by the epidemics of and biological samples. In Singapore, participants will be Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS- primarily recruited from three major tertiary hospitals: CoV), the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavi- National Centre for Infectious Diseases/Tan Tock Seng States, pneumonia stands out as a primary infectious June 2022 and is ongoing. We are also in the process of cause of hospitalisation and death among adults . planning additional study sites in and beyond Singapore. The annual incidence of community-acquired pneumonia Recognising that each site may differ in its infrastructure, (CAP) requiring hospitalisation stands at approximately resources, and capacity, allowances are made for study 25 cases per 10,000 adults, incurring annual medical sites to adjust the intensity of data and sample collection costs surpassing US$10 billion . This healthcare bur- according to their unique capabilities. The approach to den is mirrored in many other countries. data analyses will be aligned with available data and sam- Despite the widespread impact of these diseases, sig- ples at each site. This study is designed to have flexible nificant gaps persist in our understanding of the array of and seamless integration with other ongoing research pathogens responsible for community-acquired respira- projects and clinical trials. tory infections. Over half of community-acquired lower Study population respiratory tract infections lack identified microbial causes . This may be attributed to factors such as This study focuses on individuals with moderate-to- limited diagnostic samples or testing, insensitive diagnos- severe CAP, excluding cases of healthcare-associated tic tests, antibiotic use before specimen collection, non- pneumonia and pulmonary
