Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


study focuses on individuals with moderate-to- limited diagnostic samples or testing, insensitive diagnos- severe CAP, excluding cases of healthcare-associated tic tests, antibiotic use before specimen collection, non- pneumonia and pulmonary infections in severely immu- infectious conditions mimicking respiratory infections, nocompromised hosts. and unidentified or uncharacterised pathogens. Conse- Eligibility criteria for patient inclusion are as follows: quently, most patients are treated empirically, which car- ries the risk of antibiotic overuse and the development 1. Evidence of acute infection within 7 days (defined of antibiotic resistance. Furthermore, within this group as self-reported fever/chills, documented of unknown pathogens lies the potential threat of novel fever (≥ 38oC) or hypothermia (< 35.5oC), pathogens with epidemic or pandemic potential, with- leucocytosis (WBC > 11,000/mm3) or leucopenia out an optimised system for surveillance or early identi- (WBC < 3000/mm3), or new altered mental status). fication, particularly for moderate to severe cases. Most 2. Evidence of acute respiratory illness (defined as new sentinel surveillance systems tend to focus on either fatal cough or sputum production, dyspnoea, tachypnoea cases or mild, community-based cases with primarily (> 25 breaths/minute), abnormal lung examination, upper respiratory symptoms . Additionally, many of respiratory failure). the known pathogens’ early and long-term effects remain 3. Evidence of pneumonia on lung imaging (chest poorly understood due to the lack of robust epidemio- radiography or computed tomography) within 48 h logical data. before or after admission. This study aims to address these knowledge gaps by 4. Age ≥ 21 years old. pursuing the following objectives: (1) To evaluate the 5. Patient or legal representative is able to provide causes and outcomes of moderate-to-severe CAP in Sin- informed consent. gapore and the surrounding region; (2) To establish a repository of biological samples to validate novel diag- Patients will be ineligible for the study if any of the fol- nostics; (3) To gain a mechanistic understanding of host- lowing criteria apply: pathogen disease processes in moderate-to-severe CAP. By combining pathogen information with host disease 1. Recent hospitalisation (defined as < 28 days for phenotypes, this approach will enable the development of immunocompetent patients and < 90 days for a “precision medicine” approach to pathogen discovery immunosuppressed patients). 2. Functionally dependent nursing home residents. the study objectives, and who have no indication or 3. Clear alternative diagnosis in the opinion of the likelihood of co-infection with a relevant pathogen. treating physician and/or study team. 2. Any new information becomes
