Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


have no indication or 3. Clear alternative diagnosis in the opinion of the likelihood of co-infection with a relevant pathogen. treating physician and/or study team. 2. Any new information becomes available that makes 4. Patients with tracheostomy-in-situ. further participation unsafe. 5. Patients with cystic fibrosis. 3. Termination of the study. 6. Neutropenia due to cytotoxic chemotherapy. 7. Solid organ transplant or haematopoietic stem-cell transplant in the previous 90 days. Data and sample collection obliterans. directly from the hospitals’ medical records of the par- 9. Human immunodeficiency virus infection with CD4 ticipating hospitals. Patient symptoms will be assessed count < 200/mm3. using structured patient surveys and questionnaires. 10. Current COVID-19 infection confirmed by SARS- Serial biological samples will be collected according to CoV-2 PCR. the schedule outlined in Table 1. The schedule includes 11. Recent enrolment in the current study within 28 a range of 1 to 13 sample sets, accommodating variations days. in the capacity of each study site. All data will be anonymised at the hospital site. Each Enrolled patients may be terminated by the study team patient will be assigned a unique study number, and the for the following reasons: unique study number and anonymised data will be sub- mitted electronically to a Research Electronic Data Cap- 1. Illness is subsequently confirmed to be the result ture (REDCap) electronic case report form (eCRF) by Table 1 Summary of study schedule Study activity Screening Inpatient follow-upa Samples, symptoms question- Final visit naire, and quality-of-life survey D1 Every D21 ± 7 D28 ± 14 D90 ± 30 D180 ± 60 D360 ± 90 (priority) other days days days days days day (D3- (priority) (priority) 15) ± 1 day Eligibility assessment X Informed consent X Demographics X Medical history X Clinical data collection X Daily until end of hos- X X X X pital stay Symptoms questionnaire X Every other day until X X X X end of hospital stay. (Day 1 to 7 of study will be prioritised.) Quality-of-life survey X X X X Sample collectionb Bloodc X X X X X X X Respiratory samples X X X X X X X Urinec X X X X X X X Stoolc X X X X X X X Rarely other biological samples (e.g. tears) X X X X X X X Residual samplesd X post-recruitment bIn the event of resource limitations requiring sampling frequency to decrease or for any
