Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


other biological samples (e.g. tears) X X X X X X X Residual samplesd X post-recruitment bIn the event of resource limitations requiring sampling frequency to decrease or for any other reasons (e.g. the patient’s personal preference to have minimal sampling for research purposes), samples will be prioritised at recruitment, day 28, and day 90 cUp to a maximum of 30 mL (approximately 6 teaspoons) of blood may be drawn for each time point as well as 10 mL of urine and 10 g of stool (approximately 2 teaspoons) dResidual samples are leftover samples from routine clinical testing. The study team will coordinate with the clinical laboratory team to keep any residual samples that may be useful to this study Outcome variables identification number, and unique study number, will be maintained separately. Primary outcomes Samples will be processed and stored for use in subse- quent studies related to pathogen research, host immune 1. To determine the frequency, seasonal patterns, responses, and biomarker discovery. and burden of disease due to different respiratory pathogens causing acute CAP in Singapore including Study visits and procedures unknown pathogens. Acute Illness and index admission 2. To determine the factors contributing to severity extracted from the hospitals’ medical records. Patient infections. symptoms will be assessed using structured patient sur- veys and questionnaires on day 1 (the day of recruit- ment), and subsequently every other day until day 7 of Secondary outcomes whichever occurs first. 1. To describe the following for each individual Serial samples, including blood, sputum, urine, and pathogen: nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal swabs, will be collected on day 1 and at various intervals throughout the index a. Clinical features and risk factors for severe admission, day 28 and during convalescence. Wherever disease. feasible, additional samples, such as nasopharyngeal b. Response to treatment including supportive care aspirates, flocked nose and throat swabs, samples from and novel therapeutics. infected sites (like inflamed oropharynx or conjunctiva), c. Pathogen replication, excretion and evolution, and any residual pathogen samples collected for clinical and pathogen determinants of severity and care, will also be obtained. If bronchoscopy with bron- transmissibility. and with patient consent, extra samples for research pur- factors associated with progression or severity. poses will be obtained. Endotracheal aspirates will be obtained from intubated patients. Power/sample size Resolution of acute illness will be defined as the clear- ance of the pathogen from appropriate samples, return This study, aiming to provide a comprehensive
