Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


from intubated patients. Power/sample size Resolution of acute illness will be defined as the clear- ance of the pathogen from appropriate samples, return This study, aiming to provide a comprehensive descrip- of systemic inflammatory response markers to normal tion of the epidemiology and outcomes of acute com- range values, and one of the following criteria: (1) recov- munity-acquired respiratory tract infections, will strive ery from organ failure(s)/need for organ support, (2) to enrol as many patients as possible without predeter- the patient’s pre-illness lifestyle, or upon the patient’s dis- current available funding of the study until 2026, we charge from the hospital. anticipate recruiting up to 500 subjects from each of the three participating Singapore study sites throughout the Follow-up visits study’s duration. As the existing grant approaches expi- Patients will be scheduled for follow-up visits on days ration, our study team may actively seek new sources of cal data collection, assessment of patient symptoms, and Statistical analysis sample collection will be performed as needed on those visits. Enrolled patients will be categorised based on the aeti- The frequency and extent of follow-up visits and pro- ology and severity of their disease. Patients with uncon- cedures will depend on the availability of resources and firmed aetiologies will be analysed as a separate group. capacity at each hospital site. Hospital sites that may face Standard statistical methods appropriate to the data dis- limitations can adjust the frequency of study visits or tribution and types will be employed to compare differ- procedures. In such cases, the collection of samples will ences between these groups. be prioritized for day 28 and 90 post-recruitment. Protection of human subjects and ethical approval Patients who meet the study’s inclusion and exclusion criteria will be invited to participate. Informed consent will be sought from the patients themselves or their legal representative. The informed consent form will be provided in English. For participants who are unable Beyond its main objectives, the integrated approach and to read or understand English, verbal translation of the network capabilities will be essential for informing and document and discussion will occur in the presence of improving critical aspects of clinical management inter- an impartial witness. A concise informed consent form ventions. For instance, the identification of biomarkers in Chinese or Malay will also be utilized. Our study may help to streamline the triage and management deci- staff will clearly communicate all aspects of
