Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


the identification of biomarkers in Chinese or Malay will also be utilized. Our study may help to streamline the triage and management deci- staff will clearly communicate all aspects of the study, sions of hospitalised patients with acute CAP. As exem- including procedures, potential risks, benefits, the right plified by the UK Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 to withdraw, and alternative options, allowing patients thERapY (RECOVERY) trial during the COVID-19 pan- or their legal representatives ample time for discussion demic, where dexamethasone had varying effects in dif- and questions. For patients whose capacity to consent ferent patient groups , the need for targeted patient may change during the study, informed consent will be selection in prescribing treatments is evident. In the revisited when they are able to make independent deci- event of a respiratory infectious outbreak or epidemic, we sions. The consent process will adhere to the principles can leverage on the ongoing RESPIRO platform for real- lations governing clinical research at the recruiting hos- pinpointing distinct patient groups that could benefit pital sites. Prospective patients are under no obligation from specific interventions. Moreover, the establishment to participate and can decline or withdraw without fac- of a nationwide network will enable the identification ing any negative implications. All patients will receive of early signals indicating the spread of clonal respira- the study. This study is approved by the National Health- allow us to assess infectivity risk and implement appro- care Group Domain Specific Review Board (NHG DSRB priate infection control measures, thereby swiftly curbing Ref: 2021/00970). The study protocol was peer-reviewed its spread. as part of the funding process. This study adheres to the Due to its design, which intentionally accommodates principles outlined in the Helsinki Declaration of 1964, variance to maximise participation across various study along with its subsequent amendments. sites, we anticipate a considerable amount of missing data. This can reduce the overall statistical power of the Discussion study and can lead to biased estimates, potentially result- CAP remains a pressing global concern, with substan- ing in invalid conclusions. To address this, numerous tial morbidity and mortality, while the potential emer- procedures will be implemented to maximise data quality gence of novel pathogens emphasizes the need for and protocol standardisation. These procedures include better diagnostics and research capabilities. If the aetiol- prioritizing specific time-points in resource-limited set- ogy is discovered for the approximately half of cases of tings, defining
