Ng et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:123 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: study, data, singapore, respiratory, patients, samples, research, patient, clinical, infections, cap, pneumonia, pathogen, day, disease


standardisation. These procedures include better diagnostics and research capabilities. If the aetiol- prioritizing specific time-points in resource-limited set- ogy is discovered for the approximately half of cases of tings, defining data collected in the REDCap eCRF with CAP without a known cause, it could potentially open a detailed data dictionary, direct recording of survey and new avenues for diagnostics and therapeutics for both questionnaire data into the REDCap eCRF, integrating known and unknown pathogens. This is vital not only for quality control checks for critical data points, eliminating developing precise diagnostic tools, prognostic biomark- paper CRFs, and conducting random monitoring of study ers and therapeutic strategies, but also for unravelling the sites and data. Statistical analyses will be carried out to immediate and long-term consequences of specific infec- minimize assumptions about missing data. tions . In this context, RESPIRO aims to become The evidence generated by RESPIRO is intended to a proactive and collaborative logistical and analytic plat- inform the development of clinical guidelines and recom- form focused on systematically identifying the infectious mendations for policymakers, extending beyond routine agents responsible for CAP in adults in Singapore and CAP treatment guidelines to include pathogen-specific the surrounding region, whether known or unknown. protocols. Data will be periodically shared through vari- Detailing the aetiological agents is critical for assigning ous channels, including workshops, abstracts, presen- appropriate therapy for the identified pathogen, poten- tations, and publications. Beyond this, RESPIRO will tially reducing unnecessary antibiotic use, a major driver establish a robust network for respiratory disease sur- of antimicrobial resistance in the region. The wealth of veillance, pave the way for the advancement of innova- will also provide an opportunity to deeply characterize host-pathogen interactions, and provide a platform for This is the first nationwide, prospective effort to char- List of abbreviations acterize the epidemiology of moderate-to-severe acute RESPIRO Respiratory Infections Research and Outcome study lower respiratory tract infections for adults in Singapore. CAP Community-acquired pneumonia eCRF Electronic case report form Competing interests SARS-CoV Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus The authors declare no competing interests. MERS-CoV Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus COVID-19 Coronavirus disease of 2019 Author details eCRF Electronic case report form Singapore, Singapore CD4 Cluster of differentiation 4 Singapore, Singapore Singapore The online version contains supplementary material available at Singapore, Singapore org/. 5Department of Respiratory & Critical Care Medicine, Tan Tock Seng Supplementary Material 1 6Viral Research and Experimental Medicine Centre (ViREMiCS),
