Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


Overview This guideline covers assessing and diagnosing recent chest pain in people aged 18 and over and managing symptoms while a diagnosis is being made. It aims to improve outcomes by providing advice on tests (ECG, high-sensitivity troponin tests, multislice CT angiography, functional testing) that support healthcare professionals to make a speedy and accurate diagnosis. NICE has also produced a guideline on managing acute coronary syndromes. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Adults with chest pain of recent onset, their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Providing information for people with chest pain 1.1.1.1 Discuss any concerns people (and where appropriate their family or carer/ advocate) may have, including anxiety when the cause of the chest pain is unknown. Correct any misinformation. [2010] 1.1.1.2 Offer people a clear explanation of the possible causes of their symptoms and the uncertainties. [2010] 1.1.1.3 Clearly explain the options to people at every stage of investigation. Make joint decisions with them and take account of their preferences: • Encourage people to ask questions. • Provide repeated opportunities for discussion. • Explain test results and the need for any further investigations. [2010] 1.1.1.4 Provide information about any proposed investigations using everyday, jargon- free language. Include: • their purpose, benefits and any limitations of their diagnostic accuracy • duration • level of discomfort and invasiveness • risk of adverse events. [2010] 1.1.1.5 Offer information about the risks of diagnostic testing, including any radiation exposure. [2010] 1.1.1.6 Address any physical or learning difficulties, sight or hearing problems and difficulties with speaking or reading English, which may affect people's understanding of the information offered. [2010] 1.1.1.7 Offer information after diagnosis as recommended in the relevant disease management guidelines: • NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes • NICE guideline on stable angina • NICE guideline on generalised anxiety disorder and panic disorder in adults • NICE guideline on gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and dyspepsia in adults. [2010] 1.1.1.8 Explain if the chest pain is non-cardiac and refer people for further investigation
