Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


panic disorder in adults • NICE guideline on gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and dyspepsia in adults. [2010] 1.1.1.8 Explain if the chest pain is non-cardiac and refer people for further investigation if appropriate. [2010] 1.1.1.9 Provide individual advice to people about seeking medical help if they have further chest pain. [2010] 1.2 People presenting with acute chest pain This section of the guideline covers the assessment and diagnosis of people with recent acute chest pain or discomfort, suspected to be caused by an acute coronary syndrome (ACS). The term ACS covers a range of conditions including unstable angina, ST-segment- elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). The guideline addresses assessment and diagnosis irrespective of setting, because people present in different ways. For early management of these conditions, follow the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. 1.2.1 Initial assessment and referral to hospital 1.2.1.1 Check immediately whether people currently have chest pain. If they are pain free, check when their last episode of pain was, particularly if they have had pain in the last 12 hours. [2010] 1.2.1.2 Determine whether the chest pain may be cardiac and therefore whether this guideline is relevant, by considering: • the history of the chest pain • the presence of cardiovascular risk factors • history of ischaemic heart disease and any previous treatment • previous investigations for chest pain. [2010] 1.2.1.3 Initially assess people for any of the following symptoms, which may indicate an ACS: • pain in the chest and/or other areas (for example, the arms, back or jaw) lasting longer than 15 minutes • chest pain associated with nausea and vomiting, marked sweating, breathlessness, or particularly a combination of these • chest pain associated with haemodynamic instability • new onset chest pain, or abrupt deterioration in previously stable angina, with recurrent chest pain occurring frequently and with little or no exertion, and with episodes often lasting longer than 15 minutes. [2010] 1.2.1.4 Do not use people's response to glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) to make a diagnosis. [2010] 1.2.1.5 Do not assess symptoms of an ACS differently in men and women. Not all people with an ACS present with central chest pain as the predominant feature. [2010] 1.2.1.6 Do not assess symptoms of an ACS differently in ethnic groups. There are no major differences in symptoms of an ACS among different ethnic groups. [2010] 1.2.1.7 Refer people to hospital as an emergency if an
