Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


(sublingual or buccal), but offer intravenous opioids such as morphine, particularly if an acute myocardial infarction (MI) is suspected. [2010] 1.2.3.2 Offer people a single loading dose of 300 mg aspirin as soon as possible unless there is clear evidence that they are allergic to it. If aspirin is given before arrival at hospital, send a written record that it has been given with the person. Only offer other antiplatelet agents in hospital. Follow the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. [2010] 1.2.3.3 Do not routinely administer oxygen, but monitor oxygen saturation using pulse oximetry as soon as possible, ideally before hospital admission. Only offer supplemental oxygen to: • people with oxygen saturation (SpO ) of less than 94% who are not at risk of 2 hypercapnic respiratory failure, aiming for SpO of 94% to 98% 2 • people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who are at risk of hypercapnic respiratory failure, to achieve a target SpO of 88% to 92% until 2 blood gas analysis is available. [2010] Be aware that some pulse oximeters can underestimate or overestimate oxygen saturation levels, especially if the saturation level is borderline. Overestimation has been reported in people with dark skin. See also the NHS England Patient Safety Alert on the risk of harm from inappropriate placement of pulse oximeter probes. 1.2.3.4 Monitor people with acute chest pain, using clinical judgement to decide how often this should be done, until a firm diagnosis is made. This should include: • exacerbations of pain and/or other symptoms • pulse and blood pressure • heart rhythm • oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry • repeated resting 12-lead ECGs and • checking pain relief is effective. [2010] 1.2.3.5 Manage other therapeutic interventions using the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. [2010] 1.2.4 Assessment in hospital for people with a suspected acute coronary syndrome 1.2.4.1 Take a resting 12-lead ECG and a blood sample for high-sensitivity troponin I or T measurement (see the section on use of biochemical markers for diagnosis of an acute coronary syndrome) on arrival in hospital. [2010, amended 2016] 1.2.4.2 Carry out a physical examination to determine: • haemodynamic status • signs of complications, for example, pulmonary oedema, cardiogenic shock and • signs of non-coronary causes of acute chest pain, such as aortic dissection. [2010] 1.2.4.3 Take a detailed clinical history unless a STEMI is confirmed from the resting 12-lead ECG (that is, regional ST-segment
