Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


causes of acute chest pain, such as aortic dissection. [2010] 1.2.4.3 Take a detailed clinical history unless a STEMI is confirmed from the resting 12-lead ECG (that is, regional ST-segment elevation or presumed new LBBB). Record: • the characteristics of the pain • other associated symptoms • any history of cardiovascular disease • any cardiovascular risk factors and • details of previous investigations or treatments for similar symptoms of chest pain. [2010] 1.2.5 Use of biochemical markers for diagnosis of an acute coronary syndrome 1.2.5.1 Do not use high-sensitivity troponin tests for people in whom ACS is not suspected. [2016] 1.2.5.2 For people at high or moderate risk of MI (as indicated by a validated tool), perform high-sensitivity troponin tests as recommended in the NICE diagnostics guidance on myocardial infarction. [2016] 1.2.5.3 For people at low risk of MI (as indicated by a validated tool): • perform a second high-sensitivity troponin test as recommended in the NICE diagnostics guidance on myocardial infarction if the first troponin test at presentation is positive. • consider performing a single high-sensitivity troponin test only at presentation to rule out NSTEMI if the first troponin test is below the lower limit of detection (negative). [2016] 1.2.5.4 Ensure that patients understand that a detectable troponin on the first high- sensitivity test does not necessarily indicate that they have had an MI. [2016] 1.2.5.5 Do not use biochemical markers such as natriuretic peptides and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to diagnose an ACS. [2010] 1.2.5.6 Do not use biochemical markers of myocardial ischaemia (such as ischaemia- modified albumin) as opposed to markers of necrosis when assessing people with acute chest pain. [2010] 1.2.5.7 When interpreting high-sensitivity troponin measurements, take into account: • the clinical presentation • the time from onset of symptoms • the resting 12-lead ECG findings • the pre-test probability of NSTEMI • the length of time since the suspected ACS • the probability of chronically elevated troponin levels in some people • that 99th percentile thresholds for troponin I and T may differ between sexes. [2010, amended 2016] 1.2.6 Making a diagnosis 1.2.6.1 When diagnosing MI, use the universal definition of myocardial infarction. This is the detection of rise and/or fall of cardiac biomarkers values [preferably cardiac troponin (cTn)] with at least one value above the 99th percentile of the upper reference limit and at least one of the following: • symptoms of ischaemia • new
