Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


people with suspected stable angina. 1.3.1.1 Exclude a diagnosis of stable angina if clinical assessment indicates non-anginal chest pain (see recommendation 1.3.3.1) and there are no other aspects of the history or risk factors raising clinical suspicion. [2016] 1.3.1.2 If clinical assessment indicates typical or atypical angina (see recommendation 1.3.3.1), offer diagnostic testing (see the sections on diagnostic testing for people in whom stable angina cannot be excluded by clinical assessment alone, additional diagnostic investigations and use of non-invasive functional testing for myocardial ischaemia). [2016] 1.3.2 Clinical assessment 1.3.2.1 Take a detailed clinical history documenting: • the age and sex of the person • the characteristics of the pain, including its location, radiation, severity, duration and frequency, and factors that provoke and relieve the pain • any associated symptoms, such as breathlessness • any history of angina, MI, coronary revascularisation or other cardiovascular disease and • any cardiovascular risk factors. [2010] 1.3.2.2 Carry out a physical examination to: • identify risk factors for cardiovascular disease • identify signs of other cardiovascular disease • identify non-coronary causes of angina (for example, severe aortic stenosis, cardiomyopathy) and • exclude other causes of chest pain. [2010] 1.3.3 Making a diagnosis based on clinical assessment 1.3.3.1 Assess the typicality of chest pain as follows: • Presence of three of the features below is defined as typical angina. • Presence of two of the three features below is defined as atypical angina. • Presence of one or none of the features below is defined as non-anginal chest pain. Anginal pain is: • constricting discomfort in the front of the chest, or in the neck, shoulders, jaw or arms • precipitated by physical exertion • relieved by rest or GTN within about 5 minutes. [2010, amended 2016] 1.3.3.2 Do not define typical and atypical features of anginal chest pain and non-anginal chest pain differently in men and women. [2010] 1.3.3.3 Do not define typical and atypical features of anginal chest pain and non-anginal chest pain differently in ethnic groups. [2010] 1.3.3.4 Take the following factors, which make a diagnosis of stable angina more likely, into account when estimating people's likelihood of angina: • age • whether the person is male • cardiovascular risk factors including: － a history of smoking － diabetes － hypertension － dyslipidaemia － family history of premature coronary artery disease (CAD) • other cardiovascular disease • history of established CAD, for example,
