Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


Offer non-invasive functional imaging (see the section on use of non-invasive functional testing for myocardial ischaemia) for myocardial ischaemia if 64-slice (or above) CT coronary angiography has shown CAD of uncertain functional significance or is non-diagnostic. [2016] 1.3.5.2 Offer invasive coronary angiography as a third-line investigation when the results of non-invasive functional imaging are inconclusive. [2016] 1.3.6 Use of non-invasive functional testing for myocardial ischaemia 1.3.6.1 When offering non-invasive functional imaging for myocardial ischaemia use: • myocardial perfusion scintigraphy with single photon emission computed tomography (MPS with SPECT) or • stress echocardiography or • first-pass contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion or • MR imaging for stress-induced wall motion abnormalities. Take account of locally available technology and expertise, the person and their preferences, and any contraindications (for example, disabilities, frailty, limited ability to exercise) when deciding on the imaging method. [This recommendation updates and replaces recommendation 1.1 of NICE's technology appraisal guidance on myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and management of angina and myocardial infarction]. [2016] 1.3.6.2 Use adenosine, dipyridamole or dobutamine as stress agents for MPS with SPECT and adenosine or dipyridamole for first-pass contrast-enhanced MR perfusion. [2010] 1.3.6.3 Use exercise or dobutamine for stress echocardiography or MR imaging for stress-induced wall motion abnormalities. [2010] 1.3.6.4 Do not use MR coronary angiography for diagnosing stable angina. [2010] 1.3.6.5 Do not use exercise ECG to diagnose or exclude stable angina for people without known CAD. [2010] 1.3.7 Making a diagnosis following investigations Box 1 Definition of significant coronary artery disease Significant coronary artery disease (CAD) found during CT coronary angiography is ≥ 70% diameter stenosis of at least one major epicardial artery segment or ≥ 50% diameter stenosis in the left main coronary artery: Factors intensifying ischaemia Such factors allow less severe lesions (for example, ≥ 50%) to produce angina: • reduced oxygen delivery: anaemia, coronary spasm • increased oxygen demand: tachycardia, left ventricular hypertrophy • large mass of ischaemic myocardium: proximally located lesions • longer lesion length. Factors reducing ischaemia which may render severe lesions (≥ 70%) asymptomatic: • Well-developed collateral supply. • Small mass of ischaemic myocardium: distally located lesions, old infarction in the territory of coronary supply. [2016] 1.3.7.1 Confirm a diagnosis of stable angina and follow the NICE guideline on stable angina when: • significant CAD (see box 1) is found during invasive or 64-slice (or above) CT coronary angiography or • reversible myocardial ischaemia is
