Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


the NICE guideline on stable angina when: • significant CAD (see box 1) is found during invasive or 64-slice (or above) CT coronary angiography or • reversible myocardial ischaemia is found during non-invasive functional imaging. [2016] 1.3.7.2 Investigate other causes of chest pain when: • significant CAD (see box 1) is not found during invasive coronary angiography or 64-slice (or above) CT coronary angiography or • reversible myocardial ischaemia is not found during non-invasive functional imaging. [2016] 1.3.7.3 Consider investigating other causes of angina, such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or syndrome X, in people with typical angina-like chest pain if investigation excludes flow-limiting disease in the epicardial coronary arteries. [2010] Terms used in this guideline Chest pain The term 'chest pain' is used throughout the guideline to mean chest pain or discomfort. Recommendations for research In 2010, the guideline committee made the following recommendations for research. The committee's full set of recommendations for research is detailed in the full guideline. 1 Cost-effectiveness of multislice CT coronary angiography for ruling out obstructive coronary artery disease in people with troponin-negative acute coronary syndromes Is multislice CT coronary angiography a cost-effective first-line test for ruling out obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) in people with suspected troponin-negative acute coronary syndromes? Why this is important Current European Society of Cardiology guidelines state that in troponin-negative ACS with no ST-segment change on the ECG, 'a stress test is recommended… in patients with significant ischaemia during the stress test, coronary angiography and subsequent revascularisation should be considered'. Yet stress testing has relatively low sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing CAD in this group of people. Therefore a significant proportion of at-risk people are missed while others with normal coronary arteries are subjected to an unnecessary invasive coronary angiogram. Multislice CT coronary angiography is highly sensitive and provides a potentially useful means for early rule-out of CAD in troponin- negative acute coronary disease. We need to know whether it is cost effective compared with exercise ECG as a first test in the diagnostic work-up of this group. 2 Refining the use of telephone advice in people with chest pain In what circumstances should telephone advice be given to people calling with chest pain? Is the appropriateness influenced by age, sex or symptoms? Why this is important The telephone is a common method of first contact with healthcare services, and produces a near uniform emergency response to chest pain symptoms. Such
