Recent-onset chest pain of suspected cardiac origin: assessment and diagnosis
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, people, chest pain, guideline, coronary, angina, ecg, diagnosis, stable, assessment, acute, acs, clinical, lead


as body mass index, routine blood markers (for example, haemoglobin) or novel circulating biomarkers to estimates of the pre-test likelihood of CAD are not known and require further assessment in the whole population and in predefined subgroups including ethnic minorities. 4 Information about presenting and explaining tests All people presenting with chest pain will need to decide whether to accept the diagnostic and care pathways offered. How should information about the diagnostic pathway and the likely outcomes, risks and benefits, with and without treatment, be most effectively presented to particular groups of people, defined by age, ethnicity and sex? Why this is important Methods of communication (both the content and delivery) will be guided by current evidence-based best practice. Controlled trials should be conducted based on well- constructed randomised controlled clinical trials comparing the effects of different methods of communication on the understanding of the person with chest pain. Such studies might consider a number of delivery mechanisms, including advice and discussion with a clinician or a specialist nurse, as well as specific information leaflets or visual data. Any trials should also investigate the feasibility of introducing a suggested guideline protocol to be used with all people presenting with chest pain when faced with options concerning their clinical pathway. Only by clearly explaining and then discussing the proposed diagnostic and care pathways can the healthcare professional be reasonably certain that informed consent has been obtained and that a patient's moral, ethical and spiritual beliefs, expectations, and any misconceptions about their condition, have been taken into account. Consideration should be given to any communication problems the person may have. Putting this guideline into practice NICE has produced tools and resources to help you put this guideline into practice. Putting recommendations into practice can take time. How long may vary from guideline to guideline, and depends on how much change in practice or services is needed. Implementing change is most effective when aligned with local priorities. Changes recommended for clinical practice that can be done quickly – like changes in prescribing practice – should be shared quickly. This is because healthcare professionals should use guidelines to guide their work – as is required by professional regulating bodies such as the General Medical and Nursing and Midwifery Councils. Changes should be implemented as soon as possible, unless there is a good reason for not doing so (for example, if it would be better
