Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


NLM Citation: Hakim A. Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome. 2004 Oct 22 [Updated 2024 Feb 22]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., ® editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Synonyms: Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Hypermobility Type, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Type III, hEDS Created: October 22, 2004; Updated: February 22, 2024. Summary Clinical characteristics Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) is characterized by generalized joint hypermobility, joint instability, pain, soft and hyperextensible skin with atrophic scars and easy bruising, dental crowding, abdominal hernias, pelvic organ prolapse, marfanoid body habitus, mitral valve prolapse, and aortic root dilatation. Subluxations, dislocations, and soft tissue injury are common; they may occur spontaneously or with minimal trauma and can be acutely painful. Degenerative joint and chronic soft tissue disorders may arise due to repeated injury. Chronic pain, distinct from that associated with acute injury, is common and often neuropathic in nature. Chronic fatigue, functional bowel disorders, cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction, swallow and phonation disorders, sleep disorders including apnea, migraine, entrapment and peripheral neuropathies, inflammation from mast cell activation disorders, anxiety disorders, and urogynecologic disorders are common. Mitral valve prolapse and aortic root dilatation, when present, are typically of a mild degree with no increased risk of cardiac complications. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of hEDS is established in an adult proband based on 2017 international clinical diagnostic criteria. Currently, no underlying genetic, epigenetic, or metabolomic etiology has been identified for hEDS. Management Treatment of manifestations: Tailored treatment with exercise to increase core and extremity muscle strength and tone, proprioception, and joint stability; braces and splints to improve alignment and control; occupational therapy for assistive devices (e.g., wide-grip writing utensils, home and work ergonomics); physical therapy for assistive devices (e.g., wheelchair or scooter, suitable mattress, soft neck collar); pain management tailored to cause and symptoms; platelet disorders may respond to tranexamic or mefenamic acid; nutrition advice for micronutrient deficiencies; gastritis, gastroparesis, and gastroesophageal reflux disease may require intensive pharmacotherapy; therapies for other gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, ocular, neurologic, and urogynecologic 2 GeneReviews ® manifestations; orthodontic, maxillofacial, and ENT management for narrow palate, crowded teeth, temporomandibular joint laxity and dysfunction, and disorders of swallow and phonation; standard treatment of periodontal disease; avoidance of triggers for mast cell activation disorder and pharmacotherapy or monoclonal biologic therapy as needed; counseling and pharmacotherapy for neurobehavioral and psychiatric manifestations. Surveillance: Assess for joint manifestations, pain, disability, bleeding issues, functional bowel disorders, headaches
