Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


disorder and pharmacotherapy or monoclonal biologic therapy as needed; counseling and pharmacotherapy for neurobehavioral and psychiatric manifestations. Surveillance: Assess for joint manifestations, pain, disability, bleeding issues, functional bowel disorders, headaches and other neurologic manifestations, inflammatory disease, neurobehavioral and psychiatric manifestations, and urogynecologic manifestations annually or at each visit. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry in those with height loss greater than one inch, atypical/low trauma fractures, or radiographs suggestive of osteopenia. Follow-up echocardiography in those with aortic root dilatation. Agents/circumstances to avoid: High-impact activity may increase the risk of acute subluxation/dislocation and acute and chronic pain. Chiropractic adjustment and yoga are not contraindicated but like all other physical treatments must be performed in ways that avoid iatrogenic subluxations or dislocations. Autonomic concerns, gastrointestinal disorders, and intolerances may preclude use of medications or their excipients (e.g., common analgesics in someone with slow gastrointestinal transit, vasodilator in a person with orthostatic intolerance). instability, pelvic strength, hernias, and pain management), intrapartum (e.g., birth choices, mobility in labor, addressed. Genetic counseling Hypermobile EDS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with variable expression of signs and variable severity of symptoms among affected family members. Most individuals diagnosed with hEDS have an affecte d parent, although a detailed history and examination of the parents is often necessary to recognize that a parent has a current or prior history of joint laxity, easy bruising, and skin manifestations despite the absence of serious complications. Each child of an individual with hEDS has a 50% chance of inheriting hEDS. Because the gene(s) and pathogenic variant(s) responsible for hEDS have not been identified, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are not possible. Diagnosis The diagnostic criteria for hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) were revised by the International Consortium on Ehlers-Danlos Syndromes and Hypermobility Spectrum Disorders in 2017 [Malfait et al 2017]. Suggestive Findings Hypermobile EDS should be suspected in adult probands (individuals who have reached biologic maturity) with the following clinical features [Malfait et al 2017]: • Joint instability including subluxations and dislocations • Musculoskeletal pain • Soft, hyperextensible skin, with atypical stretchmarks and/or scarring • Dental crowding and a high or narrow-arched palate • Abdominal hernias • Pelvic organ prolapse • A marfanoid body habitus • Mitral valve prolapse and/or aortic root dilatation Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 3 • Family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the
