Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 3 • Family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the diagnosis. criteria including [Hakim et al 2021]: • Chronic fatigue • Easy bruising • Functional bowel disorders (gastroesophageal reflux, gastritis, early satiety, delayed gastric emptying, irritable bowel syndrome, constipation) • Additional cardiovascular manifestations (autonomic dysfunction, Raynaud phenomenon, acrocyanosis) • Reduced efficacy of local anesthetics • Laryngeal and breathing disorders including apnea • Neurologic complications (migraine, Chiari I malformation, cerebrospinal fluid leaks, craniocervical instability and associated cord and nerve root pathology, tethered cord, entrapment and peripheral neuropathy, small fiber neuropathy) • Mast cell activation disorders and immune deficiency including primary immune deficiency • Anxiety disorders • Autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder • Urogynecologic manifestations (dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, interstitial cystitis, urinary incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse) Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of hEDS can be established in an adult proband based on clinical diagnostic criteria [Malfait et al 2017]. The 2017 clinical diagnostic criteria were developed for the diagnosis of adults; many of the clinical features arise over time and may not be present in childhood and adolescence. A clinical diagnostic classificatio n for symptomatic joint hypermobility in younger individuals was developed by Tofts et al . Using this system, affected children are classified as having pediatric generalized hypermobility or pediatric hypermobility spectrum disorder with combinations of comorbid concerns and/or mild skin concerns (see Differenti al manifestations and reevaluation for hEDS should be done when the individual reaches biologic maturity. No underlying genetic etiology has been identified for hEDS, and thus molecular genetic testing cannot be used to establish the diagnosis. The clinical diagnosis of hEDS can be established in an adult proband (an individual who has reached biologic maturity) with all three of the following criteria: 1. Generalized joint hypermobility with a Beighton score of: a. ≥5 for adolescents who have reached biologic majority and adults age ≤50 years b. ≥4 for those age >50 years 2. Evidence of two of the following: systemic manifestations of a more generalized connective tissue disorder, family history, and musculoskeletal complications 3. Exclusion of alternative diagnoses Criterion 1 Generalized joint hypermobility. The following standardized performance of the Beighton test is recommended [Beighton et al 1973]. One point is scored for each of the following: • Passive dorsiflexion of each fifth finger greater than 90 degrees. This should be
