Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


test is recommended [Beighton et al 1973]. One point is scored for each of the following: • Passive dorsiflexion of each fifth finger greater than 90 degrees. This should be assessed with the palm and forearm resting on a flat surface and is considered positive only if the fifth metacarpal-phalangeal 4 GeneReviews ® joint (MCP) can be extended more than 90 degrees. Ability to extend the tip of the fifth finger to a position proximal to the MCP is insufficient to be called positive if the MCP does not extend more than 90 degrees. • Passive apposition of each thumb to the flexor surface of the forearm. This should be assessed with the elbow extended and hand pronated. • Hyperextension of each elbow greater than 10 degrees. This should be measured with a goniometer, with the hand supinated, elbow fully extended, and shoulder abducted to 90 degrees. • Hyperextension of each knee greater than 10 degrees. This should be measured with a goniometer, with the individual standing and knees fully extended. • Ability to place the palms flat on the floor with the knees fully extended. This should be assessed with the knees locked in extension and the feet together and is considered positive only if the total palm of both hands lies flat on the floor just in front of the feet. Slight flexion of the knees, spreading of the feet, failure to get the heels of the palms to the floor, and positioning the hands more than a few inches in front of the feet are common causes of false positive scoring of this point. In individuals with acquired limitation of joint mobility, generalized joint hypermobility may be confirmed in an individual whose Beighton score is one point below the age-specific cutoff if there are two or more positive answers to the five-point questionnaire (5PQ) [Hakim & Grahame 2003]: 1. Can you now (or could you ever) place your hands flat on the floor without bending your knees? 2. Can you now (or could you ever) bend your thumb to touch your forearm? splits? 4. As a child or teenager, did your shoulder or kneecap dislocate on more than one occasion? 5. Do you consider yourself "double-jointed"? positive answers) – but scoring two or more points below the age-specific Beighton cutoff should be assessed further outside of the Beighton score (e.g., shoulders, hips, ankles, toes) for evidence of
