Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


answers) – but scoring two or more points below the age-specific Beighton cutoff should be assessed further outside of the Beighton score (e.g., shoulders, hips, ankles, toes) for evidence of generalized joint hypermobility. In some individuals, joint hypermobility may be local or regional, and these individuals should be evaluated for hypermobility spectrum disorder [Castori et al 2017] (see Differential Diagnosis). Criterion 2 At least two of Features A, B, and C must be present. Feature A. Five or more of the following systemic manifestations of a more generalized connective tissue disorder: • Unusually soft or velvety skin. This is an inherently subjective feature. It should be assessed in the absence of recent application of moisturizer, and a high threshold is recommended. • Mild skin hyperextensibility, assessed at a site lacking excess or loose skin and without evidence of prior trauma by gently pulling until resistance is met. An ideal location is the volar surface of the nondominant forearm, where the upper limit of normal extensibility is 1.5 cm. Extensor surfaces of joints have excess skin and should not be used. More significant extensibility (e.g., >2.0 cm) should prompt consideration of other EDS types. • Unexplained* striae on the back, groin, thighs, breast, and/or abdomen in adolescents, men, or prepubertal females (* i.e., without a history of significant gain or loss of body fat or weight, or other medical conditions such as Cushing syndrome) • Bilateral piezogenic papules of the heel (i.e., herniations of subcutaneous heel fat visible upon standing); must be present bilaterally to be considered positive. • Recurrent or multiple abdominal hernias, such as umbilical, inguinal, or femoral. Hiatal hernia does not count toward this feature. Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 5 • Atrophic scarring involving at least two sites and without the formation of papyraceous and/or hemosideric scars as seen in classic EDS. Atrophic scarring is defined as scars from linear traumatic laceration(s) and/or surgical incision(s) that are unusually shallow and/or wider than the original wound. Atrophic scars as the result of wound infections or inflammatory conditions do not count toward this feature, and elliptical incisions (e.g., for removal of nevi) may be difficult to assess without knowing the size of the original wound. • Pelvic floor, rectal, and/or uterine prolapse in children, men, or nulliparous women without a known predisposing medical cause for the prolapse • Dental crowding (including a history of crowding corrected by orthodontia) and high or
