Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


prolapse in children, men, or nulliparous women without a known predisposing medical cause for the prolapse • Dental crowding (including a history of crowding corrected by orthodontia) and high or narrow palate. Both conditions must be positive to count toward this feature. • Arachnodactyly, defined as either bilateral positive wrist sign or bilateral positive thumb sign • Arm span-to-height ratio ≥1.05 • Mitral valve prolapse, based on echocardiographic criteria • Aortic root dilatation with a z score >2 standard deviations above the mean Feature B. Positive family history, with at least one first-degree relative independently meeting the current diagnostic criteria for hEDS. Feature C. At least one of the following musculoskeletal complications that is most likely accounted for by the presence of joint hypermobility rather than primarily caused by another rheumatologic disorder (see Criterion 3; hEDS and other rheumatologic disorders can co-occur): • Musculoskeletal pain in two or more limbs, recurring daily for at least three months • Chronic widespread pain for at least three months • Recurrent joint dislocations or frank joint instability, in the absence of trauma: ⚬ Three or more atraumatic dislocations in the same joint or two or more atraumatic dislocations in two different joints occurring at different times OR ⚬ Medical confirmation of joint instability at two or more sites not related to trauma Criterion 3 All the following must be met: • Absence of unusual skin, ocular, periodontal, vascular, or visceral organ tissue fragility or skeletal dysplasia, which should prompt consideration of other types of EDS (See Differential Diagnosis.) • Exclusion (based on history, physical exam, and/or molecular genetic testing) of alternative diagnoses associated with joint hypermobility due to hypotonia and/or connective tissue laxity such as neuromuscular disorders, other heritable connective tissue disorders, and skeletal dysplasias (See Differential Diagnosis.) • Other rheumatologic disorders may be the cause of musculoskeletal pain and inflammation (e.g., osteoarthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis); these disorders may coexist with hEDS. In individuals with a rheumatologic disorder, the diagnosis of hEDS requires that sufficient features in Criterion 2, Feature C are due to hEDS and not the co-occurring rheumatologic disorder. Molecular Genetic Testing The etiology of hEDS is unknown; genetic heterogeneity is likely. There are currently no molecular genetic tests available to establish the diagnosis of hEDS. 6 GeneReviews ® Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) is characterized by generalized joint hypermobility, joint instability, pain, soft and
