Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


tests available to establish the diagnosis of hEDS. 6 GeneReviews ® Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) is characterized by generalized joint hypermobility, joint instability, pain, soft and hyperextensible skin with atrophic scars and easy bruising, dental crowding, abdominal hernias, pelvic organ prolapse, marfanoid body habitus, mitral valve prolapse, and aortic root dilatation. Subluxations, dislocations, and soft tissue injury are common; they may occur spontaneously or with minimal trauma and can be acutely painful. Degenerative joint and chronic soft tissue disorders may arise due to repeated injury. Chronic pain, distinct from that associated with acute injury, is common and often neuropathic in nature. Chronic fatigue, swallow and phonation disorders, functional bowel disorders, cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction, migraine, entrapment and peripheral neuropathies and dystonia, urogynecologic disorders, anxiety disorders, and inflammation from mast cell activation disorders are common. Mitral valve prolapse and aortic root dilatation, when present, are typically of a mild degree with no increased risk of cardiac complications. Joint hypermobility and joint instability. Excessive joint range of motion with or without instability in the form of subluxations and/or dislocations is evident in the history and on examination. Younger individuals tend to have more joint laxity than older individuals, and females tend to have more joint laxity than males. Joint laxity with instability, with or without reduced proprioception, increases the risk of the following complications: • Acute joint / soft tissue injury that can last for hours or days after an event. All sites can be involved, including the extremities, vertebral column, costovertebral and costosternal joints, clavicular articulations, and temporomandibular joints. A person may also develop abnormal movement patterns and experience reduced physical function when compensating for joint instability and injury, including fear of movement (kinesiophobia) [Pacey et al 2013, Engelbert et al 2017, Simmonds 2021]. • Chronic joint / soft tissue injury. Osteoarthritis and chronic tendinopathies and bursitis may occur at a younger age than in the general population, possibly because of chronic joint instability resulting in increased mechanical stress. Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) dysfunction is relatively common and is an example of joint degeneration and osteoarthritis [Willich et al 2023]. Hip degenerative disease can lead to conditions such as femoroacetabular impingement [Clapp et al 2021]. Recurring displacement of the patella may contribute to chondromalacia [al-Rawi & Nessan 1997]. Pain. Pain is variable in age of onset (childhood to late adulthood), location, duration, quality, severity, and response to therapy. Chronic
