Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


patella may contribute to chondromalacia [al-Rawi & Nessan 1997]. Pain. Pain is variable in age of onset (childhood to late adulthood), location, duration, quality, severity, and response to therapy. Chronic pain, distinct from that associated with acute injury, can be physically and psychosocially disabling [Chopra et al 2017]. Fatigue and sleep disturbance are frequently associated with pain. Headaches, especially migraines, are common. Cervical muscle tension, temporomandibular dysfunction, and stress may be contributing factors. Several recognizable pain syndromes are reported: • Muscular or myofascial pain, localized around or between joints, often described as aching, throbbing, or stiff in quality, may be attributable to myofascial spasm. Palpable spasm with tender points (consistent with fibromyalgia) is often demonstrable, especially in the paravertebral musculature [Fairweather et al 2023]. Myofascial spasm possibly occurs in response to chronic joint instability, but this has not been systematically studied. Myofascial release often provides temporary relief. • Neuropathic pain, variably described as electric, burning, shooting, tingling, or hot or cold discomfort, may occur in a radicular or peripheral nerve distribution or may appear to localize to an area surrounding one or more joints [Chopra et al 2017]. Nerve conduction studies are usually not diagnostic. Skin biopsy may reveal reduction or absence of small nerve fibers [Fernandez et al 2022]. Neuropathic pain may result from direct nerve impingement due to subluxated vertebrae, herniated discs, vertebral osteoarthritis, or joint subluxations and dislocations. In addition, there may be mild-to-moderate nerve compression within Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 7 areas of myofascial spasm or compression, for example, as seen in thoracic outlet syndrome [Levine & Rigby 2018]. • Pain may arise from tissue damage, including tendon injury and cartilage tears. • Visceral pain arising from the gastrointestinal tract and urogynecologic tissues are common presenting concerns. • Osteoarthritic pain typically presents as aching pain in the joints, frequently associated with stiffness. It is often exacerbated by activity. Skin. The skin is often soft and mildly hyperextensible. Piezogenic papules (small herniations of subcutaneous fat through the underlying dermis of the heel occurring only when weight-bearing) are common but rarely painful. Atypical stretchmarks (e.g., across the back, chest, axilla), atrophic scars, and easy bruising are common findings [Doolan et al 2023]. Spontaneous bruising without obvious trauma or injury is common and can be mistaken for nonaccidental trauma [Castori 2015]. Hematologic. Mildly prolonged bleeding, epistaxis, bleeding from the gums, and menorrhagia may also occur. The bleeding time may or
