Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


is common and can be mistaken for nonaccidental trauma [Castori 2015]. Hematologic. Mildly prolonged bleeding, epistaxis, bleeding from the gums, and menorrhagia may also occur. The bleeding time may or may not be prolonged, and abnormalities of von Willebrand factor and platelet function have been reported. Capillary fragility and/or impaired soft tissue integrity may also play a role [Jesudas et al 2019]. Gastrointestinal (GI). Functional GI disorders, now termed disorders of gut-brain interaction, are common and underrecognized in individuals with hEDS [Thwaites et al 2022]. Gastroesophageal reflux and gastritis may persist despite polytherapy with maximal doses of proton pump inhibitors, H2 blockers, and acid-neutralizing medications. Early satiety and delayed gastric emptying may occur and may be exacerbated by opioids and other medications. Irritable bowel syndrome may manifest with diarrhea and/or constipation, bloating, abdominal cramping, and rectal mucus. Anorectal manifestations include rectocele, rectal prolapse, and hemorrhoids. GI manifestations are associated with cardiovascular autonomic manifestations, mast cell activation disorders, and nutritional deficiencies [Lam et al 2022]. Abdominal wall herniation may be present. In individuals with unexplained GI and pelvic pain, the symptoms may be arising from nerve entrapment in the abdominal wall or from vascular compression syndromes [Sandmann et al 2021]. Cardiovascular • Autonomic dysfunction. Many affected individuals report atypical chest pain, palpitations at rest or on exertion, and/or orthostatic intolerance with syncope or near syncope [Hakim et al 2017, Roma et al 2018]. Clinic room testing may demonstrate postural hypotension and/or postural tachycardia. Ambulatory 24-hour monitoring of heart rate, blood pressure, and symptoms is also an effective method of identifying autonomic dysfunction. Tilt table testing with ancillary supplementary testing such as catecholamine levels can delineate the nature and relationships of hypotension, tachycardia, and syncope, revealing, for example, neurally mediated hypotension [Cheshire & Goldstein 2019]. • Mitral valve prolapse (MVP). The incidence of MVP was 7% in one study of 258 individuals with either hEDS or hypermobility spectrum disorder [Rashed et al 2022]. A similar incidence of MVP was reported in a study of 209 individuals with hEDS or classic EDS (cEDS) [Asher et al 2018]. Studies suggest that MVP is mild, nonprogressive, and does not require routine monitoring. • Aortic root dilatation. The incidence of aortic root dilatation was 15% in one study of 258 individuals with either hEDS or hypermobility spectrum disorder [Rashed et al 2022]. A study of 95 children diagnosed with hEDS or cEDS showed approximately 2% had
