Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


one study of 258 individuals with either hEDS or hypermobility spectrum disorder [Rashed et al 2022]. A study of 95 children diagnosed with hEDS or cEDS showed approximately 2% had aortic root dilatation [Paige et al 2020]. Th e same 2% incidence of aortic root dilatation was found in a study of 62 adults with hEDS [Pietri-Toro et al in 2023]. • Abdominal vascular compression syndromes such as median arcuate ligament syndrome and superior mesenteric artery syndrome have been identified as a cause of pain, disordered eating, and GI dysfunction in individuals with hEDS. In those with GI manifestations that cannot be readily attributed to structural 8 GeneReviews ® malfunction, autonomic dysfunction, or inflammation of the GI tract, abdominal compression syndromes should be considered; symptoms can improve significantly following decompressive surgery [Sandmann et al 2021]. Oral/dental. High, narrow palate and dental crowding are common in individuals with hEDS. Gastroesophageal reflux may cause dental erosion. Many individuals with hEDS report poor efficacy of local anesthetic, often firs t realized during dental treatment and requiring additional dosage or alternative methods of analgesia [Schubart et al 2019]. In addition, many have TMJ dysfunction, which can impede oral assessment [Willich et al 2023], and oral and TMJ concerns may impede use of positive pressure therapies for apnea [Gaisl et al 2017, Sedky et al 2019]. Severe periodontal disease and early-onset dental decay not accounted for by lifestyle is not common in individuals with hEDS and should prompt assessment for periodontal EDS (see Differential Diagnosis) [Lepperdinger et al 2021]. ENT. Hypermobile EDS is associated with variable laryngeal and upper airway inflammation, dysphagia, and dysphonia. Individuals with hEDS are also more likely to report severe airway disease [Williams et al 2023]. Gastroesophageal reflux and mast cell activation disorders both contribute to pharyngeal and throat inflammation. Sleep disturbance. Sleep can be disrupted in individuals with hEDS due to pain and cardiovascular autonomic disturbance. Sleep disorders also appear to be common in hEDS, including obstructive sleep apnea, insomnia, hypersomnia, and periodic limb movement disorder [Gaisl et al 2017, Domany et al 2018, Sedky et al 2019]. Sleep apnea may be underrecognized in women with hEDS, as it is in the general population [Shepertycky et al 2005]. Ocular. Detailed and systematic evaluation of ocular findings in several small cohorts and case control studies have demonstrated that xerophthalmia (dry eye), high myopia (more than −6 diopters), increased lens curvature (but
