Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


and systematic evaluation of ocular findings in several small cohorts and case control studies have demonstrated that xerophthalmia (dry eye), high myopia (more than −6 diopters), increased lens curvature (but not keratoconus), eyelid laxity, minor lens opacities, and convergency insufficiency are more common in individuals with hEDS. Minor increases in corneal curvature and lens opacities are incidental findings in those with hEDS and do not cause problems with vision [Asanad et al 2022]. Neurologic/neuromuscular. Neurologic and neuromuscular diseases reported to be more common in those with hEDS include headaches (primarily migraines, TMJ dysfunction-induced headaches, and relating to neck pathology), intracranial hypertension, intracranial hypotension (e.g., due to cerebrospinal fluid leak), Chiari I malformation, craniocervical instability leading to cervicomedullary syndrome, dystonia, tethered cord, Tarlov cysts, nerve entrapment and deformation neuropathies, reduced proprioception, small fiber neuropathy, and autonomic dysfunction [Hamonet et al 2016, Henderson et al 2017, Malhotra et al 2020, Fernandez et al 2022, Zingman et al 2022]. Mast cell activation disorders (MCAD) and immune deficiencies. MCAD reported in individuals with hEDS include single-organ disease such as asthma, urticaria, and gastroenteritis, as well as multiorgan systemic involvement such as mast cell activation syndrome and anaphylaxis. MCAD may contribute to several of the urologic manifestations, autonomic dysfunction, and joint inflammation [Afrin 2021, Brock et al 2021, Monaco et al 2022]. Primary immune deficiencies such as complement and immunoglobulin deficiencies are also reported in individuals with hEDS. Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations (neurodivergence). Autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder are reported to occur more frequently in those with hEDS and impact psychological, social, and emotional processes [Baeza-Velasco 2021, Csecs et al 2022]. Psychiatric manifestations in individuals with hEDS include depression, anxiety disorders, affective disorder, low self-confidence, negative thinking, hopelessness, and desperation. Fatigue and pain exacerbate the psychological Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 9 dysfunction, and psychological distress exacerbates pain [Bulbena et al 2017, Bulbena-Cabré et al 2021, Eccles et al 2022]. In addition to anxiety disorders, many with hEDS experience a reactive state of anxiety and low mood due to the symptoms and challenges of managing multiple morbidities and the impact these have on daily activities and quality of life. Affected individuals often feel misunderstood, disbelieved, and marginalized. Many with hEDS report difficult encounters with health care professionals and experience clinician-associated traumatization. Resentment and distrust may develop between the affected individual/family and the health care team, adversely affecting the therapeutic relationship [Halverson et al 2023]. Gynecologic/obstetric. Pelvic floor manifestations reported in
