Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


traumatization. Resentment and distrust may develop between the affected individual/family and the health care team, adversely affecting the therapeutic relationship [Halverson et al 2023]. Gynecologic/obstetric. Pelvic floor manifestations reported in individuals with hEDS include urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, rectal prolapse, pelvic pain, and sexual dysfunction with dyspareunia, with 20%-75% of individuals reporting at least one of these [Glayzer et al 2021, Patel & Khullar 2021, Kciuk et al 2023, Nazemi et al 2023]. Dysmenorrhea and menorrhagia are also more common in individuals with hEDS [Hugon-Rodin et al 2016]. Several studies have reviewed the evidence for medical issues reported in childbearing women with hEDS, instability, pelvic strength, hernias, and pain management), intrapartum (e.g., birth choices, mobility in labor, [Pezaro et al 2021, Nazemi et al 2023]. In a large (n=947, with 1,338 pregnancies) international survey of pregnancy complications in individuals with hEDS, a higher incidence was reported for preeclampsia, eclampsia, preterm rupture of membranes, preterm birth, antepartum hemorrhage, postpartum hemorrhage, hyperemesis gravidarum, shoulder dystocia, caesarean wound infection, postpartum psychosis, post-traumatic stress disorder, precipitous labor, and delivery prior to arrival at planned place of birth [Pearce et al 2023]. Nomenclature The 1997 Villefranche criteria [Beighton et al 1998] broadened the classification and nomenclature of the Ehlers- Danlos syndromes based on phenotypic and genetic characteristics. The former EDS type III was renamed the hypermobile type. In 2017, the International Consortium on the Ehlers-Danlos Syndromes and Hypermobility Spectrum Disorders published revised diagnostic criteria, and the name was modified slightly to hypermobile EDS (hEDS) [Malfait et al 2017]. The terms "benign familial articular hypermobility syndrome" and "joint hypermobility syndrome" are no longer used [Grahame et al 2000]. Individuals with hypermobility-related musculoskeletal concerns who do not fulfill the hEDS criteria and are not syndromic in any other way (which would suggest another underlying disorder) are diagnosed with hypermobility spectrum disorders (HSD) [Castori et al 2017, Castori & Hakim 2017]. The 2017 criteria were constructed with adults in mind. Many of these features arise over time and may not be individuals. A framework for the diagnosis in younger people was developed by Tofts et al . In this framework most individuals with symptomatic joint hypermobility are classified as having HSD, with the guidance that younger individuals should be monitored and that their diagnosis can change as concerns arise or resolve. Prevalence [Demmler et al 2019]. A similar prevalence was found in a study of
