Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


younger individuals should be monitored and that their diagnosis can change as concerns arise or resolve. Prevalence [Demmler et al 2019]. A similar prevalence was found in a study of US hospital admissions [Brooks et al 2021]. The reported prevalence of hEDS is likely underestimated due to missed diagnosis. 10 GeneReviews ® Differential Diagnosis Pediatric generalized joint hypermobility (pGJH) and pediatric generalized hypermobility spectrum disorder (pgHSD). A clinical diagnostic classification system to assess joint hypermobility in individuals age five through 18 years (or biologic maturity) has been published [Tofts et al 2023]. The classification system define s eight subtypes based on the presence or absence of skin and tissue involvement, musculoskeletal complications, and other comorbidities. Using this classification system, affected children are classified as having one of eight subtypes of pediatric generalized hypermobility or pediatric hypermobility spectrum disorder (HSD), with the recommendation that younger individuals be monitored for evolving clinical manifestations. Individuals diagnosed with pediatric generalized hypermobility or pediatric hypermobility spectrum disorder should be reevaluated once they reach biologic maturity (or age 18 years) using the 2017 clinical diagnostic criteria for hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (see Establishing the Diagnosis). A description of the clinical assessment and the diagnostic framework in children and adolescents can be found at the Ehlers-Danlos Society website (see 2023 Diagnostic Framework for Pediatric Joint Hypermobility and Diagnostic Checklist [pdf]). All types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) share some degree of joint laxity and skin / soft tissue manifestations. The other forms of EDS are distinguished by additional connective tissue manifestations [Malfait et al 2017] (see Table 1). Table 1. EDS Types in the Differential Diagnosis of Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Gene(s) Disorder 1 MOI Selected Features / Comments • Classic EDS is assoc w/skin & soft tissue fragility. • Mild cEDS presentations – i.e., similar degrees of joint laxity, pain, pelvic prolapse, dyspareunia, & manifestations in the hematologic, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, & ocular systems – may be mistaken for hEDS. The diagnosis may be revised from hEDS to cEDS if there is later development of COL5A1 more significant skin & soft tissue manifestations in the Classic EDS (cEDS) AD COL5A2 (COL1A1) 2 individual or a family member. • Among persons w/all of the skin features of cEDS, incl dystrophic scarring, ~90% have an identifiable pathogenic variant in COL5A1 or COL5A2. 3 In those w/milder skin manifestations (but still more than typically seen in hEDS), no consistent pathogenic variants in any
