Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


from previous page. System/Concern Evaluation Comment Assess for causes of headache (incl craniocervical instability), Neurologic cord & nerve root pathology, dystonia, & peripheral neuropathy. Assess for soft tissue inflammation, co-occurring Inflammation rheumatologic disorders, & mast cell activation disorders. Psychological/ Psychosocial assessment for depression, anxiety, affective Neurobehavioral disorder, autism, & ADHD Assess for interstitial cystitis, urinary incontinence, pelvic Urogynecologic organ prolapse, dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia & dyspareunia. Inform affected persons & their families re Genetic counseling By genetics professionals 1 nature, MOI, & implications of hEDS to facilitate medical & personal decision making. ADHD = attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; hEDS = hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome; MOI = mode of inheritance physician assistant) Treatment of Manifestations Musculoskeletal. Improvement in musculoskeletal function includes tailored treatment with exercise to increase core and extremity muscle strength and tone, proprioception, and joint stability. Improved joint stability may be achieved with exercises to increase muscle strength and reduce muscle tension. Emphasis is often placed on improving movement patterns and on physical function. Braces and splints are useful to improve alignment and control. They may allow an injured joint to rest and support joints during normal activities and exercising to allow greater duration, frequency, and level of activities. Occupational and physical therapy can assist in recommending wide-grip writing utensils to reduce finger and hand strain and evaluate home and work ergonomics as well as assistive devices (e.g., wheelchair or scooter, suitable mattress, soft neck collar). Orthopedists, rheumatologists, and podiatrist can assist in additional recommendations for problematic joints such as the fingers, hands, wrists, shoulders, knees, ankles, and feet. Some individuals will have undergone orthopedic and orthognathic procedures prior to diagnosis. Anecdotally, a lack of awareness of the joint hypermobility and tissue fragility may lead to poorer surgical outcomes, but datasets of outcomes are lacking. Some will require surgical procedures if conservative therapies for hEDS fail or there are significant pathologies present (e.g., impingement disorders, dysplasias, and cord/nerve entrapment with neurologic deficit) [Ericson & Wolman 2017, Henderson et al 2017, Homere et al 2020, Santore et al 2020, Clapp et al 2021, DeLeonibus et al 2024]. Prolotherapy, in which saline and/or other irritants are injected in tendons or around joints to induce scar formation and increase stability, has been objectively shown to be safe and effective in one study [Burling 2019]. Pain. Physical and occupational therapies, dry needling, behavioral therapies, and complimentary therapies are among the treatments reported as most helpful for pain management.
