Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


and effective in one study [Burling 2019]. Pain. Physical and occupational therapies, dry needling, behavioral therapies, and complimentary therapies are among the treatments reported as most helpful for pain management. Among the pharmacologic options, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, acetaminophen, and opioids are reported as the most beneficial [Chopra et al 2017, Demes et al 2020]. To date, there is little or mixed outcome data on efficacy of magnesium, muscle relaxants, and neuropathic analgesia such as duloxetine, gabapentin, and tricyclics for pain treatment in individuals with hEDS, and insufficient published evidence on the efficacy of medical marijuana for hEDS. All of these treatments have been used in clinical practice in the management of pain in individuals with hEDS and must be tailored to the individual needs and adjusted or avoided as required in those with comorbidities. 16 GeneReviews ® Hematologic. Platelet disorders may respond to tranexamic or mefenamic acid. For severe bleeding or operative ® prophylaxis, desmopressin acetate (DDAVP ) may be beneficial. Micronutrient deficiencies may also be responsible for bleeding (e.g., low vitamin C) and anemia (e.g., folate and vitamin B ). Gastrointestinal (GI). Gastritis and gastroesophageal reflux disease may require intensive therapy, including proton pump inhibitor twice daily before meals, high-dose H2 blocker at bedtime (e.g., famotidine, 20-40 mg), sucralfate (one gram four times daily), and over-the-counter acid-neutralizing agents. Other treatable causes such as H pylori infection and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) should be investigated and treated. Upper endoscopy is indicated for resistant symptoms, but frequently is normal. Delayed gastric and colonic emptying should be identified and treated, as should causes of anorectal pain and prolapse. Assistance from a gastroenterologist experienced in managing GI dysmotility and pelvic floor pathology is required. Visceral mobilization therapies may also help. Irritable bowel syndrome is treated as usual with dietary modification , fiber, antispasmodics, antidiarrheals, and laxatives as needed. Motility enhancers may be helpful for those with constipation only. Tricyclic antidepressants may be helpful for persons with neuropathic pain. If no cause for abdominal pain is identified following GI evaluation, doppler ultrasound should be considered to evaluate for vascular compression syndromes that may require surgical correction. Cardiovascular. Standard treatments for neurally mediated hypotension and postural orthostatic tachycardia are advised, including avoidance of sudden postural change, consideration of lower extremity and/or abdominal compression garments, exercise to increase muscle strength and improve tone, supplementation of sodium and water to expand the blood volume, and sometimes
