Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


postural change, consideration of lower extremity and/or abdominal compression garments, exercise to increase muscle strength and improve tone, supplementation of sodium and water to expand the blood volume, and sometimes pharmacologic treatment with beta-blockers, midodrine, fludrocortisone, ivabradine, and/or other medications initiated by a clinician experienced in autonomic medicine. Commercially available electrolyte tablets can facilitate oral expansion of blood volume. Other vascular concerns, including significant aortic root dilatation and abdominal and pelvic vascular for intervention, is defined as ≥0.5 cm in one year. Oral/dental/ENT. Standard treatment of periodontal disease is advised, noting that many individuals may have more fragile periodontal tissues and often have a poor response to local anesthetic that requires additional doses throughout dental procedures or other analgesia. Treatment may also be hampered in those with temporomandibular joint (TMJ) laxity and dysfunction, craniocervical instability, and intolerance of specific or prolonged head and neck positions. For TMJ dysfunction, intraoral devices/retainers may be helpful. Oral rest, local myofascial release, and muscle relaxant medications may be beneficial for acute flares. Surgical intervention may be required. Issues with swallow and phonation should be assessed by an otolaryngologist. Ocular. Standard treatment of ocular concerns is advised. Neurologic/neuromuscular. No specific pharmacologic treatments have been reported for neurologic and neuromuscular diseases in those with hEDS. Standard pharmacologic treatment for neuropathies is advised. Physical therapies are adjusted to account for joint instability, low muscle tone, and fatigue. Surgical stabilization of the craniocervical junction and spinal surgeries require subspecialty expert neurosurgical or orthopedic management. Mast cell activation disorder. Treatments include avoidance of triggers (though for many this is challenging, as they are common in most environments), use of H1 and H2 antihistamines, aspirin, ketotifen, and the mast cell stabilizers montelukast and sodium cromoglycate. In those with severe disease and/or those unresponsive to Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 17 these treatments, monoclonal biologic therapy may be appropriate; this treatment requires expert assessment and management. Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations (neurodivergence). Validation of symptoms can be immensely primary psychiatric disorders. Establishing trust, rapport, and a supportive relationship with the affected individual is important. Anxiety and depression are a common result of the many morbidities a person with hEDS may experience. Psychological and/or symptom-oriented counseling can improve adaptation to and acceptance of these issues and their impact on quality of life. Cognitive behavioral therapy can be beneficial but requires active participation. Antidepressants may also be of benefit. Standard behavioral and pharmacologic therapies should be offered for
