Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; DXA = dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry 1. Since the risk of progression of aortic root dilatation has not yet been defined by longitudinal studies, surveillance should follow the American College of Cardiology / American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines for EDS [Isselbacher et al 2022]. Agents/Circumstances to Avoid High-impact activity may increase the risk for acute subluxation/dislocation and acute and chronic pain. Some sports, such as tackle football, may not be suitable but should be discussed on an individual basis. Most sports and activities are acceptable with appropriate precautions. Chiropractic adjustment and yoga are not contraindicated but must be performed in ways that avoid subluxations or dislocations. Joint hyperextension may not need to be avoided. In a randomized controlled trial of physical therapy among 26 children and adolescents with joint hypermobility and knee pain, those allowed to exercise into hyperextension had similar improvement in pain score and better improvement in psychosocial score compared to those restricted to neutral joint position [Pacey et al 2013]. Autonomic concerns, gastrointestinal disorders, and intolerances, for example, may preclude use of medications or their excipients (e.g., common analgesics in someone with slow gastrointestinal transit, vasodilator in a person with orthostatic intolerance). Topical agents and adhesives should be used cautiously in those with skin fragility and/or allergy. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Pregnancy Management medication use), antenatal evaluation (e.g., joint instability, pelvic strength, hernias, and pain management), intrapartum planning (e.g., birth choices, mobility in labor, anesthesia), and postpartum care (e.g., wound Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 19 Musculoskeletal complications of hEDS including pain and joint instability may arise for the first time or worsen during pregnancy. In women with hEDS there is a higher incidence of preeclampsia, eclampsia, preterm rupture of membranes, preterm birth, antepartum hemorrhage, postpartum hemorrhage, hyperemesis gravidarum, shoulder dystocia, caesarean wound infection, postpartum psychosis, post-traumatic stress disorder, precipitous labor, and delivery prior to arrival at planned place of birth [Alrifai et al 2023, Pearce et al 2023]. Pregnant women with known aortic root dilatation should have an echocardiogram in each trimester. Echocardiography is not needed if the aortic root is normal prior to pregnancy. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical
