Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with variable expression of signs and variable severity of symptoms among affected family members. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Most individuals diagnosed with hEDS are likely to have an affected parent, although a detailed history and examination of the parents is often necessary to recognize that a parent has a current or prior history of joint laxity, easy bruising, and skin concerns despite the absence of serious complications. • A proband with hEDS may be the only family member known to be affected. Sibs of a proband. The risk to sibs of the proband depends on the clinical status of the proband's parents. • If a parent of the proband is affected, the risk to the sibs is 50%. • If both parents are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs is likely to be low. Offspring of a proband • Each child of an individual with hEDS has a 50% chance of inheriting hEDS. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent is affected, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning. It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring) to young adults who are affected. 20 GeneReviews ® DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from a proband diagnosed with hEDS. For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing
