Bookshelf_NBK1279
KEYWORDS: heds, joint, disorders, syndrome, pain, ehlers-danlos, manifestations, individuals, eds, hypermobility, disorder, skin, ehlers-danlos syndrome, hypermobile, diagnosis


in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from a proband diagnosed with hEDS. For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Because the gene(s) and pathogenic variant(s) responsible for hEDS have not been identified, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are not possible at this time. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Ehlers-Danlos Society - Europe United Kingdom Phone: +44 203 887 6132 • MedlinePlus Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome • The Ehlers-Danlos Society Phone: 248-716-8336 ehlers-danlos.com • Ehlers-Danlos Support UK United Kingdom Phone: 0800 907 8518 ehlers-danlos.org Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table B. OMIM Entries for Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (View All in OMIM) 130020 EHLERS-DANLOS SYNDROME, HYPERMOBILITY TYPE; EDSHMB Molecular Pathogenesis No pathogenic variants in any genes have as yet been associated with hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS). Chapter Notes Author Notes Assoc Prof Dr Alan Hakim is an adult certified consultant in Medicine and Rheumatology based in the United Kingdom. Having practiced for more than 30 years in medicine, he has 28 years of experience in rheumatology and translational medicine and 23 years of experience in hypermobility-related disorders. In hospital and board levels. He has project-managed multiple large-scale programs of work across the health sector in the UK. Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome 21 and review papers, six books, and multiple chapters and online pages and webinars. He has also held several roles as a Principal and Chief Investigator in pharmaceutical studies related to rheumatic disorders and been EDS ECHO at The Ehlers-Danlos Society; and a member of the Steering Committee and Chair of the hEDS/HSD Working Group of the International Consortium on the Ehlers-Danlos Syndromes and Hypermobility Spectrum Disorders. Acknowledgments I first wish to thank all my patients for their insights, in good times and in bad, that they have shared with me over many years regarding living with Ehlers-Danlos syndromes (EDS) and hypermobility spectrum disorders. Second, I wish to thank Dr Howard Levy, previous author of this review, for nominating me as his successor. Third, I may not have entered the field had I not undertaken research with Prof Tim Spector and Prof Alex MacGregor, and met
