Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


Chapter 8 Arrhythmia Introduction Arrhythmia is an area of cardiology often feared by generalists. This might be related to the inconsistent terminology used in different centers and countries; or perhaps because the most basic tool of diagnosis, the electrocardiogram (ECG), can at times seem the most esoteric. Whatever the reason, few feel completely comfortable when confronted with a patient with ongoing arrhythmia. Despite this, arrhythmia can be simply managed by asking the following question: is the patient compromised? This is the first and single most important question in the management of your patient. The answer will guide your next steps. If the patient is not compromised – no pain, no dyspnea, normal blood pressure, and fully alert – you have some time. Take a short history and examination, get the patient monitored (preferably), and acquire a 12-lead ECG. The findings will help to make a diagnosis that will guide treatment. If a 12-lead ECG is not available, immediately refer the patient to somewhere that it can be performed. If the patient is compromised – with pain, dyspnea, hypotension, and light headedness – this is an emergency and the patient needs an intravenous (IV) cannula inserted and a defibrillator brought in immediately. Treatment then depends on the diagnosis (see Table 1). Table 1 Possible diagnoses of an arrhythmic patient. Clinical examination can help, whether an ECG is available or not. The key thing to remember is that there are few components in the electrical "wiring" of the heart (see Figure 1) and the pulse can only be fast or slow, regular or irregular. If an ECG is available, is the QRS complex narrow or broad? Broad (>0.12 seconds) is more likely to be ventricular tachycardia (VT) and will generally be more concerning than narrow, which suggests a high depolarization site and is likely to be supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). Figure 1 A diagrammatic representation of the electrical "wiring" of the heart. AV: atrioventricular; SA: sinoatrial. Reproduced with permission from Elsevier Science (Hampton J. The ECG Made Easy. Churchill Livingstone, 2003). Bradycardia Bradycardia is defined as heart rate <60 bpm, regardless of the cause. However, this is not a particularly helpful definition as it is well known that elite athletes can have "normal" heart rates as low as 30 bpm. In general, bradycardia needs attention if it is associated with symptoms, hemodynamic compromise, or is the substrate for escape rhythms. Symptoms associated with
