Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


heart rates as low as 30 bpm. In general, bradycardia needs attention if it is associated with symptoms, hemodynamic compromise, or is the substrate for escape rhythms. Symptoms associated with bradycardia include shortness of breath, fatigue, lethargy, nausea, mental confusion, dizziness, and presyncope or syncope. If there is hemodynamic compromise and interruption of cerebral perfusion is prolonged, grand mal seizures may result (Stokes–Adams attacks). The causes of bradycardia are outlined in Table 2. Causes of bradycardia. Treatment Acute bradycardia only requires treatment if it is associated with hemodynamic compromise or dangerous escape rhythms. This will most often be the case in the setting of inferior myocardial infarction (MI), but check the temperature! IV atropine at a dose of 500 μg can be administered and repeated up to a maximum cumulative dose of 3 mg. If this fails, there are two options. 1. External pacing. This is a temporizing measure only. Most defibrillators have detachable modules to facilitate this. Attach electrode gels anteriorly and posteriorly and pace at 80 bpm. The procedure is distressing for the conscious patient and should be used with sedative analgesia. 2. IV isoproterenol (isoprenaline) infusion. If the parasympathetic system is entirely blocked, the only alternative is to stimulate the sympathetic pathway. However, this is proarrhythmic and not without risk. Sinus node dysfunction Sinus node dysfunction (SND) is also known as tachycardia–bradycardia syndrome and sick sinus syndrome. These terms encompass a spectrum of disorders of cardiac conduction tissue that are not necessarily confined to the sinus node (eg, atrial conducting tissue and even the atrioventricular [AV] node). The cause is not entirely clear, but inflammation, degeneration, and fibrosis of the conducting tissue are characteristic. SND is most common in the elderly. The spectrum of associated arrhythmias is diverse, but usually includes inappropriate sinus bradycardia, sinus pauses (>3 seconds) with junctional escape, sinus arrest (asystolic pause), atrial tachycardia, atrial flutter, and atrial fibrillation (AF). Commonly, there is alternating bradycardia–tachycardia with a normal sinus rate or bradycardia between attacks. Hence, the diagnostic landmarks are palpitations (tachycardia), dizziness, and syncope (bradycardia), although the disease is often asymptomatic. SND is diagnosed by a 12-lead ECG and Holter monitoring. Although there is no evidence of mortality benefit (SND does not seem to cause fatal asystolic arrest), consensus exists that a pacemaker (AAI, DDD – see p.135 for a description of the pacemaker codes) should be implanted if there is a clear relationship
