Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


cause fatal asystolic arrest), consensus exists that a pacemaker (AAI, DDD – see p.135 for a description of the pacemaker codes) should be implanted if there is a clear relationship between bradycardia and cerebral symptoms in the absence of drugs – a diagnosis that may be difficult to secure. In addition, a pacemaker may be considered (AAI, DDD) when bradycardia is secondary to drug therapy necessary to limit tachycardia. Carotid sinus syndrome This term refers to hypersensitivity of the baroreceptor reflex, leading to bradycardia and hypotension. It is usually caused when pressure is applied to the neck around the area of the carotid sinus, eg, when shaving or by wearing a tight shirt collar. It can be predominantly cardioinhibitory (bradycardia, AV block) or vasodepressive (hypotension). Diagnosis is by ECG monitoring during carotid sinus massage. Patients with >3 seconds of asystole benefit from permanent dual-chamber pacing (DDI). Single-lead atrial pacing is contraindicated because it offers no protection against AV block. In patients with predominant vasodepressor syncope or mixed forms of the condition, pacing only prevents symptoms due to asystole or bradyarrhythmia; it does not prevent neurologic symptoms due to reflex hypotension. Syncope 2/18 Syncope is defined as a sudden transient loss of consciousness and postural tone with spontaneous recovery. A careful diagnostic evaluation, though often difficult, is imperative in all patients. A vast variety of conditions may result in syncope, including any condition causing relative cerebral hypoxia for ≥10 seconds. It occurs as a result of low cardiac output and can be a consequence of mechanical, rhythm, and vascular disturbances, and noncardiac causes (see Table 3). Table 3 Disturbances that can lead to syncope. It should be kept in mind that generalized tonic/clonic movements can be the result of syncope, rather than the cause of it. Evaluation It can be difficult to identify the cause of syncope. Initial clinical evaluation should include supine and erect blood pressures and heart rate measurements. Blood glucose, serum electrolytes, hematocrit, and drug levels (if appropriate) should also be obtained. Assessment of a syncopal event requires information from both the patient and a witness; the pattern can be helpful (see Table 4). A baseline 12-lead ECG may suggest possible causes such as ischemia, Wolff– Parkinson–White (WPW) syndrome, or a prolonged QT interval. In most cases, it will be necessary to refer the patient for additional testing (see Figure 2). Additional testing may include the following. Table
