Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


β-blockers, digitalis, and calcium-channel blockers). Figure 7 Electrocardiogram of third-degree atrioventricular block. Bradyarrhythmia in atrial fibrillation In patients with intermittent or chronic AF, AV node dysfunction is not an uncommon finding. Clearly, this will be aggravated by many of the rate-limiting drugs given to control the ventricular rate. In these cases, consideration should be given to the implantation of a pacemaker to protect against bradycardia while still allowing pharmacological control of a rapid ventricular rate. Bundle branch block A problem in the bundle of His presents in an identical fashion to a combined block of both bundles, ie, complete heart block. However, a more common occurrence is an isolated left or right bundle branch block. These are usually distinct from any problem with AV conduction (ie, they usually coexist with normal sinus rhythm [SR]). The patterns of the ECG are characteristic, but highly variable; the hallmark is a wide QRS complex. In left bundle branch block (LBBB), the pattern is best detected in V6 where there is an "M" pattern, while in V1 there is a "W" pattern (see Figure 8). In right bundle branch block (RBBB), the pattern is best detected in V1 where there is an RSR complex, while in V6 there is a QRS complex (see Figure 8). Figure 8 Electrocardiogram patterns of left bundle branch block and right bundle branch block. In fact, both LBBB and RBBB are found in the "normal" population. New LBBB is cause for concern, and if it can clearly be related to an acute episode of chest pain then it probably 5/18 indicates MI. Both RBBB and LBBB probably indicate increased risk for cardiovascular disease; however, neither on its own is an indication for pacing. Fascicular block One confusing aspect of electrocardiology is the terminology used to describe blocks of the fascicles (see Figure 9). The confusion arises from the fact that the right bundle is included in the list of three fascicles: Figure 9 Fascicular block. left anterior fascicle left posterior fascicle right bundle branch Left anterior and left posterior fascicular block Fascicular block causes axis deviation on the ECG. Therefore, left anterior hemiblock causes left axis deviation (see Figure 10), while left posterior hemiblock causes right axis deviation (see Figure 11). Figure 10 Left axis deviation. Figure 11 Right axis deviation. Bifascicular block The term "bifascicular block" refers to a block of any two of the three fascicles. Clearly,
