Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


Figure 11). Figure 10 Left axis deviation. Figure 11 Right axis deviation. Bifascicular block The term "bifascicular block" refers to a block of any two of the three fascicles. Clearly, this should include LBBB (left anterior + left posterior); however, the term is usually reserved for: RBBB + left anterior hemiblock, ie, RBBB + left axis deviation RBBB + left posterior hemiblock, ie, RBBB + right axis deviation (the axis is usually normal in RBBB) Bifascicular block is not in itself an indication for pacing. However, when combined with intermittent second- or third-degree block, a DDD pacemaker should be fitted. Trifascicular block Trifascicular block refers to a block of all three fascicles (but with intact AV conduction). It usually refers to LBBB + a long PR interval. Although trifascicular block is not strictly speaking an indication for permanent pacing, some centers carry this out on the basis that it must reflect extensive conducting tissue damage. Nonspecific intraventricular conduction defect Another term that is sometimes used is "nonspecific intraventricular conduction defect". This usually refers to an abnormal ECG that does not clearly fit any of the patterns described above. 6/18 The QRS complex will generally not be wide, but the waveform will be atypical. It is of unknown significance, but is likely to be benign. Tachyarrhythmia The general principle of patient management outlined at the beginning of this chapter holds true for patients suffering from tachyarrhythmia: is the patient compromised? And, as above, the use of an ECG will be critical when making the diagnosis. However, you will often be called to see a patient in the community where no ECG is available. In this situation, try to make a diagnosis based on the defibrillator monitor. Most patients with tachyarrhythmia will require referral, but making your own diagnosis can only help the situation. The key questions are: do the results show broad (>0.12 seconds) or narrow complexes? are they regular or irregular? More sophisticated interpretation of the ECG is helpful, but the answers to these key questions will be sufficient to guide the immediate management (see Table 5). Table 5 Possible diagnoses of tachyarrhythmias based on the electrocardiogram. Sinus tachycardia Sinus tachycardia is usually a response to physiological stress such as exercise or anxiety, and it may be the result of an abnormally heightened sympathetic tone. Abnormal pathological causes include fever, hypotension, anemia, thyrotoxicosis, hypovolemia, pulmonary emboli, myocardial ischemia, and shock.
