Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


exercise or anxiety, and it may be the result of an abnormally heightened sympathetic tone. Abnormal pathological causes include fever, hypotension, anemia, thyrotoxicosis, hypovolemia, pulmonary emboli, myocardial ischemia, and shock. Nicotine, caffeine, alcohol, and some medications (sympathetic agonists or parasympatholytic agents) are frequently the underlying cause of sinus tachycardia. The QRS complexes are preceded by P waves of normal morphology, duration, and axis. Sinus tachycardia alone does not require any treatment, but the underlying cause should be determined. Atrial tachycardia Atrial tachycardia can occur in the presence of cardiac or pulmonary disease at a rate varying from 140 to 240 bpm. P-wave morphology is generally different from that during SR, but the P– QRS relationship remains 1:1 (see Figure 12). Some atrial tachycardias are catecholamine sensitive; in this case, a β-blocker is appropriate therapy. Curative radiofrequency ablation of atrial tachycardia is effective in 70% of cases. For refractory cases, creation of complete heart block by radiofrequency catheter ablation with implantation of a permanent dual-chamber pacemaker provides control of the rate and avoids drug toxicity. Figure 12 Electrocardiogram of atrial tachycardia. Atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia AV nodal re-entrant tachycardia (AVNRT) accounts for more than 70% of cases of paroxysmal SVT (see Figures 13 and 14). This is also termed "classic" SVT with fast (140–250 bpm) narrow complexes and no P waves. Initial management involves interventions to increase vagal tone. These should only be carried out on a monitored patient, and include: Figure 13 7/18 Electrocardiogram of atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia. Figure 14 Mechanisms of re-entrant tachycardia. AVN: atrioventricular node; AVNRT: atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia; SR: sinus rhythm; VT: ventricular tachycardia. carotid sinus massage – apply firm pressure to one carotid artery at the level of the upper thyroid cartilage and move a small distance back and forth for up to 5 seconds (check for bruits first) Valsalva maneuver – the patient should take a deep breath, then attempt to exhale forcefully against a closed glottis for up to 15 seconds diving reflex – this vestigial reflex, which allows marine animals to lower their metabolism when diving underwater, exists in humans and can increase vagal tone. Suddenly immerse the patient's face in very cold water In a number of patients, the tachycardia (ie, AVNRT) terminates spontaneously with these maneuvers. However, if it does not, you should consider an adenosine challenge. This procedure involves rapid IV injections of increasing doses of adenosine (3–16
