Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


(ie, AVNRT) terminates spontaneously with these maneuvers. However, if it does not, you should consider an adenosine challenge. This procedure involves rapid IV injections of increasing doses of adenosine (3–16 mg). Adenosine has a very short half-life (10 seconds) and produces temporary AV block, which can interrupt re-entry. This procedure is also very useful diagnostically, as the transient AV block can unmask an underlying atrial rhythm. The use of a short-acting β-blocker (eg, esmolol) or a calcium-channel blocker (eg, verapamil) has also been found to be safe and effective in terminating AVNRT. Verapamil is particularly useful in patients with asthma, in whom adenosine is contraindicated. Symptomatic patients with frequent episodes of AVNRT can be considered for radiofrequency catheter ablation of the "slow" pathway; this can be successfully ablated in more than 95% of cases. Ventricular pre-excitation Pre-excitation is defined as an early depolarization of the ventricular myocardium that occurs prior to any conduction through the AV node. The most common condition in which this is seen is WPW syndrome, where there is an accessory AV pathway called the bundle of Kent. The anomalous conducting system can be located anywhere around the mitral or tricuspid rings. Most WPW patients have no evidence of structural heart disease. In the majority of cases, there is only a single accessory connection and the electrophysiological properties of the anomalous pathway differ from those of the AV node. Conduction through the accessory connection is faster and is independent of the heart rate. Consequently, the ventricular myocardium is activated from two directions: through the normal system and through the accessory pathway. The resulting QRS complex is a product of fusion of the two distinct activation wavefronts. Since conduction over the accessory pathway is faster, the initial part of the QRS complex represents ventricular activation through this route (delta wave – see Figure 15). Figure 15 Electrocardiogram of Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome. The medical treatment of acute arrhythmias in WPW syndrome depends on the type of tachycardia. ECG results can help to determine this. A narrow complex indicates that accessory pathway re-entry is occurring. Treatment should include vagal maneuvers and adenosine as 8/18 above. A broad complex is likely to be seen when AF is present, and can be particularly dangerous in WPW syndrome. It is characterized by rapid, irregular, wide complexes and should be treated by immediate direct current (DC) cardioversion. Adenosine, verapamil, and digoxin are not appropriate treatments
