Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


dangerous in WPW syndrome. It is characterized by rapid, irregular, wide complexes and should be treated by immediate direct current (DC) cardioversion. Adenosine, verapamil, and digoxin are not appropriate treatments as they increase the possibility of VT. Following acute therapy, radiofrequency catheter ablation can be used as a curative treatment for symptomatic patients with an accessory pathway. Pathways can be successfully ablated in more than 90% of all cases and the recurrence rate after successful ablation is approximately 8%–10%. Severe complications are rare, occurring in 2% of all cases. In the Beginning… Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome was first described by Frank Norman Wilson in 1915. Another case in a 19-year-old student was reported by Wedd in 1921, and Louis Wolff, John Parkinson, and Paul Dudley White alluded to these two descriptions when they described the disorder in 1930. The original article by these three authors contained an account of a form of bundle branch block in 11 healthy young adults who were subject to episodes of paroxysmal tachycardia. The relative contributions of the authors are uncertain. Wolff (1898–1972) and White (1886–1973) were both US cardiologists, while Parkinson (1885– 1976) was an English physician: one patient had been seen at the London Hospital, while most of the others were examined in Boston. White was a giant of cardiology – he studied the ECG with Thomas Lewis and was a strong advocate of heart disease prevention through exercise, especially bicycle exercise. A bike path in Boston is named after him. Ventricular tachycardia In the acute situation, broad complex tachycardias present a diagnostic challenge because SVT with aberrant conduction can be difficult to distinguish from VT. As mentioned previously, the key question remains – is the patient compromised? Certain features on the ECG can help to distinguish VT from SVT (see Figure 16): Figure 16 Electrocardiogram of ventricular tachycardia. a very broad QRS complex (>0.14 seconds) AV dissociation (but P waves are often difficult to distinguish in broad complex tachycardias) concordance (all QRS complexes in V1–V6 are either positive or negative) fusion beats capture beats However, the key test is an adenosine challenge, which will interrupt an SVT but have no effect on VT. If VT is clear from the ECG or adenosine challenge has no effect and the patient is compromised, immediate DC cardioversion is needed. If there is time, a short-acting induction agent should be administered (or IV midazolam can be used). If
