Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


no effect and the patient is compromised, immediate DC cardioversion is needed. If there is time, a short-acting induction agent should be administered (or IV midazolam can be used). If the patient is losing consciousness, even this can be bypassed. Finally, if the patient loses their pulse, the cardiac arrest protocol should be immediately instituted (see Chapter 1, Cardiac arrest). If the patient is only mildly compromised or suffering recurrent episodes, other therapeutic options are: 9/18 IV amiodarone IV magnesium IV lidocaine (lignocaine) (no left ventricular [LV] dysfunction) overdrive pacing (this needs a temporary wire. The stimulator rate is turned up above the VT rate [usually ×3] to "capture" ventricular depolarization, and then gradually turned down) The chronic investigation and management of VT will be carried out by a specialist (and probably a cardiologist with a special interest in electrophysiology). Investigation will center on finding a cause of VT. In the acute situation, there is often an obvious precipitating event (eg, MI). However, the most common cause of recurrent VT is ischemic heart disease. Another key aspect of the investigation will be distinguishing between polymorphic and monomorphic VT. The former, in which complexes vary within or between episodes in their pattern, has a stronger association with sudden death. In difficult cases of VT, invasive electrophysiological testing (often with concurrent coronary angiography) is warranted. Control of chronic VT is pharmacological – typical drugs that are used include sotalol, flecainide, amiodarone, propafenone, and disopyramide – although radiofrequency ablation of the right ventricular (RV) outflow tract VT can be successful, and in some cases an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) can save lives. Ventricular ectopics Ventricular ectopics, sometimes known as ventricular premature beats, are common in the general population. The shape of the complex is highly variable and depends on the ventricular source. Their significance is debated. They can be a marker of coronary disease and increased risk, but, without a precipitating cause, treatment generally does not lower risk. Electrolyte abnormalities should be excluded. If ventricular ectopics appear frequently during exercise (eg, an exercise tolerance test), the patient should be investigated further for coronary artery disease. Torsades de pointes This is a form of polymorphic VT that occurs when the SR shown on an ECG has a prolonged QT interval. The ECG exhibits a continuously changing axis (hence, "turning of points"; see Figure 17), which can look like ventricular fibrillation (VF). The prolonged
