Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


an ECG has a prolonged QT interval. The ECG exhibits a continuously changing axis (hence, "turning of points"; see Figure 17), which can look like ventricular fibrillation (VF). The prolonged QT interval can be caused by: Figure 17 Electrocardiogram showing torsades de pointes. antiarrhythmic agents hypokalemia hypomagnesemia bradycardia However, in very rare cases it may be congenital (Jervell and Lange–Nielsen syndrome or Romano–Ward syndrome). Atrial fibrillation AF is the single most common cardiac arrhythmia. It is a condition where there is disorganized electrical and mechanical activity of the atria with a mechanism of multiple re-entrant wavelets. 10/18 It may be chronic or occur in a paroxysmal fashion (see Table 6). On the ECG, it is recognized as an irregular rhythm with absent P waves (see Figure 18). Low-amplitude wavelets are frequently seen, but in many cases the baseline is flat. Usually, the ventricular response is controlled by the physiological conduction delay of the AV node and the ventricular response is slower in patients with diseases of the conducting system, in the elderly, or in individuals receiving medications that impair AV nodal conduction (eg, β-blockers, digitalis, or calcium-channel blockers). With intense sympathetic stimulation, it may be as rapid as 160–180 bpm. Table 6 Classification of atrial fibrillation. Figure 18 Electrocardiogram of atrial fibrillation with irregular rhythm and absent P waves. The clinical manifestations of AF range from a complete absence of symptoms (usually in the young and fit) to hemodynamic collapse (in the elderly or those with systolic dysfunction). In addition to symptoms of palpitations, patients with AF have an increased risk of stroke and may also develop decreased exercise tolerance and LV dysfunction. The incidence of AF increases with age and its development is concentrated in patients with hypertensive heart disease, congestive heart failure, and rheumatic heart disease; the association with coronary artery disease is not as strong as with these other conditions. Among the noncardiac causes of AF, the association is strongest with hyperthyroidism, electrolyte abnormalities, and alcohol excess. The patient with newly discovered AF You will often be faced with a patient presenting with or without symptoms of AF, and an ECG showing the classic irregular rhythm with a flat or irregular baseline (see Figure 18). The approach to management is guided, as before, by the clinical picture – is the patient compromised? If the answer is yes, you should refer immediately. If not, you then have to
