Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


to management is guided, as before, by the clinical picture – is the patient compromised? If the answer is yes, you should refer immediately. If not, you then have to decide whether the AF is persistent or paroxysmal (see Figure 19). A large proportion of patients experience spontaneous cardioversion within 24–48 hours of AF onset, but it is rarely clear whether this is their first episode. The best approach is to teach the patient to take his or her own pulse and monitor its regularity. This way, you can gain some idea of how long the patient spends in AF and in SR over the next few days. Figure 19 Pharmacological management of patients with newly discovered atrial fibrillation (AF). HF: heart failure. Reproduced with permission from the European Society of Cardiology (Fuster V, Ryden LE, Asinger RW. ACC/AHA/ESC Guidelines for the Managment of Patients (more...) If they spontaneously cardiovert, chronic treatment of paroxysmal AF takes three forms: anticoagulation rate control (if necessary) antiarrhythmics (the choice of which is guided by symptoms) 11/18 Most recent studies show that even patients with paroxysmal AF or successful cardioversion should remain on anticoagulation (warfarin, international normalized ratio [INR] 2–3) since these individuals have a greater risk of cerebrovascular events than of bleeding complications. The use of rate control and antiarrhythmics is also individualized – some patients will require neither. However, a good choice is a beta-blocker (eg, carvedilol, metoprolol), which can impact both of these factors. Another choice for patients with heart failure or hypertension associated with AF is flecainide (in the absence of coronary artery disease) or amiodarone (if coronary artery disease is present). If, several days following chronic treatment, patients remain in AF, there are two avenues of management: accept progression to permanent AF (and attend to rate control and anticoagulation) or attempt cardioversion. Deciding between the two (the decision will often be in the hands of the cardiologist) is influenced by several factors: How long has AF been present? How likely is SR to be maintained? What is the risk of thromboembolism? How severe are the symptoms? Patients with longstanding AF or AF caused by structural abnormalities are least likely to stay in SR. Most cardiologists would agree that every patient should have one attempt at restoration of SR. However, this is not always the best policy. For example, in an elderly patient with asymptomatic, rate-controlled AF, the toxicity of
