Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


patient should have one attempt at restoration of SR. However, this is not always the best policy. For example, in an elderly patient with asymptomatic, rate-controlled AF, the toxicity of antiarrhythmics may outweigh the benefit of restoration of SR. The following points regarding treatment are helpful when treating a patient with AF. Regardless of the treatment strategy, all patients should have an ECG, chest x-ray, echo, and testing of thyroid function. If the decision is made to accept permanent AF, then control the rate with a combination of digoxin, a β-blocker, or a rate-limiting calcium-channel antagonist, and anticoagulate with warfarin, aiming for an INR of 2–3. The INR should be determined weekly (at least) in the initial stages and monthly thereafter. Patients over the age of 75 years who are considered at high risk for bleeding complications can be targeted to a lower INR of 2. In patients with contraindications to full anticoagulation, a daily dose of 300 mg aspirin can be used as an alternative to warfarin. If elective cardioversion is to be attempted, patients should be anticoagulated for 4 weeks with warfarin (aim for an INR of 2–3.5) and potassium levels should be kept in the upper normal range (>4.2 mmol) as this increases the chance of success of the cardioversion. Cardioversion can be electrical or chemical. If DC cardioversion is used, the patient receives a general anesthetic with a short-acting induction agent (usually propofol) and then receives shocks (synchronized to the R waves) of increasing energy: 100 J, 200 J, 360 J, and 360 J using paddles on the anterior and posterior chest (the patient lies on their side). Chemical cardioversion is also possible using flecainide. In the event of successful cardioversion, patients should continue warfarin for at least 4 weeks. This is because the thromboembolic risk relates to "stunned" atria that do not resume normal mechanical function during this time. 12/18 Famous Scots The first insight into the mechanism of irregular pulse in atrial fibrillation was provided by James Mackenzie, a Scottish GP who used an ink polygraph to record and label jugular venous pulses. He noticed that the jugular "a" wave was lost when patients went from a normal to an irregular rhythm. New directions in the management of atrial fibrillation It has recently been established that triggers in pulmonary veins can initiate AF and that circumferential or segmental disconnection of these veins at the
