Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


in the management of atrial fibrillation It has recently been established that triggers in pulmonary veins can initiate AF and that circumferential or segmental disconnection of these veins at the left atrial junction can provide effective therapy. In certain patients, success rates for catheter-based pulmonary vein isolation range from 70% to 90%, but more than one procedure is often necessary. Surgery for AF is now usually reserved for use as an adjunctive treatment in patients having mitral or coronary surgery. Nevertheless, the large experience of the Maze procedure provides an important source of information to guide those performing catheter ablation. The Maze procedure was designed to exclude any place in the atria where the macro re-entrant circuits that underlie AF can form. Until recently, this involved an extensive series of atrial incisions, but the more recent cryosurgical Maze is just as effective and technically less demanding. Atrial flutter Atrial flutter is a rapid, regular rhythm with atrial rates of 250–350 bpm. The ventricular response rate varies, but it is usually a 2:1 block (creating the classic 150 bpm regular ventricular rhythm). The ECG pattern is typical – classic flutter waves are positive in the inferior leads and negative in lead V1 (see Figure 20). Figure 20 Electrocardiogram of atrial flutter. Overall, atrial flutter is managed very much like AF: if the patient is hemodynamically compromised, one treatment option is DC cardioversion with low energy (50–100 J) a relatively easy way to convert atrial flutter to SR in the hospital setting is to use overdrive pacing in the high right atrium (RA) radiofrequency catheter ablation is now considered a curative approach in patients with recurrent atrial flutter. It can be eliminated by creating a linear lesion in the isthmus between the tricuspid annulus and the inferior vena cava. Acute success rates of 85%–90% and recurrence rates of 10%–15% have been reported patients with atrial flutter require anticoagulation therapy and, although there is more effective atrial contraction in atrial flutter (which may explain the decreased incidence of thromboembolism), guidelines are similar to those for AF Pacemakers Implantation of a permanent electronic replacement for the heart's natural pacemaker began in the 1950s and is now a well-established treatment that increases patient longevity and improves their quality of life. Since its invention, advances in programmability, telemetry, and the ability to sense and pace two chambers have improved the level of care that can be
