Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


improves their quality of life. Since its invention, advances in programmability, telemetry, and the ability to sense and pace two chambers have improved the level of care that can be provided. Miniaturization has made the process of implantation more straightforward and long-term 13/18 complications less common. Advances in pacemaker technology mean that several new indications are likely to be added to the standard ones (see Table 7). Table 7 Standard indications for pacemakers. Pacemaker codes Pacemaker codes are, to many, one of the most confusing aspects of electrocardiology (see Table 8). In fact, the labels, which are standardized, tell you all you need to know about the underlying programming and, in combination with the basic electrical wiring diagram of the heart (see Figure 1), can allow you to diagnose most problems. Table 8 Pacemaker codes. The first letter refers to the chamber or chambers paced (atrium, ventricle, both [dual]). The second letter refers to the chamber sensed (atrium, ventricle, both [dual]) and the third letter details the response to sensing (triggered, inhibited, both [dual]). Thus, the most common pacemaker codes are the following. 1. DDD – this box senses both chambers and if it detects a missing or late atrial or ventricular contraction it will pace one or both. The most common scenarios are: sinus bradycardia – atrial pacing will "kick in" and, assuming AV conduction is normal, no ventricular pacing will occur AV block (Mobitz type II; third-degree) – the ventricle is paced either following a normal atrial contraction or a paced atrial contraction. The benefit of this – that ventricular contraction will "track" the increased atrial rate of exercise tachycardia – is also its biggest drawback; it will also increase the ventricular pacing rate in the presence of abnormally increased atrial contraction, eg, atrial tachycardia 2. VVI – this type of box is considerably cheaper than those boxes capable of DDD programming. It senses and paces only the ventricle and, consequently, only requires one lead. VVI boxes are indicated for use in AF with bradycardia and AV block, and in sinus bradycardia with no AV block. They can cause pacemaker syndrome and retrograde atrial tachycardia. They can also trigger AF. 3. AAI – this device senses and paces only the atrium. It does not pace if a normal P wave is sensed. Thus, it is indicated for use in sick sinus syndrome to prevent bradycardia. 4. Rate-adaptive pacemakers,
