Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


only the atrium. It does not pace if a normal P wave is sensed. Thus, it is indicated for use in sick sinus syndrome to prevent bradycardia. 4. Rate-adaptive pacemakers, eg, VVI(R). Some patients do not elevate their heart rate normally in response to exercise. This is known as chronotropic incompetence, and is defined as a failure to elevate the heart rate to 70% of predicted heart rate or to >100 bpm. It is most common in sick sinus syndrome (40% of cases), but it can also occur in AF. The solution to this condition is to use a rate-adaptive pacemaker. This type of pacemaker uses one of three methods to detect the need for an increased heart rate and responds accordingly. Examples of detection methods are: mechanical accelerometers that detect movement; changes in transthoracic impedance that can be used to detect changes in ventilation or RV filling; and QT sensors that respond to the shortening of the paced QT interval by catecholamines. Implantation 14/18 Pacemaker implantation is carried out under sedation. Leads are inserted via the subclavian or cephalic vein into the RA and/or RV. Atrial leads are J-shaped and are positioned in the right atrial appendage (anteriorly and superiorly in the RA). Ventricular leads are positioned in the RV apex. Most ventricular leads are placed in position and left against the myocardial wall. In certain circumstances, eg, when these leads become easily displaced or do not provide adequate threshold values, an active fixation lead can be used. This lead has a screw "thread" on its end – usually covered by a dissolvable tip, so that it is not exposed until it is in position – that allows the lead to be fixed into the myocardium. After the leads are positioned, a series of tests are carried out to determine if the lead position is satisfactory from an electrical point of view. These would typically assess: threshold the voltage required to cause a contraction. This increases if the lead is not well- positioned and can be a sensitive method of detecting poor placement lead impedance this is a test of the integrity of the lead. It is essentially a measure of electrical resistance and is measured in Ohms abnormal stimulation of the phrenic nerve a high-voltage protocol tests for a diaphragmatic twitch Once all the required tests are completed, the pacemaker pocket (in the fascia overlying the pectoral muscle)
