Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


stimulation of the phrenic nerve a high-voltage protocol tests for a diaphragmatic twitch Once all the required tests are completed, the pacemaker pocket (in the fascia overlying the pectoral muscle) is created by blunt dissection and the wound sutured. The Pacemaker's Maker Canadian John Hopps invented the first cardiac pacemaker. Hopps was trained as an electrical engineer at the University of Manitoba and joined the National Research Council in 1941, where he conducted research on hypothermia. While experimenting with radiofrequency heating to restore body temperature, Hopps made an unexpected discovery: if a heart stopped beating due to cooling, it could be started again by artificial stimulation using mechanical or electrical means. In 1950, this led to Hopps' invention of the world's first cardiac pacemaker. His device was far too large to be implanted inside the human body – it was an external pacemaker. Complications Acute complications will generally occur in hospital. These may include pneumothorax, RV perforation and cardiac tamponade, and hematoma. Chronic complications are more likely to present to the generalist. Lead infection is fortunately rare, but can present a very difficult management problem. Skin commensals are the most common culprits in right-sided endocarditis. If you suspect this, you should immediately refer the patient for an echo and blood cultures. Treatment is initially with antibiotics, but the lead system should be quickly replaced if this is unsuccessful. Lead displacement can occur as a result of concurrent right-sided pathology, eg, RV dilatation or valve abnormalities, and can be detected by changes in threshold. Changes in impedance can point to deterioration of old wires or loss of insulation properties. Subclavian vein or superior vena cava occlusion is more common with multiple lead systems. Classic signs include unilateral superficial vein engorgement around the upper thorax, neck, and face. 15/18 Erosion occasionally occurs if the pacemaker box becomes gradually more superficial. Unless it causes chronic pain, or erodes completely, it does not demand referral. Some patients move their own box back and forward under the skin (Twiddler's syndrome). This can cause hemorrhage or lead breaks. Infection of the implantation site can be problematic and should be taken seriously. In the early stage, superficial redness of the skin or swelling around the box will be noticed. For this, standard treatment is indicated, eg, a skin swab, cloxacillin (flucloxacillin) (oral dosage, 500 mg four times daily). If the infection does not respond, or if you
