Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


be noticed. For this, standard treatment is indicated, eg, a skin swab, cloxacillin (flucloxacillin) (oral dosage, 500 mg four times daily). If the infection does not respond, or if you suspect deep infection for another reason, eg, marked constitutional symptoms, refer immediately. Infections resistant to antibiotic therapy demand box and lead extraction – a procedure not without difficulty or complications. Pacemaker syndrome occurs in some patients with a VVI pacemaker who are in SR. It is thought to relate to the fact that although sometimes the atria contract "in time" and cardiac output is normal, at other times they contract against closed AV valves, which causes elevated venous pressure and a fall in cardiac output. The patient will experience dizziness, and the solution is to upgrade the patient to a DDD pacemaker. Finally, atrial-sensing pacemakers, eg, DDD, respond to atrial arrhythmia with tachycardic pacing. If this happens, it is possible to alter the program (to DDI or set an upper rate limit) or use antiarrhythmic drugs. This problem can be avoided by using a mode-switching pacemaker that detects atrial arrhythmia and switches to VVI. Pacemaker ECGs ECGs are harder to interpret in a patient with a pacemaker as there are more variables; although the pacing spikes are usually straightforward to recognize. It is important to remember that the paced QRS complex will be in an LBBB pattern because the wave of depolarization begins where the lead is placed in the RV. Doctor, I have a pacemaker, what should I avoid? This is a common question that patients ask. In general, patients should live life as normal. They should avoid magnetic resonance imaging studies, and care should be taken with the following: electrocautery during surgery – this can cause sensing problems therapeutic radiation cardioversion/defibrillation – this should be carried out using the lowest effective energy with the paddles in the anterior–posterior positions on the body of the patient mobile phones – these should not be placed in a shirt pocket next to the pacemaker car batteries – batteries can produce large magnetic fields. Again, this is only a problem if the person is leaning over and the pacemaker comes close to the battery high-voltage cables Most manufacturers supply each pacemaker recipient with a wallet-sized emergency card for identification as the bearer of an implanted device. This card should include important information about current pacing parameters, names and numbers of the pulse
