Arrhythmia - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: block, patient, figure, atrial, patients, pacemaker, ventricular, rate, heart, ecg, tachycardia, bradycardia, pacing, sinus, treatment


with a wallet-sized emergency card for identification as the bearer of an implanted device. This card should include important information about current pacing parameters, names and numbers of the pulse generator (including leads), indication for pacing, and underlying structural heart disease. Patient follow-up Application of a magnet to many pacemaker generators reveals the current battery status by pacing with a fixed pacing rate or "magnet rate". The pacemaker rate decreases in most models 16/18 with declining battery charge. When a decrease indicates exhaustion of one battery capacity, the pulse generator should be replaced. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators The natural evolution of pacemaker technology led, in the late 1960s, to the development of the AICD. Early versions were implanted abdominally under general anesthesia. These boxes, now barely bigger than a VVI pacemaker, are implanted under heavy sedation/light general anesthesia, and have revolutionized the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias. Indications for use of the device are expanding as the evidence base grows, but at present these include VF or VT cardiac arrest without a reversible cause; spontaneous sustained VT; syncope of undetermined origin with hemodynamically significant sustained VT; and nonsustained VT with prior MI or LV dysfunction. A recent study suggested that all post-MI patients with an EF <30% should receive an ACD. An AICD is expensive – approximately the same cost as bypass grafting – but the device is multifunctional. It is capable of bradycardia and tachyarrhythmia detection, overdrive pacing or defibrillation, and event memory (ie, it can "play back" the intracardiac trace from a few minutes before the event, which is extremely useful diagnostically). The AICD contains a device program for termination of VT and this highlights its versatility. It can initiate: burst pacing – a short burst of paced beats delivered at approximately 90% of the rate of the VT ramp pacing – a short burst of paced beats at a rate increasing up to 90% of the rate of the VT (to try to achieve capture) low-energy shock high-energy shock The programming of AICDs is sophisticated and is carried out by telemetry (a magnet detector is placed over the unit). The energy of shock delivered by the AICD is a magnitude less than that delivered across the chest wall by an external defibrillator (internal 5–35 J, external 100–360 J). If an AICD delivers a shock, it is important to refer the patient to the nearest center where the unit can
