Supraventricular tachycardia
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, atrial, heart, qrs, maneuvers, node, morphology, disease, supraventricular, normal, sinus, complex, supraventricular tachycardia, seconds, rate


Overview There are several classification systems for supraventricular tachycardia, based on site of origin, QRS width, pulse regularity, and AV node dependence. There are different types of supraventricular tachycardia, including sinus tachycardia, inappropriate sinus tachycardia, sinus node re-entry tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, AV nodal re-entry tachycardia, AV reciprocating tachycardia, junctional tachycardia, multifocal atrial tachycardia, and Wolff-Parkinson White syndrome. The general symptoms of SVTs include anxiety, chest pain or sensation of tightness, dizziness or fainting, palpitations, shortness of breath, syncope in cases of AVNRT, and sweating. The individual subtypes of SVT can be distinguished from each other by certain physiological and electrical characteristics, many of which present in the patient's EKG. Supraventricular tachycardias must be differentiated from each other because the management strategies may vary. In general, SVT is not life threatening, but episodes should be treated or prevented. While some treatment modalities can be applied to all SVTs with impunity, there are specific therapies available to cure some of the different sub-types. Cure requires intimate knowledge of how and where the arrhythmia is initiated and propagated. SVTs can be separated into two groups, based on whether they involve the AV node for impulse maintenance or not. Those that involve the AV node can be terminated by slowing conduction through the AV node. Those that do not involve the AV node will not usually be stopped by AV nodal blocking maneuvers. These maneuvers are still useful however, as transient AV block will often unmask the underlying rhythm abnormality. Once the acute episode has been terminated, ongoing treatment may be indicated to prevent a recurrence of the arrhythmia. Patients who have a single isolated episode, or infrequent and minimally symptomatic episodes usually do not warrant any treatment except observation. Patients who have more frequent or disabling symptoms from their episodes generally warrant some form of preventative therapy. A variety of drugs including simple AV nodal blocking agents like beta-blockers and verapamil, as well as antiarrhythmics may be used, usually with good effect, although the risks of these therapies need to be weighed against the potential benefits. Classification There are several classification systems for supraventricular tachycardia, based on site of origin, QRS width, pulse regularity, and AV node dependence.[1][2] • Supraventricular tachycardia can be classified based on the site of origin into: • Physiological sinus tachycardia • Atrial tachycardia • Atrioventricular tachycardia • Supraventricular tachycardia can be classified based on QRS width
