Supraventricular tachycardia
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, atrial, heart, qrs, maneuvers, node, morphology, disease, supraventricular, normal, sinus, complex, supraventricular tachycardia, seconds, rate


in elderly. with high and normal maneuvers morphology heart rate in morphology Less than 0.12 More common seconds, in the elderly, consistent, Does not following Absent, and normal break with Atrial 110 to 180 Irregularly bypass surgery, fibrillatory Absent in adenosine or Fibrillation bpm irregular in mitral valve waves morphology vagal disease, in the maneuvers hyperthyroidism absence of aberrant conduction Conduction 75 (4:1 Varies Less than may vary in block), 100 Sawtooth depending 0.12 response to (3:1 block) More common pattern of P upon the seconds, drugs and and 150 (2:1 Atrial Flutter in the elderly, Regular waves at 250 magnitude consistent, maneuvers block) bpm, after alcohol to 350 beats of the and normal dropping the but 150 is per minute block, but in rate from 150 more is short morphology to 100 or to common 75 bpm Accounts for 60%-70% of all Cannot be SVTs. 80% to In adults the calculated Less than The P wave is 90% of cases range is 140- as the P 0.12 May break AV Nodal usually are due to 250 bpm, but wave is seconds, with Reentry superimposed antegrade in children Regular generally consistent, adenosine or Tachycardia on or buried conduction the rate can obscured and normal vagal (AVNRT) within the down a slow exceed 250 by the in maneuvers QRS complex pathway and bpm QRS morphology retrograde up a complex fast pathway. A retrograde More common P wave is Less than in males, seen either at 0.12 May break AV whereas the end of the Less than seconds, with Reciprocating AVNRT is more More rapid Regular QRS complex 0.12 consistent, adenosine or Tachycardia common in than AVNRT or at the seconds and normal vagal (AVRT) females, occurs beginning of in maneuvers at a younger the ST morphology age. segment > 95 beats per minute. The disorder is A nocturnal Less than uncommon. reduction in Normal 0.12 Does not Most patients Normal Inappropriate heart rate is morphology seconds, break with are in their late and < Sinus present. Regular and precede consistent, adenosine or 20s to early 0.20 Tachycardia There is an the QRS and normal vagal 30s. More seconds inappropriate complex in maneuvers common in heart rate morphology women. response on exertion. Less than Common after The P Usually 0.12 Does not heart surgery, wave is inverted, may seconds, break with Junctional digitalis toxicity, > 60 beats usually Regular be burried in
