Supraventricular tachycardia
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, atrial, heart, qrs, maneuvers, node, morphology, disease, supraventricular, normal, sinus, complex, supraventricular tachycardia, seconds, rate


morphology of the QRS complexes resembles that of a previous premature ventricular contraction (PVC). • Rate: More than 100 bpm and usually 150-200 bpm • Rhythm: The rhythm is regular • PR interval: Variable PR interval • Response to Maneuvers: VT does not terminate in response to adenosine or vagal maneuvers Diagnosis Symptoms Symptoms that are common to all types of SVT include the following[6]: • Anxiety • Chest pain orC osoekniess ahetilpo uns odefl itviegrh otunr esesrsvices. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 5/7 • Dizziness, or lightheadedness (near-faint), or fainting • Lightheadedness • Palpitations (the sensation of the heart racing, fluttering or pounding strongly in the chest or the carotid arteries) • Shortness of breath • Syncope in cases of AVNRT • Sweating Electrocardiogram Shown below is an EKG depicting a tachycardia at a rate of 190/min with narrow QRS complexes indicating supraventricular tachycardia. Shown below is an EKG recording of a patient who goes from sinus rhythm to a wide complex tachycardia at about 130/min. • The wide QRS though disappears after nine complexes and is replaced by narrow complexes at a slightly slower rate. • No P wave activity is seen. • This is a supraventricular tachycardia with a form of aberrancy. • In this case, we are probably seeing a rate-dependent left bundle branch block or the effect of a left bundle branch block which persists for the nine complexes because of continued block in the left bundle from the depolarizations from the intact right bundle. Treatment Acute Treatment • In general, SVT is not life threatening, but episodes should be treated or prevented. While some treatment modalities can be applied to all SVTs with impunity, there are specific therapies available to cure some of the different sub-types[7]. • Cure requires intimate knowledge of how and where the arrhythmia is initiated and propagated. • The SVTs can be separated into two groups, based on whether they involve the AV node for impulse maintenance or not. • Those that involve the AV node can be terminated by slowing conduction through the AV node. • Those that do not involve the AV node will not usually be stopped by AV nodal blocking maneuvers. • These maneuvers are still useful however, as transient AV block will often unmask the underlying rhythm abnormality[8]. Acute Pharmacotherapy • Another modality involves treatment with medications[9]. • Pre-hospital
