Chapter
KEYWORDS: hospitals, referral, care, countries, referral hospitals, health, services, hospital, levels, patients, public, unit, tertiary, developing, private


protocols substantial benefit from the care they receive. Therefore, the • provision of technology support by skilled technicians and aggregate direct personal health benefits from referral hospital scientists. care will almost certainly be high. The question of whether referral hospital care is cost-effective relative to other interven- Quality Assurance and Quality Improvement. Referral hos- tions delivered at lower levels of care is less easy to answer in pitals can and do play a pivotal role in quality assurance and improvement. The most important mechanism for quality will tend to require more complex input mixes and higher skill assurance and improvement is through the training that refer- levels and, hence, will be relatively expensive.Analysis of the ral hospitals provide.The other key mechanism is through the costs and cost-effectiveness ofindividual interventions offered setting of standards for treatment. For example, experts at at different levels is tackled directly by the disease-specific referral hospitals should review evidence of effectiveness and chapters in this volume. cost-effectiveness applicable to the local context,determine the Wider Activities and Functions develop and amend treatment protocols.Referral hospitals can Aside from direct patient care, referral hospitals serve other improve the quality of peripheral services by giving advice, within the facility,such as teaching and research,while others local practitioners,and monitoring the quality of the referrals nical support and quality assurance. Education and Training. Many tertiary referral hospitals in Advice and Support to Lower Levels. The referral process developingcountriesareassociatedwithuniversitiesandmed- doesnotsimplyentailtransferringapatientfromalowertoa icalschoolsandmay,therefore,alsoberegardedasteachinghos- higher level of care, nor does it end when a patient is dis- pitals.Anycountrywishingtotrainitsowndoctorswillneedone charged from a referral hospital. An effective referral system ormoreteachinghospitals.Thenumberof doctorsacountry requiresgoodcommunicationandcoordinationbetweenlev- needswillbeinfluencedbyitslevelofdevelopment,resources, els of care and support from higher to lower levels to help and personnel structure.Many will aim for a ratio of at least Referral Hospitals | 1233 Box 66.1 How Many Medical Students Should Be Trained Per 1 Million Population? In a steady state (that is, the number of doctors being the number needing to be trained is 1,000/40 (cid:1) 25 per produced is equal to the number retiring from practice), year. If 25 percent of doctors leave the country or leave and if we assume that doctors practice, on average, for medical practice within 8 years of qualifying, then each 40yearsafterqualifying,thetotalnumberpracticingwill graduate,onaverage,contributes30yearsof service,and equal the number graduating in 1 year multiplied by 1,000 practicing doctors (1,000/30) (cid:1) 33 must qualify 40years.Ifapopulationof1millionneeds1,000doctors, each year. Source: 2per1,000 population,though most developing countries have developed countries,60 to 90 percent
