Chapter
KEYWORDS: hospitals, referral, care, countries, referral hospitals, health, services, hospital, levels, patients, public, unit, tertiary, developing, private


the role extremely expensive. In many cases, dialysis can be justified that referral hospitals frequently play in continuing profes- only ifit is linked to a renal transplant program,which termi- sional education. nates the need for dialysis and frees the equipment for someone Research activities are vital in attracting and retaining else.The proportion of the total population who will benefit treatment ofcomplex patients,but also for the training ofnew DALYs generated are low, and the program would not rank specialists.Research that is responsive to local conditions—that high among the priorities given a limited budget. However, is, local disease burdens and technology constraints—fills a every member ofthe population is at risk ofrenal failure and, critical gap because researchers in developed countries and ifaffected,would find that,in the absence ofa publicly funded research questions if they do not foresee sufficient returns to costs to secure treatment in the private sector or abroad. their investments. Eveninpoorcountries,patients’priceelasticityof demand is low when faced with life-threatening illnesses, particularly Valuing the Indirect Contribution to the Health System. when treatment can change the outcome. Studies on poverty From the enumeration of the many roles of referral hospitals have shown that a significant proportion of households that training,research,and quality improvement,it is immediately example,Liu,Rao,andHsiao2003).Thus,peopleseekthepeace evident that these benefits cannot readily be translated into of mindof knowingthattheycanobtainlifesavingtreatment DALYs or any other metric to be used in a relative cost-benefit shouldtheyneeditwithouttheriskof incurringcatastrophic analysis. costs of care. This additional welfare derives both from the financialsecurityofnothavingtospendmorethanpeoplecan affordtosavetheirlivesandfromthedirecthealthbenefitsof Externalities and Intangible Benefits treatmentitself.Theutilityfromtheformer(financialsecurity) The previous sections reviewed the various functions ofrefer- increaseswiththecostoftheinterventionrequired,whereasthe section addresses other ways in which referral hospitals con- therefore,argue that the rarer a particular illness is—and the tribute to welfare and well-being,and comments on how they morecostlytheinterventionrequired—thegreaterwillbethe complicate the issue of valuing the contribution of referral welfaregainfrompublicspendingonthatintervention. hospitals in society. This argument,ofcourse,is likely to stand in direct contrast Referral hospitals have a broader effect on overall societal to the conclusions drawn from prioritization based on cost- welfare than can be captured by measures ofhealth outcomes. effectiveness.For most individuals,willingness to pay is far less Referral Hospitals | 1235 whole population benefits from the security of knowing that remain at home, whereas the absence of referral hospitals each individual would be entitled to referral hospital care would increase the propensity of local professionals to should he or she need it,in the aggregate the welfare value gen- emigrate. erated by public provision or funding may be many times
