Chapter
KEYWORDS: hospitals, referral, care, countries, referral hospitals, health, services, hospital, levels, patients, public, unit, tertiary, developing, private


increase the propensity of local professionals to should he or she need it,in the aggregate the welfare value gen- emigrate. erated by public provision or funding may be many times greater than the value ofthe DALYs generated directly for those few patients who do receive treatment. This literature review DETERMINANTS OF AN APPROPRIATE BALANCE did not find evidence ofstudies on national willingness to pay OF REFERRAL-LEVEL CARE could be ofinterest for future research. When one considers the ideal level ofresources to be provided income public—expects the government to provide care oflast resources for referral hospitals and for other levels ofthe health resort for complex trauma or diseases, especially for natural care system,no simple formula is available that can be applied and man-made disasters.Thus,even though referral hospitals to different countries and contexts.However,certain key fac- may provide care to a small number ofpeople,often with lim- tors have an important influence on the need and demand for expectations for what the government must provide.In addi- quate and effective care in different settings. tion,politicians and the public often regard a country’s ability to provide the kind of complex, high-tech care offered in a General Determinants referral hospital as a measure of that country’s level of devel- opment and sophistication,and it is a source ofnational pride. Arguably the most important determinant ofdemand for and appears to drive public choices to some extent. nomic development and wealth,captured (albeit imprecisely) by measures of GDP per capita. Extensive international evi- dence indicates that national health expenditure displays an Negative Impacts unambiguously positive income elasticity both across countries The “negative”impact of referral hospitals is largely attributa- and over time;that is,as a country gets richer,it spends rela- system by diverting resources from peripheral areas and from 1990). Studies in developed countries indicate that in the lower levels ofcare (Fiedler,Schmidt,and Wight 1998;Filmer, United States,every 1 percent long-run increase in GDP leads countries the increase is between 1.2 and 1.4 percent (Getzen • Tertiary hospitals and specialists have a high political and 2000). Therefore, expecting developing countries to spend a public profile. higher proportion oftheir GDP on health care as they become • Urban and political elites are more likely to use referral hos- wealthier seems to be reasonable.Ifthe poorest countries were pitals than rural primary care facilities or district hospitals. to focus their limited resources on highly cost-effective inter- from the maintenance of higher-level referral hospitals in might be expected to
