HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: frailty, pwh, author, author manuscript, manuscript, mortality, risk, associated, manuscript author, hiv, death, age, times, use, frail


to high rates of multimorbidity and potential interventions to mitigate the impact of frailty. While studies of frailty in PWH have included a wider age range to address the known acceleration of aging and population demographics, a common limitation in the existing literature is small numbers and lack of diversity by location or demographic factors.10,13 Some studies using meta-analysis to address small sample sizes in individual studies have found elevated risk of mortality associated with frailty ranging from 1.7- to 2.7-times.10,13 However, these results combined multiple definitions of frailty (e.g., frailty phenotype J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript and frailty index) and were unable to differentiate the intermediate stage of prefrail from frail.10,13 To fill these gaps, we examined the association between frailty status and all-cause mortality in a large cohort of PWH leveraging robust clinical and demographic data to control for a wide range of factors and evaluated important subgroups by age and sex. Methods Study Setting and Participants This study was conducted in the Centers for AIDS Research (CFAR) Network of Integrated Clinical Systems (CNICS) cohort of adult PWH in care at ten academic clinical sites across the US.14 CNICS operates a centralized data repository to harmonize inpatient and outpatient data across multiple domains. Demographic, laboratory, medication, and reported outcomes (PROs) are integrated across all sites.15,16 All PWH in CNICS who had a were eligible for this study. Participants were censored at the earliest date of: (1) death, (2) last activity in CNICS, or (3) date of administrative censoring ([DATE]). All CNICS sites obtained local Institutional Review Board approval, which includes secondary analysis of deidentified data. Data Frailty was measured using a modified, validated frailty phenotype consisting of four self-reported components (inactivity, fatigue, unintentional weight loss, and immobility) described in detail elsewhere.17 Frailty status was categorized as robust (0 components present), prefrail (1-2 components present), and frail (≥3 components present). All-cause mortality was ascertained using multiple approaches at the local, state, and national level including state death certificate data and national death indices. time-updated HIV viral load and CD4 cell count, and CNICS operational definitions for diabetes mellitus, treated dyslipidemia, treated hypertension, co-infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV), liver fibrosis (FIB-4 score), renal function measured by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), and body mass index (BMI).18– 20 We
