HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: frailty, pwh, author, author manuscript, manuscript, mortality, risk, associated, manuscript author, hiv, death, age, times, use, frail


with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV), liver fibrosis (FIB-4 score), renal function measured by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), and body mass index (BMI).18– 20 We calculated the VACS Index 1.0 for multimorbidity as published using age, CD4 cell count, HIV viral load, hemoglobin, FIB-4, eGFR, and HCV status.21 Substance use data collected from the PROs included alcohol use (measured by AUDIT-C), smoking status, and illicit drug use including methamphetamine, cocaine/crack, and illicit opioids. We categorized alcohol use based on AUDIT-C scores and history of alcohol use disorder (AUD), defined using AUD diagnosis or self-report of attendance at alcohol use treatment, into 4 groups: 1) no alcohol use (AUDIT-C=0), 2) no alcohol use with AUD (AUDIT-C=0), 3) current non-hazardous alcohol use (AUDIT-C: 1-3 if female/1-4 if male), and 4) current J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript hazardous alcohol use (AUDIT-C ≥4 if female/≥5 if male). We categorized smoking and illicit drug use as Never, Former, or Current use, or Missing. PWH were included in analyses if they met complete case criteria for all demographic and data (Supplemental Table 1). Statistical Analysis We examined demographic and clinical characteristics by baseline frailty status using frequencies and percents for categorical variables and mean and standard deviation (SD) or median and interquartile range (IQR) for continuous variables. We compared characteristics by baseline frailty status using Chi-squared tests for categorical variables and t-tests for continuous variables. We calculated unadjusted mortality rates overall by frail vs. not frail (combination of robust and prefrail to dichotomize these estimates), and by age (<50 vs. ≥50) and sex subgroups, and compared the incidence rate difference between these groups. We used Cox proportional hazards models to examine the association between time-updated frailty status and all-cause mortality. Frailty status was modeled as a three-level variable including robust (reference group), prefrail, and frail. The proportional hazards assumption was evaluated using Schoenfeld residuals, and no models were found to be in violation.22 Models were adjusted for baseline measures including age, sex, race/ethnicity, site, diabetes, treated dyslipidemia, treated hypertension, HCV, HBV, FIB-4, eGFR, and BMI category, as well as time-updated HIV viral load and current CD4 cell count to control for potential confounders, which were selected a priori.7 We stratified models by age (<50 vs. ≥50) and sex (male vs. female) to evaluate potential differences
