HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: frailty, pwh, author, author manuscript, manuscript, mortality, risk, associated, manuscript author, hiv, death, age, times, use, frail


in care in the US. Frail PWH had 2.7-times, and prefrail J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript PWH had 1.5-times, greater risk of death over 5.5 years of follow-up in models adjusted for demographic and clinical characteristics. Elevated mortality risk was associated with frailty in older and younger groups as well as in men and women. Among PWH under 50 years old, frailty was associated with a 3.6-times greater risk of death and prefrailty 1.6-times, underscoring the necessity of identifying and addressing frailty among PWH of all ages. Further, over half (55%) of the cohort were either prefrail or frail at baseline (Table 1). Our findings demonstrate both a high prevalence and significant impact of frailty on the risk of death in this aging population that necessitates prioritizing frailty among PWH in care. Our findings are comparable to published data from two meta-analyses on frailty and mortality among PWH and expand on this work by evaluating prefrailty, key subgroups of In addition, our study cohort is much larger (N=6,750) than prior individual studies included in meta-analyses (largest N ~3,500, majority <1,000), and includes updated data that is more relevant in the current era of HIV care compared with prior studies that predate 2020. Our findings are nearly identical to the large UK Biobank study in the general population that found approximately 2.5-times elevated risk of mortality associated with frailty among age- and sex-subgroups (except women aged 37-45) in models adjusted for multimorbidity and demographic factors.12 Here, we contribute to the growing evidence that frailty is a risk PWH of all ages.10,12,13,24 Our finding that frailty is associated with mortality in older and younger PWH as well as among men and women is notable. Importantly, our results indicate that younger PWH and women may have elevated mortality risk associated with frailty, although we were underpowered to evaluate whether the association between frailty and mortality varied significantly by age or sex (i.e., effect measure modification). Among PWH under 50, we observed an increased risk of death of 3.6, and among PWH over 50, 2.5 times the risk. This trend may suggest that younger PWH with frailty experience worse outcomes than older PWH with frailty. In terms of sex, we found an increased risk of mortality associated with frailty of 3.9 for women and 2.6 for men. Our
