HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: frailty, pwh, author, author manuscript, manuscript, mortality, risk, associated, manuscript author, hiv, death, age, times, use, frail


worse outcomes than older PWH with frailty. In terms of sex, we found an increased risk of mortality associated with frailty of 3.9 for women and 2.6 for men. Our study population is generalizable to PWH in the US, and as such, women comprise only about 15% of the cohort, limiting our power to detect statistically significant differences though this remains an intriguing differential in risk by sex. In the general population, women possess a life expectancy advantage that appears to be lost in the setting of HIV, and our findings support this trend.25,26 Additionally, recent work in the CNICS cohort has reported greater immune activation among women compared to men and even more pronounced differences in women compared to men over age 47.27,28 Immune activation is associated with greater frailty thus, it will be essential to understand risk differences in particular subgroups when managing mortality risk in PWH.29 If borne out in other analyses, these trends warrant particular attention and more specified approaches to preventing and mitigating frailty in different subgroups. Additionally, future work may incorporate activities of daily living and other markers of day-to-day functional of PWH.30,31 J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript We examined all-cause mortality as an initial endpoint to understand the overall burden of death related to frailty in this population. A study on frailty and cause-specific mortality in the general population found 2.8 to 3.5-times greater risk of death due to heart disease, cancer, respiratory illness, and dementia after adjusting for history of comorbid diagnoses, suggesting an independent role of frailty in specific causes of mortality.32 Frailty is, by a direct cause death but rather reduces the ability to recover from a new condition or other degree by specific causes of death, frailty likely has an impact across all individual causes/ illnesses as suggested by the range of outcomes affected by frailty. Potential underlying factors identified as contributing to both frailty and mortality that may explain this trend include chronic inflammation, immunosenescence, behavioral factors (e.g., sedentary lifestyle) and social factors, which are particularly important in PWH as these factors are likely exacerbated in this population.29,32,34 Our results were consistent in sensitivity analyses adjusting for additional measures. Findings were identical to our main model after adjusting for the VACS Index (Table 3). While the VACS Index was initially developed as
