HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: frailty, pwh, author, author manuscript, manuscript, mortality, risk, associated, manuscript author, hiv, death, age, times, use, frail


in sensitivity analyses adjusting for additional measures. Findings were identical to our main model after adjusting for the VACS Index (Table 3). While the VACS Index was initially developed as a mortality risk score, it has sometimes been considered a frailty-related measure.21,24,35 After controlling for substance use, findings were mildly attenuated. Together these results suggest a highly robust association between frailty and mortality among PWH independent of physiological markers and risk of PWH. Our findings have some limitations. We lack sufficient subgroup sample size to examine multiple factors concurrently (age and sex), although this analysis is one of the largest studies on frailty and mortality in PWH. We examined all-cause mortality and as deaths accrue in CNICS, future analysis of cause-specific mortality may offer additional insight regarding potential mechanisms seen in the general population.32 Our frailty phenotype includes only 4 of the 5 components in the full Fried frailty phenotype, however, it has been validated against it and found to perform very well.17 Our study has several important strengths. The timeframe of this study (2015-2024) encompasses contemporary HIV care and treatment; thus, our results are timely and applicable to PWH currently engaged in care. Our cohort is geographically and demographically diverse (e.g., six sites across the US) ensuring generalizability to PWH in care across the US. We controlled for a wide range of factors including comorbidities, lab results, and other markers that could potentially confound this association. A remaining, and crucially important, question is the degree of reversibility of frailty. The dynamic nature of frailty has often been touted as a promising aspect and central focus for intervention especially among PWH, and there have been a few publications on predictors of frailty transitions.5,34,36,37 A recent study in the ACTG HAILO cohort found 8% of PWH with worsening frailty and 9% with frailty improvement over time.37 In studies of frailty trajectories, there appears to be significant overlap in factors that predict both worsening and improvements in frailty; older age, female sex, physical activity, and depression all predicted both.37 The authors interpret these overlaps as factors associated with fluctuations, such that J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 May 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript people with particular characteristics could be more likely to transition, but not specifically in one direction. Whether people can recover to robust (ideally) or prefrail states from being frail would
