Gao and Sun BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth (2024) 24:374 BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, patient, fetus, abdominal, cancer, intestinal, colon, diagnosis, colorectal, treatment, weeks, crc, patients, radiation, article


collaboration of obstetri- An emergency sedation-free colonoscopy was per- cians and a colorectal surgeon. A transverse incision was formed and revealed an exophytic circumferential mass made, and a large lesion occupying the sigmoid colon was located at the junction of the rectum and sigmoid colon, detected during the operation, surrounded by enlarged Fig. 2 Colonoscopy findings lymph nodes. No metastatic nodules were found in the In the United States and elsewhere, the standard prac- peritoneum, omentum, and pelvic wall, and no apparent tice at most institutions is that all patients with stage II, signs of perforation were observed in the intestinal canal III, or IV CRC undergo chest, abdomen, and pelvic CT above the retroflexion of the peritoneum. A latex drain- before or after resection, an approach endorsed by the age tube behind the uterus was placed. After the surgery, National Comprehensive Cancer Network. the patient was transferred to the Surgical Intensive Care Colonoscopy is the most accurate diagnostic test for Unit (SICU), where she received treatment including acid CRC since it can localise and biopsy lesions through- suppression, anti-infection therapy and parenteral nutri- out the large bowel, detect synchronous neoplasms and tional support, which gradually transitioned to a regular remove polyps. Endoscopy is recommended in preg- diet. Eventually, the patient was discharged on the 11th nancy when the patient has significant or continuous day post-operation. bleeding, severe or refractory nausea and vomiting or The postoperative histopathological result demon- abdominal pain, and strong suspicion of colon mass . strated moderately to high differentiated adenocar- The optimal time for advanced endoscopic procedures cinoma. Immunohistochemical staining results were during the pregnancy is the second trimester; however, if listed: P53 90% + , Her-20, MLH1 + , PMS2 + , MSH2 + , the consequences of a delayed procedure can cause harm MSH6 + . Microsatellite stability: MSS. No tumour cells to the patient or the fetus, then one should proceed with were found in the placenta. Under the guidance of gen- a multidisciplinary team . eral surgery, the patient took capecitabine orally 25 days GI endoscopy in pregnant patients is inherently risky after surgery and planned to undergo two courses of because the fetus is susceptible to maternal hypoxia and intravenous chemotherapy before undergoing further hypotension, either of which could lead to fetal demise. surgical treatment. Other risks to the fetus include teratogenesis (from medi- cations given to the mother or ionising
