Gao and Sun BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth (2024) 24:374 BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, patient, fetus, abdominal, cancer, intestinal, colon, diagnosis, colorectal, treatment, weeks, crc, patients, radiation, article


before undergoing further hypotension, either of which could lead to fetal demise. surgical treatment. Other risks to the fetus include teratogenesis (from medi- cations given to the mother or ionising radiation expo- Discussion sure) and premature birth . Colorectal cancer (CRC) in pregnancy is exceedingly A systematic review was conducted to identify stud- rare. The incidence rate of CRC in pregnancy is 0.002% to ies regarding CRC-p and conduct a pooled analysis of 0.008% . Typical symptoms/signs include hematoche- the reported data. Seventy-nine papers written on 119 zia or melena, abdominal pain, apart from unexplained patients with unequivocal CRC-p were included. The iron deficiency anaemia, or a change in bowel habits . calculated pooled risk is 0.002%, and age at diagnosis has Less common presenting symptoms include abdominal decreased over time. The median age at diagnosis was 32 distention or nausea and vomiting, which may be indica- (range, 17–46) years. 12%, 41% and 47% of CRC-p were tors of obstruction. diagnosed during the first, second and third trimes- A delayed diagnosis during pregnancy may be due to ter respectively. Among the cases, bleeding occurred in overlapping symptoms with that of normal pregnancy in 47% of patients, abdominal pain in 37.6%, constipation the context of the expected low incidence of CRC at such in 14.1%, obstruction in 9.4% and perforation in 2.4%. an early maternal age. The reluctance of medical teams Regarding cancer, 53.4% of the CRC-p was in the colon, to conduct diagnostic tests due to potential risks to the while 44% was in the rectum. Out of 82 patients whose fetus often leads to a delayed diagnosis, thus complicat- treatment was described, 9.8% received chemotherapy ing treatment and worsening the prognosis . Various during pregnancy. None of their newborns developed serum markers have been associated with CRC, particu- permanent disability, one developed hypothyroidism, and larly carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). However, all these 72% of newborns were alive. Hence, treatment of CRC-p markers, including CEA, have a low diagnostic ability should be timely and needs to be discussed carefully by to detect primary CRC due to significant overlap with a multidisciplinary team, with close patient monitoring benign disease and low sensitivity for early-stage disease . . Treatment of CRC-p is influenced by several factors, Nonionising radiation imaging, such as Ultrasound including tumor location and stage at presentation, sur- and MRI, is favoured during pregnancy. Despite low gical settings (elective vs. urgent/
