Gao and Sun BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth (2024) 24:374 BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, patient, fetus, abdominal, cancer, intestinal, colon, diagnosis, colorectal, treatment, weeks, crc, patients, radiation, article


by several factors, Nonionising radiation imaging, such as Ultrasound including tumor location and stage at presentation, sur- and MRI, is favoured during pregnancy. Despite low gical settings (elective vs. urgent/ emergent) and gesta- intrauterine doses, CT scan can be used in pregnancy if tional age. The decision-making process must involve necessary. anesthesiologists, colorectal surgeons, oncologists and Diagnostic imaging studies typically expose the fetus to gynaecologists, while the mother will make the final less than 50 mGy (0.05 Gy, five rads), and there is no evi- decision. dence of an increased risk of fetal anomalies, intellectual If the tumour is resectable, surgical excision after disability, growth restriction, or pregnancy loss from ion- diagnosis should be performed as soon as possible if ising radiation at this dose level . the diagnosis is made before 20 weeks of gestation. A total abdominal hysterectomy may be necessary to Conclusion provide greater access to the rectum or if the uterus Colorectal cancer in pregnancy is rare. For patients is involved. If diagnosis is made later in pregnancy whose symptoms include chronic anaemia that is dif- (> 20 weeks), surgery can be postponed until fetal pul- ficult to correct with iron supplements and persistent monary maturity is reached (28–32 weeks) or after gastrointestinal symptoms during pregnancy, it is neces- delivery. However, waiting until after the fetus is deliv- sary to be vigilant about the possibility of digestive tract ered does pose risks to the mother, and the patient tumours. It’s essential to note that tumours should be should be fully informed of these risks . suspected when all benign causes are excluded despite When malignant neoplasm is diagnosed during low incidence . Ultrasound and magnetic reso- gestation, maternal life-saving chemotherapy poses nance imaging are relatively safe examinations during life-threatening concerns for the developing fetus pregnancy, and if necessary, pelvic CT and gastroscopy . Exposure to chemotherapy in the first trimester can be performed for diagnosis. poses the most significant risk for teratogenicity, with an incidence of spontaneous abortions or malforma- Authors’ contributions tions up to 15–25% . In the second or third tri- Y. G. and Y. S. contributed to patient management. Y. G. wrote the initial draft mesters, chemotherapy is generally considered safer of the manuscript. Y. S. provided substantial edits and additions to the manu- script. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. but is associated with an increased incidence of small for
