TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: bleeding, polyps, vwf, polypectomy, jps, patient, juvenile, disease, vwd, normal, reduced, endoscopic, gastrointestinal, treatment, coagulation


soft to palpation, with other related malignancies, leading to a poor prognosis. JPS does mild tenderness near the umbilicus but no rebound tenderness. not heal spontaneously, and its treatment generally involves The spleen and liver were not palpable below the costal margin, polypectomy or organ resection. For small pedunculated polyps, and no abdominal masses were detected. The extremities were endoscopic cauterization or snare polypectomy should be normal, with a full range of motion, and no abnormalities were performed whenever possible. Surgical treatment should observed around theanalregion. be considered for patients with recurrent rectal bleeding, severe Preoperative examinations revealed normal complete blood anemia, malnutrition, significant complications from polyps, or count and coagulation profiles. Contrast-enhanced computed when endoscopic removal is not feasible (2). Additionally, COX-2 tomographyabdomen andpelvisdemonstrated multiplecolorectal inhibitors and sirolimus are promising therapeutic options for soft-tissue nodules, consistent with polyps. Given the patient’s patients with JPS, but they are still in the early stages of research, early disease onset and the presence of multiple gastrointestinal and their efficacy requires further investigation (3). The main polyps, whole-exome sequencing was recommended to assess complications after polypectomy under colonoscopy are bleeding, recurrence risk and potential malignancy. After adequate coagulopathy, and perforation, while minor bleeding is the most preoperative preparations, the patient underwent endoscopic commoncomplication(4). mucosal resection (EMR), snare polypectomy, and hemostatic Notably, post-polypectomy bleeding due to undiagnosed treatment with titanium clips under general anesthesia. However, coagulopathies is underrecognized. VWD, the most prevalent 70hours postoperatively, the patient experienced gastrointestinal inherited bleeding disorder, which can be inherited in an hemorrhage, which resolved following emergency endoscopy and presentation is highly heterogeneous, with bleeding symptoms (Gastroenterology & Hematology) for polyp surveillance and varying in severity, leading to a high risk of missed or incorrect bleedingdiathesisevaluation. diagnoses (5). Reports of delayed postoperative significant Prophylactic cryoprecipitate transfusion was administered bleeding after endoscopic polypectomy for JPS in children with priortosubsequentpolypectomies,withnorecurrenthemorrhage. VWD are rare. We describe our experience treating a child with This study received approval from the Ethics Committee of ultimately achieved favorable outcomes. We present this case in consent was obtained from the patient’s families of the patient accordancewith theCAREreportingchecklist. foraccesstoclinicaldata. Diagnosis and treatment procedure Case presentation Uponadmission,thepatientwasdiagnosedwithmultiplecolonic Asix-year-oldfemalepatientpresentedtoouroutpatientclinic polyps.Withparentalconsent,endoscopicresectionwasperformed onAugust7,2023,withacomplaintofintermittentrectalbleeding undergeneralanesthesiaonthethirddayofhospitalization.Larger for over six months. Her stools were soft and tubular, with fresh polyps were removed using EMR, while smaller ones were excised bloodadheringtothesurface(minimalvolume).Bowelmovement via snare polypectomy. A total of11 polypswere resected,with 10 frequency ranged from one to three
