TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: bleeding, polyps, vwf, polypectomy, jps, patient, juvenile, disease, vwd, normal, reduced, endoscopic, gastrointestinal, treatment, coagulation


exclude phenotypes, as detailed in Table 1B (5). Type 1 von Willebrand detected a mutation in the VWF gene [c. 1707(exon14)delC, disease, the most prevalent subtype of VWD accounting for heterozygous], leading to a final diagnosis of VWD. Post- approximately 75% of all cases, is inherited in an autosomal polypectomy, the child had multiple minor gastrointestinal dominant pattern. It manifests clinically as mild bleeding lesions, including lesions where titanium clips remained securely tendencies, including menorrhagia during the menstrual cycle positioned. These lesions, reliant on a normal coagulation system and prolonged bleeding following dental extraction or minor forlocalbloodintegrity, bled duetothechild’sVWD. surgical procedures. VWD requires individualized treatment Delayed post-polypectomy bleeding in children with JPS based on specific diagnosis, bleeding phenotype, and specific andVWDremainspoorlydocumentedincurrentliterature.VWD clinical context.Major therapies include use of desmopressin is characterized by highly heterogeneous clinical manifestations to induce endothelial release of stored VWF and factor VIII and and nonspecific bleeding tendencies, leading to frequent use of VWF concentrates, including both plasma-derived and underdiagnosis. The present case involved a previously healthy recombinant products, as well as adjuvant therapies, such as adolescent female with no significant medical/surgical history, antifibrinolytic tranexamic acid.Targeting specific mutations may premenarchal status, and no prior episodes of menorrhagia. further lead to personalized treatments in the future (17). Preoperative assessments including complete blood count and Desmopressinisthefirst-linetreatmentfortype1vonWillebrand coagulation profiles (PT/APTT) revealed no abnormalities. The todesmopressinorneedprolongedtreatment,replacementtherapy based on established JPS diagnostic guidelines.Notably, oozing with FVIII/VWF concentrates is the mainstay of treatment. For hemorrhage was endoscopically observed at sites where titanium children undergoing minor procedures (e.g., polypectomy), clips were securely placed, despite optimal clip positioning and consensus guidelines recommend achieving perioperative VWF absence of mechanical dislodgement.Additionally, submucosal activity≥50IU/dlviaDDAVPtestingorconcentratetitration(18). hemorrhages were identified in areas of normal intestinal mucosa, This case report describes a 6-year-old child with JPS unrelated to polypectomy wounds. Further investigation into the who underwent endoscopic resection of 11 colorectal polyps. causeofthepostoperativebleeding,raisingsuspicionforcongenital The polyps were removed using a combination of hot biopsy coagulation disorders. Whole-exome sequencing confirmed the forceps electrocautery and snare-assisted high-frequency diagnosis of VWD, which was identified as the primary cause of electrocoagulation, followed by placement of hemostatic titanium the postoperative bleeding. Given that JPS requires regular FrontiersinPediatrics 06 frontiersin.org YangandChen endoscopic follow-up and treatment, prophylactic cryoprecipitate from the individual(s) for the publication of any potentially therapy before polypectomy can prevent bleeding caused by identifiable imagesordataincluded inthis article. coagulation abnormalities at the wound site. This approach reducespatientsuffering,minimizeshealthcareresourceutilization, Author contributions andcouldpotentiallysavinglives.
