TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: bleeding, polyps, vwf, polypectomy, jps, patient, juvenile, disease, vwd, normal, reduced, endoscopic, gastrointestinal, treatment, coagulation


for the publication of any potentially therapy before polypectomy can prevent bleeding caused by identifiable imagesordataincluded inthis article. coagulation abnormalities at the wound site. This approach reducespatientsuffering,minimizeshealthcareresourceutilization, Author contributions andcouldpotentiallysavinglives. YY: Writing– original draft, Writing – review& editing. QC: Conclusion Writing – review &editing,Conceptualization. Theaimofthiscasereportistostressthatpostoperativerectal Funding bleeding after colorectal polypectomy might also be associated with extrinsic gastrointestinal factors. Clinicians should be mindful of coagulation dysfunction associated with VWD even if Theauthor(s)declarethatnofinancialsupportwasreceivedfor clinical symptoms are atypical. Whole-exome sequencing can theresearchand/orpublication ofthis article. accurately diagnose congenital coagulation disorders. In such cases, during the perioperative period, it should be considered Conflict of interest to prophylactically administer plasma-derived factor VIII concentrates containing VWF or plasma-derived/recombinant VWF products. If conditions are limited, cryoprecipitate or fresh The authors declare that the research was conducted in the blood can also be used to prevent adverse events like massive absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could postoperative bleeding. beconstrued asapotential conflictofinterest. Data availability statement Generative AI statement Therawdatasupportingtheconclusionsofthisarticlewillbe The author(s) declare that no Generative AI was used in the made available bytheauthors, withoutundue reservation. creationof thismanuscript. Ethics statement Publisher’s note The studies involving humans were approved by The Ethics All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the Committee of Wuhan Children’s Hospital. The studies were authors and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated conducted in accordance with the local legislation and organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the institutional requirements. Written informed consent for reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or participation in this study was provided by the participants’ legal claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed guardians/next of kin. Written informed consent was obtained orendorsed bythe publisher.
