Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Guideline British Society of Gastroenterology guidelines for diagnosis and management of autoimmune hepatitis Dermot Gleeson ,1,2 Rosemary Bornand,3 Ann Brownlee,4 Harpreet Dhaliwal,5 Jessica K Dyson,6,7 Janeane Hails,8 Paul Henderson,9 Deirdre Kelly,10,11 George F Mells,8,12 Rosa Miquel,13 Ye H Oo,14,15,16 Anthea Sutton,17 Andrew Yeoman,18 Michael A Heneghan19 ► Additional supplemental ABSTRACT material is published online Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is a chronic inflammatory WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ON THIS TOPIC only. To view, please visit the liver disease which, if untreated, often leads to cirrhosis, ⇒ Understanding of all aspects of autoimmune journal online (https:// doi. org/ 10. 1136/ gutjnl- 2024-3 33171). liver failure and death. The last British Society of hepatitis (AIH) has advanced considerably since Gastroenterology (BSG) guideline for the management the last British Society of Gastroenterology For numbered affiliations see of AIH was published in 2011. Since then, our guideline in 2011. end of article. understanding of AIH has advanced in many areas. This WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS update to the previous guideline was commissioned by Correspondence to dermot. gleeson@ nhs. net aim of this guideline is to review and summarise the and up- to- date account of how to diagnose and assess the severity of AIH, and of all aspects of current evidence, in order to inform and guide diagnosis Received 22 June 2024 its management. and management of patients with AIH and its variant Accepted 22 October 2024 syndromes. The main focus is on AIH in adults, but the HOW THIS STUDY MIGHT AFFECT RESEARCH, guidelines should also be relevant to older children and PRACTICE OR POLICY adolescents. ⇒ We make recommendations for organisation of for further research in relation to AIH. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS Presentation and severity assessment 1. We recommend that the presence of encephalop- Differential diagnosis and diagnostic scores athy in a patient with acute severe (AS) autoimmune 5. We recommend that, following exclusion of viral hepatitis (AIH) should codify the disease as AIH- hepatitis and biliary obstruction, other conditions related acute liver failure (AIH ALF). This should requiring consideration in patients with suspected trigger consideration of urgent liver transplant. AIH should include: Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- (a) For acute presentations: drug- induced liver mendation: strong. injury, Wilson’s disease, congestion, ischaemic liver 2. We recommend that acute-o n- chronic liver injury and bile duct stones±acute cholangitis. failure should be differentiated from decompen- (b For indolent presentations: metabolic- sated cirrhosis, since
