Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


ischaemic liver 2. We recommend that acute-o n- chronic liver injury and bile duct stones±acute cholangitis. failure should be differentiated from decompen- (b For indolent presentations: metabolic- sated cirrhosis, since it identifies a subgroup of patients that might merit expedited liver transplan- associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), primary tation. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recom- biliary cholangitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis mendation: strong. and congestion. Some of these conditions might co- exist with AIH. Grade of evidence:low. Strength of recommendation: strong. Diagnostic workup 6. We recommend that, if the diagnosis is in 3. We recommend that patients with suspected doubt, diagnostic scores be used. The simplified AIH should undergo thorough non- invasive liver 2008 scoring criteria have high specificity, but screening, detailed in box 1 and including (a) liver lower sensitivity than the 1999 criteria, which imaging to exclude biliary obstruction, (b) testing can be used if the simplified criteria are not met. © Author(s) (or their for hepatitis B and C and HIV testing (all cases) Consider seeking advice from an expert clinician. employer(s)) 2025. Re- use and hepatitis A, E, cytomegalovirus (CMV) and permitted under CC BY- NC. No Epstein- Barr virus (EBV) (in acute and/or icteric Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommenda- commercial re- use. See rights tion: weak. presentations). Grade of evidence: low. Strength of and permissions. Published by 7. We recommend that (since there is no single BMJ Group. recommendation: strong. pathognomonic histological feature of AIH) 4. We recommend that liver biopsy, a major part Bornand R, Brownlee A, et al. Gut Epub ahead of print: [please include Day Month unless the risks of biopsy clearly outweigh the bene- istry, immunology, viral serology and imaging. Year]. doi:10.1136/ fits of diagnostic certainty. Grade of evidence: low. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommenda- gutjnl-2024-333171 Strength of recommendation: strong. tion: strong. Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 1 Guideline (a) Ensure immunisation is up- to- date against: COVID-1 9, Box 1 Diagnostic workup for suspected autoimmune pneumococcus, influenza, shingles, hepatitis A, hepatitis B (if hepatitis HBV markers absent) and (if under 25, or if gay, bisexual or men who have sex with men (GBMSM) and under 45) human (A) Exclusion of other diseases papillomavirus. 1. Ultrasound of liver (all patients)* (+ magnetic resonance (b) Receive prophylactic nucleotide therapy if HBV surface cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), if jaundice, rigors or very antigen positive or if core antibody positive
