Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Ultrasound of liver (all patients)* (+ magnetic resonance (b) Receive prophylactic nucleotide therapy if HBV surface cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), if jaundice, rigors or very antigen positive or if core antibody positive and commencing high serum alkaline phosphatase). rituximab. 2. Hepatitis viral serology: all cases: HBVag and ab, HCV and (c) Be monitored for HBV reactivation if HBV core anti- s c HIV antibody.† body positive and on other treatments. Grade of evidence: low. Acute icteric presentation: plus hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis Strength of recommendation: strong. E virus (HEV), EBV, CMV. 11. We recommend that first- line initial therapy should usually Immimmunocompromised: also: herpes simplex, Varicella comprise a corticosteroid plus azathioprine. Grade of evidence: zoster. high. Strength of recommendation: strong. 3. Tests‡ excluding haemochromatosis, Wilson’s disease, α1 12. Although not routinely recommended over predniso- antitrypsin deficiency. lone, we recommend that budesonide (initially 9 mg/day) be 4. In children: thyroid functions, coeliac serology, creatine considered in adults without cirrhosis if there is major concern (especially in infants). budesonide in children as first- line therapy. Grade of evidence: high. Strength of recommendation: strong. (B) Immunology 13. We recommend that the initial dose of prednisolone be Serum immunoglobulin G. approximately 0.5 mg/kg/day and not usually exceed 40 mg/day, Serum autoantibodies (immunofluorescence assay (IFA) of rat given as one morning dose, or up to 2 mg/kg in children to a triple tissue (RTT) or IFA-H Ep- 2): maximum of 40 mg. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of Antinuclear antibody (ANA). recommendation: weak. Anti- smooth muscle antibody (ASMA), 14. We recommend that if the test is readily available, thio- anti- mitochondrial antibody (AMA) – present in about 10%. purine methyltransferase (TPMT) enzyme activity be measured Anti- liver- kidney microsomal- 1 (LKM). before starting azathioprine, to exclude homozygosity for TPMT Additional antibodies tests, if ANA and ASMA and LKM deficiency. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommen- negative: dation: strong. Anti- liver cytosol antibody- 1, anti- soluble liver antigen/liver 15. We recommend that the standard starting dose of azathi- pancreas antibody (anti- SLA/LP), pANCA. oprine be 1 mg/kg day (2.0–2.5 mg/kg in children). In patients (C) Liver biopsy with modestly reduced TPMT activity, in the heterozygous Unless (i) there is a relative contraindication and (ii) non-i nvasive range, there is insufficient evidence for routine reduction of the workup strongly suggests AIH. initial azathioprine dose. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: weak. *Imaging might also show features
