Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


range, there is insufficient evidence for routine reduction of the workup strongly suggests AIH. initial azathioprine dose. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: weak. *Imaging might also show features of advanced chronic liver disease. 16. We recommend that in patients homozygous for TPMT- †In acute HCV, when anti- HCV antibodies might initially be absent, deficiency, mycophenolate mofetil can be substituted for azathi- diagnosis requires HCV RNA detection by PCR. Spurious, low-l evel reactivity for HEV, EBV or CMV IgM antibodies can be seen in acute AIH; oprine (with advice on avoiding pregnancy). Wider use of in such cases, viral PCR testing should be performed to exclude EBV mycophenolate mofetil as a first-l ine agent awaits its further or CMV infection. In children, additional virological assessment might evaluation. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommen- be necessary, especially in infants, or if antibody titres and IgG levels dation: strong. are equivocal. An outbreak of hepatitis with adenovirus and adeno- 17. We recommend that steroid monotherapy (prednisolone associated virus 2 infection on a specific HLA background has recently 0.5 mg/day or maximum 40 mg/day, if tolerated) be consid- been identified in children.119 ered in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, current/recent ‡Caeruloplasmin, ferritin and α1AT are acute phase reactants. With malignancy, an uncertain AIH diagnosis or a suspected precip- acute presentations, other tests are needed. Thus, in children and itant, with expectation of a short treatment duration. Grade of young adults, 24 hour urinary copper, slit lamp examination for Kaiser- evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. Fleisher rings, genetic tests, liver biopsy might be needed to exclude Wilson’s disease)91 92 (see Section G, Differential Diagnosis). Also, serum 18. We recommend monitoring (see table 1) of patients receiving transferrin saturations ± HFE genotyping to exclude haemochromatosis. steroids and or thiopurines. This can be done in secondary or primary care if there is a system for accessing and promptly acting on results. Azathioprine should be promptly reduced or stopped if there is significant bone marrow depression and stopped if Initial treatment there are other severe adverse events (eg, pancreatitis). Grade of 8. We recommend immunosuppressive treatment (IST) in most evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. patients with AIH, regardless of symptoms. Grade of evidence: 19. We recommend that in most patients, the prednisolone high. Strength of recommendation: strong. dose be reduced gradually over 1–3 months to 5–10 mg/day (and 9. We recommend that in patients
