Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


We recommend that in most patients, the prednisolone high. Strength of recommendation: strong. dose be reduced gradually over 1–3 months to 5–10 mg/day (and 9. We recommend that in patients with mild AIH (all of: serum budesonide to 6 mg/day), guided by the fall in serum transami- lanine aminotransferase (ALT) <50 U/L, Ishak necro inflamma- nases. For dose reduction below 5 mg/day, see Section I. Grade of tory score <6 and fibrosis stage <2), the decision to offer treat- evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. ment should be based on balance of benefits and risks. Grade of 20. We recommend that as the steroid dose is reduced, the evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. dose of azathioprine can be increased gradually from 1 to 2 10. We recommend that patients starting treatment for AIH mg/kg/day, with appropriate blood count monitoring. Grade of should: evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. 2 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline Table 1 Monitoring strategy for patients with autoimmune hepatititis Interval Test First 4–6 weeks Months 2–12 Thereafter Clinical assessment 1–2 weekly 2- monthly 3–6- monthly (actual or remote), with assessment of treatment AEs Blood pressure (self- measured if possible) Once Monthly Monthly, while on prednisolone FBC Weekly (after starting azathioprine or mycophenolate) Monthly 3- monthly (while on Aza/MMF) Blood glucose 1–2 weekly 2- monthly 2- monthly (while on prednisolone) U&E Once 6 and 12 months 12- monthly LFT (including ALT and AST) 1–2- weekly Monthly 3–6- monthly IgG 6 and 12 months 12- monthly HbA1C Once 2- monthly 3- monthly (while on prednisolone) Fasting lipids 6 and 12 months 12- monthly Transient elastography 12 months 1- 2 yearly Ultrasound in cirrhotic patients 6 and 12 months 6- monthly Eye examination (patients over 60) After 12 months Annually while on steroids AE, adverse effect; AIH, autoimmune hepatitis; ALT, alanine transaminase; AST, aspartate aminotransferase; Aza, Azathioprine; FBC, full blood count; LFT, liver function test; MMF, Mycophenolate; U&E, urea and electrolytes. 21. We recommend that measurement of azathioprine metab- 28.We recommend that response to treatment be assessed olites is not needed routinely, but can be considered if there is at the following time points, with inadequate response being leucopenia, or suspected non- adherence. This can also be useful defined as: in patients with an inadequate serum ALT response, to inform (a) After 1 month: <50% decrease in ALT/AST whether the dose should be increased (see
