Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


also be useful defined as: in patients with an inadequate serum ALT response, to inform (a) After 1 month: <50% decrease in ALT/AST whether the dose should be increased (see Section G). Grade of (b) After 6 months: failure of normalisation of ALT/AST and evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. IgG. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: 22. We recommend routine supplementation with vitamin strong. D and optimisation of dietary calcium intake in patients 29. In patients with inadequate response, we suggest review receiving bisphosphonates and in those with poor calcium of the diagnosis and assessment of adherence to medication, intake and/or risk factors for vitamin D deficiency. Grade of followed by considering changes to steroid and to azathioprine evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. regimens, to achieve thioguanine nucleotide levels in the thera- 23. We recommend consideration of calculating the FRAX peutic range. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommenda- (fracture risk) score in adult patients starting steroids. Some tion: strong. older patients will have scores in the ‘high risk’ fracture 30. Liver biopsy to confirm histological remission in those category. In these, consider starting bisphosphonates as with complete biochemical remission is not routinely required, soon as feasible, pending a DEXA scan report, which then although it might sometimes be useful. Grade of evidence: low. can modify the risk score and need for treatment. Grade of Strength of recommendation: weak. evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: weak. 24. We recommend that patients with AS AIH (inter- Second-line and third-line treatments national normalised ratio (INR) >1.5 without encepha- 31. We recommend budesonide as an option in non-c irrhotic lopathy) receive prednisolone monotherapy 40 mg/day if adult patients with significant prednisolone- associated AEs. INR is <2.5 and sepsis has been excluded. They should be Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: managed in close liaison with a transplant centre because of weak. an approximately 35% chance that (despite treatment) they 32. We recommend mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) as an will require early liver transplantation. Grade of evidence: option in those who are intolerant of azathioprine, and who are moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. taking active steps not to conceive. Grade of evidence: moderate. 25. We recommend that patients with AIH and ALF (including Strength of recommendation: weak. encephalopathy) should be referred promptly to a transplant 33. We recommend that in patients responding inadequately centre). Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: to
