Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


(including Strength of recommendation: weak. encephalopathy) should be referred promptly to a transplant 33. We recommend that in patients responding inadequately centre). Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: to azathioprine despite treatment optimisation, tacrolimus strong. might be more effective as a rescue therapy, but MMF can also 26. We recommend that for patients with AIH and be considered owing to its better side- effect profile. Grade of decompensated cirrhosis, and those with jaundice but with evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. a model for end- stage liver disease (MELD) score of <27, 34. We recommend that second/third- line therapies, other than treatment can be started on prednisolone (after a negative septic screen), but should be discussed with a transplant input should be sought before their use. Grade of evidence: low. centre if the MELD score does not fall progressively. Grade Strength of recommendation: strong. of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. Adequate and inadequate treatment responses Long-term management 27. Confirmed normalisation of serum ALT/AST and serum IgG 35. We recommend long- term follow- up, as AIH is usually a life- should be the aim of treatment. Grade of evidence: moderate. long condition. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- Strength of recommendation: strong. mendation: strong. Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 3 Guideline 36. We recommend consideration of non-i nvasive imaging Long-term outcome assessment of fibrosis, at 2–3 year intervals. Grade of evidence: 49. We recommend hepatocellular (HCC) surveillance with weak. Strength of recommendation: low. 6- monthly ultrasound in all patients with AIH and cirrhosis, 37. We recommend that in adults achieving complete unless not felt appropriate due to frailty or comorbidity. Grade biochemical response (CBR) after 6 months and repeated testing of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. 2–4 weeks later, steroids be withdrawn slowly. This can be over 3 months in adults. In children low-d ose steroids should Liver transplantation be continued and stopped only after discussion with a specialist 50. We recommend early referral to a liver transplant centre centre. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: for patients with AIH with cirrhosis and who have persistent strong. impaired synthetic function: prolonged blood clotting, low 38. We recommend consideration of checking endogenous serum albumin or symptoms of decompensation (ascites, sponta- adrenal function with a morning serum cortisol. Low values neous bacterial peritonitis, variceal bleed, encephalopathy, jaun- necessitate a short Synacthen test, and endocrinological advice. dice).
