Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


symptoms of decompensation (ascites, sponta- adrenal function with a morning serum cortisol. Low values neous bacterial peritonitis, variceal bleed, encephalopathy, jaun- necessitate a short Synacthen test, and endocrinological advice. dice). Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: Grade of evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: low. strong. 39. We recommend in patients with sustained CBR over 51. We recommend early discussion with a liver transplant 3–4 years, consideration of withdrawing azathioprine (or centre for patients who present with AS AIH (jaundice and coag- other steroid- sparing agent). Withdrawal can be completed in ulopathy) and with AS AIH with ALF (also including hepatic one step, with ongoing monitoring for relapse and for fibrosis encephalopathy). Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of progression. We do not recommend routine liver biopsy in recommendation: strong. adults before treatment withdrawal, but it might be useful in some patients. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommen- Patient perspectives dation: weak. 52. We recommend that more attention be focused on health- 40.Grade of evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: low. related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with AIH, with a 41. AIH relapse is usually signalled by a rise in serum ALT/ holistic approach to adherence issues and consideration of formal AST with a variable rise in serum IgG. We recommend that other monitoring of HRQoL and of medication adverse effects. Grade potential causes (including viral) should be excluded, but that of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. liver biopsy is usually not needed for confirmation. Grade of evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: weak. 42. We recommend that relapse usually be treated by restarting Pregnancy prednisolone. If cirrhosis is absent, budesonide is a potential 53. We recommend that treatment of AIH during pregnancy, alternative. Azathioprine (or another steroid- sparing agent) with corticosteroids (prednisolone/budesonide) with or without should also be restarted, if not already taking. Grade of evidence: thiopurines, should be continued throughout the pregnancy. moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. For newly diagnosed patients, treatment should be given as for 43. We recommend that prednisolone be again withdrawn non- pregnant women (apart from not using mycophenolate). slowly, when CBR is re-a ttained after a relapse, and confirmed. Treatment is associated with better maternal and fetal outcomes. However, there is a stronger case for continuing long-t erm Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: maintenance treatment with a steroid- sparing agent. Grade of strong. evidence: high. Strength of recommendation: strong. 54.
