Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


stronger case for continuing long-t erm Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: maintenance treatment with a steroid- sparing agent. Grade of strong. evidence: high. Strength of recommendation: strong. 54. Although pregnancy in AIH is not usually associated with 44. We recommend that women receiving long- term immu- loss of remission, this might occur post partum. Thus, we recom- nosuppressive therapy be encouraged to undergo regular mend that immunosuppressive therapy should be continued, and cervical screening in line with national guidelines and to have patients closely followed up for three months post partum and HPV vaccination (if under 25, or if under 45 and gay, bisexual thereafter. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: or men who have sex with men (GBMSM)). Also, that patients strong. minimise their exposure to sunlight and be vigilant and seek 55. We recommend that patients with AIH who become medical advice about newly developing and persisting skin pregnant should be advised that they may have increased rates lesions. of gestational diabetes, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, 45. We recommend that some patients, such as those with preterm birth and fetal growth restriction, and so, will need decompensated cirrhosis, and those responding suboptimally close obstetric surveillance and consideration of aspirin therapy to treatment, be informed (if potentially eligible) that there is a (100 mg/day, started in the first trimester for prevention of small chance that they might eventually need liver transplanta- pre- eclampsia). There are no restrictions on breast feeding in tion. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. patients with AIH. Grade of evidence: high. Strength of recom- 46. We recommend that all patients be advised to adopt mendation: strong. a healthy lifestyle (adequate nutrition, non-s moking, low to moderate alcohol intake, physical activity, maintenance of healthy body mass index (BMI)). Grade of evidence: moderate. Variant/overlap syndromes Strength of recommendation: strong. 56. We recommend liver biopsy (unless contraindicated) when 47. We recommend that patients with cirrhosis (documented after non- invasive workup (including MRCP) an overlap at any time) be monitored for complications, including hepato- syndrome is being considered. Grade of evidence: moderate. cellular carcinoma and portal hypertension in accordance with Strength of recommendation: strong. generic cirrhosis guidelines. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of 57. We recommend that moderate to severe interface hepa- recommendation: strong. titis on liver biopsy be considered a prerequisite for a diagnosis 48. We recommend individualised end- of life care for
