Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


We recommend that moderate to severe interface hepa- recommendation: strong. titis on liver biopsy be considered a prerequisite for a diagnosis 48. We recommend individualised end- of life care for patients of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)/AIH overlap syndrome to with advanced liver disease who are unsuitable for transplant. be considered. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommen- Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. dation: strong. 4 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline 58. We recommend that a variant syndrome be considered and elevated) have fallen to normal, and then be phased out of PBC or primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) but who have transaminases. In the event of hepatitis relapse, subsequent marked elevation of serum transaminases or IgG and/or serology management is that of standard AIH, with prednisolone and that could be compatible with AIH. Grade of evidence: moderate. a steroid- sparing agent. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of Strength of recommendation: strong. recommendation: weak. 59. We recommend that concurrent PBC be considered in 70. Features of chronicity (such as advanced fibrosis on patients with cholestatic pruritus, cholestatic liver blood tests biopsy) also make it less likely that the drug is the sole and/or relevant autoantibodies in addition to the typical trans- cause. We recommend treating such patients as if they have aminitis of AIH. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- standard AIH. Always consider seeking an expert clinical mendation: strong. opinion. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommenda- 60. We recommend that a PSC/AIH variant syndrome be tion: weak. considered and an MRCP performed in all children, and in adults with otherwise typical AIH who have biliary changes on biopsy, cholestatic liver blood tests, pruritus, suboptimal response to Covid-19 and autoimmune hepatitis immune suppression, inflammatory bowel disease or subsequent 71. We recommend that patients with AIH with cirrhosis/or development of any of those features. Grade of evidence: low. those receiving immunosuppressive treatment who develop Strength of recommendation: strong. COVID- 19 infection, be considered for appropriate antiviral 61. We recommend that the revised and simplified Inter- therapy. Grade of evidence: high. Strength of recommenda- national AIH Group (IAIHG) scoring systems not be used for tion: strong. diagnosis of variant syndromes. The Paris criteria (see Section N 72. We recommend that steroid therapy usually be moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. withhold steroid- sparing agents should be individualised, 62. We recommend that when the two components of a
