Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


72. We recommend that steroid therapy usually be moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. withhold steroid- sparing agents should be individualised, 62. We recommend that when the two components of a variant based on infection severity. Grade of evidence: low. Strength syndrome present simultaneously but one is predominant, this of recommendation: weak. be the first treatment target—for example, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) if cholestatic features predominate. Grade of evidence: BACKGROUND low. Strength of recommendation: strong. Since the publication of the first British Society of Gastro- 63. We recommend that combination therapy with UDCA and enterology (BSG) AIH guidelines,1 there have been few immune suppression (prednisolone and azathioprine as used in randomised treatment trials, and first- line treatment has not classic AIH) might give the best rates of biochemical response, substantially changed. However, our understanding of AIH with less fibrosis progression. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of has advanced in many areas based on large observational recommendation: strong. studies, systematic reviews and consensus statements. 64. We recommend that patients with an overlap syndrome In this updated guideline we include new topics, such as who have severe interface hepatitis and/or bridging necrosis on COVID- 19 and adrenal insufficiency; and a summary of a liver biopsy should be given immunosuppression at diagnosis. systematic review with meta- analysis, of first- line treatment. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: We propose diagnostic and management standards poten- strong. tially usable as care quality metrics, and a research agenda, 65. We recommend that if a trial of immunosuppression is which the UK is well- equipped to pursue. We focus mainly on AIH in adults, as guidelines exist for AIH in children.2 unnecessary long- term treatment (b) regular re- evaluation, as the However, our guidelines should also apply to adolescents disease phenotype might change over time. Grade of evidence: and older children. Aspects of paediatric care which differ low. Strength of recommendation: strong. from that of adults will be highlighted. Drug-induced autoimmune-like hepatitis METHODOLOGY 66. We recommend routine consideration of the possibility of This guideline was commissioned by the BSG and developed drug- induced autoimmune- like hepatitis (DI-A LH) and prompt in accordance with the BSG National Institute of Health cessation of any suspected precipitant. Grade of evidence: low. and Care Excellence (NICE)- accredited guideline process. Strength of recommendation: strong. The guidelines confirm to the Appraisal of Guidelines 67. We recommend performing a liver biopsy if there is for
