Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


and Care Excellence (NICE)- accredited guideline process. Strength of recommendation: strong. The guidelines confirm to the Appraisal of Guidelines 67. We recommend performing a liver biopsy if there is for Research & Evaluation (AGREE) instrument II (www. not prompt resolution of liver injury on withdrawal of the agreetrust.org) and the BSG’s policies on equality and diver- suspected precipitant. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of sity and on climate change and sustainability. recommendation: strong. 68. For DI- AILH, we recommend starting prednisolone (0.5 mg/kg/day or up to 40 mg/day, as for idiopathic AIH), Scope if there is either (a) jaundice (b) advanced fibrosis on liver Diagnosis and management of patients with AIH and its biopsy or (c) failure of serum transaminases to fall substan- variant syndromes, excluding management following liver tially within a week of stopping the suspected precipitant. transplantation. Patients with liver failure should be discussed with a trans- plant centre. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommen- dation: strong. Target population 69. We recommend that (a) prednisolone be tapered as Patients (all ages) meeting 1999 or 2008 IAIHG criteria, or Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 5 Guideline Target audience published.3 For the remaining questions, either published meta- Anyone who manages patients with AIH. Also, patients with analyses are cited, or systematic analysis was not possible, AIH and their carers. To inform clinical decisions and standards because of insufficient data. of care. Evidence summary and recommendations Guideline Development Group (GDG) Draft recommendations for each Section were submitted by two This group (chosen by DG and MAH) comprised: seven adult members, and refined by group discussion. They were graded: hepatologists (representing district general and regional hospi- 1 (full agreement) to 9 (complete disagreement) by the 10 clini- tals, including transplant centres) and two paediatric hepatolo- cian members, and rediscussed and modified until the median with AIH. Following disclosure of potential conflicts of interest, members with scores in both extreme ranges: 1–3 and 7–9). the group membership was approved by the BSG. Both patients Recommendations are categorised using the Grading of attended nearly all the 3-m onthly virtual group meetings and Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation contributed at all stages. (GRADE) system: SYSTEMATIC LITERATURE SEARCHES TO INFORM THE AIH Strength of evidence GUIDELINE A: High quality. Further research unlikely to change confidence Search methods in effect estimate. Systematic literature searches were undertaken in February B: Moderate quality. Further research likely
