Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


of evidence GUIDELINE A: High quality. Further research unlikely to change confidence Search methods in effect estimate. Systematic literature searches were undertaken in February B: Moderate quality. Further research likely to influence confi- 2020, with an updated search in July 2022. The strategy was dence in (and might change) the effect estimate. developed by the GDG and by information specialists at the C: Low quality. Further research very likely to influence confi- field, UK. We used thesaurus terms and free-t ext terms relating D: Very low quality. Any estimate of effect is uncertain. to patients with AIH (online supplemental table 1). Methodolog- ical search filters were used to identify the study types of interest. Strength of recommendations Searches were limited to human studies only. The searches were 1. Strong, based on grade of evidence, consensus of opinion conducted on Ovid Medline, EMBASE via Ovid, the Cochrane and high estimated patient benefit versus risks ratio Database of Systematic Reviews and the Cochrane Central 2. Weak, based on poor quality evidence and/or, divergence of Register of Controlled Trials. Databases were searched from opinion and low patient benefit versus risk ratio. inception. Search results were imported into Endnote reference The GDG foresees no major barriers to implementation of the The searches generated 16 893 unduplicated references. As tions on service organisation might require additional resources relevant to AIH were included. The group members added 1741 by the BSG Liver Section and Clinical Standards and Services further references, necessary to include studies published since Committee. We suggest that this guideline be updated in 5–8 July 2022 and studies in areas, such as side effects of medications years. in other conditions. Section A. Epidemiology Clinical questions Incidence and prevalence The guideline is structured as evidence summaries, providing AIH is rare, with annual incidence and prevalence in the UK of 2 members. These questions were grouped into 16 sections (A–O). annual incidence and prevalence values are 0.5 and 1.75 per 100 Each Section was assigned to two group members, who were 000, respectively.7 Incidence is higher at higher latitudes,6 and responsible for performing evidence searches, and for writing approximately doubled between 1997 and 2015.5 8 AIH is more the summaries. The recommendations (at end of each Section) common in females: about 3 to 1 in the UK5 6; it affects all ages aim to answer the questions. but is commoner in older people. Inclusion and exclusion
