Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Section) common in females: about 3 to 1 in the UK5 6; it affects all ages aim to answer the questions. but is commoner in older people. Inclusion and exclusion criteria Risk factors When possible, we incorporated results of systematic reviews, AIH is probably immune in origin, given its associations with randomised controlled trials and case–control observational other autoimmune diseases, specific human leucocyte antigen studies. Often, information addressing a specific question came (HLA) alleles, non- organ- specific serum autoantibodies and from uncontrolled retrospective observational studies of vari- hyperglobulinaemia.9 10 It occurs when a genetically predisposed able quality. We have, when possible avoided citing case reports, individual encounters environmental risk factors. small single-c entre case series, survey results and studies with For type 1 AIH (associated with serum antinuclear and anti- overt selection criteria and/or in which relevant parameters were smooth antibody positivity), associated HLA alleles include not clearly defined. The guideline does not include a health DRB1*03:01 and DRB1*04:01 in populations of European economic analysis. ancestry.11 In South America and in East Asia, AIH is associ- Although a systematic approach was encouraged when ated with different HLA alleles. For type 2 AIH (associated with feasible, most sections are narrative in structure. Attempts at serum liver-k idney microsomal antibody) associated HLA alleles formal evidence synthesis using a PICO (Problem/Population; include DRB1*03, DRB1*07, and DQB1*02:0.1. Intervention; Comparison; Outcome) format (online supple- In genome- wide association studies of type 1 AIH,12 13 non- mental table 2) have been made for several questions, regarding HLA risk loci identified at genome- wide significance, harboured first- line treatment (Section F). Full results have recently been the candidate genes, CTLA4 (at 2q33.3) and SYNPR (at 3p14.2). 6 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline Figure 1 Overview of pathogenesis. Initial hepatocytes injury (acute hepatitis) is initiated by innate immune cells. Subsequently, cytokines and chemokines released from innate cells and injured hepatocytes, recruit adaptive CD4 T cell subsets (effector T helper type 1, Th1 and type 17, Th17 and regulatory T cells) and B cells to the site of lobular and interface hepatitis. T cells require interleukin 2 for their function and survival. Antigen presenting dendritic cells and B cells interact with T cells. Antigen-e xposed B cells then become plasma cells and secrete immunoglobulin G. CTLA4 encodes a T cell receptor involved in costimulatory genotypes. The autoantigen in type 1 AIH is unknown, but pathways.14 Other
