Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


cells then become plasma cells and secrete immunoglobulin G. CTLA4 encodes a T cell receptor involved in costimulatory genotypes. The autoantigen in type 1 AIH is unknown, but pathways.14 Other risk loci identified at suggestive significance type 2 AIH is associated with cytochrome P450- 2D6 mito- levels harbour the genes STAT1/STAT4 (at 2q32.2), SH2B3 chondrial antigen. Hepatocyte antigen epitope shift might (at 12q24.12), IRF8 (at 16q24.1) and LILRA4/LILRA5 (at contribute to loss of immunological self- tolerance and failure 19q13.42). These loci require confirmation. of immune cells to recognise self- antigen. Autoimmune- like hepatitis15 is a feature of autoimmune poly- AIH is characterised by hepatocyte injury from autoreac- endocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy; an autosomal tive lymphocytes, predominantly with a T- cell- rich infiltrate, recessive condition caused by mutations in the autoimmune plasma cells and dendritic cells, especially at sites of interface regulator (AIRE) gene. This gene encodes a transcription factor and lobular hepatitis22 23 (figure 1). T helper cells, mainly essential for immune tolerance. Thus, genes implicated in AIH— CD4, seem to be important in pathogenesis24 (figure 1). AIH HLA alleles, CTLA4, and AIRE—provide insight into the immu- is characterised by an adaptive effector CD4 T cell immune nopathogenesis of AIH. response to hepatocytes.24 Acute presentation of AIH is Risk factors for AIH include a personal or family history of driven by innate immune response orchestrated by natural autoimmune disease. AIH prevalence is increased fivefold in first- killer cells.25 degree relatives and 54- fold in monozygotic twins of patients Thymic derived T regulatory cells (Tregs), help to prevent with AIH.16 However, given the rarity of AIH, absolute risk in AIH by controlling tissue- damaging effector T cells.26 27 relatives remains low and family screening is not recommended. Tregs are recruited to the site of AIH to control the inflam- Environmental factors could predispose to AIH via epigenetic mation28; these cells could be a potential treatment for AIH. changes.11 In one study17 risk factors for AIH included urinary tract infection, oral contraceptives, current smoking and vacci- Section C. Clinical and biochemical presentation nations to varicella, rubella, pertussis or pneumococcus. Protec- tive factors included a history of mumps or rheumatic fever, pregnancies and hormone replacement therapy. Presenting symptoms There are occasional reports18 of AIH following, and poten- At presentation, 12–39% of patients with AIH are asymptom- tially triggered by, viral infections: including hepatitis A, B, C,E, atic,29–32 and diagnosed after incidental discovery of
