Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


AIH following, and poten- At presentation, 12–39% of patients with AIH are asymptom- tially triggered by, viral infections: including hepatitis A, B, C,E, atic,29–32 and diagnosed after incidental discovery of abnormal Epstein- Barr (EBV) virus cytomegalovirus (CMV), varicella- liver tests. When present, symptoms are often non- specific: zoster, human herpesvirus- 6 and recently, COVID-1 9.19 20 AIH malaise, fatigue, nausea anorexia, weight loss, amenorrhoea and has been reported in patients with HIV.21 However, an aetio- joint pains (rarely swelling).8 30 32–35 In 25–50% of patients, AIH logical link with these agents remains unproved. AIH associated presents as an ‘acute hepatitis’ with jaundice, often preceded by with viral infection can resolve spontaneously. Immunosuppres- nausea, and flu-l ike symptoms.34 Some patients report previous sion is needed for severe or persistent cases, but withdrawal episodes of jaundice.33 Less than 5% of patients present with should be attempted once remission is achieved. AIH has also acute liver failure (ALF), including encephalopathy.36 Extrahe- been associated with several drugs (Section O). patic autoimmune diseases coexist in 24–42% of patients with AIH.37–40 SECTION B. IMMUNOPATHOGENESIS Environmental risk factors in AIH might generate self- antigen, Biochemistry directly (eg, via xenobiotic modification of host proteins) Serum alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase or indirectly (eg, via molecular mimicry), when genetic risk (AST) at presentation (while sometimes modestly raised, and factors are present, such as certain HLA, AIRE and CTLA4 occasionally normal) are typically about 10 times higher than Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 7 Guideline normal (sometimes even higher).29 32 35 Serum alkaline phospha- AIH-related acute liver failure (AIH-ALF) tase (ALP) can be mildly raised in active disease, but marked When encephalopathy is also present (in addition to jaundice elevation suggests primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) or primary and coagulopathy), the condition becomes that of AIH with ALF sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) variant syndromes (Section N). (AIH- ALF), sometimes called acute fulminant AIH. In reports, AIH presentation might vary between races.41 African- encephalopathy is already present at presentation in 3–6% of American patients are (compared with Caucasian patients) patients classified as AS-A IH, and might also develop over 1–3 younger, with a higher prevalence of cirrhosis and liver failure. weeks (especially in patients with higher INR and MELD scores), Non-C aucasian patients had more cholestatic histological thus progressing to AIH- ALF.48–51 features and a higher rate of non-r esponse to treatment, not fully The outcome of AIH with ALF
