Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Non-C aucasian patients had more cholestatic histological thus progressing to AIH- ALF.48–51 features and a higher rate of non-r esponse to treatment, not fully The outcome of AIH with ALF is worse than that of AS-A IH, explained by differences in access to medical care. with recovery in only 9–32% of patients.49 52 No survival benefit with steroids was seen in AIH with ALF in one multicentre cohort52 (Section F). Thus, urgent transplantation is usually Severity assessment required. Although no unified severity classification exists for AIH, there are seven distinct patterns. These incorporate current under- standing of acute and chronic liver disease and are determined Section C Recommendations by the severity of the acute (mild, icteric, severe, fulminant) and 1. We recommend that the presence of encephalopathy in a chronic (mild, fibrosis, and cirrhosis, compensated and decom- patient with AS- AIH should codify the disease as AIH- ALF. This pensated) components of liver injury: should trigger consideration of urgent liver transplant. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. 2. We recommend that acute-o n- chronic liver failure should Asymptomatic disease: (a) mild or (b) with fibrosis/cirrhosis be differentiated from decompensated cirrhosis, since it identi- Asymptomatic patients might not have mild disease.30 31 42 While fies a subgroup of patients that might merit expedited liver trans- they tend to have lower serum transaminases than symptomatic plantation. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: patients, severity of necro- inflammation and fibrosis are similar, strong. as is death/transplantation rate.30 31 42 43 Treating asymptomatic patients is associated with improved survival (Section F). Section D. Diagnostic workup In patients with suspected AIH, a comprehensive drug history Chronic hepatitis is needed, including all medications, herbal/dietary supplements This is the most common form of AIH, with insidious onset and and recreational drugs. (Table 1) Always consider stopping or non- specific symptoms. changing medications which either (a) have previously been linked to AIH, (b) were started within 12 months of the liver injury or (c) are not needed or can be substituted. If after drug Cirrhosis: (a) compensated and (b) decompensated About one- third of patients with AIH have cirrhosis at diag- consider a trial of steroids even if the diagnosis of AIH is uncer- nosis.29 30 35 43 Sometimes patients (usually elderly) present with tain (Section O). cirrhosis complications. Cirrhosis and decompensation are poor Because there is no single diagnostic marker for AIH, other prognostic
