Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


30 35 43 Sometimes patients (usually elderly) present with tain (Section O). cirrhosis complications. Cirrhosis and decompensation are poor Because there is no single diagnostic marker for AIH, other prognostic features.44 causes of hepatitis must be excluded. Patients with suspected AIH should undergo a non- invasive liver screen as detailed in Acute hepatitis with or without jaundice box 1. Initial severity of inflammation has prognostic implications. Patients with initial serum AST >10 x ULN are less likely than Immunology those with values <10 x ULN) to present with cirrhosis and/or AIH is characterised by polyclonal hyper- gammaglobulinaemia, decompensation, and to die due to (or need transplantation for) especially serum IgG. However, in a multicentre study, 130 of liver disease.45 1318 patients (10%) had normal serum IgG at presentation.53 These patients were similar to those with raised serum IgG, regarding other diagnostic features and treatment response. Acute on chronic liver failure (ACLF) Serum IgG is also normal in 25–39% of patients with acute ACLF is acute injury developing in patients with (often unrec- AIH (including acute-s evere AIH±ALF),49 54 thus complicating ognised) cirrhosis, and sometimes with extrahepatic organ diagnosis. Serum IgG can also be elevated in cirrhosis due to failure. In patients with AIH, a disease ‘flare’ might precipi- tate ACLF.46 Such patients might benefit from corticosteroids other causes and in non-h epatic disorders, such as HIV and myeloma. and most treated patients recover (Section F). However, in the Serum autoantibodies are also typical of AIH, and its classifi- UK, a label of ACLF is a potential mechanism to expedite liver cation is based on the autoantibody present: antinuclear (ANA) transplant. and anti- smooth muscle (ASMA) antibodies for type 1 AIH, and anti- liver kidney microsomal type 1 (anti- LKM1) and anti- liver Acute severe autoimmune hepatitis (AS-AIH) cytosol type 1 antibodies (anti- LC1) for type 2 AIH. AS- AIH is defined as an ‘acute’ presentation with jaundice and Serum ANAs are found in 50–70% patients with coagulation disturbance (INR greater than 1.5) but without AIH.29 30 32 35 55 Target antigens are heterogeneous, including encephalopathy.47 48 Definition of ‘acute’ has varied: ‘symptoms double- and single- stranded DNA, ribonucleoproteins, for <26 weeks’,48 ‘no known history of chronic liver disease’49 centromeres, histones, chromatin and cyclin A. ANA is or ‘no previous medical history of AIH’.50 Two- thirds of patients detected by indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) of with AS- AIH receiving corticosteroids survive
