Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


chromatin and cyclin A. ANA is or ‘no previous medical history of AIH’.50 Two- thirds of patients detected by indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) of with AS- AIH receiving corticosteroids survive without trans- rat triple tissue (IFA- RTT) or HEp- 2 cells (IFA- HEp- 2). plantation (Section F) The staining pattern is usually homogeneous.56 ANA is not 8 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline antigen-s pecific assays.56 They have high specificity for Box 2 Role of liver biopsy in autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) AIH, although they occur rarely in hepatitis C. 2. Antibodies to soluble liver/pancreas antigen (SLA)/LP) Support diagnosis of AIH, based on characteristic are detectable in up to a third of patients with AIH, either histopathological features. Histological findings are an integral type 1 or type 2. The target antigen is O- phosphoseryl- part of AIH diagnostic scoring systems70 95 (see Section E). tRNA:selenocysteine- tRNA synthase. Anti- SLA/LP anti- Exclude other conditions (e.g. metabolic- associated steatotic bodies can only be detected using antigen- based assays, liver disease, Wilson’s disease). and not by IFA. They are highly specific for AIH. They Support a diagnosis of autoimmune variant syndromes (with are associated with a longer time to complete response primary sclerosing cholangitis and primary biliary cholangitis; and higher relapse rate following immunosuppression (see Section N) and also, co- existence of steatosis or withdrawal,59 but not with excess mortality. steatohepatitis. 3. Atypical (also known as peripheral) anti- neutrophilic cy- Assess severity of necro- inflammation (disease grading) and tosolic antibodies (aANCA). These are associated with fibrosis (disease staging) and their change in subsequent AIH, although with low specificity.60 61 They are detected biopsies. This might inform prognosis and/or a decision to using IF of ethanol- fixed neutrophils. Testing for aANCA change treatment. is useful when AIH is suspected but ANA, SMA and LKM antibodies are not detected. 4. Antimitochondrial antibody (although strongly associ- ated with primary biliary cholangitis) is also found in specific for AIH, being found in healthy people, other auto- 4–9% of patients with AIH (Section N) in many of whom immune disorders, infections, malignancies and other liver there are no other features of PBC. diseases. 5. Finally, in about 15% of patients with AIH, all these au- Smooth- muscle antibodies (SMA) are found in 52–69% of toantibodies are undetectable at presentation, although patients with type 1 AIH.29 35 Target antigens include fila- they might appear during follow- up. Antibody-
