Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


antibodies (SMA) are found in 52–69% of toantibodies are undetectable at presentation, although patients with type 1 AIH.29 35 Target antigens include fila- they might appear during follow- up. Antibody- negative mentous actin (F- actin) and other cytoskeletal components, and -positive patients have similar presenting features such as vimentin and desmin. SMA are also detected using and response to treatment.61 IFA-R TT or IFA-H Ep-2 .56 Like ANA, SMA also are not The autoantibody profile of children with AIH is similar to that specific for AIH, occurring in other liver and extrahepatic of adults. Titres tend to be lower. The existence of an antibody- conditions. However, co- occurrence of ANA and SMA is negative phenotype is debated.2 more specific for AIH, with diagnostic accuracy about 75%.57 For antibody testing methodology, we refer to consensus Anti-l iver-k idney-m icrosomal-1 (LKM) antibodies are statements from the International AIH Group (IAIHG) found in only 2–4% of patients with AIH in Northern Europe committee for autoimmune serology62 and other expert and North America29 33 but are commoner in Southern bodies.56 When AIH is suspected, serum should first be Europe. Anti- LKM- 1 antibody is present in about 70% of screened for ANA, SMA, and anti- LKM- 1 antibodies. If these type 2 AIH cases, the target antigen being cytochrome P450 are not detected, antigen- specific assays should be used to 2D6 (CYP2D6). Anti- LKM- 1 antibodies can be detected look for anti- SLA/LP antibodies and for ANCA. using IFA- RTT or IFA- HEp- 2; antigen- specific assays (eg, ELISA, immunoblot) are also available. Anti- LKM- 1 anti- Histology bodies have high specificity for AIH, although they also occur in hepatitis C. 1. Anti- liver cytosol (LC)1 antibodies found in about 30% supplemental table 3). of patients with type 2 AIH,58 the target antigen being Because of its diagnostic importance, liver biopsy (unless actively formiminotransferase cyclodeaminase. Anti- LC1 anti- contraindicated), should be performed in the workup of both bodies can be detected using IFA- RTT or IFA- HEp- 2, or children and adults with suspected AS- AIH,23 63 ideally, before Table 2 Summary of biopsy performance quality requirements and recommended staining techniques.67 Issues Recommendation / optimal scenario Reason References Patient preparation Full consideration of rationale, potential Full explanation of recommendation Maximise patient involvement, empowerment 67 contraindications and possible approaches Adequate time for patient’s decision and consent and safety (percutaneous, transjugular, laporoscopic) Checklist Fully informed patient
