Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


30 (0–41) 73 (51–78) 50 (24–77) 46 (20–60) 57 (25–100) C: controls *DILI *(hepatocllular) †Chronic viral hepatitis ‡PBC §Non-a utoimune ¶Defined as plasma cell clusters, lobular DILI, drug- induced liver injury; PBC, primary biliary cholangitis. starting treatment. However, sometimes, (for example, ASAIH), 60% of patients met the 1999 IAIHG criteria for probable AIH, initiation of steroids pending report (or even performance) of and 3% and 0.5%, the criteria for definite AIH, based on non- biopsy can be justified. invasive tests (before AIH was excluded by histology). Further- Some have questioned whether a liver biopsy is needed more, even if biopsy is not always needed for initial diagnosis, routinely when non- invasive workup strongly suggests AIH.64 In AIH is a lifelong disease. Response to treatment is sometimes a study of 257 patients with AIH, histology was ‘atypical’ in only suboptimal, and in these patients, late biopsy might not be diag- 5%, and these patients also responded to immunosuppression, nostic, due to immunosuppression. Thus, the initial diagnosis of leading to a conclusion that liver biopsy uncommonly overturned AIH might be questioned, sometimes years later. A firm initial a diagnosis of AIH suggested on non- invasive workup. However, biopsy- based diagnosis helps to avoid such scenarios. this cohort was preselected as diagnosed with AIH, and it was Table 2 summarises how to obtain and process the biopsy. unclear how many additional patients with AIH suspected on For further discussion, see BSG liver biopsy guidelines,67 which non- invasive workup had been excluded owing to atypical liver emphasise the importance of carefully considering the deci- histology. In two studies of biopsy- proven MASLD,65 66 20% and sion, fully informing patients and post- biopsy precautions, and Table 4 Definition of the consensus recommendation for histological criteria of autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) from the International AIH Group Pathology pathology section71 Probable AIH When portal- based hepatitis Portal lymphoplasmacytic inflammation with more than mild interface activity and/or more than (classic AIH histology) mild lobular hepatitis without features suggesting another liver disease When lobular hepatitis More than mild lobular hepatitis with/without centrilobular necro-i nflammation with at least one of the following features: ► Lymphoplasmacytic infiltrates ► Interface hepatitis ► Portal-b ased fibrosis Without features suggesting another liver disease Possible AIH When portal- based hepatitis Portal lymphoplasmacytic inflammation when interface activity is not more than mild, and lobular Portal lymphoplasmacytic inflammation hepatitis is not more than mild, with more than mild
