Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


ters, along with hepatocellular injury. histology was considered essential for diagnosis in 42% of The composition, distribution and severity of necro- patients with AS- AIH in a large multicentre cohort.49 Histo- inflammation and fibrosis might vary, depending on when logical features include central perivenulitis (about 70%), the biopsy is performed. The most common pattern is that of severe hepatic necrosis (about 50%); lymphoid aggregates chronic hepatitis, with a predominant distribution around the and plasma cell enrichment.36 48 49 51 76 portal tracts, or at the interface (border between the portal area and the lobule), together with variable fibrosis. However, Implications of histology for management and prognosis many patients (especially those with acute presentations of The severity (grade) of inflammatory activity and the fibrosis AIH)68 69 have injury throughout the lobule (pan- lobular hepa- extent (stage) should both be assessed as they are relevant titis) with less prominent or even absent portal inflammation to prognosis. Ishak’s modified histological activity index for or fibrosis. grading AIH77 (although not validated for acute hepatitis), has Recently, there has been a re- evaluation of what constitutes advantages over other systems (Batts and Ludwig, Scheuer, ‘typical’ histology of AIH. Emperipolesis (presence of an intact METAVIR), as it provides unique granular information on leucocyte within the cytoplasm of a hepatocyte) and rosettes grading lobular activity, particularly the degree of confluent (hepatocytes arranged around a small central lumen), are necrosis. Also, it was used in the recent consensus recom- features previously considered important for the diagnosis of mendations for histological diagnosis of AIH,71 although AIH and are an explicit part of the simplified diagnostic scoring including only three grading categories from Ishak’s score: system (Section E).70 However, this has been challenged by interface, lobular and confluent (but not intraportal) necro- recent studies (see table 3) that seem to undermine their speci- inflammatory activity. This needs consideration if the diag- ficity. Even interface hepatitis, although common in AIH, is seen nostic consensus criteria are adapted to evaluate histological in other liver diseases. remission (with remission defined as a necro- inflammatory Revised histological criteria for AIH have been developed score of <4). in a recent consensus report71 summarised in table 4. There The presence of bridging or multilobular necrosis under- are two main differences from earlier scores. First, emperip- lines the need for treatment of AIH, and severe necrosis is a olesis and rosettes are no longer considered as favouring
