Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


are two main differences from earlier scores. First, emperip- lines the need for treatment of AIH, and severe necrosis is a olesis and rosettes are no longer considered as favouring AIH. prognostic marker in AS- AIH.49 In contrast, mild or minimal Second, there is inclusion of both lobular hepatitis and the inflammation might influence a decision to defer initiation of more typical portal- based chronic hepatitis as potential domi- treatment (Section F). A definition of mild histology (Ishak’s nant patterns. This is important to avoid dismissing patients interface activity ≤1, absence of confluent necrosis and with acute presentation of AIH whose biopsy displays only four or less lobular necro- inflammatory foci/10X) has been (or dominance of) lobular hepatitis. Such patients might be proposed.71 underscored using earlier criteria. The report also includes AIH might be silent for years and then present as advanced criteria for possible, and for unlikely, diagnoses of AIH. liver disease. Assessment of fibrosis is challenging, and These criteria require validation, ideally incorporating blind requires special stains for collagen (see table 2), to help to assessment of biopsies from patients with AIH and other differentiate post- necrotic parenchymal collapse from estab- diseases. lished fibrosis.78 However no single histological abnormality is specific See Section G for the role of follow- up biopsy to confirm for AIH, and other conditions need to be excluded before histological remission, and Section N for histology of overlap establishing the diagnosis (box 1). Some histological features syndromes. do argue against a diagnosis of AIH. Multiple well- formed granulomas, widespread bile duct injury, copper- associated Section D recommendations protein deposition without advanced fibrosis, or steatosis/ 1. We recommend that patients with suspected AIH should steatohepatitis, support an alternative or co- existing diag- undergo thorough non- invasive liver screening, includ- nosis. However given the high population prevalence of ing (a) liver imaging to exclude biliary obstruction, (b) steatotic liver disease, it is debatable whether finding features testing for hepatitis B and C and HIV testing (all cases) of this condition as ‘another liver disease’ should diminish and hepatitis A, E, CMV and EBV (in acute and/or icteric the likelihood of AIH. presentations). Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recom- Additional findings in AIH include lymphocytic apoptotic mendation: strong. bodies and intracytoplasmic hyaline droplets in Kupffer 2. We recommend that liver biopsy, a major part of the di- cells. Their diagnostic significance and specificity await agnostic workup,
