Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: hyaline, neutrophilic inflammation and pericentral or peris- strong. inusoidal fibrosis all suggest MASLD. In contrast, plasma cell infiltrates and interface hepatitis suggest AIH.83 However, some Section E. Differential diagnosis patients with MASLD and cirrhosis can develop chronic portal AIH might mimic many liver and biliary diseases. Bile duct tract inflammation. In children, portal inflammation, periportal obstruction needs exclusion by biliary ultrasound ±MRCP. For steatosis and fibrosis are common and usually mild and without other differential diagnoses, see table 5. Importantly, some of interface activity.82 these can co- exist with AIH. MASLD and AIH can co-e xist. Steatosis (usually mild) Even after full viral screening (box 1) confusion might arise. is present in 13–35%% of patients with AIH on diagnostic Patients with confirmed chronic HBV and HCV infection might biopsy.84–87 This probably reflects the high population preva- have some ‘autoimmune’ features (table 5). Liver biopsy usually lence of MASLD. Its prognostic implications are unclear. Twelve suggests viral hepatitis (rather than AIH). However, LKM- patients with AIH plus steatohepatitis on diagnostic biopsy had positive AIH has been associated with HCV infection. If in higher adverse outcome rates, than did 61 patients with AIH and doubt, options include (a) assessing response of serum transami- simple steatosis.88 However, based on larger cohorts, the influ- nases to antiviral therapy and viral clearance, before deciding to ence of steatosis on disease progression and mortality remains start immunosuppressive treatment, and (b) treating both viral unresolved.85 87 hepatitis and AIH simultaneously. For differentiation of AIH from primary biliary cholangitis AIH and drug- induced liver injury (DILI) might also overlap in (PBC) and primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), see Section N. immunological and histological features (table 5). Several drugs In liver congestion (from cardiac disease or hepatic vein can cause liver injury indistinguishable from AIH and recently obstruction) presentation is usually indolent, with serum alkaline labelled as drug-i nduced autoimmune- like hepatitis (DIAILH: phosphatase and bilirubin increasing more than transaminases.89 see Section O). In a blinded study of biopsies from patients with In acute congestion serum transaminases might be markedly DILI and with AIH,79 portal plasma cell-r ich inflammation, and raised90; often serum ALT more than AST and often also with absence of cholestasis, were associated with AIH. Eosinophils raised serum lactate dehydrogenase. If the cause is cardiac, the were not diagnostically useful. The presence of advanced fibrosis inferior vena cava and hepatic
