Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


cholestasis, were associated with AIH. Eosinophils raised serum lactate dehydrogenase. If the cause is cardiac, the were not diagnostically useful. The presence of advanced fibrosis inferior vena cava and hepatic veins are enlarged. If the hepatic might also favour AIH.80 vein is obstructed, its flow is reduced or absent. Metabolic dysfunction- associated steatotic liver disease Ischaemic liver injury is suggested first, by the presence of (MASLD) cardiac or respiratory disease, and second, by an acute precip- Usually, presentation of MASLD is more indolent, and serum itant (hypotension, sepsis). If acute, serum transaminases can be transaminass are lower (uncommonly over 150 U/L) than in over 1000, but then usually fall rapidly. AIH.81 However, immunological features of AIH might be Wilson’s disease91 92 needs consideration in suspected AIH, 12 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline ranges from asymptomatic abnormalities to liver failure. (b For indolent presentations: metabolic- associated steatotic Serum caeruloplasmin, 24- hour urinary copper excretion and, liver disease (MASLD), primary biliary cholangitis, primary if abnormal, slit-l amp eye examination and genetic screening, sclerosing cholangitis and congestion. Some of these conditions should be performed but do not always exclude Wilson’s disease. might co- exist with AIH. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of Liver histology in Wilson’s disease includes many abnormali- recommendation: strong. ties, none of them specific. Occasionally, the appearances even 2. We recommend that, if the diagnosis is in doubt, diagnostic suggest AIH.93 If there is any suspicion, we suggest measuring scores be used. The simplified 2008 scoring criteria have high copper level in liver biopsy tissue, sometimes urgently. This is the specificity, but lower sensitivity than the 1999 criteria, which can most reliable test for Wilson’s disease. Histochemical staining for be used if the simplified criteria are not met. Consider seeking copper or copper- associated proteins is insufficiently specific and advice from an expert clinician. Grade of evidence: low. Strength can be seen in cholestatic disorders. A Wilson’s disease scoring of recommendation: weak. system94 can also be used in cases of doubt. 3. We recommend that (since there is no single pathogno- monic histological feature of AIH) specialist histopathological To standardise diagnosis of AIH, and to facilitate comparison biochemistry, immunology, viral serology and imaging. Grade of titis Group (IAIHG) developed diagnostic criteria. The first iteration was developed in 1993 and revised in 1999.95 This Section F. Initial immunosuppressive therapy (IST) represented expert consensus on criteria for definite or
