Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


(IAIHG) developed diagnostic criteria. The first iteration was developed in 1993 and revised in 1999.95 This Section F. Initial immunosuppressive therapy (IST) represented expert consensus on criteria for definite or probable The goals of initial treatment are first, to achieve symptom AIH. However, it was detailed, incompletely validated, and used resolution, complete biochemical response (normal serum laboratory information not routinely available. transaminases and IgG—see Section G —and ideally, histolog- Consequently, the IAIHG developed simplified diagnostic ical remission, with a minimum of medication-r elated adverse criteria.96 These (see table 6) employ four categories to define a effects. Second, to restore the patient’s quality of life to that patient as definite, probable, or not AIH. before AIH developed. An overview of the initial strategy is In the initial study96 the simplified criteria had a sensitivity shown in figure 2. and specificity 88% and 97% for probable AIH diagnosis. In further validation studies97 98 they remained highly specific for Which patients do not need treatment? AIH, but less sensitive than the 1999 criteria. In Dutch35 and In three of four early randomised trials,99 prednisolone (with or UK32 multicentre studies, sensitivity of the simplified criteria was without azathioprine) reduced mortality compared with placebo only 69–75%. or to azathioprine alone. Most patients had severe AIH, with Thus, a patient meeting the simplified criteria is very likely cirrhosis in 50–60% and one- third developing liver failure. When AIH remains suspected, consider (a) testing for additional range of severity, and 5–15% did not receive steroids. Reasons antibodies (Section D), asking an expert histopathologist to included mild changes on biopsy, near-n ormal serum trans- review the liver biopsy. aminases, variant syndromes, urgent need for liver transplant, patient refusal, and ‘burnt-o ut’ cirrhosis, Non- treatment is Histology and the IAIHG diagnostic scores unusual in children.100 The 1999 IAIHG criteria95 allocate up to five diagnostic points Outcomes in untreated patients are rarely reported separately, for histological features which favour AIH (interface hepatitis, but in two cohort studies,43 101 8% and 55% of patients respec- plasma cell infiltrate, rosettes), but subtract up to 11 points if tively did not receive steroids and these patients had (compared features of other diseases are present (granulomata, bile duct with treated patients) a higher death/transplantation rate. In a injury or more than mild steatosis) . meta- analysis of the four randomised trials plus these cohort In the 200896 criteria, two diagnostic points are given if
