Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


rate. In a injury or more than mild steatosis) . meta- analysis of the four randomised trials plus these cohort In the 200896 criteria, two diagnostic points are given if studies3 102 prednisolone±azathioprine (vs no treatment or histology is ‘typical’, one point if ‘suggestive’ and none, if ‘not azathioprine alone) was associated with a more than twofold suggestive’. ‘Typical’ histology requires all the following: inter- reduction in all-c ause death/transplantation. This underlines the face hepatitis, a ‘lymphocyte- plasmacytic’ infiltrate, mainly in need for IST in most patients with AIH. the portal area (proportion of plasma cells was unspecified), hepatocyte rosettes and emperipolesis. It is unclear whether the recent consensus criteria (table 4)71 will replace these histological diagnostic criteria, embedded in Table 6 The simplified diagnostic criteria for autoimmune hepatitis the diagnostic scores. If the consensus criteria are validated, the (adapted from Hennes)70 diagnostic scores will require modification. Pending such valida- ANA or ASMA + Titre>1:40 +1 tion, we suggest that the histological features of the 1999 and ANA or ASMA + Titre>1:80 or +2 2008 diagnostic scores be retained. LKM + Titre>1:40 or In suspected AIH in children the IAIHG scores are not suitable SLA Positive for diagnosis. Serum IgG >Upper normal limit +1 >1.1× upper normal limit +2 RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION E Liver histology Compatible with AIH +1 1. We recommend that, following exclusion of viral hepatitis and Typical of AIH +2 biliary obstruction, other conditions requiring consideration in Absence of viral hepatitis No 0 patients with suspected AIH should be: Yes +2 (a) For acute presentations: drug-i nduced liver injury, Wilson’s ≥6 diagnostic points: probable AIH; 7 diagnostic points: definite AIH. disease, congestion, ischaemic liver injury and bile duct stones ANA, antinuclear antibody; ASMA, anti- smooth muscle antibody; LKM, liver- kidney ±acute cholangitis. microsome; SLA, soluble liver antigen. Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 13 Guideline Figure 2 Overview of initial treatment of autoimmune hepatitis. AEs, adverse events; ALT, aanine transaminae; AST, aspartate transaminase; TPMT, thiopurine methyltransferase. In some subgroups, such as those without symptoms or sAg positive have been reported104 but are rare in the UK. without cirrhosis, the need for treatment might be questioned. However, HBV cAb prevalence is 7% (0.8–19%) in European However, in asymptomatic patients30 31 42 43 and in patients and North American general populations and is 14.5 (7–26%) in without cirrhosis,43 101 and with decompensated cirrhosis, meta- patients with rheumatic conditions.105 analysis3
