Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


patients30 31 42 43 and in patients and North American general populations and is 14.5 (7–26%) in without cirrhosis,43 101 and with decompensated cirrhosis, meta- patients with rheumatic conditions.105 analysis3 102showed associations between steroid- based treatment In patients with AIH and current (sAg positive) and prior and two- to threefold reduction in death/liver transplantation (HBV sAg negative, cAb positive) HBV infection, reactivation rate. might occur while receiving IST, with reappearance of serum Treatment has not been statistically associated with lower HBV DNA and recurrent hepatitis.106 HBV reactivation risk medium- term mortality in patients with ‘mild’ AIH,43 defined during IST is higher in (a) HBV sAg positive (vs HBV cAb posi- as serum transaminases <50 U/L and with no or mild inflamma- tive),105 (b) patients receiving treatment for malignancy rather tion (necro-i nflammatory score <6) and fibrosis (grade <2). In than for patients inflammatory diseases105 and (c) patients a patient meeting all of these criteria, it might be reasonable to receiving biological therapies, especially B-c ell depleting agents weigh the risks and benefits of treatment against simply moni- such as rituximab, than in those receiving azathioprine. Data on toring; especially in those with frailty, major comorbidity and HBV reactivation induced by corticosteroids are limited, as they who are at increased risk of adverse effects. are usually given with other immunosippressive drugs. The risk Untreated patients should also be carefully monitored (table 1) might increase with systemic steroids taken for >1 month and in and the decision not to treat reconsidered if symptoms develop doses of >20 mg/day.107 Data in AIH are lacking although, the or liver injury worsens. risk seems low. No evidence supports not treating children with AIH, apart Antiviral prophylaxis with tenofovir or entecavir is effective from those presenting with AIH and ALF, who will probably in preventing IST- related HBV relapse in patients at risk. Thus, require early liver transplantation. in the few HBV sAg positive patients who have AIH, routine prophylaxis during IST is recommended. In the larger number Testing for, and monitoring of, viruses (HAV, HBV, HCV, EBV, with prior but resolved HBV (sAg and DNA negative, cAb posi- HPV, Varicella) tive), most108–110 favour HBV DNA monitoring at 1–3 monthly Viral hepatitis should be excluded by testing as per box 1. HBV intervals while patients remain on >10 mg prednisolone per day, core antibody (cAb) should also be measured. While most HBV with antiviral therapy if
