Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


testing as per box 1. HBV intervals while patients remain on >10 mg prednisolone per day, core antibody (cAb) should also be measured. While most HBV with antiviral therapy if HBV DNA levels rise. Routine antiviral cAb positive patients and sAg negative patients have resolved prophylaxis might be needed in patients receiving high- dose infection, HBV DNA might still be present and should be steroids (>40 mg/day), receiving B cell-d epleting therapies and measured before starting IST. Patients with AIH who are HBV those for whom regular HBV DNA monitoring is unfeasible. A sAg and cAb negative should receive early immunisation against similar strategy seems reasonable for budesonide therapy. HAV and HBV,103 although this should not delay starting treat- Severe varicella infection might occur in previously unex- ment. Patients with AIH who are also, probably coincidentally, posed patients receiving steroids111 The prevalence of varicella 14 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline antibodies (indicating prior infection) is over 80% even in those budesonide or prednisone as first- use steroid, with no preference not reporting prior varicella infection.111 112 However, patients expressed.63 128 starting treatment for AIH should be advised to avoid people However, limitations of the trial include short duration, failure with chicken pox or with shingles on exposed regions. Those to include normalisation of serum IgG (slower in the budesonide reporting recent exposure should (even if also reporting prior group) in defining remission, and an unusually low AST/ALT exposure) be tested for varicella antibodies, and if absent (or if normalisation rate (39%) in those receiving predniso(lo)ne. In a results are unavailable within 7 days), should have oral antiviral separate analysis of children in the trial,129 remission rates were prophylaxis from days 7 to 14 post exposure. For further details, almost identical in the two treatment arms, and adverse effects see references.113 114 differed only regarding less weight gain in the budesonide group. Patients starting steroids should also (if not immunised) be In subsequent observational studies, rates of serum ALT±IgG offered the COVID- 19, influenza115 virus and pneumococcal116 normalisation rates have either been similar43 130 or lower131 vaccines. Also, if under 25 or if gay, bisexual or men who have in patients receiving budesonide compared with prednisolone. sex with men (GBMSM) and under 45, human papiloma117 In a further meta- analysis of the one RCT and four cohort vaccines and if over 50, the shingles (herpes zoster) recombinant studies,3
