Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


men (GBMSM) and under 45, human papiloma117 In a further meta- analysis of the one RCT and four cohort vaccines and if over 50, the shingles (herpes zoster) recombinant studies,3 102 budesonide (compared with predniso(lo)ne) resulted vaccines.118 in (a) similar serum transaminase±IgG normalisation rates after Children with acute liver disease should have viral aetiologies 6 and 12 months and (b) lower rates of cosmetic (but not other) excluded119 and children with AIH should receive their normal side effects. vaccinations, including HBV and HAV. In a longer-t erm cohort study, the incidence of cataracts and Once receiving steroid and/or thiopurine therapy, live vaccines fractures was similar in budesonide versus prednisolone treated are not recommended and so, whenever possible, (in both adults patients.132 Finally, in the UK AIH audit43 5- year all- cause and and children) routine immunisations should be up to date before liver-r elated death/transplant rate were not different in patients starting IST. initially receiving budesonide and prednisolone. Thus, budesonide has (compared with predniso(lo)ne) a lower risk of cosmetic adverse events; thus, it can be consid- Corticosteroids: primary therapy of AIH ered in adult patients without cirrhosis or liver failure if these Corticosteroids remain first- line therapy for AIH. Of potential are expected to be problematic. However, it is not clearly alternative drugs, ursodeoxycholic Acid (UDCA) monotherapy more (and possibly less)131 effective in achieving biochemical achieved remission (normal serum ALT) in 71% of a Japanese response; and data are sparse regarding longer- term efficacy. cohort with mild AIH.120 However, UDCA did not improve liver Budesonide is not currently recommended in children as a first- histology (although in patients with prior suboptimal response line therapy.2 133 to prednisolone)121 and information is lacking on its longer- Intravenous hydrocortisone can be used when there is concern term efficacy. In small randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in about oral steroid absorption. Intravenous methylprednisolone adults122 and in children123 cyclosporine achieved similar rates has been used in AS- AIH, although it has not been formally of biochemical remission to prednisolone. However, pending compared with prednisolone. Of concern is hepatotoxicity, further information, induction therapy should remain steroid- reported in 6–8% of patients receiving methylprednisolone for based for adults and children. multiple sclerosis or Graves’ ophthalmopathy.134 135 About 2% of Of the regimens in the initial randomised trials, prednisolone cases are severe (based on ‘Hy’s Law’)136 and some have been fatal monotherapy 60 mg/day was associated with more steroid-
