Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


of Of the regimens in the initial randomised trials, prednisolone cases are severe (based on ‘Hy’s Law’)136 and some have been fatal monotherapy 60 mg/day was associated with more steroid- or required transplantation.137 While some cases ave features of related adverse effects than, prednisolone 30 mg/day plus azathi- and may represent coincidental AIH, most have features more oprine 50 mg/day.124 125 A cohort study43 showed independent suggestive of DILI, and there might be recurrence on re- expo- associations between non-u se of a steroid- sparing agent (SSA) sure to methylprednisolone. Some patients have improved on in steroid- treated AIH and higher death/transplant rates. The treatment with other steroids, so the hepatotoxicity appears to added benefits of SSA use were confirmed in a meta-a nalysis of be methylprednisolone specific. these two studies.3 Thus, this ‘combination’ regimen of a steroid (usually prednisolone, but see part 4 below) and a ‘steroid-s paring agent’ (usually azathioprine, but see part 8 below) remains the Steroid monotherapy? standard initial treatment for AIH in adults and children. While corticosteroids plus azathioprine is the usually recom- mended first- line treatment for AIH (figure 2), steroid mono- therapy should be considered in these situations: What is the best first-use steroid? 1. Decompensated cirrhosis. Although not evidence- based, Prednisolone has been the first-u se steroid in most patients with many centres are reticent about adding a steroid-s paring AIH. Prednisone is identical to prednisolone and is used in North agent. AASLD guidelines63 advise against. America. Budesonide is an alternative corticosteroid with 90% 2. Diagnosis of AIH is uncertain, when substantial improvement first- pass liver metabolism in a normal liver, which should mini- of serum transaminases with steroids increases the likelihood mise systematic side effects.126 In patients with cirrhosis, intrahe- of AIH and might enable subsequent SSA introduction with patic shunting reduces efficacy and increases systemic exposure; more confidence. thus, budesonide should not be used. 3. Expected short treatment duration—for example, in a non- In a randomised trial in AIH but without cirrhosis,127 serum cirrhotic patient when a suspected drug precipitant has been ALT and AST normalisation rates after 6 months were higher withdrawn (Section O). and risk of (mainly cosmetic) adverse events was lower in 4. Homozygosity for the TPMT deficiency allele, or need for patients receiving budesonide (9 mg/day), compared with coincidental allopurinol therapy. (remembering that allopu- prednisone (40 mg/day, dose tapered), both with azathioprine. rinol might sometimes be
