Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


recom- thioprine or mycophenolate (Section I). mend reducing the dose to below 20 mg prednisolone as soon as In these situations, prednisolone is usually preferred. Steroid possible. Budesonide dose can also be reduced gradually. monotherapy is not recommended in children. In paediatric patients, a dose of 2 mg/kg/day with a maximum of 60 mg/day is recommended, but in practice there is little addi- What is the optimal initial dose of predniso(lo)ne? tional efficacy and a greater risk of side effects, so a maximum of The initial daily dose of predniso(lo)ne ranged from 10 to 60 40 mg is acceptable. More detailed guidance is available.2 mg/day in the early AIH trials.99 Recommended initial dose was 30 mg per day in previous UK and in recent AASLD guide- lines,63 and 1 mg/kg/day in EASL guidelines.23 We conducted a Adverse effects (AEs) of steroids meta- analysis3 102 of initial predniso(lo)ne dose in adults with Over 70% of patients with AIH report negative feelings about AIH (excluding studies focusing on AS-A IH or on AIH with steroid therapy.141 Table 7 summarises the main AEs. Steroids ALF).3 102 We found five studies43 125 138–140 where outcomes were have been associated in some studies with lower quality of life compared in patient subgroups receiving ‘low dose’ and ‘high- scores in AIH (Section L). dose’ prednisolone. Most patients also received azathioprine. Children (especially adolescents) experience similar AEs to Biochemical response rates after 6 and 12 months and all-c ause adults. Weight gain, growth retardation, decreased bone density death/transplant rates were not significantly different (despite and Cushingoid features develop in about 20% of children heterogeneity). However, high- dose predniso(lo)ne was associ- receiving prolonged steroid therapy.142 ated with more adverse effects. Other studies132 also suggest that Steroid- related AEs should be anticipated, and proactively risks of fractures, and cataracts are related to prednisolone dose. managed. Patients should be reassured that they are not inevi- Therefore, we recommend an initial prednisolone dose of no table. Anticipated AE risk might influence choice of steroid and more than 40 mg/day (or 0.5 mg/kg/day) for adults with AIH, initial dose. Advice on dietary and exercise programmes to mini- given as a single morning dose. The dose should be reduced over mise weight gain should be given. Management might include 3 months in 5–10 mg/day increments every 2 weeks, if (as in reduction in steroid dose as serum transaminases improve, or (in 90% of
