Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


on mycophenolate). Information is lacking on other thiopurines patients on prednisolone doses as low as 5–7 mg daily132 148 149 (mercaptopurine and thioguanine), although they might have a and with budesonide (at a mean dose of 6 mg daily).132 149 The role as second-l ine agents (Section G). increased risk can persist for up to a year after stopping The main contraindication to azathioprine use is a very steroids.149 low thiopurine methyl transferase (TPMT) enzyme activity, The decision to offer bone-p rotection agents (usually bisphos- suggesting homozygosity for the TPMT deficiency gene (see phonates) is often based on results of a bone mineral density section below on Mycophenolate). These patients need an alter- (DEXA) scan. In 219 patients with long-s tanding AIH150 the native SSA, the best characterised of which in AIH is mycophe- average (age-a djusted) DEXA scores were lower than normal, nolate (see below and Section H). Compensated cirrhosis in AIH and prevalence of osteoporosis was 16%. Factors associated with does not contraindicate azathioprine use, even with stable leuco- lower bone density included older age, lower BMI, liver fibrosis penia (usually due to cirrhosis), although this might complicate and high cumulative prednisolone dose. Improvement in bone blood count monitoring. However, there is reticence regarding density was demonstrated in 15 patients after switching from use of azathioprine (and other SSAs) in decompensated cirrhosis prednisolone to budesonide.151 (see steroid monotherapy above). The UK National Osteoporosis Guideline Group (NOGG),145 advocates a more proac- Timing and dose of azathioprine; prior TPMT activity measurement tive approach(summarised in figure 3) than previous AIH guide- Introduction of azathioprine (and other SSAs) is often delayed after starting steroids, usually by 2 weeks or until serum bilirubin recommend calculating the 10- year risk of major osteoporotic falls below 100 µmol/L).156 Reasons include awaiting results of fracture or ‘FRAX’ score, available online (www.shef.ac.uk/ TPMT enzyme measurement, doubt about AIH diagnosis and FRAX). The score is an algorithm incorporating parameters concern about azathioprine hepatotoxicity.1 23 63 However, in associated with fracture risk: age, gender, BMI, smoking, alcohol a multicentre cohort,157 delay in azathioprine introduction of use, personal or parental fracture history, comorbidities such as >2 weeks (versus <2 weeks) after starting steroids resulted in rheumatoid arthritis and corticosteroid use. similar rates of biochemical remission, adverse effects (including The score has very high, high, intermediate and low-r isk catego- hepatotoxicity) and azathioprine discontinuation. There seems ries, all age-d ependent. In
