Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


similar rates of biochemical remission, adverse effects (including The score has very high, high, intermediate and low-r isk catego- hepatotoxicity) and azathioprine discontinuation. There seems ries, all age-d ependent. In very high- or high-r isk patients, NOGG little reason to delay beyond 2 weeks, especially as it takes up recommend starting bisphosphonates along with corticosteroids, to 8 weeks for azathioprine metabolites to reach a steady state. rather than awaiting the DEXA scan result. Patients at intermediate The azathioprine dose used in the early Mayo Clinic and UK risk should have a DEXA scan soon after starting corticosteroids. trials was 50–75 mg/day. The dose used in European cohorts The scan result is then integrated to give a modified FRAX score. If and RCTs has usually been weight- based: 1–2 mg/kg per day. there is delay (>6 months) in performing a DEXA scan, proactive In a preliminary cohort study,158 a 1–2 mg/kg dose was associ- bisphosphonate should be considered. If the FRAX score is in the ated with slightly higher remission rate than a fixed 50 mg/day low-r isk category, neither DEXA nor bisphosphonates are needed. dose, but similar AE rates. We recommend starting at 1 mg/kg/ An alternative approach to bone health is detailed by the Scot- day. Some centres subsequently increase the dose in steps to 2 tish Intercollegiate Network,152 which uses QF fracture, another mg/kg/day as the steroid dose is reduced; however, this is not online fracture risk estimator. evidence- based. In children, azathioprine is usually added once It remains unclear how this proactive approach to bone protec- the transaminases are almost normal and can usually be started tion can be incorporated into management of patients with AIH. at 2.0–2.5 mg/kg/day. Capacity will be centre-s pecific and additional resources/infra- Azathioprine undergoes intracellular activation to form structure might be required. the active 6-t hioguanine nucleotides (6- TGNs). Blood levels Before starting bisphosphonates, patients need advice about of 6- TGN are poorly related to azathioprine dose and deter- potential adverse effects.149 153 154 Intravenous preparations mined mainly by activity of TPMT, which diverts azathioprine are preferred in patients with oesophageal varices and in those metabolites away from 6- TGN formation and towards inactive developing AEs with oral bisphosphonates.153 metabolites.156 Thus, low TPMT activity results in higher active Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 17 Guideline 6- TGN metabolite levels.159 Conversely, high TPMT activity Adverse effects (AEs) of azathioprine increases levels
