Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


in IBD, and TPMT activity is influenced by factors Use of azathioprine and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) status other than genotype.159 In most studies, TPMT activity levels About 90% of adults have evidence of prior EBV infection, but and heterozygosity showed no association with azathioprine- only 50–70% of children and adolescents do. As discussed in related adverse events.165–168 Nor have TGN levels been unduly Section I, immunosuppressive drugs might be associated with elevated in patients developing azathioprine-r elated leuco- increased risk of lymphoproliferative disorders (LPDs). In penia.166 169 Thus, the benefits of azathioprine dose modification patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), this risk has in heterozygous patients are not established. been specifically associated with current use of thiopurines. We recommend that TPMT genotyping and/or enzyme Most LPDs occur in older EBV- positive patients.172 173 activity assay be performed prior to commencing treatment in There is also an increased risk of haemophagocytic lympho- AIH; mainly to detect the 0.3% of patients with homozygous histiocytosis and other LPDs, associated with primary EBV deficiency and thus, at high risk of severe AEs. Enzyme activity infection in younger (<35) previously EBV- naïve patients taking is a reasonable index of genotype, and most laboratories set their thiopurines.174 175 Estimated absolute risk in these patients is own ranges for normal (wild), modestly low (heterozygote) and 3/1000 patient years.173 Thus, some176 IBD guidelines suggest very low (homozygote). routine testing of EBV status, and advise caution with thiopurine While measurement of TGN levels can also be used to modu- use in EBV- naïve patients. late azathioprine dose for maximum efficacy, we think there is Few equivalent data are available in AIH. In a recent series of insufficient evidence to support doing this routinely (however 229 children with AIH or autoimmune sclerosing cholangitis177 see, sections G and I) . (most receiving either azathioprine (168) or mycophenolate Figure 3 Summary of suggested bone health strategy for patients on steroids. 18 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline (69)), EBV status had been checked at AIH diagnosis in only prednisolone dose was 40–60 mg/day, but up to 1.5 mg/kg/day. 10%. Five patients developed symptomatic acute primary EBV Efficacy seemed unrelated to steroid dose49 50 or to the mode infection (four on azathioprine, and one mycophenolate). Liver of administration (intravenous methylprednisolone or oral tests were abnormal in two, and no patients developed LPD prednisolone). pre- transplant. However, of 39 patients who underwent
