Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


azathioprine, and one mycophenolate). Liver of administration (intravenous methylprednisolone or oral tests were abnormal in two, and no patients developed LPD prednisolone). pre- transplant. However, of 39 patients who underwent liver The third question is whether and when non- response to transplantation, a further two (who had initially received azathi- steroids is identifiable and transplantation needed. In the above oprine) subsequently developed LPD (EBV- negative patients, studies, poor response to steroids and death/transplant were EBV- positive donor). associated with higher initial MELD score and/or INR; with Thiopurines are central to management of AIH and (unlike in presence of encephalopathy, and sometimes49 with older age. IBD) there are limited alternatives (but see Section F below on Close monitoring is essential, as rapid liver transplant must be mycophenolate). Also, lower thiopurine doses are used in AIH the next option in the absence of clear improvement. The defini- than in IBD. tion of improvement has varied. A score incorporating INR, bili- We suggest that testing of EBV status be considered in AIH, rubin and the change in these parameters over 3 days (SURFASA and in EBV-n egative patients we recommend vigilance for score) was found to be predictive of liver transplantation or not think that the available evidence is sufficient to recommend of response to steroids, but those with a score over 1.75 had an routine avoidance of azathioprine in EBV- negative patients. 85–100% risk of death or liver transplantation.50 In the largest reported study (242 patients),49 the MELD score after 7 days Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) as a first-line agent of steroids was the best predictor of outcome, and this report Observational studies178 suggested that MMF (1.5–2.0) g/day, includes a useful nomogram. Preservation of liver volume on CT with prednisolone, was well-t olerated and achieved remission scan has also been reported181 as predictive of a good outcome, (normal serum transaminases and γ-globulins), usually, within 3 but confirmation is needed. months. In follow- up studies179 and in a recent RCT180 in 70 Use of second- line agents in patients with AS- AIH not patients, MMF (compared with azathioprine) achieved a higher responding to steroids is not routinely recommended, although CBR rate after 6 months and caused fewer AEs requiring a there are reports of benefit from tacrolimus182 and ciclosporin.183 change of drug. Meta-a nalysis of these two studies3 102 favoured Some patients presenting initially with AS-A IH then develop MMF over azathioprine. However, for
