Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


benefit from tacrolimus182 and ciclosporin.183 change of drug. Meta-a nalysis of these two studies3 102 favoured Some patients presenting initially with AS-A IH then develop MMF over azathioprine. However, for definitive conclusions, encephalopathy, in effect, progressing to AIH with ALF. Progres- further data are needed. Mycophenolate mofetil is not currently sion rate is correlated across studies with median initial MELD used as a first- line therapy in children. score and INR. Also, sepsis develops in about 20% of patients with AS- AIH or AF- AIH. The risk is not obviously increased following steroid treatment but is associated with a higher initial Monitoring of patients during treatment MELD score. Monitoring can be done in secondary or primary care if results Based on these studies, we suggest that in patients with can be assessed and actioned reliably. (Table 1) Assessments AS- AIH, an INR greater than 2.5 at presentation represents should be more frequent if serum transaminases are not settling a good cut- off value, above which steroid therapy is unlikely or there are treatment- related AEs. Stopping treatment is to result in avoidance of transplant.48 50 51 A trial of steroids discussed in Section I. (usually prednisolone 40 mg/day) can be considered in AS- AIH if there is (a) full involvement and agreement of the Initial management of Acute Severe AIH (AS-AIH), AIH with local transplant centre, (b) exclusion of, or successful treat- Acute Liver Failure (AIH-ALF) and AIH with Acute on Chronic ment of, sepsis, (c) INR<2.5, (d) facilities for close moni- Liver Failure (AIH with ACLF) toring, ideally in a high- dependency ward. These severe presentations of AIH are described in sections C–E. They represent medical emergencies, and correct management AIH with ALF decisions can be life-s aving. Some cohorts consist mainly of patients presenting with AIH- ALF (including encephalopathy). In these, recovery with AS-AIH steroid treatment is seen in only 9–42% of patients,49 52 54 184 The most important thing is to ensure that the option of urgent and no survival benefit was seen with steroids in ALF- AIH in liver transplantation is available if the patient does not rapidly one multicentre cohort.52 A trial of steroids can be consid- improve, either spontaneously or on steroids.47 This means ered in patients presenting with grade 1–2 encephalopathy, regular discussion with a transplant centre and usually, transfer especially with lower MELD scores, but all these patients of the patient there.
