Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


ered in patients presenting with grade 1–2 encephalopathy, regular discussion with a transplant centre and usually, transfer especially with lower MELD scores, but all these patients of the patient there. should be managed in a transplant centre.47 The second issue is whether corticosteroids should be used. There are no randomised trials of therapy for AS- AIH. Manage- ment is based on results from cohort studies. These comprise AIH with ACLF mostly (though not entirely) patients with AS- AIH (no cirrhosis Although presence of cirrhosis was an exclusion criterion in or encephalopathy).48–51 the initial description of AS- AIH,48 in some cohorts, about Corticosteroids have been used in most patients with AS- AIH, 20% of patients had cirrhosis or ‘severe fibrosis’ at biopsy and and in four studies were associated with a 37 (31–43)% possi- thus, should be classified as AIH with ACLF.49 50 However, bility of death or needing transplant,48–51 representing, in a cirrhosis did not seem to be an independent adverse prog- meta- analysis, a threefold reduction, compared with those not nostic factor. receiving steroids.3 102 Patients receiving steroids had less severe In 82 patients with AIH and ACLF (based on a history liver disease (lower MELD score, less encephalopathy) and of prior chronic liver dysfunction; 39% with cirrhosis), had prior exclusion of sepsis. However, the steroid ‘effect’ was 28 (34%) received steroids and showed improved 90- day independent of disease severity in the largest cohort.49 Median survival (75% vs 48%, p=0.02) compared with those not Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 19 Guideline receiving steroids.46 Patients with advanced age, higher mycophenolate mofetil as a first-l ine agent awaits its further MELD score >27, hepatic encephalopathy grade >3 and evaluation. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommen- fibrosis grade >F3 had a poorer response to steroid therapy. dation: strong. However, in another cohort with AIH and ACLF,185 all with 10. We recommend that steroid monotherapy (prednisolone cirrhosis, only 10 of 29 steroid- treated patients survived 0.5 mg/day or maximum 40 mg/day, if tolerated) be consid- without transplant. A MELD score <24 was associated with ered in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, current/recent survival. malignancy, an uncertain AIH diagnosis or a suspected precip- Thus, some patients with AIH- ACLF might benefit from itant, with expectation of a short treatment duration. Grade of corticosteroids. However, diagnosis of ACLF is also a evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. potential mechanism to expedite liver
