Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


from itant, with expectation of a short treatment duration. Grade of corticosteroids. However, diagnosis of ACLF is also a evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. potential mechanism to expedite liver transplantation in the 11. We recommend monitoring (detailed in table 1) of United Kingdom for appropriate candidates. patients on steroids and or thiopurines. This can be done in The management of children is similar to that of adults. secondary or primary care if there is a system for accessing and promptly acting on results. Azathioprine should be promptly RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION F reduced or stopped if there is significant bone marrow depres- 1. We recommend immunosuppressive treatment (IST) in most sion and stopped if there are other severe adverse events (eg, patients with AIH, regardless of symptoms. Grade of evidence: pancreatitis). Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- high. Strength of recommendation: strong. mendation: strong. 2. We recommend that in patients with mild AIH (all of: serum 12. We recommend that in most patients, the prednisolone ALT<50 U/L, Ishak necro- inflammatory score <6 and fibrosis dose be reduced gradually over 1–3 months to 5–10 mg/day (and stage <2), the decision to offer treatment should be based on a budesonide to 6 mg/day), guided by the fall in serum transami- balance of benefits and risks. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of nases. For dose reduction below 5 mg/day, see Section I. Grade of recommendation: strong. evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. 3. We recommend that patients starting treatment for AIH 13. We recommend that as the steroid dose is reduced, the should: dose of azathioprine can be increased gradually from 1 to 2 (a) Ensure immunisation is up- to- date against: COVID-1 9, mg/kg/day, with appropriate blood count monitoring. Grade of pneumococcus, influenza, shingles, hepatitis A, hepatitis B (if evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. HBV markers absent) and ((if under 25 or if gay, bisexual or 14. We recommend that measurement of azathioprine metab- men who have sex with men (GBMSM) and under 45), human olites is not needed routinely, but can be considered if there is papillomavirus. leucopenia, or suspected non- adherence. They can also be useful (b) Receive prophylactic nucleotide therapy if HBV surface in patients with an inadequate serum ALT response, to inform antigen positive or if core antibody positive and starting whether the dose should be increased (see Section G). Grade of rituximab. evidence: low. Strength of
