Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


serum ALT response, to inform antigen positive or if core antibody positive and starting whether the dose should be increased (see Section G). Grade of rituximab. evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. (c) Be monitored for HBV reactivation if HBV core antibody 15. We recommend routine supplementation with vitamin D positive and receiving other treatments. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. and optimisation of dietary calcium intake in patients receiving 4. We recommend that first- line initial therapy should usually bisphosphonates and in those with poor calcium intake and / comprise a corticosteroid plus azathioprine. Grade of evidence: or risk factors for vitamin D deficiency. Grade of evidence: low. high. Strength of recommendation: strong. Strength of recommendation: weak 5. Although not routinely recommended over predniso- 16. We recommend consideration of calculating the FRAX lone, we recommend that budesonide (initially 9 mg/day) be (fracture risk) score in adult patients starting steroids. Some considered in adults without cirrhosis if there is major concern older patients will have scores in the ‘high-r isk’ fracture category. budesonide in children as first- line therapy. Grade of evidence: pending a DEXA scan report, which then can modify the risk high. Strength of recommendation: strong. score and need for treatment. Grade of evidence: moderate. 6. We recommend that the initial dose of prednisolone be Strength of recommendation: weak. approximately 0.5 mg/kg/day and not usually exceed 40 mg/day, 17. We recommend that patients with AS- AIH (INR >1.5 given as one morning dose, or up to 2 mg/kg in children to a without encephalopathy) receive prednisolone monotherapy 40 maximum of 40 mg. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of mg/day if INR is <2.5 and sepsis has been excluded. They should recommendation: weak. be managed in close liaison with a transplant centre because of 7. We recommend that if the test is readily available, thio- an approximately 35% chance that (despite treatment) they will purine methyltransferase (TPMT) enzyme activity be measured require early liver transplantation. Grade of evidence: moderate. before starting azathioprine, to exclude homozygosity for TPMT Strength of recommendation: strong. deficiency. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommen- 18. We recommend that patients with AIH and ALF (including dation: strong. encephalopathy) should be referred promptly to a transplant 8. We recommend that the standard starting dose of azathi- centre). Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: oprine be 1 mg/kg day (2.0–2.5 mg/kg in children). In
