Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


a transplant 8. We recommend that the standard starting dose of azathi- centre). Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: oprine be 1 mg/kg day (2.0–2.5 mg/kg in children). In patients strong. with modestly reduced TPMT activity, in the heterozygous range, there is insufficient evidence for routine reduction of the 19. We recommend that patients with AIH and decompen- initial azathioprine dose. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength sated cirrhosis, and those with jaundice but with MELD score of recommendation: weak. of <27, can (after a negative septic screen) be started on pred- 9. We recommend that in patients homozygous for TPMT- nisolone, but should be discussed with a transplant centre if the deficiency, mycophenolate mofetil can be substituted for azathi- MELD score does not fall progressively. Grade of evidence: low. oprine (with advice on avoiding pregnancy). Wider use of Strength of recommendation: strong. 20 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline Section G. Adequate and inadequate treatment responses with AH.203 There remains insufficient evidence of the addi- tional use of follow- up biopsy in informing patient manage- ment to recommend routine confirmation of histological Definitions remission in patients achieving CBR. The term inadequate response is used here generically; specific However, follow- up liver biopsy is sometimes useful. First, definitions are given in table 8. Response can be defined when there is diagnostic uncertainty (eg, where steatosis/ biochemically and histologically. The definition of biochemical steatohepatitis might be causing persistent biochemical response has changed with time: achieving serum transaminases abnormalities); although elevation of both ALT and IgG are of <2 x ULN in the initial randomised trials, then incorporating usually associated with ongoing AIH histological activity. serum γ-globulin, and finally, requiring normal serum transam- Second, in patients with cirrhosis at diagnosis, who are inases. Patients with even mild persistent ALT elevations (1–2 less likely to achieve CBR,189 and have poorer longer- term x ULN) have higher rates of cirrhosis development43 and liver- outcome (see Section I). Also, CBR might be less reliable related death/transplantation.55 186–188 (compared with the CBR in patients without cirrhosis) in Recently, the International AIH group (IAIHG) developed predicting histological remission.202 Thus, in patients with consensus definitions (table 8) for response and remission, cirrhosis, the case for confirmation of histological remission aiming to achieve harmonisation.189 might be stronger. Overall, 45(35- 68)% patients achieve complete biochemical response (CBR) within 6 months (CBR- 6).131 187 189–192 These patients have lower
