Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


particularly regarding the optimal time for defining as possible. While also keeping treatment side effects to a biochemical response (6 or 12 months) and the added predictive minimum. The need for a second clinical opinion should be value of serum IgG normalisation. considered. Strategies (table 9) include: Previously, remission has also been defined histologically. a. Diagnosis review: considering alternative diagnoses and Histology response lags behind biochemical response by several co- existing liver disease, such as drug- induced liver injury receiving prednisolone±azathioprine achieved histological (Section E). remission after 6 and 12 months, respectively.124 Thus, repeat b. Medication adherence review (Section L). biopsy to confirm remission is not recommended over the first c. Optimisation of treatment. Consider whether the steroid 2 years. dose is adequate or whether it has been reduced too quick- Histological remission after 2–3 years treatment has been ly. If patients have not responded to budesonide consider considered the ‘gold standard’ for assessing remission (usually changing to prednisolone. It takes up to 8 weeks for azathi- defined77 as modified Ishak necro- inflammatory score of <4 (see oprine metabolites to reach a steady state, and in some pa- Section D), and has been the basis for inclusion in randomised tients, a slower reduction (even an increase) in prednisolone trials of therapy to prevent AIH relapse195–198 (see Section might be needed. I). Histological remission is also associated with stability or d. Re- institute (or maintain) low-d ose corticosteroids. Although improvement in liver fibrosis199 200 and in one study, with better phasing out of steroids should be attempted after attaining long- term survival, compared with those with persisting histo- CBR (Section I), this is not always achievable, and steroids logical activity.200 are often continued for much longer, with the dose titrated In three studies,191 201 202 histological remission was to maintain normal serum transaminases and IgG, if tolerat- confirmed in only 162 out of 252 patients (64%) who ed. Budesonide is no more (and possibly less) effective in this achieved sustained complete biochemical remission after regard3 102 but might be better tolerated than prednisolone, 2–6 years' treatment. However, liver biopsy carries the risk and so, can be used in patients without cirrhosis. of complications and is subject to potential sampling error. e. Change to a second-/third- line agent (Section H), There is Therapeutically relevant differences in necro- inflammatory insufficient evidence to support routine change to a second-/ score were recently reported between
