Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Change to a second-/third- line agent (Section H), There is Therapeutically relevant differences in necro- inflammatory insufficient evidence to support routine change to a second-/ score were recently reported between right and left lobe third- line agent in patients with NR after 4 weeks or who biopsies (obtained at mini- laporoscopy) in 30% of patients do not achieve CBR after 6 months as defined in table 8. In Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 21 Guideline Table 8 Definitions of response Term Definition Biochemical remission Normal serum transaminases and IgG Biochemical response (BR) Achievement of biochemical remission Complete biochemical response (CBR)−6 Achievement of biochemical remission within 6 months of starting treatment (and confirmed 2–4 weeks later) Insufficient response Failure to achieve complete biochemical response Complete biochemical response (CBR)−12 Normalisation of serum transaminases and IgG within 12 months of starting treatment (and confirmed 2–4 weeks later) Non- response (NR) <50% decrease in serum transaminases within 4 weeks of treatment initiation Histological remission Modified Ishak77 hepatitis activity index (mHAI) <4/18 drug discontinuation a well patient without cirrhosis and without treatment AEs, regimens, to achieve TGN levels in the therapeutic range. Grade the steroid- and azathioprine- based regimen (although opti- of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. mised) can be continued for a further 6 months. However, 4. Liver biopsy to confirm histological remission in those in patients with cirrhosis at diagnosis or developing cirrhosis with complete biochemical remission is not routinely required, (repeat biopsy, elastography or portal hypertension), the ar- although it might sometimes be useful. Grade of evidence: low. gument for a second/third agent is stronger. In such patients, Strength of recommendation: weak consider the need for an expert opinion. f. Thiopurine therapy can also be optimised. A meta-a nalysis Section H. Second- and third-line treatments of seven studies in AIH found a correlation between TGN values and being in biochemical remission.161 TGN levels of >220 pmol/8×108 red blood cells have been associated with Overview being in remission, with a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity The evidence base for immunosuppressive therapy beyond of 62%.169 However, many patients achieve remission with azathioprine and prednisolone in AIH consists of small retro- lower TGN levels.169 204 Measurement of azathioprine me- spective heterogeneous case series (table 10). The likelihood of tabolites can also help distinguish true non-r esponse from response to second-/third- line agents is higher for those who poor adherence. are switched
