Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


case series (table 10). The likelihood of tabolites can also help distinguish true non-r esponse from response to second-/third- line agents is higher for those who poor adherence. are switched due to azathioprine intolerance rather than due to g. Other patients have a combination of low TGN and high inadequate response (see definitions in table 8). 6- MMP levels. Allopurinol inhibits xanthine oxidase, which Choice of second-/third-l ine therapies is individualised, converts 6- mercaptopurine (the first metabolite of azathio- requiring consideration of: prine) to inactive metabolites and might also reduce TPMT ► Adherence to first- line therapy. activity.205 Thus, allopurinol co-a dministration (with re- ► Reason for first- line treatment failure (intolerance or inade- duced dose of azathioprine) increases 6- TGN and reduces quate response). 6- MMP metabolite levels and can thus potentially increase ► Disease duration, and (if biopsy repeated) inflammation and efficacy (and toxicity) of azathioprine.205 In a series of eight fibrosis severity. patients (five with inadequate response, three with azathio- ► Frailty and comorbidity (infection risk, cardiovascular or prine intolerance),206 azathioprine metabolite levels changed renal disease). as predicted, and most patients achieved remission or resto- ► Potential for pregnancy. ration of tolerance. One developed reversible neutropenia. ► Patient choice. Recently207 experience with allopurinol addition has been This complexity highlights the importance of clinician experi- reported in 36 patients responding inadequately to stan- ence, networking and collaboration. dard treatment, with an overall fall in serum ALT and CBR First, ensure that first- line therapy has been optimised achieved in 76%.205–207 (Section G and table 9). Second, the risks, benefits of The management approach to inadequate treatment response second-/third- line agents, including acknowledgement of in children is similar to that in adults. their limited evidence base, should be discussed with the patient. Use of two to three immunosuppressive drugs might be required. However, the need for ongoing treatment RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION G should be regularly re- assessed, and the goal should be to 1. Confirmed normalisation of serum ALT/AST and serum IgG maintain remission using one agent. should be the aim of treatment. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. 2. We recommend that response to treatment be assessed Budesonide at the following time points, with inadequate response being As well as its use as a first- line agent (Section F), budesonide defined as: might have a role as an alternative steroid in non- cirrhotic (a) After 1 month:
