Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


As well as its use as a first- line agent (Section F), budesonide defined as: might have a role as an alternative steroid in non- cirrhotic (a) After 1 month: <50% decrease in ALT/AST patients who have significant AEs with prednisolone (b) After 6 months: failure of normalisation of ALT/AST and (table 10).126 In 60 prednisolone- treated patients151 switched IgG. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation to budesonide (due to prednisolone side effects (n=30) or strong. prednisolone dependence (n=30)), the biochemical response 3. In patients with inadequate response, we suggest review of rate was 70% after 12 months. However, 15 patients had to diagnosis and assessment of adherence to medication, followed restart prednisolone, either because of disease flares or AEs. by considering changes to steroid regime and also to azathioprine There is no evidence to support budesonide substitution in 22 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline patients with inadequate response to prednisolone (assuming adequate adherence). Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)/mycophenolic acid When azathioprine is stopped due to intolerance, substitution with MMF (continuing steroid therapy, if appropriate) is the best- characterised strategy.208 In a systematic review of 14 studies including almost 400 patients, pooled biochemical response rate on MMF was 82% in azathioprine- intolerant patients, much higher than the 32% in azathioprine inadequate responders.208 MMF was usually well-t olerated, with pooled adverse events and discontinuation rates of 15% and 8%, respectively. The necro-i nflammatory score also falls on MMF, and histological remission and 5-y ear survival rates were not different from those seen with azathio- prine continuation (in tolerant patients).188 Given its lower efficacy (compared with that in azathioprine- intolerant patients), use of MMF in patients with inadequate response to azathioprine might be questioned. Nevertheless, the AASLD Guidelines63 recommend MMF in this situation over tacrolimus (see below) because of the perceived lower medium- term toxicity of MMF, compared to calcineurin inhibitors (see contraindication in pregnancy below). 6-Mercaptopurine (6-MP) and thioguanine In 49 azathioprine- intolerant patients from two studies,209 210 thioguanine was tolerated in 40 and 36 achieved complete biochemical response. 6- Mercaptopurine was toler- ated in 18 of 33 azathioprine- intolerant patients in two pooled studies,168 211 with 8/15 informative patients having a complete biochemical response. Data in azathioprine non-r esponders are sparse. Thioguanine seems tolerated and achieved improvement in serum transami- nases in seven out of seven patients, but complete remission in only two.209 210 Given the small evidence
