Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


case reports and one small case series233 achieved normal serum ALT within 6 months in all, and histolog- of infliximab use in AIH in patients either intolerant of, ical improvement in two. A multicentre case series (22 patients) or unresponsive to, first- line therapy. Caution is needed, showed biochemical improvement (sustained for up to 2 years) as anti- tumour necrosis factor (anti- TNF) therapy can also and freedom from AIH flare after 2 years without serious AEs in 71%.218 A recent Spanish registry study219 of 35 patients trigger autoimmune- like hepatitis (see Section O). with AIH receiving rituximab reported complete remission in 89% overall (86% with prior inadequate response to standard Antimicrobial prophylaxis therapy). Prednisolone could be reduced from (median) 20 mg Following liver transplantation, patients are at risk of oppor- to 5 mg/day and stopped in 47%. tunistic infection, and prophylactic antimicrobial agents seem Rituximab is not licensed for use in AIH, and approval and to improve survival.234 235 Infection risk decreases as IST is funding rules will be centre-s pecific. Patients need informing weaned. Similar considerations apply to patients with AIH that the evidence for its efficacy is limited, and that safety expe- receiving triple IST. Although not evidence- based, we recom- rience comes from other diseases.220 221 mend anti- bacterial and antiviral prophylaxis for patients For a suggested infusion regimen, see table 10. The usefulness receiving triple IST, with prednisolone doses ≥10 mg/day. of CD20+B cell surveillance is not established but might help to For example, co- trimoxazole 480 mg daily and acyclovir 200 time subsequent infusions rather than waiting for AIH relapse. mg three times a day (local practices will vary). 24 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline What are the endpoints of second/third-line treatment? 4. We recommend that second/third-l ine therapies, other than patients for whom first- line therapy fails, this is not always should be sought prior to their use. Grade of evidence: low. attainable. Another important endpoint is reduction or Strength of recommendation: strong. withdrawal of corticosteroids, given their longer- term AEs (table 7 and Section I). Section I. Longer-term management AIH is usually a lifelong disease, which (in the absence of a clear Safety in pregnancy precipitant) rarely disappears, and which many patients will live AIH is typically quiescent in pregnancy, thus second-/third- line with for several decades. Although occasional patients have been agents are rarely needed then. However, consideration
