Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


which many patients will live AIH is typically quiescent in pregnancy, thus second-/third- line with for several decades. Although occasional patients have been agents are rarely needed then. However, consideration of future labelled as ‘burnt-o ut’ AIH, the rate of long- term spontaneous pregnancy is relevant (for both women and men). disease remission seems low.188 Thus, follow- up should be life- MMF is highly teratogenic236 237 and should not be used in long, with the aims of: either women or men who are planning to conceive and/or who 1. Limiting progression of liver injury by minimising relapse are not using highly effective contraception. Women receiving rate and fibrosis progression. MMF should be advised to use contraception (two methods) 2. Maximising patient well-b eing: minimising adverse treat- during treatment and for 6 weeks after discontinuation. Male ment effects and optimising quality of life (Section L). patients (and their female partners) should use effective contra- ception during treatment and for 90 days after stopping. Monitoring Tacrolimus appears to be safe in pregnancy (data largely extrapolated from transplant populations).238 Rheumatology Patients should continue to have a consultation, with recent blood test results available (table 1); at least every 6 months guidelines suggest that rituximab be stopped 6 months before and more frequently, if symptomatic or not in remission. Some conception, although limited evidence suggests that it is not consultations can be remote. teratogenic. Neonatal B cell depletion is seen after its use in the second and third trimester, and data are lacking regarding ritux- De novo cirrhosis develops despite treatment over several imab use during breastfeeding.239–243 years in 14 (6–40)% of patients with AIH44 (Section J) and is While data in AIH are lacking, extrapolation (largely from IBD independently predictive of poor outcomes. Prevention of populations) suggests that infliximab is safe in pregnancy.244 245 fibrosis progression is an important aim of long- term treatment. However, infliximab crosses the placenta in the second trimester Its assessment by repeated liver biopsy is unappealing to most and requires consideration of discontinuation later in preg- patients. The best studied non- invasive modality is transient nancy.246 Thus, in women who are planning pregnancy, other elastography. Its accuracy against liver biopsy is established in options should be considered. chronic viral hepatitis and MASLD. Cross-s ectional studies in patients with AIH247–250 also suggest reasonable accuracy of tran- sient elastography in comparison with liver biopsy in patients Children after >6 months’
