Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


viral hepatitis and MASLD. Cross-s ectional studies in patients with AIH247–250 also suggest reasonable accuracy of tran- sient elastography in comparison with liver biopsy in patients Children after >6 months’ treatment. Accuracy is lower in patients Most experience with second- line therapy is with mycophe- starting treatment because liver inflammation artificially elevates nolate mofetil (MMF), tacrolimus and cyclosporin. The dose the score.250 Combined liver and spleen stiffness measurement of MMF is 2×500 mg twice daily. It is better tolerated than by two- dimensional shear wave elastography has also been vali- azathioprine, but (given its teratogenicity), is best avoided in dated against histology in AIH.251 adolescent girls. Tacrolimus achieves remission in about 75% Parameters based on standard blood test results (including of cases within 6 months and is safe in children. The dose Fibrosis- 4, AST to Platelet Ratio Index, and Non-A lcoholic needs to be titrated to achieve good trough levels to reduce Fatty Liver Disease fibrosis scores) have also been developed for renal or other side effects. Cyclosporin, although effective, is assessing fibrosis in viral hepatitis and MASLD. However, they rarely used in children now because of adverse effects. appear to be of limited value in AIH.252 Although non- invasive fibrosis monitoring in AIH awaits Conclusion firm evidence, it is a rational strategy, especially in patients with The limited evidence supporting second-/third- line treat- an inadequate early treatment response or who have relapsed. ments in AIH precluded firm recommendations. We empha- Demonstration of de novo cirrhosis development would also sise the importance of a personalised approach, clinician inform monitoring for cirrhosis complications. Although 2–3 experience and network approaches. Second/third- line treat- yearly transient elastography seems reasonable, the optimal ments are a key area for collaborative research. interval is unknown, and practice might be limited by local resources. RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION H 1. We recommend budesonide as an option in non- cirrhotic adult patients with significant prednisolone-a ssociated AEs. Grade of Management of patients attaining complete biochemical evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: weak. response (CBR-6) 2. We recommend mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) as an option CBR within 6 months (CBR-6 ) does not indicate histological in those who are intolerant of azathioprine, and who are aking remission; this can take 2–3 years.124 125 However, as discussed active steps not conceive. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength in Section G, patients who achieve CBR within 6 months have of recommendation: weak. lower rates of
