Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


125 However, as discussed active steps not conceive. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength in Section G, patients who achieve CBR within 6 months have of recommendation: weak. lower rates of subsequent liver death/transplantation and liver 3. We recommend that in patients responding inadequately to adverse events respectively than patients who do not.187 189 190 192 azathioprine despite treatment optimisation, tacrolimus might be Thus CBR-6 , especially if sustained, seems an adequate early more effective as a rescue therapy, but MMF can also be consid- treatment outcome (at least in patients without cirrhosis), ered owing to its better side- effect profile. Grade of evidence: without need for routine confirmation of subsequent histolog- low. Strength of recommendation: weak. ical remission (Section G). Confirmation of fibrosis stability Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 25 Guideline or improvement with repeated non- invasive testing, provides Under conditions of stress, (severe infection, major further evidence of a favourable response. trauma, psychological upset) some patients with AI develop adrenal crisis. Patients with AI of pituitary origin are admitted to hospital more often than control groups.262 In Previous UK guidelines1 recommended routine steroid treat- dance for patients with symptoms suggesting AI (hypoten- ment for at least 2 years (because of the expected time needed to sion, GI upset, hypoglycaemia and hyponatraemia, but not, achieve histological remission).124 125 However, given the good presentations unrelated to AI) was 1.5–2.5- fold increased, outcomes associated with CBR-6 the question of steroid dura- over 7 months after stopping steroids, compared with tion needs reconsideration. periods before and after this. Many patients were not diag- In a multicentre audit,43 lower death/transplant rates were nosed with AI even after they presented thus. However, associated with continuing steroids for more than 6 months, the absolute incidence of such events was low (peak value but not more than 12 or 24 months, nor with continuing 2.8/1000 patients). steroids beyond 3 months after attaining normal serum ALT On balance, there is currently insufficient evidence to support levels. Thus (while more information is needed), the benefits a firm recommendation for routine screening for AI in steroid- of continuing steroid therapy beyond attainment of CBR are treated patients with AIH. However, we suggest that: unclear. (i) Steroids be tapered slowly and testing for AI be consid- Also, there is increasing concern about the longer-t erm ered during/following steroid withdrawal, as detailed in adverse effects of continuing corticosteroids. The prevalence
