Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


slowly and testing for AI be consid- Also, there is increasing concern about the longer-t erm ered during/following steroid withdrawal, as detailed in adverse effects of continuing corticosteroids. The prevalence table 11.258 of diabetes253 and of hepatic steatosis85 87 in AIH increases with (ii) Patients receiving corticosteroids receive education on time after AIH diagnosis and they are both associated with pred- adrenal crises, and are given NHS steroid emergency cards, nisolone dose. Some registry studies254, though not others 255, which include advice on so- called ‘sick- day rules’.264 They report that patients with AIH are at increased risk of vascular should be advised to follow the guidance on the cards for 2 disease, which in studies of other conditions, has shown associa- years after stopping steroids and should continue to receive tions with steroid use.256 hydrocortisone cover in any severe acute illness. Prolonged use of steroids is still common practice. In a large (iii) Endocrinological advice be sought for patents with UK prevalent AIH survey,257 55% of patients were receiving suspected or proven AI. ‘long- term’ prednisolone treatment, 14% in doses over 10 mg/ day. However, in a recent US study86 only 56% of patients AIH relapse remained on steroids 1 year after starting treatment. This might Management following attainment of CBR is based first reflect an emerging trend towards earlier steroid withdrawal. (although not solely) on relapse prevention. Thus, in adults, if CBR is confirmed by repeat testing after 2–4 weeks, steroids can be slowly withdrawn, usually over about 3 months and using the strategy in table 11. Definition and frequency However in children low- dose steroids should be continued, Relapse has been defined variably as: serum ALT (±AST) more Patients should continue to be monitored for: (ULN).265 266 Definition of the initial remission is also variably Joint pains: reported in about half of patients during steroid defined, as less than once or twice the ULN, and sometimes but withdrawal; these usually respond to paracetamol or non- not always, requiring confirmation of histological remission. steroidal anti- inflammatory drugs.195 Given this variation, relapse rates unsurprisingly, have varied: Adrenocortical insufficiency (AI):258 259 because of glucocorti- 74% (25%–100%) overall, and 62% (36%–67%) over 12 coid suppression of the hypothalamic-p ituitary axis. AI following months following treatment withdrawal.265 Meaningful pooling steroid withdrawal has been highlighted as an underdiagnosed of results has not been possible. Most relapses occur within the Many patients with chronic
