Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


following months following treatment withdrawal.265 Meaningful pooling steroid withdrawal has been highlighted as an underdiagnosed of results has not been possible. Most relapses occur within the Many patients with chronic inflammatory diseases ment withdrawal. including AIH, receive corticosteroids for months or Higher relapse rate265 has been associated with (a) higher years. In a review of such patients, 37 (13–63)%260 had serum transaminases (even within the normal range) and serum ‘biochemical’ AI while on, or shortly after stopping steroids, IgG, either on stopping treatment, or at presentation, (b) longer suggested by low serum cortisol levels 30 min after receiving time to achieve initial remission, (c) need for combination treat- adrenocorticotrophic hormone: the short Synacthen test ment, (d) absence of a trigger (viral or drug) for AIH and (e) (SST). The variation in biochemical AI prevalence is unex- psychological stress. Associations with gender, age, antibody plained, although it is weakly related to mean steroid dose status, fibrosis and inflammation severity and treatment dura- a single morning dose. AI has also been documented after suggest an association with younger age. oral budesonide258 but seems rarer. On repeat testing after further time off steroids, AI prevalence falls: to 23% after Prevention 1 year and 15% after 3 years.261 No data are available for Continuing therapy in patients achieving complete biochem- patients with AIH. ical (±histological) remission (so- called ‘maintenance therapy’) The clinical significance of biochemical AI is unclear. Since reduces the risk of relapse. Stopping prednisolone but continuing there is no mineralocorticoid deficiency, corticosteroid- azathioprine alone (at an increased dose of 2 mg/kg/day) reduced related AI differs in presentation from primary Addison’s relapse rate to zero over 12 months in a second RCT197 and to disease. Symptoms are vague, but include malaise, dizziness, 17% over 5 years in a follow-u p observational study.195 In one faintness, fatigue, depression, arthralgia, myalgia, hypogly- RCT198 of 61 patients who achieved biochemical and histological caemia and hyponatraemia. remission and had prednisolone and azathioprine withdrawn, 26 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline Table 11 Suggested strategy for corticosteroid withdrawal (adapted from Prete and Bancos258 figure 3) Steroid Dose (mg/day) Reduction strategy* Pituitary/adrenal axis testing† Sick- day rules264 Prednisolone 20–40 5 mg/day weekly If AI suspected Yes 10–20 1–2.5 mg/day weekly If AI suspected Yes 5–10 1 mg/day weekly If AI suspected Yes 0–5 1 mg/day 1–2 weekly* After 1–2 weeks of 5 mg/day consider routine AM cortisol+;
