Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


less than monotherapy to be only moderately effective in preventing the 10–40- fold increased risk of hepatobiliary cancer. Risk is relapse, but small doses can be useful in patients in whom there is increased for some specific cancers, including non- melanoma reluctance to use azathioprine (for example, cancer, see below). skin cancer (NMSC) (2.95 (1.57–28.0)), lymphoproliferative Neither budesonide or mycophenolate have been evaluated cancer (3.3 (1.7–5.2)) and colorectal cancer (2.1 (1.37–3.1) regarding relapse prevention, but their use here is rational in but not for others, such as breast cancer (0.91 (0.6–1.27)). This patients poorly tolerant of prednisolone and azathioprine argues against an artefactual increase in cancer diagnosis, from respectively. regular hospital attendance. Increased cancer risk is probably, related partly to immuno- Presentation and management suppressive therapy (IST).278 Following solid organ transplant Relapse of AIH usually presents as an asymptomatic flare in and long- term IST, the risk of NMSC in national database serum transaminases on monitoring. In well patients without studies279 280 increased by 14–127-f old and that of other cancers cirrhosis, it is reasonable to repeat the tests after 1–2 weeks by 2.1–2.4- fold, though again, not of breast cancer. In a large before changing treatment. However, in patients with cirrhosis, case–control study of liver transplanted patients, an indepen- relapse has been associated with hospital admission and occa- dent association was noted between cancer development (or sionally with death.267 recurrence) and cumulative tacrolimus dose.281 In a recent Serum IgG is less often elevated than in initial presentation meta- analysis of patients following solid organ transplantation, of AIH. In one study,266 median serum IgG on relapse was 15.4 rates of all cancers, non- melanoma skin cancer and lymphoma (11–22) g/dL suggesting normal levels in over half. If the presen- were lower in those taking mycophenolate than in those taking tation is atypical, (including for example, a prodromal illness) azathioprine.282 A national registry study of AIH275 found a hepatotropic viruses (box 1) should be tested for, ultrasound weak association between cancer risk in AIH and duration of scan performed and drug toxicity considered. In clinically typical IST in general, and with duration of azathioprine, but not of cases, liver biopsy usually confirms AIH and is not necessary prednisolone. routinely. A separate question is whether IST adversely influences the On re- treatment with prednisolone serum transaminases course of cancer and thus, whether it is safe to continue with normalise in over 90%
