Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


question is whether IST adversely influences the On re- treatment with prednisolone serum transaminases course of cancer and thus, whether it is safe to continue with normalise in over 90% of patients.265 In the randomised trial its use in patients with cancer. Evidence is inconclusive. In the of prednisolone versus budesonide,127 some patients had CESAME study of patients with IBD and a history of cancer, relapse (rather than first presentation) of AIH, suggesting that development of new or recurrent cancer was not increased in budesonide is also effective in treating AIH relapse. patients receiving IST (usually thiopurines).283 Studies in patients As with initial induction treatment, it is reasonable to continue with RA and prior cancer (at least 3 years previously) suggest steroids until CBR is achieved on two occasions. similar rates of new or recurrent cancer in patients receiving There is no evidence that one relapse is associated with a worse biological agents as those on standard IST.284 In a study of liver outcome. However, after re- achieving CBR, there is a stronger transplanted patients,281 reducing or stopping tacrolimus after case for then continuing azathioprine (or mycophenolate) in cancer diagnosis was not associated with improved outcome. maintenance doses. In two studies, rates of second relapse after However, there remain theoretical concerns about the poten- stopping treatment were 62% (over 1–33 years)268 and 100% tial of IST to impair the immune response to cancer. Thus, in a Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 27 Guideline Table 12 Parameters influencing a decision to stop immunosuppressive (IS) treatment in patients with AIH who have been in CBR, sustained over 12 months Parameter Favours stopping IS Reason Age>40 years (larger studies) Yes AIH precipitant (drug, vaccine, infection) Yes Lower relapse rate* Sustained CBR Yes Serum ALT low- normal Yes Previous relapse No Second relapse: might worsen outcome Cirrhosis No Might decompensate with relapse Recent cancer (< 3 years) Yes IS might aid tumour growth Remote cancer (>3 years) Maybe not No clear evidence Patient wants to stop Yes *See relapse risk factors, above. patient with current or recent cancer, it is usually recommended considered, given the associations between fibrosis progression, that IST be stopped, if possible and if not, reduced to the lowest persisting inflammation and poorer outcome. level needed to control AIH. The decision might be influenced Relapses should also be monitored for and treated, and the by the type of cancer.
