Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


persisting inflammation and poorer outcome. level needed to control AIH. The decision might be influenced Relapses should also be monitored for and treated, and the by the type of cancer. Thus, it might be reasonable to continue need for maintenance therapy then reconsidered, as detailed in IST in someone with AIH who develops NMSC, but less so, after table 11. In patients who (despite initially attaining CBR) relapse development of melanoma. while on azathioprine maintenance therapy, there is a case (after re- attaining CBR with steroid- based therapy) for changing the Stopping azathioprine (or other steroid sparing agent) regimen to mycophenolate, or (if cirrhosis is absent) budesonide. Stopping all IST is often recommended after 2–3 years, including While patients on long- term maintenance immunosuppres- at least 1 year of sustained CBR.23 A decision should be based on sive treatment have an increased risk of skin cancer, the benefits a balance of the risks and benefits, and ultimately determined by of routine screening for this are not established and resources informed patient preference. might not allow it in many centres. However, patients should be Criteria influencing the decision are summarised in table 12 In advised to minimise exposure to sunlight and to be vigilant for, submission. Withdrawal should proceed with caution (if at all) and seek medical advice about, newly developing and persisting in patients with cirrhosis, in whom the risk of AIH relapse is not skin lesions. Women should also be encouraged to undergo increased, but its consequences might be more serious. regular cervical cancer screening. Is liver biopsy necessary before stopping treatment? EASL guidelines23 recommend a liver biopsy prior to a decision RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION I to withdraw treatment. However, this is not yet evidence based. 1. We recommend long- term follow- up, as AIH is usually a life- In 25–60% of patients with sustained CBR, there is persistent long condition. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- histological activity (necro-i nflammatory score >3),200 201 250 285 mendation: strong. As such persistent activity might have adverse prognostic impli- 2. We recommend consideration of non- invasive imaging cations,200 there is a rationale for continuing (and perhaps, assessment of fibrosis, at 2–3 year intervals. Grade of evidence: altering) treatment in such patients, if tolerated. However, weak. Strength of recommendation: low. whether such alterations will achieve histological remission and/ 3. We recommend that, in adults achieving complete biochem- or improve outcome is not
