Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


if tolerated. However, weak. Strength of recommendation: low. whether such alterations will achieve histological remission and/ 3. We recommend that, in adults achieving complete biochem- or improve outcome is not known. ical response (CBR) after 6 months and repeated testing 2–4 weeks Other indications for repeat biopsy include assessment of later, steroids be withdrawn slowly. This can be over 3 months fibrosis severity (especially when non- invasive testing is incon- in adults. In children low-d ose steroids should be continued and clusive) and diagnosis of co- existing steatohepatitis. Biopsy is stopped only after discussion with a specialist centre. Grade of of limited use in predicting relapse266 285 286; absence of plasma evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. cells in the portal tracts287 288 predicts a low relapse rate, but the 4. We recommend consideration of checking endogenous necro- inflammatory score does not. adrenal function with a morning serum cortisol. Low values recommend routine liver biopsy prior to attempted withdrawal Grade of evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: low. of IST therapy in adult patients with CBR and stable fibrosis 5. We recommend in patients with sustained CBR over 3–4 on non- invasive testing, although it might be useful in some years, consideration of withdrawing azathioprine (or other patients. steroid- sparing agent) if many of the criteria in table 12 are met. Withdrawal can be completed in one step, with ongoing Follow-up monitoring for relapse and for fibrosis progression. Grade of After stopping treatment, patients should be followed up as for evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. should be assessed non- invasively at treatment withdrawal and treatment withdrawal, but it might be useful in some patients. 2–3 yearly thereafter. When these tests suggest progressive Grade of evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: low. fibrosis, repeat liver biopsy should be considered: especially if 7. AIH relapse is usually signalled by a rise in serum ALT/AST serum transaminases and/or IgG are raised. If biopsy shows more with a variable rise in serum IgG. We recommend that other than minimal hepatitis, re-i nstitution of treatment should be potential causes (including viral) should be excluded, but that 28 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline liver biopsy is usually not needed for confirmation. Grade of is also associated with older age, male gender, number of relapses evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: weak. and alcohol excess.289 8. We recommend that relapse usually be treated by restarting The
