Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


also associated with older age, male gender, number of relapses evidence: weak. Strength of recommendation: weak. and alcohol excess.289 8. We recommend that relapse usually be treated by restarting The annual incidence of HCC in AIH- related cirrhosis prednisolone. If cirrhosis is absent, budesonide is a potential (0.5–1%) falls below the 1.5% per year threshold advocated alternative. Azathioprine (or another steroid- sparing agent) in AASLD290 and EASL294 guidelines as being cost effective for evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. studies predating development of effective therapies for HCC. A 9. We recommend that prednisolone be again withdrawn recent analysis295 incorporating potential harms as well as bene- slowly, when CBR is re-a ttained after a relapse, confirmed. fits, suggests that HCC surveillance is cost- effective if incidence However, there is a stronger case for continuing maintenance exceeds 0.4%, which it does in AIH- related cirrhosis. Thus, treatment with a steroid- sparing agent long term. Grade of surveillance should be considered for all cirrhotic patients with evidence: high. Strength of recommendation: strong. AIH. 10. We recommend that women on long- term immunosup- pressive therapy be encouraged to undergo regular cervical Mortality of AIH screening in line with national guidelines and to have HPV The median (range) rates for all- cause and liver-r elated death/ vaccination (if under 25 or if GBMSM and under 45). Also, that transplant are 11.5 (2–23)% and 6 (0–17)% after 10 years, patients minimise exposure to sunlight and be vigilant and seek and 32 (18–53)% and 16 (6–26)% after 20 years' follow- up.44 medical advice regarding newly developing and persisting skin Reasons for variation include differences in age at diagnosis and lesions. possibly, inadvertent case selection.188 After 20 years' follow- up, 11. We recommend that some patients, such as those with subsequent relapse, cirrhosis development and liver- related decompensated cirrhosis, and those responding suboptimally to mortality rates were similar to those in patients followed up therapy, be informed (if potentially eligible) that there is a small from first diagnosis.188 chance that they might eventually need liver transplantation. Mortality in AIH exceeds that in the general population, with Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. an overall median standardised mortality ratio (SMR) of 1.72. 12. We recommend that all patients be advised to adopt Excess mortality results from liver disease, accounting for a third a healthy lifestyle (adequate nutrition, non-s moking, low to of all deaths or transplants. SMR
