Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


patients be advised to adopt Excess mortality results from liver disease, accounting for a third a healthy lifestyle (adequate nutrition, non-s moking, low to of all deaths or transplants. SMR values in AIH, excluding liver- moderate alcohol intake, physical activity, maintenance of related deaths and transplants, are usually near unity.44 However, healthy BMI). Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- AIH registry studies suggest increases in deaths due to cancer5 mendation: strong. and to cardiovascular disease,254possibly related to immunosup- 13. We recommend that patients with cirrhosis (documented pressive therapy (Section I). at any time) be monitored for complications, including hepa- No obvious differences are evident, between different conti- tocellular carcinoma and portal hypertension as per generic nents. However, studies from the USA and Europe suggest cirrhosis guidelines. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recom- that people of Afro- Caribbean origin present with more severe mendation: strong. disease and have lower transplant- free survival than Caucasian 14. We recommend individualised end- of life care for patients patients.41 with advanced liver disease who are unsuitable for transplant. Transplant-f ree survival is over 90% in patients with acute Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. AIH with jaundice,54 182 66% in AS AIH and 32% if ALF is also present (Sections C and F). In most studies in adults, cirrhosis or decompensation at presentation are adverse prognostic param- Section J. Long-term outcome of AIH eters.44 In contrast, higher pre-t reatment serum transaminases In about half of patients with AIH, fibrosis stage improves with predict lower mortality.45 186 188 Other adverse prognostic factors treatment, especially if histological remission is achieved. In include co-e xistence of PSC296 and social deprivation.5 about 20%, fibrosis progresses.199–201 Fibrosis, assessed using transient elastography also improves with treatment in patients who achieve CBR.201 RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION J 1. We recommend HCC surveillance with 6- monthly ultrasound De novo cirrhosis develops despite treatment in 14 (6–40%) of patients44 and is associated with delayed normalisation of serum in all patients with AIH and cirrhosis, unless not felt appropriate transaminases,43 55 multiple relapses55 and need for enhanced due to frailty or comorbidity. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of immunosuppressive therapy.257 De- novo cirrhosis (like cirrhosis recommendation: strong. at diagnosis) is an adverse prognostic indicator.44 Section K. Liver transplantation (LT) for AIH LT remains an effective treatment for patients with AIH with Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in AIH decompensated cirrhosis, liver cancer and fulminant liver
