Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


transplant, mentary medication.318 Adverse effects were uncommon, and than those with PBC or PSC.301 Death and graft loss following use was usually associated with increased well-b eing. LT for AIH have also been related to infection, particularly fungal infection.298 Immunosuppression might contribute to Empowering patients this. Also, patients with AIH who received a living donor liver Patient empowerment is a UK government priority. Successful transplant had reduced survival, compared with those receiving strategies exist for patients with diabetes, hypertension and donation after brain death. This was mainly due to infection and chronic lung disease.319–321 biliary complications. The UK-A IH patient survey highlighted issues with stigmati- Memory T and B lymphocytes which initially led to AIH sation, need for empowerment and lack of support networks.141 remain in the circulation302 and migration of these lymphocytes Patients frequently described receiving insufficient knowledge to liver allograft might result in post- transplant recurrence of about AIH from non-s pecialists. AIH303 (see figure 1). Recurrence rates of 20% and 31% over 5 Nurse specialists (in clinic or via telephone advice line) provide and 10 years, respectively, have been reported,303 with resulting an excellent point of patient contact, and can answer questions, increased graft loss and reduced survival. Long-t erm low- dose field problems, safety- net and facilitate consultant access when prednisolone, in combination with other immunosuppres- needed. Patients also need practical advice about employment, sion agents, has in some studies, reduced AIH recurrence.304 travel, insurance and family planning. However, a recent meta- analysis128 did not support continued Patient education should include information leaflets (many use of prednisolone after transplantation. are available and there is scope for harmonisation), and sign- Indications for LT in children are similar to those in adults. posting to organisations such as the British Liver Trust and AIH Approximately 20% of children with AIH require transplanta- Support. In the UK patient survey, 74% of patients rated highly tion.305 The UKELD scoring system is useful for prioritising chil- the help that these groups provide.141 The European Research dren >12 years, but in younger children the Paediatric End- Stage Network patients website: ERN RARE-L IVER also offers patient Liver Disease Score (PELD) score is used.306 information on AIH Access by patients to their medical records and blood results might also improve patient engagement and confidence.322 323 RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION K Many patients support having such access,324 although it might 1. We recommend early referral to a
