Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


and blood results might also improve patient engagement and confidence.322 323 RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION K Many patients support having such access,324 although it might 1. We recommend early referral to a liver transplant centre for make other patients anxious.323 If information is accessible, patients with AIH with cirrhosis and who have persistent impaired patients need sufficient education to interpret it. Internet based synthetic function: prolonged blood clotting, low serum albumin apps are widely used325 and are particularly helpful for younger or symptoms of decompensation (ascites, spontaneous bacterial patients.326 peritonitis, variceal bleed, encephalopathy). Grade of evidence: Since the COVID- 19 pandemic, many consultations have moderate. Strength of recommendation: strong. become remote. Advantages include convenience and equity of 2. We recommend early discussion with a liver transplant access to care. Data from cardiac services suggest that remote centre for patients who present with AS AIH (jaundice and coag- video (vs face-t o- face) consultations do not result in more emer- ulopathy) and with AS AIH with ALF (also including hepatic encephalopathy). Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of ventions might improve clinical outcomes and decrease inpatient recommendation: strong. stays, while maintaining patient satisfaction.327 328 However, such strategies require governance structures and adequate staffing. Many patients still wish to see an ‘expert clinician’ face-t o- face. Section L. Patient perspectives in AIH Suboptimal adherence Non-a dherence to medication is common in chronic diseases and AIH and quality of life In a UK AIH survey, 36% of patients admitted to missing treat- This remains a key area for further research.329 Some patients ment doses regularly.141 In children, adherence rates were with AIH experience poorer physical and general health330 and 28–94%.309 Serial TGN metabolite levels in patients prescribed higher levels of fatigue,141 330 anxiety and depression, some of stable doses of azathioprine showed significant fluctuation,169 which relate to worry about long- term prognosis.331 In a recent suggesting incomplete adherence. Low or undetectable TGN and qualitative study,332 patients with AIH commonly reported 6- MMP levels (see Sections F I) suggest suboptimal adherence. severe fatigue, sleep disturbance, ‘brain fog’, anxiety, depression Several factors affect medication adherence.310 AIH might and disrupted social and working lives. Factors associated with for treatment. In the UK survey, 66% of patients with AIH had taking corticosteroids.329 In children, the presence of symptoms, experienced treatment- associated AEs.141 Reduced adherence extrahepatic autoimmune conditions and need for medications might also be related to suboptimal patient empowerment and
