Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


taking corticosteroids.329 In children, the presence of symptoms, experienced treatment- associated AEs.141 Reduced adherence extrahepatic autoimmune conditions and need for medications might also be related to suboptimal patient empowerment and had a negative impact on QoL scores.333 ment, anxiety and depression.307 313 patients. Generic QoL assessments should form part of patient 30 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline assessment. Development of an AIH- specific patient reported relationship between the use of azathioprine in pregnancy and outcome measure is a research priority. adverse outcomes. Therefore, continuation of therapy during pregnancy is justified. For women with type 2 AIH, recent data suggest that the Patient perspectives outcomes in pregnancy are worse than for patients with type 1 1. We recommend that more attention be focused on quality of AIH: with premature birth rate of 67% vs 19% and also a higher life in AIH, with a holistic approach to adherence issues and likelihood of loss of remission post partum (100% vs 48%). consideration of formal monitoring of HRQoL and of medica- Medication non- adherence was associated with almost doubling tion adverse effects. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of the risk of prematurity and an increased risk of flare in disease recommendation: strong. activity following delivery.345 Management of cirrhotic patients with AIH should be Section M. Pregnancy in AIH discussed with a specialist centre for timing and frequency of upper GI endoscopy to treat varices (second trimester), US liver Overview and echocardiogram (to exclude portopulmonary hypertension Fertility in women with AIH seems to be normal.334 Miscarriage during second trimester) and MRI pelvic (third trimester—to rates (spontaneous loss of pregnancy before 20–24 weeks of exclude pelvic varices) throughout the pregnancy. Obstetric- liver gestation) of 42% and 26% are reported in women with AIH combined management is essential to improve maternal and fatal with and without cirrhosis.335 outcome. Pregnancy in patients with AIH post- transplant should A meta-a nalysis of 14 studies (1556 gestations in 1452 be discussed with the transplant centre. patients with AIH) indicated increased risks (compared with those without AIH) of gestational diabetes mellitus in pregnancy Pre-pregnancy counselling (OR=5.73), premature birth (OR=2.2), small for gestation age Planned pregnancy in patients with AIH enables medication births (OR=2.48), and a threefold risk of low birth weight.336 review, discussion of outcomes for mother and baby, assessment Another meta- analysis337 confirmed the increased risk of prema- of portal hypertension in patients with cirrhosis, delivery
