Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


of low birth weight.336 review, discussion of outcomes for mother and baby, assessment Another meta- analysis337 confirmed the increased risk of prema- of portal hypertension in patients with cirrhosis, delivery plan, turity and gestational diabetes mellitus. Both meta- analyses review of breastfeeding and contraception advice. In patients noted an increased risk of stillbirth (about threefold), but this with cirrhosis, pre- pregnancy counselling seems to result in was not statistically significant. Neither found an increase in improved acceptance of screening endoscopy pre- pregnancy.345 fetal malformations. The risk of pregnancy complications was Mycophenolate mofetil is teratogenic236 237 and there- further increased in patients with portal hypertension and in fore, should be stopped 12 weeks before conception. In those not in remission prior to conception.337 However, no contrast, azathioprine 336 337 344 and tacrolimus, prednisolone significant relationship was observed between maternal or fetal and budesonide346 appear safe in pregnancy and also, during complications and use (or not) of therapy (prednisolone and breastfeeding. azathioprine).336 337 Data from two large US studies338 339 (not included in the AIH presenting in pregnancy and peripartum above meta-a nalyses) showed higher rates of gestational diabetes AIH presenting in pregnancy or within 3 months postpartum in AIH compared with those without liver disease. One (but not is rare but can be serious.343 347 Diagnosis is as in non- pregnant the other) also reported higher rates of gestational hypertension, women, but liver biopsy (although not contraindicated) might pre- eclampsia, eclampsia and haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes be challenging. Most biopsied patients were unaware of their and low platelets (HELLP syndrome). In patients with condi- pregnancies. If a new diagnosis is made in pregnancy, first- line tions at high risk of such complications (which includes autoim- mune diseases), RCTs340 and a meta- analysis341 support use of treatment (Section F) should be started. aspirin 75–150 mg daily from week 12 of gestation (and ideally before week 16) to reduce the risk of pre- term pre- eclampsia . RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION M We therefore recommended consideration of low-d ose aspirin to 1. We recommend that treatment of AIH during pregnancy, with reduce hypertension- related complications in pregnancy in AIH. corticosteroids (prednisolone/budesonide) with or without Smaller case series suggest that the presence of anti-S LA/LP thiopurines, should be continued throughout the pregnancy. and anti-R o/SSA antibodies are associated with maternal compli- For newly diagnosed patients, treatment should be given as cations.335 342 In this high- risk
