Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


should be continued throughout the pregnancy. and anti-R o/SSA antibodies are associated with maternal compli- For newly diagnosed patients, treatment should be given as cations.335 342 In this high- risk cohort, rates of disease flare (loss of for non- pregnant women (apart from not using mycopheno- biochemical remission), were reported in 21%, with postpartum late). Treatment is associated with better maternal and fetal loss of biochemical response occurring in 52% of patients. This outcomes. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recom- underlines the need for close monitoring both during pregnancy mendation: strong. and in the 3 to 6 months following delivery. 2. Although pregnancy in AIH is not usually associated with Most patients with AIH remain in biochemical remission loss of remission, this might occur post partum. Thus, we throughout their pregnancy supporting the concept of tolerance recommend that immunosuppressive therapy should be con- pregnancies were reported in 53 women (41% with cirrhosis).343 partum and thereafter. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of At conception, 75% were on treatment; of these, 74% had been recommendation: strong. on stable regimens for over a year. The live birth rate was 59/81 3. We recommend that patients with AIH who become preg- (73%), and 11% of infants needed admission to the special care nant should be advised that they may have increased rates baby unit. For mothers with cirrhosis, the live birth rate was of gestational diabetes, hypertensive disorders of pregnan- lower, and the need for the special care baby units was higher. cy, preterm birth, and fetal growth restriction, and so, will Maternal therapy for AIH showed no association with live birth need close obstetric surveillance and consideration of as- rate, termination rate, miscarriage rate or gestation duration. In pirin therapy (100 mg/day, started in the first trimester for all large series and in meta-a nalyses,336 344 there is no apparent pre- eclampsia prevention). There are no restrictions on Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 31 Guideline breastfeeding in patients with AIH. Grade of evidence: high. ► Liver biopsy showing moderate or severe interface activity. Strength of recommendation: strong. These criteria have sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 97%, Section N. Variant syndromes of both AIH and PBC.364 365 EASL have endorsed them,23 but have made the requirement for interface hepatitis (ie, extending into the lobule) more explicit. They might not identify patients Introduction and nomenclature with milder cholestatic abnormalities.349 366 Using
