Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


them,23 but have made the requirement for interface hepatitis (ie, extending into the lobule) more explicit. They might not identify patients Introduction and nomenclature with milder cholestatic abnormalities.349 366 Using the Paris AIH variant syndrome usually refers to co- existence of features criteria, 9–14% of patients with PBC also had AIH.351 364 367 368 of both AIH and either primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) or primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). 348 349 350 The nomencla- A new scoring system to identify patients with PBC/AIH overlap reports a sensitivity of 98.5% and specificity of 92.8%, ture used sometimes refers to this clinical situation as overlap but this requires further validation.369 syndromes. Consensus diagnostic criteria are lacking, owing to patients lying on a spectrum between the individual diseases in regard to biochemical, immunological and histological features; Treatment one disease might be dominant.348 351–354 These diseases can Arguably more important than precise diagnostic categorisation present concurrently355 356 or sequentially, sometimes even years is careful decision making about the need for immunosuppres- later. sion. It is often reasonable to treat the predominant component They are important to recognise, as treatment and outcome first, and assess response.348 UDCA alone (in doses for classic differ from those in patients with pure PBC or PSC. Liver biopsy PBC) might be sufficient for patients with predominantly biliary is a key investigation, and expert histopathological review is changes.350 368 However, in patients without improvement in important. Serial biopsies are sometimes needed.357 Variant liver biochemistry, a trial of prednisolone for the AIH compo- syndromes often present a management dilemma. Due to their nent of disease should be considered. Thus, recommendations rely on expert opinion and small case ment with UDCA plus immunosuppression was associated with series. higher biochemical response rates and less fibrosis progression. A meta-a nalysis on this question371 is limited by imprecise defi- nitions. However, patients with ‘severe’ interface hepatitis370 PBC and AIH variant syndrome seem to have a poor response to UDCA alone and might benefit Overlapping features from initial combination treatment. Also, in classic PBC, severe Of patients with AIH, about 10% each have pruritus, raised lymphocytic piecemeal necrosis is associated with fibrosis serum alkaline phosphatase and serum anti-m itochondrial progression and might not improve with UDCA alone.372 antibodies (AMA).348 349 358–360 Also, 7–25% have coincidental Successful withdrawal of immunosuppression might be more biliary injury (some with destructive bile duct lesions) on liver common in PBC/AIH overlap than
