Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


antibodies (AMA).348 349 358–360 Also, 7–25% have coincidental Successful withdrawal of immunosuppression might be more biliary injury (some with destructive bile duct lesions) on liver common in PBC/AIH overlap than in classic AIH,370 although biopsy, characteristic of PBC.349 361 follow- up time in this study was short. Potential adverse effects The presence of one such feature would not usually in itself should be discussed with patients, acknowledging the lack of undermine a diagnosis of AIH. Also, patients with PBC, with a firm evidence base. Finally, regular review of the benefits of marked interface hepatitis, exist without these being true ongoing immunosuppression is required to avoid unnecessary variant syndromes.362 However, the more features that are exposure. present, the more robust the designation of an AIH- PBC variant syndrome. Features can also evolve. Patients with Prognosis AIH who were positive for AMA are more likely than AMA- negative patients to develop bile duct damage on follow-u p Prognosis in PBC/AIH overlap is worse than in PBC or AIH biopsy.360 alone, partly because fibrosis is often more severe at presenta- Conversely, interface hepatitis, (classically associated with, tion.351 373–375 However, all data come from before the wide- though not specific for, AIH, see table 3), is present in up to 50% spread use of second- line therapies in PBC, the impact of which of patients with PBC and might be severe in 10%.361 362 These is unclear. patients are more likely to develop progressive fibrosis. PSC and AIH variant syndromes Diagnostic criteria and prevalence Overlapping features Given these features, diagnosis of AIH-P BC variant syndrome Antinuclear antibodies and anti- smooth muscle antibodies is challenging and cannot reliably be made using the IAIHG can be seen in up to 80% of patients with otherwise typical scoring systems for AIH.70 95 363 Specific diagnostic criteria have PSC.97 376–378 been developed but remain arbitrary as there is no gold standard Prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in PSC/ against which to validate them. For example, the ‘Paris’ criteria AIH overlap varies (13–89%) but seems to be lower than in include at least two of three ‘typical’ criteria for both PBC and classic PSC and higher than in classic AIH.379–381 for AIH. For PBC: Radiology and histology ► Serum ALP >2× or γ-GGT >5× upper limit of normal As discussed above, up to a quarter of patients with other- (ULN) values. wise typical AIH show bile duct abnormalities
