Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Serum ALP >2× or γ-GGT >5× upper limit of normal As discussed above, up to a quarter of patients with other- (ULN) values. wise typical AIH show bile duct abnormalities on biopsy. ► Positive antimitochondrial antibodies (AMA). Also, 2–10% have MRCP abnormalities consistent with ► Liver biopsy showing florid bile duct lesions. cholangiopathy.380 382 383 This rises to 42% if IBD is also For AIH: present.349 384 ► Serum ALT at least 5× ULN. Such radiological changes might develop later in the ► Serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels at least 2× ULN. disease course, while small duct changes (only evident histo- ► Positive anti-s mooth muscle antibodies (ASMA). logically) can exist without radiographic abnormalities.380 383 32 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline Patients with PSC/AIH variant might have concentric peri- might suggest other organ involvement.401 High serum IgG4 ductal (‘onion skin’) fibrosis but biliary features are patchy levels397 and large numbers of IgG4-p ositive plasma cells on and can be absent despite obvious cholangiopathy on histology predict a better response to corticosteroids and azathi- imaging. oprine, similar to that seen in classic AIH.399 400 It is currently unclear whether IgG4-A IH is a distinct entity or a manifestation Diagnostic criteria and prevalence of a multisystem pathology. PSC/AIH variant syndromes lack consensus diagnostic criteria but encompass biochemical and histological features Paediatric patients of AIH95 along with cholangiographic features of PSC and/ AIH/PSC overlap in children differs from that in adults. The or the ‘onion skinning’ periductal fibrosis seen on histology terms autoimmune sclerosing cholangitis (ASC) and juvenile in small duct PSC.349 As with PBC/AIH variant, IAIHG sclerosing cholangitis are often used.402 Sclerosing cholangitis scoring systems are unreliable for diagnosing PSC/AIH might also be a feature of inherited conditions, including primary variant syndrome.95 377 385 and secondary immune deficiencies, sickle cell disease or cystic Biliary abnormalities on liver biopsies of patients with fibrosis. ASC is associated with IBD in 45% of cases, and there is diagnosis. However, MRCP should be considered361 when patients with ASC also have high IgG levels.392 additional features are present, including (a) younger age at As in adults, diagnostic uncertainty is common. A scoring diagnosis, (b) male gender,296 355 380 (c) inflammatory bowel system for juvenile autoimmune liver disease has been proposed disease, (d) pruritus, (e) cholestatic liver blood tests and/or but remains unvalidated.2 It generates weighted scores for both (f) poor response to corticosteroids. AIH
