Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


autoimmune liver disease has been proposed disease, (d) pruritus, (e) cholestatic liver blood tests and/or but remains unvalidated.2 It generates weighted scores for both (f) poor response to corticosteroids. AIH and ASC, with ASC scores influenced by cholangiography Estimates of the prevalence of PSC/AIH variant syndrome and pANCA positivity. Many children with ASC respond to range from 1.7% to 14.0% of patients with AIH296 348 380 383 immunosuppression. In those with biliary features, UDCA is often and 1.4% to 17.0% of patients with PSC.363 377 379 386 387 added. Discussions surrounding paediatric overlap syndromes PSC might be diagnosed contemporaneously or continue.403 404 sequentially (sometimes years after the primary diag- The ESPGHAN position paper and paediatric guideline recom- nosis).355 356 379 381 Patients might also develop a more classic mends that cholangiography (MRCP) be performed in all children PSC- like phenotype, with strictures becoming the predomi- with biliary features on biochemistry or histology.2 nant feature, rather than inflammation.355 RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION N Treatment 1. We recommend liver biopsy (unless contraindicated) when Evidence of long- term benefit with UDCA in classic PSC after non- invasive- workup (including MRCP) an overlap remains lacking.388 Combination therapy for PSC/AIH syndrome is being considered. Grade of evidence: moderate. variant syndrome with UDCA and immunosuppression might Strength of recommendation: strong. achieve biochemical response, although this is slower than 2. We recommend that interface hepatitis on liver biopsy be in AIH alone, and poorer in those with small duct cholan- considered a prerequisite for a diagnosis of PBC/AIH overlap giopathy.296 355 356 377 379 389 390 Patients with higher serum syndrome to be considered. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of transaminases might respond better to corticosteroids than recommendation: strong. those with prominent cholestasis.391 Liver biopsy might show 3. We recommend that a variant syndrome be considered and improvement in inflammation but not in the cholangiop- a biopsy performed if feasible in patients with clinical features athy.392 Studies in overlap syndromes used varying treatment of PBC or PSC but who have marked elevation of serum trans- regimens so synthesis is difficult. As the disease phenotype aminases or IgG and/or serology that could be compatible with might evolve over time, the need for immunosuppression AIH. Grade of evidence: moderate. Strength of recommendation: needs regular review. strong. 4. We recommend that concurrent PBC be considered in Prognosis patients with cholestatic pruritus, cholestatic liver blood tests Based on small observational studies, patients with
