Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


of cases resolve without steroids,427 428 Fourth, DI-A ILH is usually associated with only mild fibrosis and improvement seems unrelated to prednisolone dose (≤1 vs and very rarely with cirrhosis, in contrast to idiopathic AIH.80 >1 mg/kg/day).418 429 An evidence- based graded management Finally, DI- ALIH (unlike ‘idiopathic’ AIH266 rarely relapses strategy has been developed.430 spontaneously after withdrawal of steroids. No data exist in children with regard to DI-A IH. 34 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION O Box 3 Proposed standards for diagnosis and 1. We recommend routine consideration of the possibility of management of autoimmune hepatitis. drug- induced autoimmune- like hepatitis (DI-A LH) and prompt cessation of any suspected precipitant. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: strong. (A) Patients within 10 years of diagnosis 2. We recommend performing a liver biopsy if there is not 1. Documented exclusion of viral cause: at diagnosis. prompt resolution of liver injury on withdrawal of the suspected For acute icteric presentation: (HAV, HBV, HCV, HEV, EBV, CMV, precipitant. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommenda- HIV) tion: strong. For indolent presentations (HBV, HCV, HIV) 3. For DI- AILH, we recommend starting prednisolone (0.5 2. Diagnostic liver biopsy: performance, or documented reason mg/kg/day or up to 40 mg/day, as for idiopathic AIH), if there for not performing. failure of serum transaminases to fall substantially within a week meeting. of stopping the suspected precipitant. Patients with liver failure 4. Time between initial raised serum ALT and starting steroid should be discussed with a transplant centre. Grade of evidence: treatment <18 weeks, and <4 weeks, if jaundiced (peak bilirubin low. Strength of recommendation: strong. >60 mmol/L). 4. We recommend that (a) prednisolone be tapered as for 5. Initial prednisolone dose ≤40 mg or 0.5 mg/kg/day 6. standard AIH, until serum transaminases (and IgG, if elevated) Steroid- sparing agent introduced within 4 weeks of starting have fallen to normal, and then be phased out gradually, (b) steroid in patients with compensated liver disease and serum bilirubin <100 mmol/L. patients then be monitored by serial serum transaminases. In the event of hepatitis relapse, subsequent management is Tests performed to assess achieved: that of standard AIH, with prednisolone and a steroid- sparing 8. Documented fracture risk assessment (FRAX score or DEXA) agent. Grade of evidence: low. strength of recommendation: within 3 months of starting steroids. weak. 9. Documented encouragement of annual eye examination
