Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


Documented fracture risk assessment (FRAX score or DEXA) agent. Grade of evidence: low. strength of recommendation: within 3 months of starting steroids. weak. 9. Documented encouragement of annual eye examination if 5. Features of chronicity (such as advanced fibrosis on biopsy) age >60 and on steroids for >12 months. also make it less likely that the drug is the sole cause. We recom- 10. Steroids stopped within 12 months of starting or mend treating such patients as if they have standard AIH. Always documented reason for continuing. consider seeking an expert clinical opinion. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: weak. (B) All patients 11. Patients on thiopurines or mycophenolate: full blood count documented >3 times over past 365 days. SECTION P. COVID-19 AND AIH431 12. Patients on azathioprine of mycophenolate for >3 years: COVID- 19 might involve the liver,431 and cause abnormal liver documented discussion about pros and cons of stopping. tests.432 In patients with AIH, COVID-1 9 might cause a ‘flare’ 13. Non- invasive fibrosis imaging assessment performed at in serum transaminase,433 which is usually mild, but in cirrhotic least once over past 3 years patients might result in acute on chronic liver failure.431 COVID- 19 might be more severe in patients taking immuno- suppressive drugs, including rituximab,434 high- dose steroids, thiopurines, and (possibly) mycophenolate and tacrolimus.435 a different vaccine. These features suggest a causative role for the vaccine in some cases. although not all, guidelines suggest modest reduction of immu- nosuppression dose.437 438 NICE guidance recommends439 440 specific antiviral treatment within 5–7 days of symptoms in RECOMMENDATIONS SECTION P patients with cirrhosis, and in those taking immunosuppressive 1. We recommend that patients with AIH with cirrhosis/or those drugs. receiving immunosuppressive treatment who develop COVID-1 9 Several cases have been reported of AIH developing shortly infection, be considered for appropriate antiviral therapy. Grade after COVID-1 9.19 20 However many are probably coincidental. of evidence: high. Strength of recommendation: strong. Patients with AIH should receive COVID vaccination. About 2. We recommend that steroid therapy usually be continued half, especially those taking steroids or mycophenolate, had during COVID- 19 infection. The decision to withhold steroid- impaired cellular and humoral responses to two doses of COVID sparing agents should be individualised, based on infection vaccine; however, a third dose then achieved an adequate humoral severity. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: (though not cellular) response.441 Despite this, COVID-1 9 infec-
