Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


based on infection vaccine; however, a third dose then achieved an adequate humoral severity. Grade of evidence: low. Strength of recommendation: (though not cellular) response.441 Despite this, COVID-1 9 infec- weak. tion in AIH is less severe in vaccinated patients.442 Several cases of an acute AIH-l ike illness have been reported within 4 weeks of COVID-1 9 vaccination, including both CONCLUSION the viral vector (Oxford and Janssen) and mRNA (Pfizer and In these guidelines, we have described what we think are the Moderna) variants.443–445 AIH is usually, mild and responds to best strategies for managing patients with AIH, based on current corticosteroids, but a few cases have been fatal or have required knowledge. In box 3 we propose diagnostic and management liver transplantation. Incidence of post- vaccine liver injury446 is standards, against which services could be audited. Organisa- low: 4 per 10 000, and some cases are probably coincidental. tion of services for AIH in the UK and elsewhere could poten- However, AIH following COVID vaccination rarely causes tially be improved, and in box 4, we make proposals for this. advanced fibrosis, and rarely relapses after steroids are stopped. Finally, our understanding of AIH and its management remains In some reports,444 447 liver injury developed twice after repeated incomplete, and so, in box 5, we propose some priorities for Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: 35 Guideline Box 4 Proposals for organisation of services Box 5 Proposed clinical research priorities. 1. Most patients with AIH can be managed in their local hospital 1. Validation of an updated AIH diagnostic score incorporating if their consultant has appropriate knowledge and experience. the recent consensus histological criteria. 2. In each centre, no more than three consultants 2. Evaluation (using large datasets) of environmental factors (hepatologists, or gastroenterologists with a maintained interest (including viral infections and medication use) associated with in liver disease) should provide continuing care for patients with recent- onset AIH. AIH. 3. Further validation of complete biochemical remission (CBR) 3. The roles of specialist nurses and of associated care as the best early predictor of longer- term outcome. practitioners in caring for patients with AIH should be developed. 4.Validation of serial non- invasive tests as predictors of 4. Liver biopsies from patients with suspected AIH should be longer- term outcome and their incorporation into clinical trials. reported by a histopathologist with liver expertise and discussed 5. Further evaluation of patient-
