Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


from patients with suspected AIH should be longer- term outcome and their incorporation into clinical trials. reported by a histopathologist with liver expertise and discussed 5. Further evaluation of patient- reported outcome measures at a clinical-p athological meeting. (including development of an AIH- specific measure) and their 5. Departments should maintain a database of patients incorporation into trials of AIH treatment. attending with AIH, to facilitate audit and collaborative research. 6. Clarification of the role of mycophenolate mofetil as a first- 6. Regional AIH networks should be developed, analogous to line steroid- sparing agent. those in England for hepatitis C and primary biliary cholangitis. 7. Evaluation of initial therapy with existing agents (eg, and histopathologists with an interest in the liver, (ii) hold against steroid- based therapy. of collaborative audit and research, (iv) include a formal or mycophenolate, as second-/third- line drugs in patients. arrangement with a transplant centre. 9. Evaluation of budesonide as a longer- term maintenance treatment. 10.Evaluation of second-/third- line treatments (eg, tacrolimus) in avoiding need for transplant in patients with acute severe AIH PATIENT summary without early response to prednisolone. This guideline has been written, on behalf of the British Society of Gastroenterology, by a group of experts in the diagnosis and management of AIH plus two patients with AIH. It is intended AIH can be an aggressive disease; about a quarter of for healthcare professionals involved in the management of patients already have cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) at diag- patients with AIH and also for patients themselves to understand nosis. Without effective treatment, AIH continues to damage their condition and the care they receive. It incorporates the the liver and some patients will need a liver transplant. advances in the understanding of AIH since the previous guide- However, steroid treatment effectively damps down the line was published in 2011. However, it is not intended simply liver inflammation and has been shown to improve survival. as a set of instructions—every patient is unique and treatment of Nearly all patients with AIH (unless it is very mild) benefit AIH needs to be personalised. from steroid treatment. Two main steroids are used—pred- AIH is one of many autoimmune diseases that result from nisolone and budesonide. Budesonide might have fewer damage caused by the immune system, which helps to protect cosmetic side effects then prednisolone but is not more (and us from infections and some cancers, but normally
