Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


have fewer damage caused by the immune system, which helps to protect cosmetic side effects then prednisolone but is not more (and us from infections and some cancers, but normally tolerates is possibly less) effective in achieving AIH remission; also, the body’s own organs. Autoimmune diseases result from a its longer- term effectiveness is unknown. It can be used breakdown in this tolerance. With AIH, the immune damage instead, if prednisolone causes side effects (or is expected is directed at the liver. AIH affects 15 000–20 000 people to). In adults, initial dose of prednisolone should be about in the UK, of all ages and from all ethnic groups. It is not 0.5 mg/kg/day and not usually exceed 40 mg/day (up to 2 infectious. Three out of four patients are female and AIH is mg/kg in children to a maximum of 40 mg/day) becoming more common. We do not fully understand what Addition of a second drug (usually azathioprine) allows causes AIH. Some people might be at increased risk, based reduction of the steroid dose and might further improve on the genes they inherit. We do not think AIH is related to survival. Mycophenolate is a promising alternative to azathi- any particular lifestyle, but occasionally it can be caused by oprine but cannot be used in pregnancy. Patients taking AIH certain medicines. treatment need regular blood tests. They might also need AIH affects patients in many ways. Some patients have interventions to maintain bone health. no symptoms, but many have fatigue, and some have other Around the time of starting treatment patients need to be up symptoms. Occasionally the first indication of AIH can be to date with their vaccinations against infections such as influ- when patients are seen with liver failure. In children, growth enza, pneumococcus and chickenpox/shingles. failure and poor nutrition might be early signs . There is no Improvement in symptoms and in liver blood tests usually single test for AIH. Rather it is diagnosed by ruling out other indicate a good response to treatment. A follow- up liver conditions (such as viral hepatitis and bile duct obstruction), biopsy to confirm that AIH has gone into remission is no by suggestive blood test results (high immunoglobulin levels longer recommended routinely but might sometimes be and so- called ‘auto’ antibodies). Usually, a firm diagnosis of helpful in guiding management. relevant expertise. The biopsy usually distinguishes AIH include, reconsidering
