Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


longer recommended routinely but might sometimes be and so- called ‘auto’ antibodies). Usually, a firm diagnosis of helpful in guiding management. relevant expertise. The biopsy usually distinguishes AIH include, reconsidering the diagnosis, and assessing adher- from other liver conditions, which require different treat- ence to treatment. This should be done in a respectful, non- ment. It is also the only reliable way of assessing scarring in confrontational and non- stigmatising manner. Other options an inflamed liver (severe scarring is labelled cirrhosis). include changing the steroid, checking that the azathioprine 36 Gleeson D, et al. Gut 2025;0:1–46. doi: Guideline dose is adequate (by checking its blood levels) and changing these recommendations, but we suggest that reasons for this to another drug, such as mycophenolate, tacrolimus or are documented in the medical record. BSG guidelines are rituximab. Experience with these treatments is very limited, intended to be an educational device to provide information so expert advice is often helpful here. that might assist in providing care to patients. They are not When normal blood test—so called ‘complete biochemical rules and should not be construed as establishing a legal response’—has been achieved (and confirmed 2–4 weeks standard of care or as encouraging, advocating, requiring, later), we recommend that steroid dose should be reduced or discouraging any particular treatment. gradually to zero. If remission is maintained over 2–3 years, the second Author affiliations drug (usually azathioprine) can sometimes be stopped 1Liver Unit, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield, UK (under medical guidance and with regular continued moni- of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK toring). There is a risk of disease relapse but (if promptly 3South Yorkshire AIH Support Group, Sheffield, UK treated and if the patient does not have cirrhosis) relapses 4AIH Support UK, Bath, UK are usually without symptoms and are rarely dangerous. 5Department of Gastroenterology, Manchester Royal Infirmary, Manchester, UK 6Liver Unit, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Relapses can be retreated with steroids and then, a longer- Tyne, UK prine) can be considered. However, patients with AIH have Tyne, UK to these drugs damping down the immune system. Thus, in UK all patients without cirrhosis, we recommend at least one attempt to stop medication. 11University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK with AIH is lower than in the general population. We need UK London, UK 16Centre for Rare Diseases, European Reference Network on Hepatological Diseases Overall results are good, although AIH
