Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, aih, liver, evidence, recommend, grade, strength, treatment, recommendation, low, serum, grade evidence, azathioprine, section, hepatitis


with AIH is lower than in the general population. We need UK London, UK 16Centre for Rare Diseases, European Reference Network on Hepatological Diseases Overall results are good, although AIH might recur in the (ERN- RARE- LIVER) centre, Birmingham, UK Pregnancy in women with AIH is nearly always successful, Sheffield, UK (which might damage the baby), we recommend continuing Acknowledgements Lisa Moore BSG Clinical Services and Standards Committee as well as large hospitals, although children should maintain bone health). contact with a specialist. We recommend that they be under Contributors DG: Group chair, induction treatment, long- term management, the care of only two–three designated consultants and have long- term outcome, drug- induced AIH, COVID- 19 and AIH, organisation of services. maintained for audit purposes. We recommend formation presentation, definition of treatment response, differential diagnosis, epidemiology, of regional AIH networks, with online meetings at which variant syndromes. JKD: Variant syndromes, definition of response, second- and third- line treatments, patients’ perspectives. JH: Long- term management, challenging problems can be discussed and biopsy slides patient perspectives. PH, DK: Paediatric aspects.GFM: Epidemiology, genetics, reviewed. Advice from a transplant centre must be easily immunopathogenesis, presentation, diagnostic workup, histolopathology. RM: and rapidly available, especially for patients with severe Histopathology, diagnostic scores, severity assessment. YO: Genetics, pathogenesis, We emphasise the need for further research. We need Differential diagnosis, diagnostic scores, long- term outcome, diagnostic standards. MAH: Group Vice- Chair, Severity Assessment, Pregnancy, Liver Transplantation to better understand the effect of treatments on patients’ Diagnostic Work- up, Covid- 19 in AIH, Drug- induced AIH. quality of life and assess newer drugs which damp down the Competing interests None. immune system in clinical trials. Some existing treatments need further evaluation (for example mycophenolate and Patient consent for publication Not applicable. budesonide to prevent relapse). Ethics approval Not applicable. Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. Supplemental material This content has been supplied by the author(s). It DISCLAIMER has not been vetted by BMJ Publishing Group Limited (BMJ) and may not have These BSG guidelines represent a consensus of best prac- been peer- reviewed. Any opinions or recommendations discussed are solely those tice based on the available evidence at the time of prepa- of the author(s) and are not endorsed by BMJ. BMJ disclaims all liability and ration. They might not apply in all situations and should responsibility arising from any reliance placed on the content. Where the
