Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Pituitary adenomas are common, predominantly indolent neoplasms comprising approximately 10-20% of intracranial tumors ( 1 , 2 ). Non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs) are benign neoplasms that originate from the adenohypophyseal cells and are not associated with clinical evidence of hormonal hypersecretion ( 3 ). They comprise a large and heterogeneous group, representing a sizeable proportion (22% to 54% in different series) of all pituitary adenomas ( 4 - 7 ). Malignant transformation in a non-functioning pituitary adenoma (pituitary carcinoma) is extremely rare and is characterized by craniospinal or systemic dissemination ( 8 ). NFPAs can be further classified according to their pituitary hormone and transcription factor profile, as defined by the 2017 World Health Organization (WHO) classification for endocrine tumors ( 9 ). Tumors that express one or more anterior pituitary hormones or their transcription factors with immunohistochemistry (IHC) but do not secrete hormones at a clinically relevant level can be referred to as silent pituitary adenomas (SPAs) ( 10 , 11 ). As a consequence, the definition of “null cell adenoma” is now limited to an exceptionally rare primary adenohypophyseal tumor that shows immunonegativity for all adenohypophyseal hormones as well as for cell-type specific transcription factors ( 12 ) - Figure 1 . Figure 1 - Classification of non-functioning pituitary adenomas rely upon clinical features and histopathological data. Reprinted with permission from Drummond et al ., 2019 The term “totally silent” has been proposed to be used when a patient with an NFPA presents basal and stimulated serum concentrations of the correspondent hormones within the normal range and there are no clinical signs or symptoms that can be attributed to hormone excess ( 13 ). The term “clinically silent” may be used when NFPAs secrete hormonal products that cause an elevation of the serum concentration but do not result in clinical signs or symptoms of hormonal hypersecretion ( 13 ). Some cases are referred to as “whispering” adenomas with borderline, mild, often overlooked, clinical symptoms and signs ( 14 , 15 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY The prevalence of NFPAs is variable and is often based upon autopsy or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) series. Data from Europe, North and South America have estimated that the prevalence of clinically relevant NFPAs is 7–41.3 cases per 100,000 of population ( 16 ). This is likely an underestimate of the true prevalence, as many NFPAs go
