Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


that the prevalence of clinically relevant NFPAs is 7–41.3 cases per 100,000 of population ( 16 ). This is likely an underestimate of the true prevalence, as many NFPAs go undiagnosed until they are large enough to cause mass effect or are accidentally discovered. Data are discordant about gender predominance and the peak occurrence is from the fourth to the eighth decade. A recent population-based study from South Korea showed an annual incidence of 3.5 cases/ 100,000 population for NFPAs, which is noticeably higher than the annual incidences previously reported in other countries, such as Sweden, Finland, and Argentina ( 17 ). These differences may be related to genetic and environmental factors in Asian populations or inter-study heterogeneity and may also reflect the good local access to diagnostic evaluations using magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography. CLINICAL PRESENTATION The absence of clinical manifestations of hormonal hypersecretion usually results in significant diagnostic delay and therefore NFPAs may not be diagnosed until they cause mass effects to surrounding structures ( 3 ), causing symptoms such as headaches, visual disorders, and/or cranial nerve dysfunction. Other manifestations are hormone deficiencies or hyperprolactinemia due to pituitary stalk deviation and, less frequently, pituitary apoplexy ( 18 , 19 ). Additionally, some cases may be diagnosed incidentally through imaging studies performed for other purposes, the so-called pituitary incidentaloma. Neurologic Manifestations VISUAL IMPAIRMENT Impaired vision, caused by suprasellar extension of the adenoma that compresses the optic chiasm, is the most common neuro-ophthalmological symptom ( 19 ). Different types of visual defects depend on the degree and site of optic nerve compression. Both eyes are usually affected, although a significant proportion of patients may have unilateral or altitudinal problems in 33 and 16% of the cases, respectively ( 20 ). Diplopia, induced by oculomotor nerve compression resulting from parasellar expansion of the adenoma may occur, and the fourth, fifth and sixth cranial nerves may also be occasionally involved when there is parasellar expansion ( 16 ). Nevertheless, the typical visual field defect associated with pituitary tumors is bitemporal hemianopia, reported in approximately 40% of the patients. HEADACHE Headaches, the second most common neurologic symptom, occur in 19-75% of patients with pituitary tumors, regardless of size ( 21 ). In a retrospective case series of incidentally-discovered NFPAs, headache was present in approximately 20% of the cases ( 22 ). In a recent prospective series, 138 out of 269 patients with
