Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


a retrospective case series of incidentally-discovered NFPAs, headache was present in approximately 20% of the cases ( 22 ). In a recent prospective series, 138 out of 269 patients with NFPAs complained of tumor-related symptoms and, among them, 23% presented with headaches ( 23 ). Although it is not always clear whether the presenting headache is related to the tumor, proposed mechanisms for headache include increased intrasellar pressure, stretching of dural membrane pain receptors, and activation of trigeminal pain pathways ( 16 , 24 ). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea, associated or not with headache, can occur in cases where the tumor causes erosion of the sellar floor and extends inferiorly to the sphenoid sinus. PITUITARY APOPLEXY Pituitary apoplexy (sudden hemorrhage into a pituitary adenoma) is rare. According to a retrospective case series of 485 Mexican patients with NFPAs, pituitary apoplexy was the initial presentation in 8% of the cases ( 25 ). It causes acute onset of a severe headache associated with visual disturbances and can occur in all types of pituitary tumors, although some series suggest pituitary apoplexy might be more common in NFPAs than other adenomas subtypes ( 26 ). It has been suggested that the combination of the high metabolism of pituitary adenomas combined with their special blood supply would make them more prone to vascular events ( 27 ). Pituitary apoplexy may occur without an identified risk factor, but it has also been reported as being related to pregnancy, use of anticoagulants, surgical procedures, as well as in association with dynamic tests, such as thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), and insulin-tolerance stimulation tests ( 28 ). The actual long-term risk of apoplexy in NFPAs has not been clearly defined ( 29 ). In a Japanese prospective cohort study of 42 asymptomatic patients with NFPAs (mean initial tumor size of 18.3 mm) followed-up for approximately four years, pituitary apoplexy was reported in 9.5% of the cases ( 30 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis evaluating the outcomes of patients with NFPAs and pituitary incidentalomas who were treated conservatively and followed-up for mean period of 3.9 years showed that the development of pituitary apoplexy was rare (0.2/100 patients-year), although a trend for a greater incidence of pituitary apoplexy was seen in macroadenomas compared with microadenomas, with a reported incidence of apoplexy of 1.1% per year ( 31 ). These findings are in line with two recent retrospective
