Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


apoplexy was seen in macroadenomas compared with microadenomas, with a reported incidence of apoplexy of 1.1% per year ( 31 ). These findings are in line with two recent retrospective studies including a Korean series of 197 patients with NFPAs without mass effect symptoms or pituitary apoplexy at baseline who were followed-up for a median of 37 months ( 32 ) and an Italian series of 296 patients with incidentally discovered NFPAs (macroadenomas in 49% of the cases) who we followed-up for approximately three years ( 33 ). Five out of 169 patients with macroadenomas developed pituitary apoplexy with an overall incidence of 0.83 per 100 patients-years in the Korean series while no cases of pituitary apoplexy were reported in the Italian series. Endocrine Manifestations HORMONAL DEFICIENCIES Most patients with nonfunctioning pituitary macroadenomas present with deficiency of at least one pituitary hormone resulting from the compression of the normal anterior pituitary and/or pituitary stalk, preventing the stimulation of pituitary cells by hypothalamic factors. Hypogonadism can result from either a direct compressive effect on gonadotropic cells or by stalk compression-induced hyperprolactinemia that inhibits the pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin releasing hormone via interfering with hypothalamic kisspeptin-secreting cells ( 34 ). This “disconnection hyperprolactinemia” usually <2000mIU/L (95 ng/mL) ( 35 ) is characterized by compression of the pituitary stalk, which prevents the arrival of dopamine to the anterior pituitary, the main inhibitor of prolactin (stalk effect). GH and gonadotroph axes are most commonly affected, followed by adrenal insufficiency and central hypothyroidism ( 16 , 23 , 32 ). HORMONAL EXCESS Gonadotroph adenomas are usually considered to be "nonfunctioning" although they can secrete intact gonadotropins, as they do not generally result in a clinical syndrome. Occasionally, gonadotroph adenomas secrete primarily FSH but also LH in quantities high enough to raise serum gonadotropin levels, which in turn, may lead to the development of some specific symptoms, such as ovarian hyperstimulation in young women ( 36 - 38 ) or, more rarely, precocious puberty or testicular enlargement in men. In addition, low serum LH:FSH ratios (usually < 1.0) have been described in clinically-secreting gonadotroph adenomas ( 39 ). Measurement of α-subunit may also contribute to a pre-operative diagnosis in clinically silent but biochemically-secreting NFPAs, as it may be the sole biochemical marker of the gonadotroph subtype in a number of cases. In addition, circulating FSH, LH and α-subunit levels can help the post-operative surveillance of these
