Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


may be the sole biochemical marker of the gonadotroph subtype in a number of cases. In addition, circulating FSH, LH and α-subunit levels can help the post-operative surveillance of these patients ( 39 ). HISTOPATHOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION The 2017 WHO classification for endocrine tumors ( 9 ) defines pituitary adenomas, including NFPAs, according to their pituitary hormone and transcription factor profile. It is noteworthy that in this classification system, IHC forms the basis of the new categorization, in which an adenohypophyseal cell lineage designation of the pituitary adenoma has replaced the concept of a “hormone-producing pituitary adenoma” ( 40 ) - Table 1 . Table 1 – Classification of Silent Pituitary Adenomas According to Adenohypophyseal Hormones and Transcription Factors. View in own window Cell Lineage Hormone Staining Transcription Factors and Other Co-Factors Somatotroph adenoma Sparsely granulated Densely granulated GH, α-subunit Weak and patchy Diffuse and strong PIT-1 Lactotroph adenomas Sparsely granulated Densely granulated Acidophil stem-cell adenoma PRL Perinuclear Diffuse PRL Focal and variable PRL, GH PIT-1, ERα Thyrotroph adenomas TSHβ, α-subunit PIT-1, GATA2 Corticotroph adenomas Densely granulated (type I) Sparsely granulated (type II) Crooke-cell ACTH Diffuse and strong ACTH Weak and patchy ACTH Periphery (ring-like) TPIT Gonadotroph adenomas FSHβ, LHβ, α-subunit SF1, GATA2, ERα Null cell adenomas None None Plurihormonal PIT-1-positive adenomas Adenomas with unusual IHC combinations GH, PRL, TSHβ±, α-subunit Various combinations PIT-1 Adapted from Mete et al, 2017. Indeed, the prevalence of the different histological subtypes of NFPAs is dependent on the extent of the IHC profile. According to a large retrospective case series ( 11 ), the gonadotroph adenoma is the most common subtype, followed by corticotroph, PIT1 (GH/ Prolactin/TSH) lineage and null cell - Figure 2 . Figure 2 - Prevalence of silent pituitary adenoma subtypes according to immunochemistry for anterior pituitary hormones and transcription factors. Adapted from Nishioka et al ., 2015 Pituitary hormones gene expression analysis using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) has been shown to complement the IHC classification of pituitary tumors, according to a large observational, cross-sectional study evaluating 268 patients ( 41 ). Addition of RT-qPCR analysis reduced the proportion of null-cell subtype in this series from 36% to 19%. Lower specific adenohypophyseal hormone gene expression was observed in some SPA variants when compared with their secreting counterparts, including somatotroph, lactotroph, mixed somatotroph-lactotroph and plurihormonal adenomas, which could contribute to the absence of endocrine manifestations. The European Pituitary Pathology Group has recently proposed
