Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


compared with their secreting counterparts, including somatotroph, lactotroph, mixed somatotroph-lactotroph and plurihormonal adenomas, which could contribute to the absence of endocrine manifestations. The European Pituitary Pathology Group has recently proposed a standardized report for the diagnosis of pituitary adenomas which includes a multi-step approach, comprising the summary of clinical and neuroimaging features, IHC for hormones and transcription factors, assessment of proliferation and, when indicated, the use of markers predictive of treatment response ( 42 ). This proposition highlights the role of the pituitary pathologist as part of a multidisciplinary pituitary team helping the clinician define the most appropriate post-operative strategy for each patient, including appropriate follow-up and early recognition and treatment of potentially aggressive tumors ( 43 ). Subtypes of NFPAs NULL CELL ADENOMAS AND SILENT GONADOTROPH ADENOMAS Null cell adenomas and silent gonadotroph adenomas (SGAs) were previously misunderstood to be the same type of tumor. The addition of immunostaining for steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) as a tool in the diagnosis of pituitary lesions has shown that many LH/FSH immunonegative adenomas are in fact SGAs ( 44 ), which comprise almost 80% of resected NFPAs. The distinction between SGAs and null cell adenomas is of clinical relevance because true null cell adenomas are rare and likely to be more invasive and aggressive than SGAs ( 45 ). In addition, these rare cases of ‘null cell adenomas’ may require a broad panel of immunohistochemistry in order to exclude a sellar metastasis of a neuroendocrine tumor (NET) from another organ. Several markers, including TTF1, serotonin, ATRX, DAXX and CDX2 may be useful in the differential diagnosis between an NFPA and a metastatic NET in the sellar region ( 46 ). Data from a retrospective case series of 516 patients with NFPAs have shown that from the 23% of the tumors initially classified as null cell adenomas by using only classical pituitary hormone IHC, only 5% of them remained as true null cell type. Indeed, immunostaining using lineage-specific markers, namely, PIT-1 (coded by the POU class 1 homeobox 1 ( POU1F1 ) gene), SF1, TPIT (coded by the T-Box transcription factor 19 ( TBX19 ) gene) and estrogen receptor-α (ERα) provided tumor reclassification in 95% of cases ( 11 ). SILENT CORTICOTROPH ADENOMAS Silent corticotroph adenomas (SCAs) are characterized by the absence of clinical features of Cushing syndrome, along with normal circadian cortisol secretion (totally silent) or elevated ACTH (clinically silent) ( 5
