Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


Silent corticotroph adenomas (SCAs) are characterized by the absence of clinical features of Cushing syndrome, along with normal circadian cortisol secretion (totally silent) or elevated ACTH (clinically silent) ( 5 , 47 - 49 ). They currently account for approximately 15% of NFPAs, an underestimated proportion, since IHC for the transcription factor TPIT, a marker of corticotroph differentiation which regulates the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) lineage giving origin to the corticotrophs, is still not widely available ( 50 ). For instance, in a recent retrospective series, inclusion of IHC for TPIT allowed identification of eight SCAs out of 18 (44%) pituitary tumors previously classified as null cell adenomas ( 51 ). SCAs often present themselves as macroadenomas associated with mass-related symptoms. In comparison with SGAs, SCAs show female preponderance, are more frequently giant adenomas, and are more often associated with marked cavernous sinus invasion ( 49 ). Importantly, the presence of multiple microcysts in T2-weighted pituitary MRI sequences in a NFPA has a high specificity (> 90%) for the corticotroph subtype. The first study showed that multiple microcysts were present in 76% (13/17) of SCAs as opposed to 5% (3/60) of SGAs ( 52 ) while a more recent study showed comparable results, as multiple microcysts were present in 58% (7/12) SCAs but in only 9.5% of SGAs ( 53 ). Histologically, SCAs can be further divided into type 1 (densely granulated), type 2 (sparsely granulated) and Crooke-cell adenoma. Type 1 SCAs show strong ACTH immunoreactivity whereas type 2 SCAs resemble the rare chromophobe corticotroph adenoma and show weak and focal ACTH immunoreactivity. Type 2 SCAs seem to be more common and are likely to display higher expression of migration and proliferation factors compared with type 1 SCAs ( 5 , 11 , 40 ). Clinically silent Crooke-cell adenoma is a rare yet highly aggressive subtype as it carries significant risk of morbidity ( 54 ). Since SCAs are nonfunctional, an important point to note is the absence of Crooke’s hyalinization in the normal surrounding pituitary gland, as there is no exposure to high circulating glucocorticoid levels to promote hyaline deposits of cytokeratin filaments in the cytoplasm of normal corticotrophs ( 49 ). The transformation of a silent corticotroph tumor into Cushing disease has been described, although the mechanism involved in this phenomenon is not yet well understood ( 55 , 56 ). It has been proposed that the clinical manifestations of
