Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


disease has been described, although the mechanism involved in this phenomenon is not yet well understood ( 55 , 56 ). It has been proposed that the clinical manifestations of Cushing disease are dependent on the processing of the pro-hormone POMC in corticotrophs. The pro-hormone convertase 1/3 (PC1/3) is involved in the post-translational processing of POMC into mature and biologically active ACTH. SCAs show a decrease in PC1/3 expression associated with a down-regulation of PC1/3 genes compared with corticotroph adenomas associated with Cushing disease ( 47 ). An attractive and more likely hypothesis involves epigenetic mechanisms: DNA hypermethylation of regulatory regions could lead to reduced expression of POMC transcripts impairing the production of secreted ACTH. Differences in methylation status were observed when comparing ACTH-secreting pituitary tumors and SCAs: the second promoter was highly methylated in SCAs, partially demethylated in normal pituitary tissue and highly demethylated in pituitary and ectopic ACTH-secreting tumors ( 57 ). SILENT SOMATOTROPH ADENOMAS Silent somatotroph adenomas are PIT1 and GH-immunoreactive tumors without clinical and biological signs of acromegaly. They represent approximately 2-4% of all pituitary adenomas in surgical case series ( 58 ). Patients with silent somatotroph adenomas usually present with normal pre-operative GH and IGF-1 levels but there have been few reports of "clinically silent" cases, with non-suppressible serum GH and elevated IGF-1 levels ( 59 ). Similar to secreting somatotroph adenomas, silent somatotroph adenomas are classified into densely granulated and sparsely granulated types, based on the presence and pattern of the low molecular weight cytokeratin staining. More than 50% of silent somatotroph adenoma cases constitute mixed GH–PRL adenomas, a proportion twofold higher than somatotroph adenomas causing acromegaly ( 60 ). Unlike clinically functioning somatotroph tumors, the silent ones are more frequently sparsely granulated with more aggressive behavior and a lower response to somatostatin analog therapy ( 61 ). Furthermore, silent somatotroph adenomas are more frequent in females, present at a younger age, are larger, more invasive, and recur earlier and more frequently than their secreting counterparts ( 62 ). SILENT THYROTROPH ADENOMAS Silent thyrotroph adenomas usually present TSHβ, α-subunit, and PIT-1 expression on IHC in a variable manner ( 40 ). They are more frequent when compared with their functioning counterparts and seem to behave similarly regarding treatment outcomes and recurrence rates ( 63 ). In a recent retrospective series of 20 patients with silent thyrotroph adenomas who underwent transsphenoidal surgery, 95% were macroadenomas
