Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


behave similarly regarding treatment outcomes and recurrence rates ( 63 ). In a recent retrospective series of 20 patients with silent thyrotroph adenomas who underwent transsphenoidal surgery, 95% were macroadenomas and 85% showed extrasellar growth. Gross total tumor resection was achieved in 45% while major tumor progression or recurrence occurred in 10% of the patients over a median follow-up period of 18.5 months ( 64 ). These results show that, although silent thyrotroph adenomas tend to be large and invasive tumors, good overall outcomes with low complication rates can be achieved. SILENT LACTOTROPH ADENOMAS Clinically silent lactotroph adenomas are rare. The positive prolactin staining by IHC with no clinical signs of hyperprolactinemia is usually encountered concomitantly with GH positive staining (silent mixed somatotroph-lactotroph adenoma) ( 61 ). They can also express ERα on immunostaining ( 9 ). PLURIHORMONAL ADENOMAS According to the WHO 2017 classification, plurihormonal adenomas can be classified on the basis of their transcription factor expression into two groups: 1) “PIT1-positive adenomas” (previously known as silent subtype 3 pituitary adenoma); and 2) plurihormonal with more than one transcription factor, termed “plurihormonal adenomas with unusual immunohistochemical combinations” (PAWUC) ( 9 , 40 ). In a recent large retrospective series comprising 665 patients who underwent endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal surgery, plurihormonal adenomas were identified in 4% of the cases (18 patients had PAWUC and 9 patients were diagnosed with PIT-1 positive adenomas); 24 (89%) were macroadenomas (including 6 giant adenomas) and cavernous sinus invasion was found in 12 patients (44%) ( 65 ). PIT1-positive plurihormonal adenomas are a distinct entity, with reportedly aggressive behavior. A single-center retrospective case series reported a prevalence of 0.9% for ‘silent adenomas type 3’ among resected pituitary tumors over a period of 13 years. All tumors were macroadenomas, aggressive, invasive, with a high rate of persistent/recurrent disease ( 66 ). Interestingly, these tumors may present clinical symptoms of hormone excess, such as acromegaly, hyperthyroidism or marked hyperprolactinemia ( 67 ) and the diagnosis of a PIT-1 positive plurihormonal adenoma should be kept in mind in case of large and invasive NFPA tumors in young patients, particularly those showing TSH and often minor reactivities for PRL and GH as well as cytologic atypia in conjunction with an elevated Ki-67 labelling index ( 66 ). PAWUC are also characterized by aggressive behavior and higher rates of cavernous sinus invasion. A recent single-center retrospective series comparing clinical characteristics, outcome
