Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


elevated Ki-67 labelling index ( 66 ). PAWUC are also characterized by aggressive behavior and higher rates of cavernous sinus invasion. A recent single-center retrospective series comparing clinical characteristics, outcome parameters and rate of invasiveness of 22 PAWUC to 51 SGAs showed that patients with PAWUC were younger, were more likely to present with intraoperatively signs of tumor invasion and less likely to achieve gross-total resection than patients with SGAs, suggesting a more aggressive behavior of NFPAs if additional transcription factors other than SF1, GATA2/3 and ER α are expressed within the tumor cells ( 68 ). EVALUATION According to current practice guidelines on incidentally discovered sellar masses, all patients, including those without symptoms, should undergo hormonal, clinical, and laboratory evaluation for hyper and hypopituitarism ( 69 ). The extent of the evaluation is still debatable and has commonly relied on clinical experience - assessment of prolactin and IGF-1 levels have been recommended, whereas screening for cortisol excess (i.e., overnight 1mg dexamethasone and/or late-evening salivary cortisol and/or urinary-free cortisol) is suggested in the presence of clinical symptoms, while measurement of ACTH levels is not routinely recommended. ( 69 ). Patients with macroadenoma, especially those >3 cm and with normal or slightly elevated prolactin, must have their serum prolactin diluted in order to exclude the "hook effect" ( 70 , 71 ). This effect occurs when excessively high levels of this hormone interfere with the formation of the complex antibody-antigen-antibody sandwich, and a prolactinoma might be mistaken for a NFPA ( 72 ). It is also suggested to check for pituitary hormone deficiencies in patients with non-functioning tumors, irrespective of symptoms. Macroadenomas can cause impairment of pituitary function by the involvement of the normal gland or pituitary stalk compression, and the risk of hypopituitarism is directly related to tumor volume. Microadenomas eventually lead to pituitary dysfunction, particularly if larger than 5mm ( 32 , 69 ). A large retrospective cohort of 218 patients with NFPAs found at least one pituitary deficiency at diagnosis in 33.3% of microadenomas ( 73 ) although other studies have failed to identify hormonal deficiencies in microadenomas. An interesting and cost-effective approach for microincidentalomas could be no hormonal evaluation for cystic and solid lesions smaller than 5 mm. For solid microadenomas (between 6-9 mm), it is suggested a simple investigation with measurements of PRL and IGF1 ( 74 ). Concerning macroadenomas, current guidelines suggest that serum cortisol
