Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


mm. For solid microadenomas (between 6-9 mm), it is suggested a simple investigation with measurements of PRL and IGF1 ( 74 ). Concerning macroadenomas, current guidelines suggest that serum cortisol levels at 8-9 AM should be done as the first-line test for diagnosing central adrenal insufficiency ( 75 ). Despite well recognized limitations of most commercial cortisol immunoassays ( 76 ), baseline cortisol levels <3 µg/dL (83 nmol/L) are suggestive of central adrenal insufficiency, while baseline cortisol levels >15 µg/dL (414 nmol/L) likely exclude it, and levels between 3 and 15 µg/dL require a corticotropin/insulin stimulation test. Central hypothyroidism is assessed by measuring serum TSH and free T4 (fT4), and fT4 level below the laboratory reference range in conjunction with a low, normal, or mildly elevated TSH in the setting of pituitary disease usually confirms the diagnosis ( 75 ). Diagnosing GH deficiency (GHD) is relatively straightforward in patients with IGF1 concentration lower than the gender- and age-specific lower limit of normal and structural pituitary disease. Low IGF1 in patients with non-functioning tumors who have at least three pituitary hormone deficiencies is also suggestive of GHD ( 29 ). Nevertheless, some adults with suspected GHD may have normal IGF1, in such cases GH stimulation testing may be useful. Central hypogonadism in males, manifests with low serum testosterone, low or inappropriately normal FSH/LH and features of testosterone deficiency. For females, pre-menopausal women with oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea should be screened with serum E2, FSH, and LH. In postmenopausal women, if the patient is not in hormonal therapy, the absence of high serum FSH and LH is sufficient for a diagnosis of central hypogonadism ( 75 ). Sellar MRI with gadolinium is the best imaging study for suspected adenomas because it provides images of high resolution of the mass as well as its relationship with surrounding structures. Pituitary adenomas usually appear hypo or isointense compared to normal pituitary tissue in T1 images on MRI. In addition, while the normal pituitary tissue enhances earlier with contrast, pituitary adenomas commonly present with delayed contrast uptake ( 77 ). Patients whose tumor abuts the optic chiasm should have visual field perimetry, preferably by the Goldmann method, to assess for visual deficits ( 69 ). Functional (FDG- and/or SSTR- positron emission tomography (PET) imaging studies should only be considered in aggressive pituitary adenomas/carcinomas in the setting of site-specific symptoms (neck/back pain or neurological complaints), and/or where laboratory
