Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


and/or SSTR- positron emission tomography (PET) imaging studies should only be considered in aggressive pituitary adenomas/carcinomas in the setting of site-specific symptoms (neck/back pain or neurological complaints), and/or where laboratory measures are discordant with known visible extent of disease ( 78 ). Recently, 37 patients diagnosed with NFPAs enrolled in a clinical trial underwent 68 Ga-DOTATATE PET/computed tomography (CT) of the head. 68 Ga-DOTATATE uptake was positive in 34/37 patients (92%), demonstrating in vivo SSTR expression in NFPAs and ultimately showing superior sensitivity of PET imaging when compared with 111 In-DTPA-octreotide scintigraphy ( 79 ). The pre-operative differential diagnosis of NFPAs includes several additional primary non-hormonal-secreting lesions ( 80 ). This distinction is challenging in many cases because the clinical presentations and radiological aspects may be similar between adenomas and other pituitary lesions. The presence of diabetes insipidus (DI) is common in tumors of non-pituitary origin and indicates that the sellar mass is most likely not a pituitary adenoma ( 81 ). An increase in α subunit of the glycoprotein hormones (elevated in 30% of NFPA patients) can help in the differential diagnosis although normal values do not rule them out ( 82 ). TREATMENT In spite of current knowledge of definite NFPAs pathologic subtypes, initial treatment strategies are similar regardless of the subset. A small number of studies have reported treatment outcome results taking into consideration adenohypophyseal hormone immuno-profile ( 82 - 84 ) and, for the future, precise pathologic characterization utilizing adenohypophyseal hormones and transcription factors may potentially aid in predicting the response to specific adjunctive therapies. Surgery Surgical resection is the primary treatment for symptomatic patients with NFPAs ( 85 ), i.e., those with neuro-ophthalmologic complaints and/or tumors affecting the optic pathway. Surgery is also urgently indicated for patients with apoplexy who develop neuro-ophthalmologic complaints. In some experts’ opinion, tumors larger than 2cm should also be considered for surgery due to their propensity for growth ( 86 ). Treatment for hypopituitarism, primarily central adrenal insufficiency, and central hypothyroidism, should be commenced prior to surgical resection. Mortality rate is low (<1%) and reported surgical complication rates are acceptable. Postoperative complications such as CSF leakage, fistula, meningitis, vascular injury, persistent diabetes insipidus (DI), or new visual field defect occurred in ≤ 5% of patients, as reported by a systematic review and metanalysis ( 87 ). Accomplishment of total or near-total resection can be challenging and varies in different series,
