Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


in ≤ 5% of patients, as reported by a systematic review and metanalysis ( 87 ). Accomplishment of total or near-total resection can be challenging and varies in different series, ranging from 20% to 80% ( 88 , 89 ). According to a recent large retrospective series evaluating 254 patients who underwent endoscopic endonasal surgery for a macroadenoma (including 72 patients with NFPAs), cavernous sinus invasion as assessed by the modified Knosp classification ( 90 ) effectively predicted surgical outcomes. Gross total resection was negatively correlated with tumor grade and success rates of gross-total resection were between 30% and 56% for tumors extending beyond the internal carotid artery and into the cavernous sinus compartments (grades 3A and 3B) ( 91 ). A new “shape grading system” ( Figure 3 ) has been recently proposed for predicting outcomes in patients with NFPAs operated by transsphenoidal surgery. In a retrospective single center study, 191 NFPAs were assessed according to different radiological growth patterns: spherical (Shape I), oval (Shape II), dumbbell (Shape III), mushroom (Shape IV), and polylobulated (Shape V) ( 92 ). Gross total resection was achieved in 53% of the patients, with decreasing likelihood of accomplishment in higher shape grades - shape I (82%), shape II (74%), shape III (24%), shape IV (17%) and shape 5 (0%). Furthermore, shape grades predicted resection rate better than Knosp grades. During a mean follow-up of 59 months, tumor recurrence or regrowth was observed in 6% and 12% of the patients, respectively. Higher shape grades also correlated with higher risk of tumor recurrence/regrowth as well as the need for reoperation and/or radiotherapy. Of note, SCAs more often grew as shape IV or V, while silent somatotroph adenomas were more often detected in the shape V group. Thus, the shape grading system seems to be a complimentary tool to better predict NFPA surgical outcomes, however, these findings need validation in other cohorts. Figure 3 - The Shape grading system. Abbreviations: OC, optic chiasm; PS, pituitary stalk. From Berkaman et al Acta Neuropathologica 2021 ( 92 ) Visual field deficits and, less commonly, hormone deficiencies may improve following surgical treatment although new hormone deficiencies may also occasionally develop after a surgical approach ( 87 , 93 ). The incidence of DI after endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery to remove NFPAs was recently investigated in 168 patients. Seventy-seven (45.8%) patients experienced postoperative DI and 10 (6.0%) patients suffered from permanent
