Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


The incidence of DI after endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery to remove NFPAs was recently investigated in 168 patients. Seventy-seven (45.8%) patients experienced postoperative DI and 10 (6.0%) patients suffered from permanent DI. A large cephalocaudal tumor diameter (cut off value-of 2.7 cm) was predictive of postoperative DI in such patients ( 94 ). Moreover, younger age and the absence or intrasellar location of the bright spot (as opposed to suprasellar location) on preoperative T1-weighted MRI were further factors predicting postoperative DI in a Japanese series of 333 patients with NFPAs undergoing transsphenoidal surgery ( 95 ). Pituitary function should be reassessed one to three months after surgery and treatment of hypopituitarism introduced according to hormone deficiencies. Whether or not GH deficiency should be replaced requires a thoughtful and individualized evaluation of risks and benefits ( 96 , 97 ). Current data supports the absence of any stimulation of remnant or induction of recurrence by growth hormone replacement in patients with NFPAs solely treated by surgical removal ( 98 ). In a retrospective series, tumor regrowth occurred in 38/107 (36%) of non-GH treated subjects and in 8/23 (35%) of GH-treated subjects, followed up for a mean period of 6.8 years. The Cox regression analysis showed that after adjusting for sex and age at tumor diagnosis, cavernous sinus invasion at diagnosis, and type of tumor removal, GH treatment was not a significant independent predictor of recurrence. A sellar MRI should be obtained three to six months after surgery to assess the extent of tumor resection. Also, as a significant number of patients with NFPAs may develop tumor re-growth, long-term imaging surveillance is recommended. In a retrospective analysis of 155 patients with NFPAs treated solely by surgery and followed-up for a mean period of six years (twenty-nine were followed up for more than 10 years), re-growth was reported in 34.8% of the cases, with 20% of relapse/re-growth occurring after 10 years ( 88 ). Likewise, in patients with NFPAs who present with classical apoplexy, tumor re-growth rate is not negligible. In a retrospective series of thirty-two patients with NFPAs who underwent surgery for pituitary apoplexy, tumor re-growth was reported in 11% of the cases at just over five years ( 99 ). Therefore, it is advisable that patients with NFPAs, particularly those with post-operative tumor remnants, be closely monitored following surgery, and follow-up surveillance needs to certainly be continued for more than 10 years.
