Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


is advisable that patients with NFPAs, particularly those with post-operative tumor remnants, be closely monitored following surgery, and follow-up surveillance needs to certainly be continued for more than 10 years. Radiation Therapy Radiation therapy (RT) has been shown to be effective as an adjunct to surgical resection in cases of post-operative residual tumor or recurrence. However, it carries a major long-term risk of hypopituitarism ( 85 , 100 , 101 ). Stereotactic techniques such as stereotactic radiosurgery or fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy have been developed with the purpose of delivering more localized irradiation and reducing long-term side-effects. Both techniques provide excellent tumor control in patients with NFPAs, ranging from 85% to 95% at five to ten years ( 102 ). However, at the present time, there is no consensus concerning the systematic use of RT in the postoperative period for patients with incompletely resected NFPAs ( 29 ) and whether an earlier approach would be preferable over conservative management. In general, RT is reserved for cases with large tumor remnants and for those cases that present progressive tumor growth during follow-up ( 85 ). Adjuvant RT may also be considered for patients who, at diagnosis, already present aggressive tumors, such as those invading parasellar structures or with extensive positive immunostaining for Ki-67, a proliferative index significantly associated with recurrence in NFPAs ( 9 , 103 ). Furthermore, NFPA subtype may be a relevant factor in the expected response to radiotherapy. A retrospective multicenter study demonstrated that overall tumor control rate after radiosurgery was lower in SCAs compared to other NFPA subtypes ( 104 ) suggesting that, in SCAs, an elevated margin dose may be considered in order to achieve a better chance of tumor control. In line with these findings, a recent and large retrospective surgical series showed a significantly lower progression-free survival in patients with SCAs compared to other NFPAs (24.5 vs 51.1 months) ( 105 ). Among the SCA cohort, progression was noted despite the use of adjuvant radiosurgery in one third of the patients. Notwithstanding, a recent systematic review and meta-analysis showed no evidence supporting higher recurrence rate after primary treatment of SCAs compared to other NFPAs ( 106 ), however the evaluated study samples included only a small number of patients who had been offered adjuvant radiotherapy. Asymptomatic Tumors The best treatment strategy for an asymptomatic NFPA is not yet defined since there are few natural history
