Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


small number of patients who had been offered adjuvant radiotherapy. Asymptomatic Tumors The best treatment strategy for an asymptomatic NFPA is not yet defined since there are few natural history studies in the literature ( 85 ). Hypopituitarism is not, per se , an indication for surgical resection but requires treatment and follow-up, when present. Approximately half of these tumors will increase in size during long-term follow-up and nearly 20% of patients will require surgical intervention ( 30 , 107 ). Unfortunately, until now, no independent clinical predictors for an increase in tumor volume have been identified. A conservative approach in selected patients without visual field defects has been suggested ( 107 ) while an early intervention may be justified in younger patients with large lesions ( 30 ). It is recommended that microadenomas be followed up annually with MRI imaging to detect tumor enlargement, for three years. Subsequent repeat imaging can be done less frequently. For tumors <5mm, no imaging surveillance is suggested, according to a recently published guideline ( 108 ). Surgery is indicated only when significant tumor enlargement is demonstrated or if the tumor abuts the optic chiasm. Regarding asymptomatic macroadenomas, if surgery is not performed, then visual fields should be tested and an MRI scan performed at six monthly intervals initially, then annually for three years and less frequently afterwards ( 86 ). Recent evidence of gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCAs) deposition in human brain has raised long-term safety concerns ( 109 ), possibly impacting current updates to management. Clinicians should offer reassurance to patients regarding the judicious use of GBCAs with preference to the use of safer macrocyclic agents. Medical Therapy Primary treatment of NFPAs with medical therapy is not currently recommended ( 15 , 85 ). Small series have demonstrated significant tumor volume stabilization under medical treatment in non-operated patients with NFPAs due to contraindications or refusal ( 110 ), whereas other studies have revealed tumor volume progression in the long term ( 111 ). The main medical agents that have been evaluated in NFPAs are dopamine agonists (DA) and somatostatin analogues (SAs), mainly in patients with residual tumor after transsphenoidal surgery. Figure 4 shows a suggested algorithm for the management of patients with NFPAs. Figure 4 - Suggested algorithm for the management of patients with NFPAs. CBA: cabergoline; NFPA: non-functioning pituitary adenoma, MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; PRRT: peptide receptor radionuclide therapy RT: radiotherapy, *potential
