Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


Figure 4 - Suggested algorithm for the management of patients with NFPAs. CBA: cabergoline; NFPA: non-functioning pituitary adenoma, MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; PRRT: peptide receptor radionuclide therapy RT: radiotherapy, *potential option, less evidenced-based approach; SSTR: somatostatin receptor DOPAMINE AGONISTS Dopamine receptor type 2 (D2R) expression has been demonstrated in patients with NFPAs. In a small series of 18 patients with hormone-negative NFPAs, two thirds of them (12/18) expressed D2R by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Patients who presented residual tumor (9/18) were treated with cabergoline up to 3mg per week. After 12 months of treatment, tumor shrinkage was observed in 56% of the patients and tumor reduction was significantly greater in those expressing D2R ( 112 ). A historical cohort analysis on the adjunctive role of DA in adult patients with GH and ACTH negative NFPAs showed favorable results ( 83 ). The treatment group consisted of patients who were either initiated on DA upon post-surgical residual tumor detection or when tumor growth was subsequently detected on follow-up, while the control group received no medication after surgical treatment. Tumor control was significantly superior in patients who were treated upon detection of post-operative residual tumor, compared to those who were treated after presenting tumor progression or the control group, 87% vs. 58% vs. 47%, respectively. The requirement for additional treatment (surgery and/or radiotherapy) during follow-up was significantly decreased from 47% to 16% with adjunctive DA therapy. In this series, there were no correlations between clinical response to DA and D2R expression, the isoform type or their expression levels. A randomized open-label clinical trial was recently conducted aiming to compare cabergoline with non-intervention in 116 Brazilian patients with residual NFPA after transsphenoidal surgery followed-up for over two years. NFPAs were classified solely based on IHC for anterior pituitary hormones and included 59% hormone-negative adenomas and 34% silent gonadotroph adenomas. Silent corticotroph adenomas were excluded from this study. By the end of the study, residual tumor shrinkage was significantly more frequently observed in the medical-therapy group compared to patients in the control group (28.8% vs. 10.5%). Tumor response was not associated with D2R expression ( 113 ). Thus, although cabergoline has not been a consensual treatment for patients with NFPAs, a therapeutic attempt can be made according to clinical judgment in individual cases; particularly in patients with large extrasellar remnants after surgery and a high probability of tumor progression ( 114 ). On the
