Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


be made according to clinical judgment in individual cases; particularly in patients with large extrasellar remnants after surgery and a high probability of tumor progression ( 114 ). On the other hand, most studies published so far included only patients with hormone-negative or silent gonadotroph adenomas, such that this proposition should not be extended to silent corticotroph adenomas or the other rarer silent tumors. It is also important to bear in mind the natural history of untreated NFPAs, which may show a spontaneous decrease in tumor volume in up to 30% of them ( 115 ). Cabergoline doses are variable, but usually started at 0.5 mg weekly, increasing 0.5 mg each week until a maximum dose of 3.0 mg/week is reached. For these patients, tumor shrinkage is not the major target although it can occur in 38% of them; otherwise, prevention of tumor growth is the main treatment goal. Tumor progression can be assessed by a sellar MRI every six months for the first two years, and annually thereafter. Once stability is achieved without significant side effects, the drug can be maintained indefinitely, taking into account individual cost-benefits ( 82 , 116 ). SOMATOSTATIN RECEPTOR LIGANDS The finding of somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) expression by NFPAs has raised the possibility that the use of somatostatin receptor ligands (SRLs) could be an effective treatment strategy ( 117 , 118 ). The SRL octreotide which binds with high affinity to SSTR2 was not effective in controlling tumor size or improving visual field in a small group of patients with NFPAs ( 119 ). A case-control study evaluated the results of long-acting octreotide in patients harboring post-surgical NFPA residues and it demonstrated tumor remnant stabilization in 81% (21/26) of patients in the treated group compared to 47% (6/13) of patients in the control group after a mean follow-up of 37 months ( 120 ). However, neither visual field nor pituitary function changed in any of the groups. This cohort of 39 NFPAs consisted of a heterogeneous group as IHC revealed positivity for pituitary hormones in 28 cases (20 of those showing positivity for FSH and/or LH) whereas the remaining 11 cases were negative for adenohypophyseal hormones. SSTR5 was the predominant SSTR expressed (84%), followed by SSTR3 (61%), while SSTR2 was expressed in 46% of the cases. The expression of SSTRs and zinc finger protein 1 (ZAC1), a protein regulating apoptosis and cell cycle arrest,
