Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


by SSTR3 (61%), while SSTR2 was expressed in 46% of the cases. The expression of SSTRs and zinc finger protein 1 (ZAC1), a protein regulating apoptosis and cell cycle arrest, were assessed in a group of NFPAs (SGAs and hormone-negative adenomas), active somatotroph adenomas, and normal pituitary. SSTR2 and ZAC1 expression was reduced whereas SSTR3 expression was increased in SGAs compared to active somatotroph adenomas and normal pituitary ( 121 ). Likewise, other studies have suggested that SSTR3 is the predominant SSTR expressed in most NFPAs, both by IHC studies ( 118 , 122 ) and mRNA levels ( 11 , 122 ). However, a few other studies have demonstrated higher SSTR2 expression than SSTR3 or SSTR5 expression in SGAs and hormone-negative adenomas ( 103 , 123 ). Regarding corticotroph pituitary tumors, SSTR5 expression was significantly less frequently found in SCAs as compared to their secreting counterparts (2/23 vs. 24/39) ( 124 ). Furthermore, amongst the 23 SCAs, somatic ubiquitin-specific protease 8 ( USP8 ) mutation was detected in only two tumors, in line with previous reports showing a significantly lower prevalence of USP8 mutations in SCAs compared to functioning corticotroph tumors ( 125 , 126 ). There is an ongoing multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (GALANT study) evaluating the effectiveness of first generation SRLs in patients with NFPAs and suprasellar extension, either surgery-naive or with a postoperative remnant. Forty-four patients with positive results on 68Ga-DOTATATE PET are being randomized to treatment with either the SRL lanreotide or placebo ( 127 ). Pasireotide is a universal SRL with action on SSTR1, SSTR2, SSTR3 and STR5 subtypes and, therefore, seems more attractive than first-generation SRLs as an alternative medical treatment for NFPAs. A head-to-head comparison of octreotide and pasireotide in MENX-affected rat harboring a mutation I the gene encoding p27, an in vivo model of NFPAs, was recently performed. Pasireotide showed superior anti-tumor effect vs. octreotide, especially in females, which also showed higher SSTR3 expression ( 128 ). There are two phase 2 clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of pasireotide for the treatment of NFPAs. Both trials have been recently completed but the results are not yet available. Passion 1 ( NCT01283542 ) is an open-label single arm study evaluating tumor volume response to pasireotide in naive patients with NFPAs >1cm. Another phase 2 clinical trial ( NCT01620138 ) is currently comparing the response of patients with NFPAs and
