Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


evaluating tumor volume response to pasireotide in naive patients with NFPAs >1cm. Another phase 2 clinical trial ( NCT01620138 ) is currently comparing the response of patients with NFPAs and surgical remnants to cabergoline vs. pasireotide. Notwithstanding, until further data are available, the use of SSRLs is not currently recommended for the treatment of patients with NFPAs. Treatment of NFPAs with dopastatin, i.e., chimeric compound with dopamine and somatostatin agonist activity, has also been under investigation. BIM-23A760, a compound with potent agonist activity both at D2R and SSTR2 effectively inhibited cell proliferation in primary cultures of NFPAs ( 129 ). Interestingly, TBR-760 (formerly BIM-23A760) was recently tested in a mouse model of aggressive NFPA and resulted in nearly complete inhibition of tumor growth ( 130 ). A one year, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 study of TBR-760 in adult patients with residual NFPAs > 1cm after transsphenoidal surgery ( NCT04335357 ) is being conducted and is expected to be completed by 2023. TEMOZOLOMIDE Temozolomide (TMZ) was the first alkylating chemotherapeutic drug to show significant response rates in aggressive pituitary tumors ( 131 ). Notwithstanding, TMZ seems to be less effective in NFPAs compared to their secreting counterparts as 45% of 110 clinically functioning pituitary tumors showed regression on first-line TMZ while only 17% of 47 NFPAs did ( 132 ). Responsiveness to TMZ is probably dependent on the immuno-expression of O ( 6 )-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), a DNA repair protein that acts by removing the alkyl group and therefore is associated with TMZ resistance ( 133 ). Low immuno-expression of MGMT by pituitary tumors has been associated with higher response rates to TMZ ( 131 ). MGMT immuno-expression was assessed in a group of 45 NFPAs and the degree of expression was correlated with tumor aggressiveness ( 133 ). Low MGMT expression was observed in 50% of the aggressive NFPAs compared to 24% of the non-aggressive NFPAs. These findings suggest that aggressive NFPAs with low MGMT expression could be potential candidates for treatment with TMZ. Regarding dosing regimens and indications, current guidelines suggest using TMZ (150-200 mg/m 2 daily for 5/28 days) as an alternative treatment for patients with aggressive NFPAs presenting tumor progression despite radiotherapy and other therapeutic measures, and for exceptional cases of pituitary carcinomas ( 29 , 132 ). Furthermore, in the case of rapid tumor growth in patients who have not previously reached maximal doses
