Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


measures, and for exceptional cases of pituitary carcinomas ( 29 , 132 ). Furthermore, in the case of rapid tumor growth in patients who have not previously reached maximal doses of radiotherapy, the use of the STUPP protocol (six weeks of concomitant fractionated radiotherapy and TMZ 75 mg/m 2 daily, followed by TMZ alone 150-200 mg/m 2 daily for 5/28 days) has been suggested ( 132 ). Studies on long-term administration of TMZ are scarce but clinical observations indicate that TMZ should be continued for as long as it is effective and well tolerated. Some authors suggest continuing TMZ at standard dosage for two years and later reducing to half-dose ( 134 ). Patients receiving TMZ chemotherapy are at risk for hematologic toxicity, occurring in approximately 15-20% of the cases. The most common non-hematologic side effects of TMZ are nausea, anorexia, and fatigue ( 135 ). PEPTIDE RECEPTOR RADIONUCLIDE THERAPY In vivo SSTR expression by NFPAs has been previously demonstrated both by positive uptake on somatostatin receptor scintigraphy ( 120 ) and on 68Gallium DOTATATE PET/ CT ( 79 ) providing a rationale for the administration of PRRT in these patients. So far, PRRT has been studied in few patients with aggressive pituitary tumors (clinically functioning and NFPAs) with different response patterns ( 136 , 137 ). Among the six patients with nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma or carcinoma, three patients (not previously treated with TMZ) showed stable disease ( 138 - 140 ), two patients had progressive disease ( 138 , 141 ) and one patient died in the following months while information on tumor volume was lacking ( 142 ). QUALITY OF LIFE AND LONG-TERM MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY A substantial number of patients with NFPAs suffer from morbidities related to the tumor itself, as well as to the treatments offered. Standardized mortality ratios in these patients seem to be higher than that of the general population with deaths associated mainly with circulatory, respiratory, and infectious causes ( 143 ). Until now, there was no consensus on predictive factors of mortality but those most consistently described are older age at diagnosis ( 144 , 145 ) and high doses of glucocorticoid replacement therapy ( 146 ). A retrospective series of 546 patients operated on for a macro NFPA between 1963 and 2011 and followed up for a median period of 8 years reported a standardized mortality ratio of 3.6 (95% CI,
