Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


patients operated on for a macro NFPA between 1963 and 2011 and followed up for a median period of 8 years reported a standardized mortality ratio of 3.6 (95% CI, 2.9–4.5) ( 144 ). After adjustment for factors proven to be significant in univariate analysis - radiotherapy, tumor regrowth, and untreated growth hormone deficiency - age at diagnosis was an independent predictor of mortality, with shorter survival observed in older patients. Following NFPA treatment, patient-reported health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) substantially improves. Nevertheless, there are conflicting findings about HR-QoL normalization, which may also be related to the lack of a disease-specific HR-QoL questionnaire for NFPAs ( 147 ). Some studies have described a persistent decreased HR-QoL compared to healthy controls and reference data ( 148 , 149 ), while others have not ( 150 ). In the latest study, HR-QoL was evaluated in 193 consecutive patients with NFPAs followed up in a tertiary endocrine referral center ( 150 ). The overall health-related quality of life and perception of subjective health in patients with NFPAs was not compromised although specific groups, such as females, patients with tumor recurrences, and with visual defects, were shown to be affected in various dimensions. Altered sleep-wake rhythmicity has also been described in a cohort of 69 patients with NFPA in long term remission after transsphenoidal surgery on stable replacement treatment for hypopituitarism ( 151 ). NFPA patients reported severely impaired QoL, sleep quality, and increased daytime sleepiness. Preoperative visual field defects were associated with sleep-wake rhythm fragmentation and vasopressin deficiency was associated with decreased sleep efficiency, independent of age, hypopituitarism, or radiotherapy. More recently, the use of the Wilson–Cleary model, a conceptual biopsychosocial model of HR-QoL, suggested that elements at each stage of this model could be contributing to the impairment in HR-QoL observed in patients with a NFPA ( 147 ). The authors concluded that currently available biomedical treatments, i.e., surgery, radiotherapy, and hormone replacement therapy, are clearly not sufficient for achievement of good HR-QoL in patients with a NFPA, and further improvement should be supported by a pituitary specific care trajectory, targeting not only biological and physiological variables, but also psychosocial care. PROGNOSTIC FACTORS AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVES There has been a search to identify reliable factors related to aggressiveness and the risk of recurrence in NFPAs. A single-center retrospective study which evaluated 108 surgically-resected NFPAs followed for up to 15 years ( 152
