Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


identify reliable factors related to aggressiveness and the risk of recurrence in NFPAs. A single-center retrospective study which evaluated 108 surgically-resected NFPAs followed for up to 15 years ( 152 ) showed that 22% of the patients required further treatment, either second surgery or radiotherapy. Factors determining recurrence were the presence of residual tumor, tumor growth rate (>80 mm 3 /year), and suprasellar extension ( 152 ). According to another retrospective case series evaluating patients with NFPAs who presented tumor regrowth after primary treatment, the NFPA subtype, categorized by anterior pituitary hormone immunostaining, was not a predictive factor for the requirement of secondary treatment or tumor regrowth. Significant risk factors were female gender and treatment approach (monitoring vs. interventions); secondary progression was significantly higher in those patients who were followed conservatively (63%) as compared to those who received surgery (36%), radiotherapy (13%), and surgery/adjuvant radiotherapy (13%) ( 84 ). In patients with SGAs, ERα seems to be a prognostic factor for re-intervention (reoperation or radiation) in males - the combination of the absence of ERα expression and young age served as good predictive markers of aggressiveness ( 122 ). The role of cellular markers, associated with cell proliferation and apoptosis, in predicting the recurrence of NFPAs has also been investigated ( 153 ). Proliferative indexes such as a high Ki-67 index, assessed by IHC, were significantly associated with a tumor size greater than 3 cm, as well as with tumor recurrence ( 103 ). Evaluation of tumor proliferation by using Ki-67 IHC is widely available and is recommended as part of the assessment of NFPAs ( 40 ). According to a large retrospective series evaluating 601 patients with surgically resected pituitary tumors, including approximately 30% NFPAs, the optimal cut-off points of the Ki-67 proliferation index that predicted recurrence was 2.5% with 84.6% sensitivity and 47.4% specificity ( 154 ). Moreover, a recent retrospective analysis of 120 patients operated on for an NFPA showed that invasive and proliferative tumors, i.e., grade 2b tumors. according to the clinicopathological classification of Trouillas et al. ( 155 ) showed an overall likelihood of recurrence that was approximately 9 times greater than those of grade 1a, i.e., non-invasive and non-proliferative tumors ( 156 ). Further risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence in this cohort were a younger age and the presence of residual tumor. Minichromosome maintenance 7 (MCM7), a cell-cycle regulator protein,
