Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, pubmed, adenomas, nfpas, tumor, pituitary adenomas, tumors, endocrinol, silent, treatment, adenoma, clinical, non-functioning, nonfunctioning


risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence in this cohort were a younger age and the presence of residual tumor. Minichromosome maintenance 7 (MCM7), a cell-cycle regulator protein, has been recently proposed as a marker of tumor progression in NFPAs. In a cohort study of 97 surgically treated NFPAs, the probability for reintervention within 6 years for patients harboring residual tumors with high MCM7 expression was 93% ( 157 ). Ki-67 expression >3%, age ≤55 years and mitotic index≥1, but not tumor subtype, were also associated with reintervention. Attempts to develop clinical nomograms to predict post-operative recurrence of NFPAs have recently been demonstrated based on age, tumor size, cavernous sinus invasion, sphenoid sinus invasion, and surgery extension. The nomogram model proposed by Lyu et al. ( 158 ) showed an area under the ROC curve of 0.953 and correlation analyses indicated that sphenoid sinus invasion, cavernous sinus invasion and tumor size could promote the recurrence of NFPA while advanced age and gross total resection could effectively inhibit it. Genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying the development and aggressiveness of NFPAs have not been fully elucidated ( 159 ). The mutational landscape of a cohort of pituitary tumors including 37 NFPAs was recently published ( 160 ). Aside from demonstrating gonadotroph signatures in seven out of eight SCAs, retrieving the question whether a subset of SCAs arise from a specific pituitary lineage distinct from other corticotroph ( 161 ), this study showed that most NFPAs displayed no functional somatic variant and no chromosome alterations. Further characterization of these tumors with techniques such as whole genome sequencing coupled to chromatin structure analysis may disclose mutations in non-coding regions affecting chromatin opening and/or the binding of specific transcription factors. allowing for the development of novel therapeutic strategies. An adverse pituitary adenoma phenotype is defined not only by the intrinsic activity of tumor cells but also by the infiltrated immune cells in the tumor microenvironment ( 162 ). The study of the immune profile of pituitary tumors for predicting immunotherapy responsiveness is an evolving field. Wang et al ( 163 ) have recently proposed classification of these tumors on three clusters based on tumor-infiltrating immune cells and the expression of immune checkpoint molecules This study cohort included 57 “unspecified“ NFPAs since they were not pathologically classified with pituitary transcription factors. The majority of them exhibited a “hot” immune microenvironment and were predicted to
