Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


Contraception Ruth Levine, Ana Langer, Nancy Birdsall, Gaverick Matheny, MerrickWright, and Angela Bayer The use of modern contraception to prevent pregnancies is a NATURE, CAUSES, AND BURDEN OF THE ships use contraception because, at the time the decision is Three rationales—each one involving controversy and touch- rather than because they wish to become healthier or to pre- underlain policy and programmatic interest in contraception, vent a risk to health.Governments also may have an interest in since the 1960s. promoting particular patterns of childbearing to meet social and economic objectives. This is most often the case when • The demographic rationale,typically framed around lower- rapid population growth is seen as a drag on economic growth; ing the rate of population growth to achieve broad in contrast, however, governments in low-fertility countries economic,social,and environmental aims,was most promi- may promote pro-natalist policies to increase the labor supply. nently applied in the 1960s and 1970s. Thus,the effectiveness ofcontraception has to be seen,first and • Thefertilityrationale,whichemergedinthe1980s,promoted foremost,in terms ofthe effectiveness in permitting couples to lower fertility under the assumption that smaller families achieve their desired family size. are better offin terms ofeconomic and health conditions. Althoughcontraceptionisrarelyusedtoimprovehealth,it • The human rights rationale, which surfaced in 1994 at the transmitted infections (STIs), and protection against ovarian The Cairo Programme of Action stressed the political and cancerthroughtheuseofsometypesofcontraception.Someof cultural dimensions of contraception, including gender theconsequencesaffecttheusers,someaffecttheirsexualpart- issues. ners, and some affect their children. Contraceptives affect a user’ssexualitybychangingmenstrualpatternsand,therefore, Population Growth and Fertility particularlyinsomecultures,sexualactivity.Also,byeliminat- ing fear of unwanted pregnancy,contraceptives may enhance In part because of the demand for and availability of modern thequalityofsexualexperience.Finally,condomsmaydecrease contraception, the worldwide rate of annual population sexualpleasureformen;trueornot,thisexplanationisoneof growth has declined from just over 2 percent in the late 1960s the most commonly cited to account for why some men (or to 1.5 percent during 1980–2001. It is projected to decrease couples)donotusecondoms. to 1 percent during 2001–15. Although the growth rate has slowed,population growth in absolute terms is unprecedented. America and the Caribbean and Central Asia have unmet need World population increased from 2.5 billion people in 1950 to for contraception.Whereas women in the other regions ofthe 6.3 billion in 2003 and is expected to rise to 7.1 billion by 2015 world have an equally distributed unmet need for spacing and (UN 2003;World Bank 2003). limiting births, the majority of unmet need in Sub-Saharan Fertility rates in developing countries have declined rapidly Africa is for spacing (Ross and Winfrey
