Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


spacing and (UN 2003;World Bank 2003). limiting births, the majority of unmet need in Sub-Saharan Fertility rates in developing countries have declined rapidly Africa is for spacing (Ross and Winfrey 2002).Unmet need is in the past 50 years,from more than 6.0 children per woman in highest in countries where growing numbers of women want the 1950s to about 2.8 children per woman today.Fertility rates to avoid pregnancy but contraceptive prevalence is low.So,for remain high, however, in the 49 least developed countries, example,among developing countries for which data are avail- woman during 1995–2000 . need is currently highest in Haiti,where it nears 40 percent of Fertility levels and trends vary greatly between regions. all married women; it is more than 30 percent in Cambodia, Fertility rates are lowest in low- and middle-income countries Nepal, Pakistan, Rwanda, Senegal, Togo, Uganda, and the in East Asia and the Pacific, at 2.1 children per woman. Republic of Yemen; and it is lowest,at less than 7 percent,in Countries in Central Asia and Latin America and the Brazil,Colombia,and Vietnam. Caribbean also have relatively low total fertility rates,at 2.5 and 2.6 children per woman, respectively. The Middle East and Total Potential Demand for Contraception. A rough measure North Africa and South Asia follow,with average total fertility ofthe total potential use ofmodern contraception in a country rates of 3.4 and 3.3 children per woman in 2001,respectively. can be estimated by combining the measure of unmet need Fertility rates are highest in Sub-Saharan Africa,at 5.2 children with the current proportion of women using contraception. per woman (World Bank 2003).1 Regional averages conceal Brazil,Colombia,and Vietnam all have demand for contracep- substantial variation among and within countries. tion greater than 80 percent ofcurrently married women.They Because of a legacy of high fertility and corresponding have satisfied most of this demand,with contraceptive preva- young population structures,population momentum ensures lence rates above 75 percent,resulting in both low fertility rates that many developing countries will continue to grow at a rel- and low unmet need (Westoff2001).In contrast,in most Sub- atively high rate for many decades,even as fertility rates con- Saharan African countries,the unmet need percentage exceeds tinue to decline.Population momentum alone will account for the percentage of women currently using contraception (see almost three-fourths of the population growth in developing table 57.1). countries in the next quarter-century. The largest growth at present is in Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Total population Health Consequences increase in
