Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


of the population growth in developing table 57.1). countries in the next quarter-century. The largest growth at present is in Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Total population Health Consequences increase in these regions is nowtwice what it was in 1950.By 2015,population growth is expected to be substantially lower Excess fertility is responsible for between 12 and 30 percent of in all regions except Sub-Saharan Africa. the maternal burden of disease (see table 57.2)2,although this is clearly an underestimate ofthe present and future burden of disease that can be prevented through investments in family Demand for Contraception planning.These estimates include only the direct health bene- Ifa woman wishes to postpone or avoid childbearing and is not fits of family planning for women by preventing unwanted using contraception (including use by her partners),she is said births,decreasing the number ofabortions,and increasing the to have an unmet need for contraception. The most com- length ofbirth intervals.Because ofdata limitations,these esti- monlyreported reasons for unmet need are lack ofknowledge, mates exclude the potential effect offamily-planning programs 2000). women’s status and the household economy; and public In 2003, an estimated 122.7 million women in developing savings from reduced fertility,AIDS, and other STIs through countries had an unmet need for contraception, including condom promotion and prevention of mother-to-child trans- 105.2 million married women,8.4 million unmarried women, mission (PMTCT). They also exclude the effect of such pro- and 9.1 million women ofall marital status in the states ofthe grams on environmentally related disease owing to population married women,a 2 percent decline from the late 1990s that is of unwanted pregnancies,despite the effect those pregnancies due to increasing contraceptive use. or their termination under unsafe conditions can have on Overall, the highest unmet need is in Sub-Saharan Africa, women’s welfare and productivity. where 19.4 percent of all women have unmet need. About Each year, 585,000 women die and more than 54 million 13percent ofwomen in Asia,10.6 percent ofwomen in North women suffer from diseases or complications caused by preg- Africa and the Middle East,and 8.5 percent ofwomen in Latin nancy and childbirth . 1076 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ruth Levine, Ana Langer, Nancy Birdsall, and others Table 57.1 Total Potential Demand for Family Planning (percentage of currently married women) Current Total Current Total Unmet contraceptive potential Unmet contraceptive potential Country need use demand Country need use demand East Asia and the Pacific Sub-Saharan Africa Cambodia 32.6 23.8
