Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


ofuse. The “intervention”of contraception can be considered as the method itself and as the means by which family-planning Temporary Methods. By far the most popular temporary con- clients obtain services (including counseling) and contracep- traceptive method is the oral contraceptive,commonly known tive commodities.Both the methods and the types of services as “the pill,” which has a failure rate typical use of less than are diverse. 10 percent over a year. Among 67 developing countries for which surveydataareavailable(notincludingChinaorIndia), about50percentofmarriedwomenwhohaveeverusedcontra- Contraceptive Methods ceptionhaveusedthepillatsomepoint.Thepillhasbeenmost Contraceptive methods can be classified as permanent and popularinLatinAmerica;there,about55percentofallmarried long term—primarily for those women and couples who have womenhaveusedthepill.IntheNearEastandNorthAfrica, completed childbearing—or temporary—primarily for those aboutone-thirdof marriedwomenhaveusedthepill,andin women and couples who wish to delay pregnancy. Sub-SaharanAfrica,about15percenthaveuseditatsometime (JohnsHopkinsPopulationInformationProgram2000). Permanent and Long-Term Methods. Female sterilization,or More than 20 million women use systemic contraceptives tubal ligation, used by about 187 million women worldwide containing only progestins. These contraceptives include ,is the most popular and effective contraceptive subdermal implants such as Norplant, injectable products, available.The most effective types offemale sterilization have a IUDs,and vaginal rings.These products have high rates ofcon- 10-year cumulative pregnancy rate of7.5 per 1,000 procedures traceptive efficacy (0.3 to 1.0 percent failure rate over 12 (Peterson and others 1996). months).Their long duration of action allows for a relatively Sterilization accounts for one-third of all contraceptive infrequent dose.Theirmaindrawbacksaretheirtendenciesto practice.Because sterilization is considered a permanent form causehighlyirregular endometrial bleeding and amenorrhea. ing ensuing years. Some dissatisfaction with sterilization is does pose a problem for women in societies that bar or restrict expected and is always observed among sterilized populations; women from certain social and religious activities during men- falls below 10 percent.Regret is higher when sterilization was a between 10and 30 percent ofwomen abandon their progestin- woman’s first and only contraceptive method,when a woman only methods for this reason . was sterilized at or under age 30,or when a woman has fewer Barrier methods, although less effective than hormonal than four living children . methods,IUDs,or sterilization,can offer effective contracep- Between 40 million and 50 million men worldwide have tion when used consistently and correctly. Barrier methods, undergone a vasectomy,a figure representing 8 percent of the and particularly condoms,are the only type of contraception world’s couples of reproductive age. This method comes in that offers additional protection against STIs. fourth in contraceptive popularity, after female sterilization When used correctly during every act ofsexual intercourse, (19 percent), the intrauterine device (IUD; 13 percent), and the
