Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


offers additional protection against STIs. fourth in contraceptive popularity, after female sterilization When used correctly during every act ofsexual intercourse, (19 percent), the intrauterine device (IUD; 13 percent), and the male latex condom is effective against both unwanted preg- oral contraceptives (“the pill”; 8 percent), and right ahead of nancy and HIV infection and other STIs.Typical use results in the male condom (4 percent;WHO 2002a).The method is as pregnancy rates of3 to 14 percent per year.Ifa condom breaks effective as female sterilization (failure rate of less than 1 per- or tears during intercourse, emergency contraception can be cent) and much simpler and safer than tubal ligation. used to reduce the risk ofpregnancy. The IUDis now used by 150 million women worldwide,or The female condom,made ofsoft,pliable polyurethane and about 13 percent of the world’s women of reproductive age, prelubricated with a silicone-based substance,is inserted into because of its efficacy, safety, and convenience. After female the vagina before sexual intercourse. The female condom is sterilization,it is the most popular method of contraception. slightly less effective than the male condom,with a failure rate providers and less expenditure ofmoney,time,and effort. can be inserted up to eight hours before intercourse. The IUDs prevent pregnancy through several mechanisms:they female condom adds to the arsenal of weapons in the fight alter sperm migrations, inhibit fertilization, and generate a against STIs;offers women more control in sexual negotiations; foreign-body reaction in the endometrium. Progestogen- can be used in conjunction with the IUD,hormonal methods, releasing IUDs cause changes in the amount and viscosity of and sterilization;and has no special storage requirements. cervical fluid,altering sperm penetration.In a small percentage The diaphragm,although not a popular method in develop- of women,ovulation is inhibited in the first two years of use. ing countries, is being studied as a means of preventing not 1080 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ruth Levine, Ana Langer, Nancy Birdsall, and others randomized trials are pending. services.Under this arrangement,family-planning services are delivered in conjunction with routine primary care—a recog- certain oral contraceptives has been shown to be effective in contraception and that a broad range ofreproductive and other preventingpregnancy.Twohormonalregimenshaveprovedto health services must be provided. be both safe and effective for emergency contraception:com- bined oral contraceptives and progestogen-only pills. Both Social Marketing canbetakenforupto120hoursafterunprotectedintercourse. Social marketing refers to a variety of strategies using tradi- Emergencycontraceptionrepresentsasecondchancetoprevent tional commercial-marketing techniques to promote socially anunwantedpregnancyafterunprotectedsex,anditisparticu- beneficial behaviors,products,and services.In family planning, larlyresponsivetotheneedsofyouthsandofwomenwhohave social
