Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


on contraceptive use is driven less by tion,services,and contraceptive commodities related to family its brand sales—because users often switch brands—and more planning. Funding, often from external donor agencies, was by its promotional activity . earmarked for family-planning activities. In many instances, the supervisory,budgeting,training,and logistics systems were all separate from those of other health services. Some of the INTERVENTION COST AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS largest vertical programs,such as the India program,promoted sterilization on a large scale,sometimes provided through rudi- Synthesizing data on family-planning costs,outputs,and out- gram,relied on the provision ofinformation and commodities First, nearly all existing studies have estimated average—not through female outreach workers going house to house. marginal—costs.The dearth of marginal cost data,general to In the past two decades, increasing emphasis has been most ofthe cost-effectiveness studies presented in this volume, placed on integrating family-planning programs into other severely weakens the ability to recommend interventions. Contraception | 1081 Second,cost data based on units of output that cannot be developing countries.Across regions,costs per CYP were com- effectiveness have not included costs,and most studies on costs to US$5.00. Costs were considerably greater in Africa, where have not included effectiveness.In the family-planning litera- the average cost per CYP was US$14.00. tection,or CYP) has often been called cost-effectiveness.Here, provision of sterilization, with a weighted average cost of we reserve the term cost-effectiveness for measures of cost per US$2.34 per CYP. The second most economical mode was studies that have measured cost-effectiveness typically come highly dependent on setting.In African countries,where such from mature programs, where both marginal costs and mar- programs were less developed, the costs were high—up to ginal effects are likely to be low. US$19.00 per CYP.The weighted average cost ofsocial market- Third,costs vary considerably according to the accounting ing ofcontraceptives was US$3.00. method used,the program setting and scale,the level oflatent Costs of community-based distribution programs ranged demand among couples targeted,the method mix,the quality, from US$4.85 to US$35.37 per CYP,with a weighted average of local salaries. mented with community-based distribution were the most Finally,most evaluations offamily planning estimate effects expensive mode of service delivery, ranging from US$4.44 to within a single generation.However,averting a birth also averts US$19.38, with a weighted average of US$18.21. As noted grandchildren,great-grandchildren,and so on.For economic above,these estimates have typically not included costs to users cost-benefit analyses,the multigenerational effects of a single (see table 57.3). birth averted can be significant. However, this consideration can be addressed through the use of an appropriate
