Chapter
KEYWORDS: women, percent, costs, countries, programs, contraception, contraceptive, planning, use, family, services, birth, estimated, africa, cost


to quantify;the others are more complex.First, policies promoting conservation are overdue.) 1086 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ruth Levine, Ana Langer, Nancy Birdsall, and others RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA particular program to the state of the world without that program. However,effectiveness analyses using disabilty-adjusted life years (DALYs) The agenda for research and development in the field of con- are typically not conducted this way.The number of DALYs averted by family planning is not the number ofDALYs without a family-planning traceptives and family planning is ample. It benefits from a program minus the total number ofDALYs with a family-planning pro- strong tradition of data- and research-driven policy and pro- gram.Given the negative nature ofDALYs as a measure,such an exercise grammatic decisions. Priorities suggested below fall into the would lead to an absurd result. Nearly all lives have some number of DALYs attached to them. These DALYs may be averted most cost- realms ofscience,operations (or program),and policy. effectively by preventing all births,reducing the burden ofdisease to zero. Onthescientificagenda,thetopprioritymustbethedevel- To avoid this result,we cannot measure the effect offamily planning by opment of contraceptive products that protect women and comparison with a pure counterfactual.Rather,it is measured by ignoring the DALYs that would have been attributed to contingent persons.By the menagainstbothpregnancyandHIVinfectioninwaysthatare definition ofDALYs,no individual can have any expectation ofhealthy life more acceptable from a user perspective than male or female until the moment oflive birth.This,however,is not an ideal solution.Both ofmalecontraceptivesandofmicrobicides,afemale-controlled even ifdoing so means preventing the birth ofan infant.This fact suggests that one aim of health care is to prevent the ill health of contingent method that protects against both STIs (especially,HIV) and persons—in which case we ought,at least in some circumstances,to meas- unwantedpregnancy. ure the potential DALYs averted by preventing a birth. Withrespecttooperationsresearch,high-priorityquestions 3.All dollar amounts are expressed in 2001 U.S.dollars.In a few cases, the year was not specified in the original source,and currency was con- includehowtoreachadolescentseffectivelyandcost-effectively; verted from the year ofpublication. whattodoinsettingswhereprogresshasstalled(forexample, 4.Because ofdata limitations,these DALYs include no morbidity. Bangladesh);andhowtostimulatedemandforfamilyplanning in Sub-Saharan African countries, where the demand is rela- tively low.
