TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


thereis an urgent need fornew drugs and treatment regimens. A as common antibiotics used against S. aureus infections (41), but tremendous effort is going on in developing the new drugs or methicillin-resistant strains are beginning to display an MDan regimensfortheTBtreatment(21,49–55). phenotype, exhibiting resistance or susceptibility to such antibiotics. Certain penicillin-derived narrow-spectrum beta- 3 Multidrug resistive mechanism lactam antibiotics—such as cloxacillin, flucloxacillin, dicloxacillin, Methicillin, nafcillin and oxacillin, —hold potential fortreating S. aureus infections and may be utilized in cocrystallized forms to It becomes important to know the multidrug resistance addressmultidrug-resistantbacterialstrains. mechanism of every different bacterium to design both molecular drugs or complementary supramolecular drug associates. The molecular drug has to be quite new to the bacteria so that the 2.4 Mycobacterium tuberculosis unexperienced bacteria will be clueless and can be destroyed consequently. However, in the case of a supramolecular drug Following the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, associate, two associated drugs should complementarily work to tuberculosis (TB) has emerged as a looming threat due to the destroy the bacterial defense mechanism. Bacterial multidrug scarcity of medicines in remote regions. The focus on immediate resistivity works under a few certain pathways (56). In the 1st COVID-19 treatment led to the neglect of other chronic diseases case, the bacteria obtain numerous drug-resistant genes via the suchasTBandmalignancies.Asaresult,TBpatientsinconsistently horizontal plasmid transferring through the bacterial conjugation. receivedtheirmedications,leadingtotheemergenceofmultidrug The2ndcategoryworksbyincreasingthegeneticexpression,coded resistanceintheTB-causingbacteriaMycobacteriumtuberculosis.It withmultidrugeffluxpumps.However,theorganismshaveevolved is noteworthy that TB has claimed more lives than any other increasinglycomplexmechanismsofresistance(57). infectious disease over the past 2000 years. Instead of continuously synthesizing new TB drugs, a more efficient 3.1 Transferring plasmid through approach lies in preparing cocrystals of existing drug molecules. Thisapproachminimizesscientificeffortsandtime.Inadditionto horizontal conjugation this primary threat, other major multidrug-resistant bacteria are alsoraisingconcernsregardingthecertaintyoflife(21).Individuals The host-plasmid pairs promote multidrug resistance in both infected with HIV are particularly vulnerable to mycobacterial Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria (58). MDR bacteria diseases (42). By gaining a comprehensive understanding of the disseminate their drug resistance to neighboring bacteria via the defense mechanisms of M. Tuberculosis and countering them with horizontaltransferofplasmids,whichharbourantibiotic-resistance complementary drug molecules, researchers can identify suitable genes. The stabilizing factors within plasmids during bacterial drugs for the development of cocrystals. M. tuberculosis, classified conjugation further enhance multidrug resistance, as bacteria FrontiersinImmunology 04 frontiersin.org Sahoo A B FIGURE1 Variousfirst-andsecond-linetuberculosisdrugsarepresented. acquire not only their plasmids but also novel drug-resistant (60) but also discharges various harmful substances, such as plasmids (Figure 2) (59). After removing the antibiotics, the pollutants, heavy metals, and antimicrobial
