TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


treatment approaches and refine the dosage that can be administered safely. Oral, abbreviated multi- philosophydrivingmultidrugtherapy’sadvancement. drugresistanttuberculosis(MDR-TB)treatmentshavethepotential tolessentheinconvenience,discomfort,andsideeffectsassociated with these regimens. This could enhance adherence rates and 4.1 Limitations of multidrug therapy improvethechancesofsuccessfulcompletionofthetreatment(67). Multidrug-resistant bacteria enhance their resistance by 4.1.3 Complexity of administration exchanging multiple genes through conjugation between bacterial Coordinating the administration of multiple drugs, each with cells or by utilizing multidrug efflux pumps. Consequently, these specificdosagesandschedules,canbechallenging.Thiscomplexity bacteria can develop resistance against previously unknown drugs can lead to errors in medication adherence, reducing the overall within a few years through these mechanisms. To counter this effectiveness of the therapy. Medication errors include challenge, a combination of multiple drugs can be administered inappropriate medication, wrong dose, drug-drug interaction, concurrently. In this approach, a combination of multiple drugs is allergic reaction, incorrect delivery path, lack of proper education administeredsimultaneously.Eachdrugactsindependently,targeting inpatientsetc.Annually,intheUnitedStates,approximately7,000 the bacteria one after another until the bacterium is effectively to9,000individualslosetheirlivesduetomedicationerrors(68). eliminated.Outofthephilosophyofusingmultipledrugs,onevery commonmultidrug-resistantbacterium-killingregimenismultidrug 4.1.4 Cost therapy.Thoughatpresentitisoneofthemostconvincingwaysto fightagainstdrug-resistantbacteria,thefollowingdrawbacksurgethe Procuring multiple drugs and conducting extensive testing to scientificsocietytosurgethenewregimen(66). determine the most effective combination can be financially burdensome. This cost factor can limit the accessibility of multidrug therapy, especially in resource-limited healthcare 4.1.1 Development of resistance settings. We may have to spend $16.7 trillion by 2050 for the Multidrug-resistantTBonly(69). theyreachthebacteriacellsonebyone.Inthisprocess,abacterium oftengetsenoughtimetogaindrugresistance(21).Itenhancesthe treatmenttimeandraisestheriskofspreadingmultidrug-resistant 4.1.5 Potential drug-drug interaction bacteria in society. As the strains acquire drug resistance, they Whenmultipledrugsareusedsimultaneously,thereisariskof gradually transition from MDR or XDR to PDR, making it drug interactions. These interactions can alter the effectiveness of increasingly challenging over time to identify the remaining the drugs or exacerbate side effects, complicating the treatment effectivedrugs. process(70). FrontiersinImmunology 08 frontiersin.org Sahoo The use of multiple drugs can exert selective pressure on In a recent study, Liu et al. screened around 7,500 molecules to bacteria, favouring the survival and proliferation of resistant identify those capable of inhibiting A. baumannii growth in vitro strains. This phenomenon can further exacerbate the problem of and discovered the antibiotic abaucin. Using a neural network antibioticresistanceinthelongterm. trained on this dataset, they predicted the efficacy of structurally uniquecompoundsagainstA.baumannii,leadingtothediscovery ofabaucin—anantibacterialagentdemonstratingaspecificimpact 4.2 Limitations of universal drug regimen onA.baumannii(79). Inasimilarstudy,Talatetal.(80)employedAIinuncovering One seminal paper on the short-course regimens for treating variousbeta-lactamaseinhibitorsandalternativeantibioticsderived tuberculosis raised the hope of discovering the universal drug from antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), nonribosomal peptides, regimenin1986(71).Regrettably,theMycobacteriumtuberculosis bacteriocins, and marine natural products. With the expansion of strains developed rifampicin resistivity and the treatment policy next-generation sequencing, the volume of data obtained is became ineffective for a significant number
