TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


and marine natural products. With the expansion of strains developed rifampicin resistivity and the treatment policy next-generation sequencing, the volume of data obtained is became ineffective for a significant number of patients (72). The skyrocketing, making manual extraction of low-risk antimicrobial WHO expressed deep concern over the fact that in 2016, over resistance drugs from such vast datasets nearly impossible. Raban 600,000 individuals were affected by rifampicin-resistant et al. illustrate AI’s exceptional efficacy in developing antibiotics, tuberculosis. According to their recent report, 17,000 mutant servingasarobustresponsetotheconcerningriseinantimicrobial varieties of tuberculosis have been published, along with their resistancerates(81).TheAIsystemisalsoefficientinpredictingthe corresponding drug resistance profiles (73). The identification of drugdeliverymechanismsothatthespecificdrugcanbedeveloped the variants and selecting their corresponding drug regimen is a against certain drug-resistant strains (82). This system includes dauntingtask.Itresultsintheconsumptionofunwanteddrugsand drug development, can predict drug resistance, select the proper generates side effects. To address this issue, we need to find a drug combination, optimize the drug dose, and also can improve universal drug regimen, by which every drug-resistant bacterium the drug delivery system. The prospect of machine learning can be addressed. Inspired by this hypothesis, universal drug methods (a branch of AI) in forecasting whether a patient might regimen preparation has been on the way since the last decade develop an MDR pathogen within the initial 48 hours of ICU (74). Identifying a handful of complementary drugs for universal admissionholdssignificantpromise(83). drug therapy is a topic of debate, but once the universal drug TheoreticallyfindinganappropriatemoleculebyAIbecomesa regimenisdeveloped,allTBpatientscanbetreatedinthesameway normaltuskandthenthemovementcanfurtherbeacceleratedby and the patients can be treated in a general way without exploiting therobotscientist. Experimentally a robotscientist can ‘personalizedmedicinal’selectionaccordingtotheM.tuberculosis workfor24hoursmultipliedby365days.Infindingtheappropriate variantinthebody.However,developingaperfectcombinationof water oxidation catalyst experimentally, an autonomous robot severalnoveldrugsinpreparingauniversaldrugregimenstillfails spanned eight days, conducting 688 experiments within a toaddressaseriesofmedicalconcernsevenifitcomestosociety. complex experimental framework involving ten variable places. The determination of potency, unknown interactions between These actions were steered by a batched Bayesian search drugs, excessive medication side effects, and the overall cost of algorithm (84–86). The autonomous search process pinpointed treatment continue to pose challenges similar to the multidrug photocatalyst mixtures that exhibited activity six times greater treatmentprotocol. thantheinitial formulations. Iteffectively identifiedadvantageous Administering drug molecules individually to bacteria may components while excluding detrimental ones. The robot is also gradually increase drug resistance. Attaining universal therapy capableofoptimizingorganicreactionconditionstoimproveyields goes beyondsimply combining complementarydrugmolecules; it andsimplifytheprocess(87).Adifferentgroup(88)developsafree- necessitates the development of cocrystals involving these roaming(89–92)dexterous(93,94)robot,thatautomatestherole complementarycandidates toensuretheeffectivedelivery ofdrug oftheresearcher,ratherthandirectlymanipulatingtheinstruments. moleculestothebacterialcells. Such robot scientists can also be used for developing molecular drugs. Now, once the drugs are designed by AI and
