TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


of cocrystals involving these roaming(89–92)dexterous(93,94)robot,thatautomatestherole complementarycandidates toensuretheeffectivedelivery ofdrug oftheresearcher,ratherthandirectlymanipulatingtheinstruments. moleculestothebacterialcells. Such robot scientists can also be used for developing molecular drugs. Now, once the drugs are designed by AI and can be experimentally prepared by the robot scientists, can be forwarded 4.3 AI for designing multidrug- formedicaltrialswithinaweeksothatthequickharmonizationcan resistant drug bringthemtothemarketquickly. Furthermore, the last decade initiated the multistep flow Like other sectors (75–77), the drug molecules, including the synthesis (95–97) so that multistep organic reactions can be antibiotic are also designed with the help of artificial intelligence carried out autonomously and a whole system can run fast in (78).Acinetobacterbaumannii,aresilientGram-negativepathogen finding effective antibacterial drugs. So, in future, getting new commonlyfoundinhealthcaresettings,oftenresistsmultipledrugs, antibacterialmaterials may notbe thatdifficult, butinappropriate making it difficult to find effective antibiotics through traditional use can always develop drug resistivity. Additionally, employing methods. However, leveraging machine learning has significantly numerousordiversearraysofdrugscanfosterabroadspectrumof accelerated the exploration of chemical space, increasing the drug resistance in pathogens. This could significantly complicate chancesofdiscoveringnewcompoundstocombatthisbacterium. thesearchforsuitabledrugsinthecontextofmultidrugtherapyin FrontiersinImmunology 09 frontiersin.org Sahoo the coming years. Therefore, the supramolecular assembly Thereremainseveralchallengesinutilizingdendrimersforco- formation or cocrystallization of complementary multidrug can delivering multiple drugs to specific bacterial cells. The cytotoxic stabilize rapid pharmaceutical activities, reducing costs and impact of dendrimers is intricately tied to the properties of their streamlining the drug selection process associated with this surface groups, particularly their charge. Regardless ofthe surface extensive effort. For multidrug administration to be effective, a composition and molecular structure, cationic dendrimers exhibit synergisticactioniscrucial,necessitatingthesimultaneousdelivery heightenedcytotoxicityandhemolytictendenciescomparedtotheir of multiple drugs to a bacterial cell. Whether using conventional anionic and neutral counterparts (104, 105). Branching in multidrug therapy or a universal drug regimen, the current dendrimers also enhances the cytotoxicity. This elevated toxicity treatment protocol involves drugs reaching the bacteria isprimarilyduetotheirnon-selectiveattractiontocellmembranes separately, providing them an opportunity to develop resistance. thatpossessanegativecharge.Notably,thiscytotoxiceffectvaries Loadingmultipledrugsintoananocontainerorcarrierisn’tfeasible withthedendrimergenerationandisamplifiedbyspecificsurface with present technology, and itdoesn’t facilitatethesimultaneous groups (106), while in vitro studies reveal that neutral and formation of supramolecular drug associations is essential to Mitigating the toxicity of positively charged dendrimers is pivotal effectivelyimplementthephilosophyofmultidrugtherapy. totheirapplicationindiagnosticsandtherapeutics.Consequently, strategiesinvolvingchemicalmodificationsofterminalgroupshave been proposed. These alterations aim to enhance targeting 4.4 Dendrimers in codrug delivery capabilities, substantially extend the duration of the dendrimers in the bloodstream, and refine their design to achieve better Intherealmofcodrugdelivery,theimpactofsupramolecular distribution within the body and enhanced biocompatibility bonding, ranging from weak to robust, plays a pivotal role in (107). Finally, the dendrimers cannot guarantee the simultaneous determining the availability of drug associates tocombat bacteria. delivery of all encapsulated drug components to a
