TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


robust, plays a pivotal role in (107). Finally, the dendrimers cannot guarantee the simultaneous determining the availability of drug associates tocombat bacteria. delivery of all encapsulated drug components to a bacterial cell, Thishaspromptedashifttowardsincorporatingdendrimersaskey potentiallycontributingtodrugresistanceinbacteria. players in the delivery of multidrugs. Dendrimers, belonging to a distinctive category of macromolecules, seamlessly blend the 4.5 Challenges of developing a new structural attributes of individual molecules with the extended ideal therapy characteristics of polymers, making them a promising avenue for advancing codrug delivery strategies. Their three-dimensional structure, combined with a diverse range of additional substrates Multidrug-resistant bacteria heighten their resistance in the available for assembly, provides multifaceted potential for presence of external drug molecules or foreign bodies. Multiple applications in medicine, diagnostics, and environmental drugsareadministeredinhopesthatatleastonewilleffectivelykill domains. Particularly noteworthy are peptide dendrimers, acting the bacteria before it becomes entirely resistant to the treatment. as conduits for transporting therapeutic substances like synthetic Whilethisapproachseemslogical,thechallengeliesintheprotocol vaccines targeting parasites, bacteria, and viruses, contrast agents for drug administration. In multidrug therapy, simultaneous employed in MRI, antibodies, and genetic material (98). delivery of multiple drugs to a bacterial cell is never guaranteed. Dendrimers, possessing highly branched structures and easily This situation raises drug resistance and facilitates the sharing of modifiable surfaces, hold significant promise for functionalization genetic information through plasmid transfer among nearby and conjugation with drugs and DNA/RNA. Their precisely bacteria, culminating in the development of resistant bacterial synthesizable controlled architecture enables fine-tuning of coloniesandsubsequenttreatmentfailures. characteristics such as charge, shape, solubility, and size in carryingwiderangesofdrugsandgens(99,100). 5 Present complementary Most importantly, Siriwardena et al. developed one second- multidrug regimens generation (G2) peptide dendrimers equipped with a fatty acid chain at the dendrimer core, demonstrating their effectiveness in eradicating Gram-negative MDR bacteria, like Pseudomonas We’ve observed that combined binary antibiotic systems aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumannii. Another dendrimer, namely presentinthemultidrugregimensworkefficientlyinkillingMDR TNS18,canexhibitactivityagainsttheGram-positiveStaphylococcus bacteria. Among the two antibiotic molecules, one is prone to be aureus, whichwas methicillin-resistant in nature. It alsoshows the attackedbythebacterial defence mechanism.Bacteriadestroy the antibioticactivitiesagainstA.baumanniiandE.coli(101). moleculebyattackingaclassofspecificfunctionalbackbones.For The dendrimers can be used as the drug carrier against the example, bacterial beta-lactamase enzyme destroys the lactam- tuberculosisbacteria(102,103).Thesedendrimerscanencapsulate containing antibiotic molecules. In this situation, if a 2nd several antibiotics. If we select the dendrimers with their selective antibiotic molecule prevents beta-lactamase formation or antibacterialactivitieswiththecomplementarydrugs,thenbesides production, then the lactam-containing antibiotic can be formingcocrystals,wecanadministerthemultidrug. safeguarded from the bacterial defence mechanism and kill the FrontiersinImmunology 10 frontiersin.org Sahoo bacteria. Through this preventing mechanism, a binary set of more than a
