TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


moiety) stands as a potent effectively address a range of infections. Imipenem and cilastatin broad-spectrum carbapenemantibiotic,effectivelytargetingboth injections are specifically employed in treating severe bacterial Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. It targets penicillin- infections across various areas, such as abdominal, endocarditis bindingproteins(PBPs)disruptsthesynthesisofcrucialcellwall (heart lining and valve infection), blood, respiratory, urinary, components, and ultimately destroys the bacterial cell. It shows gynaecological, skin, bone, and joint infections (Table 1, row d). remarkablebindingcapabilitieswithPBP2andPBP3intheGram- Imipenembelongstotheclassofcarbapenemantibiotics,knownfor negativebacterialikePseudomonasaeruginosaorEscherichiacoli theirpotentactionagainstbacterialinfections(57). and with PBP1, in the Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus. Justliketheseantibioticpairs,othercombinationsofantibiotics Meropenem is used to treat severe infections of the skin, followasimilarapproach.Oneantibiotictargetsaspecificbacterial stomach and bacterial meningitis. On the other hand, component, associated with the bacterial defence mechanism that vaborbactam is a boronic acid b-lactamase inhibitor that causes damage to the second antibiotic. The second one, the demonstrates a strong attraction to serine b-lactamases and protected antibiotic then destroys the bacteria. Examples of such Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) (Table 1, row b). antibacterial combinations include Cefoperazone/sulbactam and Vaborbactam creates a reversible, covalent bond between its Ceftolozane/tazobactam(57). boronate segment and the catalytic serine found in serine b- Whileselectingthedrugsfromtheantibiotictableforacertain lactamases that limits meropenem degradation. It also exhibits bacterium,wecanselectthedrugsinsuchawaythatoneofthetwo the strongest affinity for serine carbapenemases within Amber drugs shields the other by neutralizing the bacterial defence classes A and C (114). Thus, vaborbactam kills the bacterial b- mechanism,whiletheprotecteddrugeradicatesthebacterialcells. lactamases enzymes and protects the b- lactam moiety-based meropenem. Consequently, as there is no supramolecular bonding between them, they are administered individually with 6 Supramolecular synthon for drug- atwo-hourintervalbetweendoses. drug supramolecular Meropenem/vaborbactam (57) exhibits significant effectiveness associate delivery against Enterobacterales strains that generate KPC carbapenemases, displaying slightly reduced yet noteworthy activity against strains producing MBLs or OXA-48-like enzymes (115–117). To optimize Supramolecular synthons refer to the precise spatial pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (57) exposures and bolster arrangement of noncovalent intermolecular interactions that bacterial eradication, a high-dose, prolonged infusion of 2 grams of construct predictable robust architecture. Crystal engineering meropenemand2gramsofvaborbactamover3hoursisadministered explores supramolecular synthons for the planned design and every 8 hours. This regimen aligns with EUCAST species-related synthesisofsupramolecularmaterials,spanningfromsolidmetal- breakpoints for Enterobacterales and P. aeruginosa, designating organic frameworks (119), pheromone containers (120, 121) to susceptibilityat8mg/Landresistanceabove8mg/L(118). pharmaceuticalcompounds(5,6,21,66)andevensemisolidliquid crystalgels(122)orsupramoleculargels(123,124).Theprecisionin predicting specific supramolecular structures across solid, 5.3 Imipenem/relebactam semisolid, and liquid crystalline states encourages the development of pharmaceutical crystals capable of maintaining Imipenem (holds a b- lactam moiety) is used to treat severe stability, even within solution phases. This hypothesis gains bacterialinfectionscausedbysusceptibleorganisms.Tocounteract furthersubstantiationbyobservingchangesinthesolubilityofan its rapid inactivation by renal dehydropeptidase I (DHP-1), ActivePharmaceuticalIngredient(API)throughtheformationofa FrontiersinImmunology 12 frontiersin.org
