TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


isothermal slurry conversion, the rapid incorporating combination drugs. The cocrystal underwent FrontiersinImmunology 13 frontiersin.org Sahoo assessments for aqueous solubility, dissolution, membrane category is important to complement each other. For example, if permeability,andinvivopharmacokineticpropertiestoanticipate a medicine works on a cell membrane, another should work on thepotential clinical efficacyofthedrug. Theresults underscored other organoids like DNA or mitochondria. In the case of the optimized formulation capacity of the cocrystal drug and tuberculosis, isoniazid and ethambutol exert their effects on revealed synergistic effects in both in vitro and in vivo contexts. bacterial cell walls through distinct biochemical mechanisms. Inthelastfewyears,peoplestartedworkingoncocrystalizationof Through the process of cocrystallization with rifampicin, multiple TB drugs, however, the hypothesis behind the drug pyrazinamide, or streptomycin, these drugs collectively target selections can make this journey effective towards the cellular organelles, expediting the destruction of bacterial cells. supramolecularization of PDR (128, 129). Although crystal Pyrazinamide, given its smaller size relative to rifampicin and engineering aids in identifying and formulating cocrystals, a streptomycin, presents greater ease in the cocrystallization computationalapproachtothisprocessisstillindevelopment. process. Combining complementary isoniazid, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide in a cocrystal formulation can further enhance the medication’s efficacy, potentially accelerating its action against 7 Principles of complementary bacterialinfections. multidrug cocrystal formation The multidrug cocrystallization or the supramoleculization of 7.2 Protected-protecting drug combination multidrug can be based on some fundamental principles for enhancing pharmaceutical efficacy. This pioneering method Afterselectingthecomplementarydrugs,weneedtoprotectthe targets deliver complementary drugs, better bioavailability to drugsfromthebacterialdefencemechanism.Forexample,ifadrug bacteria, and synergistic medicinal effect in the bacteria cell to contains beta-lactam moiety, then a b-lactamase inhibitor drug maximize the therapeutic benefits. By intricately combining a shouldalsobetakentoensurethelongevityorthelongerhalf-life variety of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) with periodoftheb-lactam-molecule.Ifwecocrystallizesuchsupportive complementary drugs, multidrug cocrystallization emerges as a drugs behind a main drug among the complementary drug promising avenue for achieving synergistic effects, enhancing associates, then the effectivity of the multidrug therapy will be drug efficiency, and tailoring formulations to specific needs. This enhancedmanytimes. innovativeapproach hasthepotential toreshape thelandscape of pharmaceutical innovation and therapeutic strategies. Once the multidrug resistance pattern is analyzed, the specific cocrystals 7.3 Implementation of driven from particular drugs can be administered and will work supramolecular synthons more efficiently. The multidrugs are categorized into first line, second line and third line based on their decreasing efficiency. Theclinicalefficacyassesseshoweffectivelythedrugworksfor This tiered classification assists healthcare professionals in therapeutic purposes in humans. Supramolecular associates optimizing treatment strategies based on the drug’s efficacy embody the remarkable potential of molecular assemblies and andtolerability. interactions to significantly enhance therapeutic outcomes and
