TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


therapeutic purposes in humans. Supramolecular associates optimizing treatment strategies based on the drug’s efficacy embody the remarkable potential of molecular assemblies and andtolerability. interactions to significantly enhance therapeutic outcomes and When bacteria develop resistance to a specific drug molecule, material properties. For designing the drug associates, we need to alternative medications become necessary. Cocrystals, composed leverage the supramolecular synthon concept to spatially arrange solely of multidrug-resistant bacteria treating drug molecules and bond the different drug molecules with the maximum without external coformers, offer flexibility and tablet-forming bonding energies and enhance the pharmaceutical parameters properties, ensuring that targeted bacteria encounter multiple like solubility, plasticity, tabletability, bioactivities etc. This drug molecules. In case we can cocrystallize two or more drugs, will evaluate the efficacy of the supramolecular system. Isoniazid then, even if the bacteria raise the drug resistivity, the rest drug and pyrazinamide show promising indications of potentially molecules can ensure effective treatment. When formulating creating a carboxamide dimer or a pyridine-isoniazid synthon, multidrug therapies, the selection of drug molecules should as illustrated in Figure 6. Upon identifying the suitable adheretothefollowingguidingprinciples. components, the synthesis of cocrystals can proceed utilizing any of the methodologies elucidated at Multidrug cocrystallization section (see 6.1) section. Sometimes bridging or binder molecules 7.1 Complementary drug selection can be provided to bind different drug molecules for supramolecularizationofdrugs(127). While selecting drug molecules for crystallization, they must workcomplementarilythroughvariousmechanisms.Thissynergy shouldresultinthecollateraldamageofdifferentorganoidswithin 7.4 Determination of Potency bacterialcells.Evenifabacteriumdevelopsresistancetoonedrug, othersshouldensureitselimination.Toenhanceeffectiveness,the The stoichiometric ratio would be fixed in the multidrug incorporation of a first-line drug is recommended but not cocrystal, designed to be administered for multidrug-resistant mandatory. However, their different biochemical reaction bacteria. As they would work together in a complementary way, FrontiersinImmunology 14 frontiersin.org Sahoo thepotencyoftheindividualmoleculewillnotbeeffective,butthe supramolecularco-deliverysystemsinaddressingchallengesrelated combination of the supramolecular drug associates should be to multidrug resistance, combination therapy, and personalized subjected to the potency test. Potency refers to how active a medicine. Understanding the dynamic interplay of supramolecular drug is based on its concentration or required amount to interactionswithinco-deliverysystemsoffersapromisingtrajectory generate a specific effect. However, as the complementary drug toward advanced therapeutic interventions, opening avenues for moleculeswillworksynergistically,itisexpectedthatthepotency novel drugdeliverystrategies withenhanced therapeutic outcomes. of the cocrystal will be much smaller than the individual Allthecocrystalsmaynotreachuptothetargetedbacteriaafteroral component. Individual administration of drugs in multidrug administration,however,thenumberofbonds(135)andthestrength therapy or the universal drug regimen raises the drug resistance of the bond (122) will play a very crucial role in this regard. The in the MDR for their distinct mode of operation, but
