TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


of drug trial researchers, controllers, and potentialinenhancingtreatmentefficacyandaddressingmultifaceted policymakers(143,144). molecularassemblystrategy,emergesas apromisingavenueinco- introducesnewcompoundclasses.Instead,themajoritystemfrom delivery systems. Leveraging non-covalent interactions such as existing chemical structures, with the most recent antibiotic class hydrogen bonding, p-p stacking, and van der Waals forces, can discoveredinthe1980s(145).Asdevelopinganewantibioticisa facilitate the formation of supramolecular drug associates, or tedious job, M. Miethke et al. suggested the formation of an supramolecularize the drugs, enabling tailored co-delivery international coalition comprising seasoned antimicrobial formulations. Furthermore, it delves into the potential of resistance (AMR) lobbyists (146). This group would collectively FrontiersinImmunology 15 frontiersin.org Sahoo advocate for funding aimed at early antibacterial drug discovery together to a targeted multidrug-resistant bacterium cell and research,aligningwiththeprinciplesoutlinedinthisarticle. minimizestheriskofraisingdrugresistance. Theprogressofinnovativestrategiesbehindtuberculosis(TB) therapeutics(147,148)ispresentlygainingmomentumthroughthe harmonization of TB drug trial researchers, manufacturing, 9.3 Minimizing side effects controllers, and policymakers (144). In the last 5-10 years a movement is started in developing the universal drug regimen This process will minimize the consumption of unnecessary (pan-TB regimens), due to the expanding pipeline of anti-TB medicines and will help in reducing the side effects. For their drugs with distinct modes of action. Harmonization reduces the synergistic work inside a bacterium cell, the multidrug-based time to bring a new drug regimen to the market. Once a PAN cocrystal therapy will minimize the treatment time, cost, regimen is developed, it can also address the lower drug-resistant mortalityandprobabilityofspreadingthediseaseinsociety. bacteria categories like extensively drug-resistant (XDR), multi- drug-resistant (MDR), and drug-susceptible M. tuberculosis infections. Thepotential foruniversalregimens toexpedite global 9.4 Exact potency determination TB control is considerable. Still predicting the finest regimens presents a challenge due to the numerous potential combinations Wecandeterminetheexactpotencyforthemultidrugtherapy involving three, four, or five drugs across ten essential drug whichwasnotpossibleinmultidrugtherapy. classes (74). Presently, the ranking of regimens is affected by restricted preclinical data, highlighting the need for more robust clinical trials to enhance this assessment process (149). 9.5 Antibacterial coating Similar to the development process effective binary combination of effective combinations remains serendipitous. To address various sectors, from healthcare to consumer goods. These this issue, a complementary combination with drug-drug coatings are designed to inhibit the growth of bacteria on interaction may facilitate and accelerate the effectiveness of the surfaces, thereby reducing the risk of infections and enhancing antibiotic combination process. The drug-drug interaction or overall hygiene. Composed of antimicrobial agents or materials, supramolecular assembling of drugs or forming the cocrystals they act as a protective layer, hindering the colonization and that are bonded strongly even inside the biological system can proliferation
