TYPEHypothesisandTheory
KEYWORDS: drug, drugs, bacteria, resistance, multidrug, bacterial, molecules, supramolecular, complementary, therapy, treatment, cocrystals, multiple, infections, drug molecules


materials, supramolecular assembling of drugs or forming the cocrystals they act as a protective layer, hindering the colonization and that are bonded strongly even inside the biological system can proliferation of bacteria. In healthcare settings, antibacterial deliver the drug combination to the targeted bacteria. Then after coatings on medical devices, such as catheters or implants, help bringing the drugs into the market. The very similar efforts are furniture stay infected by various highly immune bacteria, a alsoneededforeverydrug-resistantbacterium(150). proper coating is mandatory to prevent the spreading of infection. Coating the surfaces of ceilings, chairs, doors, tables, walls, windows, and furniture with the cocrystal will reduce the 9 Advantages of complementary riskofspreadingMDRbacteriainhospitalsorthepatient’shome. cocrystal therapy Ascocrystalsarehardtostickoverthesurface,theycanbedoped insomeantibacterialpolymers(151)orcanbemixedwiththedye Conventionalmulti-drugtherapyadministersdrugsseparately, (152),sonocoatingmethods(153).orbyspraydrying(19).Once leading to individual drug molecule administration and boosting we can coat the surface ofthe furniture or wallby polymer with drug resistance. By forming bonds to deliver these drugs the free -COOH group like an oxidized carbon nanotube (154), simultaneously to targeted bacterial cells, we can achieve thenwecancoatthesurfacewithanamine-containinggroupor severaladvantages. viceversa. 10 Limitation of complementary 9.1 Minimal drug-drug interactions cocrystal therapy Thedrug-druginteractionsoftenexhibitunwantedsideeffects. However, herein, developing drug-drug interactions through Though it is supposed to kill the multidrug-resistant bacteria forming cocrystals and administering them in the body will muchfasterincomparisontotheotherconventionaltherapies,still minimizetheunwantedsideeffects. during the treatment it may show drug resistivity up to a certain extent. Experimental studies can show the exact efficacy of thistherapy. 9.2 Minimizing bacterial drug resistance However, we may face also some challenges behind the drug formulation.Theestablishmentofsupramolecularbonds(155–158) Unlike multidrug therapy or universal drug regimen therapy, between complementary drug molecules or within a ‘protecting- this process promotes working the complementary drug molecule protective’combinationisn’talwaysachievable.Thosetargetedtwo FrontiersinImmunology 16 frontiersin.org Sahoo ormoredrugsmightbedifficulttocrystallizetogether.Moreover, 12 Conclusion forming certain supramolecular synthons, some more technical difficultiesmayariseinco-deliveringthesupramolecularmultidrug. Leveraging AI expedites the development of antibiotics, Supramolecularlimitations streamlining the process by utilizing advanced technologies. This will help synthesize the active antibiotic molecules faster and i) Creating supramolecular synthons presents challenges, provide more options to develop the drug regimens faster. particularly in delivering them to bacterial cells. The Through the binary antibacterial combinations, that involve the existence of multiple competitive synthon formation strategicpairingoftwoantibiotics:oneservesasaprotectiveshield, probabilities often can end up with some unpredicted safeguardingtheother,whilethesecondantibioticworksactivelyto crystal structures with enhanced or reduced bio-activities. neutralize harmful microbial molecules. This tandem approach However, still they can be harnessed for cocrystal-based enhances the overall effectiveness of the treatment against multidrugtherapies. resistantbacteria. ii)Ifthenumberofsupramolecularbondsandthebondenergy With such an ongoing process, we need to introduce the amountsaretoohigh,thenthecocrystalscanbedifficultto administering of the multidrug
