Images in…
KEYWORDS: pica, bmj, carotenemia, case, iron, iron deficiency, deficiency, bmj case, induced, nakagami, skin, history, giant, uterine, uterine myoma


Images in… Carotenemia induced by iron deficiency Futoshi Nakagami ,1 Yoichi Nozato,2 Koichi Yamamoto,1 Hiromi Rakugi2 1General Internal Medicine, DESCRIPTION 2Geriatric Medicine, Osaka a 3-w eek history of general fatigue. According to her daughter’s remark, she has looked unwell for 1 Japan year and has been suffering from menstrual pain and hypermenorrhea due to a giant uterine myoma for 20 Correspondence to Dr Futoshi Nakagami; years. She denied hot flash, chill and night sweat as fnakagami@ hp- gm. med. osaka- menopausal symptoms. Her skin of whole body was u. ac. jp extremely yellow (figure 1), however her sclera was not icteric. And her conjunctiva was anaemic. Blood Accepted 18 September 2020 test revealed microcytic anaemia with iron deficiency (haemoglobin: 69 g/L, Mean Corpuscular Volume: Figure 2 ‘Butterfly effect’; induced carotenemia due to 63%, ferritin: 2 mg/mL). Abnormal findings were giant uterine myoma. not detected in bilirubin (0.6 mg/mL), glucose (106 mg/dL), creatinine (0.69 mg/dL), Thyroid Stimu- Learning points lating Hormone (1.99 μIU/mL) and F- T4 (1.0 ng/dL). Detailed history revealed that she has been eating four ► Carotenemia should be differentiated from uncooked carrots and 20 mint candies per day for 3 jaundice by obtaining appropriate physical months. Thus, she was diagnosed with carotenemia examination and detailed patients’ history. due to pica, which made her eat excessive carrots and ► Carotenemia can be induced by pica due to the mint candies. Pica was elicited by iron deficiency. And iron deficiency. iron deficiency is suggested to be induced by hyper- menorrhea related with the giant uterine myoma. We administered ferric oxide and her compulsion to eat differential diagnosis of jaundice, detailed history and carrots and mint candies disappeared in 3 days, before specific physical examination are the key to a defini- the improvement of anaemia. tive diagnosis. Skin pigmentation usually is prominent Pica is one of the eating disorders characterised by on the palms, soles, forehead and nasolabial folds. compulsive ingestion of various substances including Compared with the jaundice, the sclera and mucous inedible things. The word pica is derived from the membranes are intact. Latin for the bird magpie, which gleans various objects In this case, the assumed aetiology was the ‘butterfly for its nest. Pica can be specified depending on the effect’ of the giant uterine myoma eventually inducing ingested substance, for example, pagophagia for ice, carotenemia, which seemed to have no association amylophagia for starch, cautopyreiophagia for burned
