Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


Pain Control for People with Cancer and AIDS Kathleen M. Foley, Judith L. Wagner, David E. Joranson, and Hellen Gelband The undertreatment ofchronic pain is a global problem,espe- or excruciating.With numericalscales,patients rate their pain cially for people in the final stages of cancer and,increasingly, by choosing a number—for example,from 0 (no pain) to 10 AIDS.The pain ofdying is often severe,but it can be controlled (worst pain).Visual analogscalesoften take the form ofa ruled for most people by a simple and inexpensive intervention:oral line,anchored on the left by the words no painandon the right analgesic drugs, including morphine and other opioids. by worst possible pain. Although it was long known that opioid drugs were essential Pain measurement instruments have been validated in clin- for the reliefofmoderate to severe pain,even in the 1980s the ical trials of analgesic therapies and subsequently used in amounts being used globally were so low that only a minority national and international surveys, repeatedly demonstrating ofthose dying could have had adequate pain relief.Since then sensitivity and reliability for both cancer and AIDS patients. progress has been made, mainly in resource-rich countries, These instruments include the Brief Pain Inventory (Bernabei widening the gap between rich and poor.The absence of opi- and others 1998;Cleeland and others 1996;Daut,Cleeland,and oids in developing countries is not merely a problem ofsupply Flanery 1983),the Memorial Pain Assessment Card (Fishman or costs, however. This chapter lays out the institutional and and others 1987), the Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale political barriers that restrict their availability in most low- and (Portenoy and others 1994), and the Edmonton Symptom middle-income countries. Assessment Scale (Chang,Hwang,and Feuerman 2000). BURDEN OF PAIN FROM CANCER AND AIDS Effects of Pain Painis“anunpleasantsensoryandemotionalexperienceassoci- Paindramaticallyaffectsqualityoflife.Patientswithpersistent atedwitheitheractualorpotentialtissuedamageordescribedin seriouspainceaseparticipatinginsocialactivitiesandmaybe termsofsuchdamage”(TaskForceonTaxonomy2004).Pain,in unabletoworkorcarefortheirfamilies(Daut,Cleeland,and itsvariousmanifestations,isthemostcommonsymptomlead- Flanery 1983).Psychological effects,including depression and ingpatientstoseekmedicalassistance(box52.1). anxiety,increasewithpainintensity(Rosenfeldandothers1996). The suffering of an individual radiates throughout house- Measurement of Pain holds, neighborhoods, and villages. Caregivers suffer distress, Pain is a subjective experience, but it can be described by anxiety,and depression.They may have to give up their own patients and assessed using validated questionnaires and scales employment to care for a dying relative.The loss ofincome of .In categorical scales,the patient describes the the patient and the caregiver may dramatically lower the pain using specific words,for example,mild,moderate,severe, family’s social status (Murray and others 2003). Box 52.1 Classification of Pain Pain is classified according to two main characteristics: º results in significant changes in psychological,func- temporal and physiologic.Temporalcategories are tional,and social
