Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


± adjuvant drug ± adjuvant drug ± adjuvant drug strated that 70 to 90 percent ofcancer patients can achieve pain control using the ladder (Goudas, Carr, and Bloch 2001). Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Although the ladder has not been validated in formal studies Source: WHO 1990. cessful application (Anand, Carmosino, and Glatt 1994; Figure 52.1 The Three-Step Analgesic Ladder Kimball and McCormick 1996; McCormack and others 1993; Newshan and Lefkowitz 2001; Newshan and Wainapel 1993;Schofferman and Brody 1990). programme cannot exist unless it is based on a rational nation- medicationthroughoutthecourseofillness,inaccordancewith al drug policy,”and this includes “regulations thatallow ready theladder.However,mostpatientsself-medicatepainwithanal- access ofsuffering patients to opioids”(WHO 2002,87). gesicsandtraditionalmedicinesthattheybuyoverthecounter until they have late-stage disease and severe pain that can be WHO Three-Step Analgesic Ladder and Its Effectiveness treatedonlywithastrongopioid.Thatiswhentheyaremost likelytoseekformalmedicalcare,whichwouldstartonstep3of WHO has developed a “three-step analgesic ladder” (fig- theladder.Unfortunately,theopioidtheyneedisunlikelytobe ure52.1) for cancer pain and its treatment , unavailableinLMICs,evenfromhealthprofessionals. which includes a strong opioid (morphine) (table 52.2). The ladder is equally appropriate for patients with HIV/AIDS Adequacy of and Barriers to Pain Control and Palliative Care (O’Neill,Selwyn,and Schietinger 2003). in Developing Countries The steps in the ladder represent increasing pain severity The adequacy of pain control in populations is not easily and the drugs that should be used in each case: measured. A useful and available surrogate is the per capita • Step 1 is limited to nonopioids, including drugs that are consumption of morphine ,a figure based on widely available (for example, acetaminophen, aspirin, or mandatory annual reports by national governments to the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,or NSAIDs). International Narcotics Control Board (INCB).Ofthe 27 mil- • Step 2 describes moderate pain that requires a combination lion grams of morphine used legally in 2002,78 percent went ofa nonopioid and opioid for relief. to six countries—Australia, Canada, France, Germany, 984 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Kathleen M. Foley, Judith L. Wagner, David E. Joranson, and others Table 52.2 Basic Drug List for Cancer and AIDS Pain Relief: Analgesics and Adjuvant Drugs Category Analgesics Basic drugs Alternatives Nonopioids Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) Choline magnesium trisalicylate Acetaminophen Diflunisal Ibuprofen Naproxen Indomethacin Diclofenac Opioids for mild to moderate pain Codeine Dihydrocodeine Hydrocodone Tramadol Opioids for moderate to severe pain Morphine Methadone Hydromorphone Oxycodone Pethidine Buprenorphine Fentanyl Opioid antagonists Naloxone Nalorphine Adjuvant drugs for analgesia and symptom control Antiemetics Prochlorperazine Metoclopramide Ondansetron Laxatives Senna Cisacodyl Sodium docusate Bran Mineral oil Dantron Lactulose Sorbitol Magnesium hydroxide Antidiarrheal agents
