Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


Opioid antagonists Naloxone Nalorphine Adjuvant drugs for analgesia and symptom control Antiemetics Prochlorperazine Metoclopramide Ondansetron Laxatives Senna Cisacodyl Sodium docusate Bran Mineral oil Dantron Lactulose Sorbitol Magnesium hydroxide Antidiarrheal agents Loperamide Paregoric Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate Antidepressants (adjuvant analgesics) Amitriptyline Imipramine Paroxetine Antipsychotic Haloperidol Thorazine Anticonvulsants (adjuvant analgesics) Gabapentin Valproic acid Carbamazepine Corticosteroids Prednisone Prednisolone Dexamethasone Anxiolytics Diazepam Clonazepam Lorazepam Midazolam Psychostimulants Methylphenidate Pemoline Source:Foley, Aulino, and Stjernsward 2003. the United Kingdom,and the United States.The rest went to useofopioidswillleadtodrugabuseandaddiction,andlegal the other 142 countries that reported. Morphine is largely restrictions on opioids. Medical, religious, gender, social, and unavailable inAfrica,the eastern Mediterranean,and Southeast culturalfactorsalsopresentbarriers(seebox52.2).WithAIDS, Asia (figure52.2). socialandself-stigmatizationworkagainstadequatecareofany The major barriers to palliative care in LMICs are scarce kind.Inaddition,mostof theemphasisinpoorcountrieshas resources, lack of national policies or low priority for pain beenonpreventionand,morerecently,onantiretroviraldrugs. relief,lackof awarenessbyhealthprofessionalsandthepublic Inallcases,evenlesscareisinplaceforchildrenthanforadults thatcancerandAIDSpaincanberelieved,concernthatmedical (Joranson,Rajagopal,andGilson2002). Pain Control for People with Cancer andAIDS | 985 Box 52.2 Living with and Dying from Cancer in Scotland and Kenya Physical suffering dominates the lives of people with their families. They are comforted and inspired by reli- advanced cancer in rural Kenya.In contrast,the concerns gious beliefs and by the support of their communities. of cancer patients in Scotland, whose physical needs are They accept their fate. pared these two groups. Patients are able to get primary treatment for the cancer The suffering in Kenya stems largely from poverty and and, when needed, palliative care. They are likely to be and patients feel happier at home. Families care for feel isolated from family and friends. Although patients’ patients without drugs or supplies or even the knowledge physical needs are met routinely, psychosocial needs are ofwhat to expect and how to help the patient.Patients are met only for some. concerned about the physical and financial burden on Source:Murray and others 2003. mg morphine USA UK 10 Romania Chile Uganda Source: INCB 2003 and authors’ calculations. Figure 52.2 Global Morphine Consumption, by Country (Per Capita, 2002) Legal Controls on Opioid Drugs in 1968 by the Single Convention, is the independent, quasi- The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of1961,amended by judicial organization that implements the Single Convention. the 1972 Protocol (United Nations 1961), is an international The Single Convention requires that all countries (even treaty that aims both to prevent the illicit production of,traf- nonsignatories) intending to make opioids available for ficking in,and use of narcotic drugs and to ensure their avail- medical use estimate national opioid needs and
