Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


prevent the illicit production of,traf- nonsignatories) intending to make opioids available for ficking in,and use of narcotic drugs and to ensure their avail- medical use estimate national opioid needs and report annually ability for medical and scientific needs.The INCB,established on imports,exports,and distribution to the retail level.It also 986 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Kathleen M. Foley, Judith L. Wagner, David E. Joranson, and others Box 52.3 Pain Control in Romania and Chile Palliative care has developed in Romania since the early Palliative care has developed in Chile over the past 1990s, largely through the Romanian Association for 15years,largelythroughnongovernmentalorganizations. Palliative Care. Support has come predominantly from The Ministry of Health’s cancer program has also played U.K. charities and from the Open Society Institute. a role by including palliative care in its National Cancer Services are provided throughout the country by paid staff Control Program initiative and by moving to reform 9hospice home care teams,2 day care services,and 1 pal- from less than 5 kg in 1990 to 55 kg in 2000. Despite liative care training center that provides services.Coverage these efforts, only a minority of patients have access to is still low:only 15 percent of cancer patients are treated oral morphine for chronic pain related to cancer or with opioid analgesics.Morphine is available (paid for by AIDS. The remaining barriers include inadequately the government) only for terminally ill cancer patients. trainedclinicians,alackofnationalstandardsandguide- Prescription restrictions and extra authorization needed lines, cure-oriented cancer treatment policies, fear of for releasing morphine to each patient are still so burden- addictiononthepartof bothprofessionalsandthepub- pleted.The situation is improving gradually,however. infrastructure. Sources:International Observatory on End of Life Care 2005. sets out the following principles on which countries can Costs Included in the Estimates develop their own policies and regulations: The quantitative analysis presented here is restricted to the costs, before such drugs reach the patient, of oral morphine • Individuals must be authorized to dispense opioids by and the adjuvant drugs needed to treat its side effects.We men- virtue oftheir professional license or be specially licensed to tion other costs associated with delivering oral morphine to do so. terminal AIDS and cancer patients later in this section,but for • Opioidsmaybetransferredonlybetweenauthorizedparties. reasons we discuss,we have not assigned dollar values to them. • Opioids may be dispensed only with a medical prescription. Costs of Oral Morphine. The appropriate measure of drug Many governments have imposed even tighter restrictions, cost
