Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


values to them. • Opioids may be dispensed only with a medical prescription. Costs of Oral Morphine. The appropriate measure of drug Many governments have imposed even tighter restrictions, cost is the sum of costs to all payers—governments,insurers, such as limiting the number of days for which an opioid pre- charities,and patients—for the drug itself,but that sum does scription can be written. not include the costs of personnel to administer the drug or otherwise care for the patient. COSTS AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS Oral morphine can be purchased in bulk powder or finished form and administered as a tablet or liquid (De Lima and This section describes the costs and benefits of providing oral others 2004;Rajagopal and Venkateswaran 2003).The cost to morphine and essential adjuvant drugs to terminally ill cancer the final payer is influenced by import taxes, if any; require- and AIDS patients who require it.It assumes the drugs are used ments to document the chain of custody of the product;costs according to the WHO analgesic ladder. We recognize that to local manufacturers of excipients,salts,diluents,and other other analgesics can also contribute significantly to patients’ materials required to produce finished forms; and price costs and pain relief,but at least some such drugs (acetamino- markups.The actual cost of oral morphine in LMICs is diffi- phen, for example) are available relatively cheaply in most cult to document because it is unavailable in so many places or places.Although not everyone has access to such drugs,we are is manufactured for finished use at different points in the dis- unaware of any data that could be used to estimate that pro- tribution chain. The price of a 30-day supply of immediate- portion. Costs are estimated for three countries at differing release oral morphine in 2003 ranged from US$10 in India to income levels and with different patterns of cancer and AIDS US$254 in Argentina,among the few countries for which prices deaths:Chile,Romania,and Uganda (see box 52.3). were reported (De Lima and others 2004). Pain Control for People with Cancer andAIDS | 987 Morphine is likely to cost less where it is produced locally average of three months.(Merriman 2002;personal commu- and used in easy-to-reach, urban locations. Liquid prepara- nication, L. De Lima, International Association for Hospice tions made by mixing morphine powder will cost less than and Palliative Care, June 2004; personal communication, morphine are removed, a total drug cost of 1 cent per mil- Kerala,India,June 2004). ligram or
