Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


of pain-free life annual reports at gained in the three sample countries. The next question is publicat/annrepts.htm).The time expended is an opportunity whether the pain reliefthat could be achieved would be worth cost, but it may be amortized over a long time if the effort the cost.We know that patients value pain-free days highly.A succeeds. day lived with the certainty of experiencing severe pain is of very low value,perhaps even lower than death itself (Furlong Potential Cost Savings. In some circumstances,making oral and others 2001;Le Gales and others 2002).Bryce and others morphine available through a palliative care system could (2004) find that people are willing to give up several months of actually save money—for example,if it enabled some termi- healthy life for access to good end-of-life care.Patients in low- nally ill patients who would otherwise be admitted to the hos- income countries place as great or even greater value on pain pital for pain control to die at home,or if it shortened their reliefas patients in high-income countries (Cleeland and oth- period ofhospitalization.This outcome is more likely in places ers 1988;Murray and others 2003). with good medical infrastructure, but even in low-income countries, patients in unbearable pain are often brought to hospitals by distressed relatives who are willing go into debt Costs Not Included in the Analysis toease the suffering. The analysis presented includes only the most basic costs—the costs of oral opioids and associated drugs—that would be incurred in a pain control program. Clearly, there are many IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIES TO IMPROVE other costs,ranging from the costs ofservices at the individual PAIN CONTROL patient level to the costs ofchanging drug laws and policies at the national level. The most significant additional costs are Providing adequate oral morphine involves medical,political, discussed below. legal, and societal change. Model programs, such as Hospice Uganda and efforts in India,have demonstrated the feasibility Incremental Costs ofCare Delivery. In addition to requiring of providing good palliative care, including oral morphine, the drugs themselves,implementation ofthe three-step ladder even for poor rural dwellers.WHO and the INCB have sup- requires trained individuals to assess and monitor patients. ported these efforts. cost of adding oral morphine will be low. If it involved one WHO Guidance on Palliative Care and Pain Relief increase by about US$8 in Chile,US$6 in Romania,and US$4 WHO has affirmed the need for palliative care and has defined in Uganda,amounting to less than 1 cent per
