Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


Pain Relief increase by about US$8 in Chile,US$6 in Romania,and US$4 WHO has affirmed the need for palliative care and has defined in Uganda,amounting to less than 1 cent per capita in all three the elements of model programs in several reports. In 2002, countries. WHO’s executive board called for the integration of pain and oral opioids depends on the development ofnew systems,such WHO 2002). The Joint United Nations Programme on as community- or hospital-based palliative care networks. HIV/AIDS and the WHO AIDS Program consider pain and system, or even the development of new palliative care pro- gral to AIDS care (Foley, Aulino, and Stjernsward 2003). grams,to oral morphine alone,would be inappropriate. WHO, in collaboration with the INCB and the WHO Pain Control for People with Cancer andAIDS | 989 Box 52.4 WHO Pain Relief and Palliative Care Recommendations Based on Resource Level WHO’s recommendations are as follows: • Countries with medium levels of resources should • Countries with low levels of resources should ensure ensure that minimum standards for pain reliefand pal- that minimum standards for pain relief and pallia- liative care are progressively adopted at all levels ofcare tive care are progressively adopted at all levels of care and that,nationwide,coverage ofpatients is increasing throughout the country. Countries also should through services provided by health care workers and ensure that patient coverage is high through services home-based care. provided mainly by home-based care. Home-based • Countries with high levels of resources should ensure care is generally the best way to achieve good-quality that national pain relief and palliative care guidelines care and coverage in countries with strong family sup- are adopted by all levels of care and that,nationwide, many patients are cared for in large cancer hospitals, including home-based care. and these institutions should have pain relief and palliative care available to all patients. Source:WHO 2002. CollaboratingCenter (WHOCC),has developed guidelines for The cost of treating a patient in Kampala and Mbarara is national authorities to self-diagnose their regulatory systems about US$7 per week,including one home visit.For patients for problems that might lead to a lack ofaccess to needed drugs who come to the hospice, the cost is about US$4 per week .These organizations also sponsor national and (personal communication, A. Merriman, Hospice Uganda, international workshops to help national authorities evaluate February 2003). Even at those prices, most patients cannot their policies,develop action plans,implement policy change, afford even the medicines,
