Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


A. Merriman, Hospice Uganda, international workshops to help national authorities evaluate February 2003). Even at those prices, most patients cannot their policies,develop action plans,implement policy change, afford even the medicines, which are subsidized by and evaluate outcomes.In addition to WHO and the INCB,a contributions. number of programs and organizations are making resources and expertise available to assist countries in various ways India. For decades,the only morphine available in India was (box52.5). injectableandusedforpostoperativepain.Theenactmentofa strict, national narcotics law caused morphine use to decline Hospice Uganda. Hospice Uganda began in 1993 with an old evenfurther,fromahighof573kilogramsin1985to18kilo- Land Rover, a grant to last three months, and a mandate to gramsin1997,amongthelowestpercapitaintheworld.During become Africa’s model home-based hospice for dying cancer the period of declining use, international efforts to promote and AIDS patients . By July 2004, the original paincontrolandpalliativecareprogramsbegantoreachIndia. Kampala location had served about 4,500 nearby patients. In1992,painreliefandtheavailabilityofmorphineweredesig- Two additional sites—Mobile Hospice Mbarara and Little nated priorities in the National Cancer Control Programme Hospice Hoima—had served about 2,500 patients (Merriman (Joranson, Rajagopal, and Gilson 2002; Rajagopal, Joranson, 2004). Hospice Uganda’s influence has spread across Africa andGilson2001;RajagopalandVenkateswaran2003). through its reputation and the training programs it runs The Ministry ofHealth convened national workshops from . 1992 to 1994 to ascertain why morphine use continued to founder,Anne Merriman,convinced the government to amend instructive: the law to allow specialist palliative care nurses and clinical offi- paid for by the government,is available for dying patients in date,primarilyduetothestringentstatelawsandmultiplicity Uganda became the first nation in Africa to list palliative care toobtainthelicensesin1994andhadapproached[a manufac- as an essential clinical service. turer]forasupplyof tablets...[but]bythetimethetablets 990 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Kathleen M. Foley, Judith L. Wagner, David E. Joranson, and others Box 52.5 Selected Resources for Developing National Palliative Care Programs Resources available to countries include the following: opioid availability.The Open Society Institute also sup- • The WHOCC for Policy and Communications in ports the development ofimplementation strategies in Cancer Care at the University ofWisconsin serves as a 12 of these countries. That effort involves experts in critical resource for palliative care education and coun- pain and palliative care, cancer, and AIDS and repre- try policy makers interested in assessing their opioid sentatives from ministries of health and financing and drug regulations and developing strategies for change. health insurance programs. See Its Web site links to WHO guidelines in several lan- initiatives/health/focus_areas/international. guages and provides articles and reports on efforts to • The Journal of Pain
