Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


change. health insurance programs. See Its Web site links to WHO guidelines in several lan- initiatives/health/focus_areas/international. guages and provides articles and reports on efforts to • The Journal of Pain and Symptom Management has improve national policy and opioid availability in published three special supplements over the past nine Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America. See years in association with the International Associa- tion for the Study of Pain. The supplements describe • The WHOCC publishes Cancer Pain Release every countries’ efforts to advance opioid availability and quarter. The journal includes topical analysis of cur- palliative care. See rent issues in cancer pain management and palliative journaldescription.cws_home/505775/description# care and reviews recent international research and edu- description. cational resources. See • The International Observatory on End ofLife Care is a wisc.edu/. clearinghouse on palliative care in resource-poor coun- • The Open Society Institute sponsored workshops in tries that is aimed particularly at policy makers. The cooperation with WHO’s Essential Drug and Cancer initial focus has been on Eastern and Central Europe, units to bring together pain and palliative care experts but the intent is to cover all resource-poor countries. and drug policy makers from Central and Eastern See Europe and the former Soviet Union to develop strate- index.htm. gies for implementing regulatory change to improve Source:Authors. couldbearranged,thelicenseshadexpired.Thedoctorsatthe controller exempted palliative care programs from needing a Instituteandtheassociatedpainclinichavestoppedprescrib- drug license, thereby eliminating the need for a pharmacist; ing morphinetablets.(Joranson,Rajagopal,andGilson2002, and (c) a palliative care network was established,which consists 153). ofabout 50 small programs.Statewide,coverage has increased to about 20 percent ofthose needing palliative care. In 1999,the INCB called on the government ofIndia to take measures to make morphine available for medical uses. In 1994, an initiative begun by the WHOCC, the Indian RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RESEARCH Association ofPalliative Care,and the Pain and Palliative Care AND DEVELOPMENT Society systematically studied the reasons for the lack of mor- phine.In 1997,the WHOCC developed a proposal to reduce Policy makers and program implementers need practical tools the number oflicenses and extend their period ofvalidity,and to improve pain control and palliative care.They need survey the following year all state governments were instructed to instruments, guidance on how to effect policy and legal adopt a model rule based on the proposal. Gradually, rules changes,and palliative care models for resource-poor settings. havebegun to change.By 2002,7 of28 states or territories had Many tools exist, but those could be made more accessible adopted
