Chapter
KEYWORDS: pain, care, cancer, patients, morphine, palliative, palliative care, aids, countries, control, oral, drugs, costs, national, oral morphine


proposal. Gradually, rules changes,and palliative care models for resource-poor settings. havebegun to change.By 2002,7 of28 states or territories had Many tools exist, but those could be made more accessible adopted the model rule, but it has been implemented through the use oftoolkits,distance learning,Web sites,and so successfully only in Kerala. on.Each country also should gather information to assess its The success in Kerala can be attributed to three things: own capabilities and needs,such as the following: (a)the state government simplified the licensing process and stipulated that for oral morphine to be available from a center, • In relation to the national level: it must have at least one doctor with at least one month of º Study the incidence and prevalence of pain related to practical experience in palliative care; (b) the national drugs major causes of illness and death using methodologies Pain Control for People with Cancer andAIDS | 991 adapted from developed countries (Breivik,Collett,and REFERENCES Ventafridda forthcoming). Anand,A.,L.Carmosino,and A.E.Glatt.1994.“Evaluation ofRecalcitrant º Survey existing pain and palliative care programs to Pain in HIV-Infected Hospitalized Patients.” Journal of Acquired identify national and local leaders in pain control Immune Deficiency Syndromes 7 (1):52–56. andpalliative care and to catalog national guidelines and Bernabei,R.,G.Gambassi,K.Lapane,F.Landi,C.Gatsonis,R.Dunlop, standards for acute and chronic pain. For hospice and and others. 1998. “Management of Pain in Elderly Patients with Cancer.”Journal ofthe American Medical Association 279 (23):1877–82. palliative care services,assess the extent ofavailable care, service delivery models,national and local policies,and Care for HIV/AIDS, ed. J. F. O’Neill, P. Selwyn, and H. Schietinger, and palliative care. Administration. º Assess national and local regulatory barriers to opioid Breivik, H., B. Collett, and V. Ventafridda. Forthcoming.“The Pain in Europe Survey: Detailed Results and Analysis.” European Journal of availability using WHO (2000) guidelines and needs Pain. assessment protocols to help countries Bryce,C.L.,G.Arnold,R.M.Schooler,J.Loewenstein,R.S.Wax,and D.C.Angus.2004.“Quality ofDeath:Assessing the Importance Placed tutional issues that impede drug distribution. on End-of-Life Treatment in the Intensive-Care Unit.”Medical Care 42 º Study costs that affect opioid availability in several coun- (5):423–31. tries to document the costs oflicensing,obtaining,stor- Chang,V. T., S. S. Hwang, and M. Feuerman. 2000.“Validation of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale.”Cancer 88 (9):2164–71. ing,keeping records for,and dispensing opioid drugs. Cleeland,C.S.1990.“Assessment ofPain in Cancer:Measurement Issues.” º Study the costs of alternative delivery models for pain In Advances in Pain Research and Therapy,ed.K.M.Foley,J.J.Bonica, control medications in LMICs. and V.Ventafridda,47–55.New York:Raven Press. º Assess the offsetting savings achievable by reducing hos- Cleeland, C. S., J.
