Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


50% of affected individuals including: • Cortical atrophy • Ventriculomegaly Family history. Because SMS is typically caused by a de novo genetic alteration, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Rarely, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (i.e., affected males and females in multiple generations). Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of SMS is established in a proband with suggestive clinical findings and one of the following identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1): • A heterozygous deletion of 17p11.2 that includes RAI1 • A heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant involving RAI1 Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous RAI1 variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA), gene-targeted testing (single-gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved (see Option 1), whereas comprehensive genomic testing does not (see Option 2). Option 1 CMA uses oligonucleotide or SNP arrays to detect genome-wide large deletions/duplications (including RAI1) that cannot be detected by sequence analysis. Note: Although a visible interstitial deletion of chromosome 17p11.2 can be detected in all individuals with the common approximately 3.7-Mb deletion by a routine G-banded karyotype analysis, provided the resolution is adequate (≥550 band), it is not uncommon for the deletion to be overlooked, particularly when the indication for the cytogenetic study is other than SMS. Therefore, CMA has replaced G-banded cytogenetic analysis and FISH analysis as a first-line test in the diagnosis of SMS. If CMA does not detect a deletion of 17p11.2 and the diagnosis of SMS is still suspected, single-gene testing of RAI1 or a multigene panel that includes RAI1 may be considered. Exome or genome sequencing may also be performed. Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of RAI1, which detects missense, nonsense, splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions, may be considered next. If no pathogenic variant is detected through sequence analysis of RAI1, gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis, which can detect intragenic deletions or duplications of RAI1, may be
