Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


deletions/insertions, may be considered next. If no pathogenic variant is detected through sequence analysis of RAI1, gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis, which can detect intragenic deletions or duplications of RAI1, may be considered. Note: Depending on the sequencing method used, single-exon, multiexon, or whole-gene deletions/duplications may not be detected. If no variant is detected by the sequencing method used, the next step is to perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect exon and whole- gene deletions or duplications. Smith-Magenis Syndrome 5 Figure 1. Infants with Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS). Female age nine months (left) and male age 30 months (right). Note brachycephaly, broad forehead, upslanting palpebral fissures, short, upturned nose, and characteristic downturned "tent"-shaped vermilion of the upper lip with mild micrognathia. Fair (hypopigmented) complexion with rosy "pudgy" cheeks is also seen. A multigene panel that includes RAI1 and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing- based tests. tests can be found here. Option 2 When the diagnosis of SMS has not been considered because an individual has atypical phenotypic features, comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. ACMG recommends exome and genome sequencing as first- or second-tier diagnostic testing for children with intellectual disability and/or multiple congenital anomalies [Manickam et al 2021]. To date, the majority of RAI1 pathogenic variants 6 GeneReviews ® Figure 3. Adolescent females with Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) caused by RAI1 heterozygous pathogenic variant (left) and deletion of 17p11.2 including RAI1 (right). Note short philtrum with relative prognathism resulting from midface retrusion that persists with age; downturned upper lip is more notable at rest (non-smiling). reported (e.g., missense, nonsense) are within the coding region and are
