Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


relative prognathism resulting from midface retrusion that persists with age; downturned upper lip is more notable at rest (non-smiling). reported (e.g., missense, nonsense) are within the coding region and are likely to be identified by exome sequencing. ordering genomic testing can be found here. Smith-Magenis Syndrome 7 Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in Smith-Magenis Syndrome Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Identified by Method CMA (recommended first) 3 ~80%-90% 4 RAI1 Sequence analysis 5, 6 ~10%-20% 4 Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis 7 Unknown 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. A chromosomal microarray (CMA) that includes probe coverage of RAI1 can detect deletions of 17p11.2 (interstitial deletion, complex rearrangements, or derivative chromosomes) [Boot et al 2021]. 4. Data derived from the subscription-based professional view of Human Gene Mutation Database [Stenson et al 2020] 5. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 6. Sequence analysis (particularly of exon 3, in which >99% of all pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants have been found to date) detects RAI1 pathogenic variants in individuals with SMS when cytogenetic and FISH studies are negative for the 17p11.2 deletion [Vilboux et al 2011, Vieira et al 2012, Dubourg et al 2014, Falco et al 2017, Boot et al 2021]. 7. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and a gene-targeted microarray designed to detect single-exon deletions or duplications. Breakpoints of large deletions and/or deletion of adjacent genes may not be determined. Exome and genome sequencing may be able to detect deletions/duplications using breakpoint detection or read depth; however, sensitivity can be lower than gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis. Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description To date, more than 400 individuals with a deletion or pathogenic variant involving RAI1 have been reported [Edelman et al 2007, Vilboux et al 2011, Perkins et al 2017, Linders et al 2023]. The following description of the phenotypic features associated with Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is based on these reports. SMS has a clinically recognizable phenotype that includes physical, developmental, and behavioral features (see Table 2). The phenotypic features can be
