Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


Smith & Gropman 1. Frequency varies by study. Smith-Magenis Syndrome 9 Facial Appearance The facial appearance in SMS is characterized by a broad, square-shaped face, brachycephaly, prominent forehead, synophrys, mildly upslanted palpebral fissures, deep-set eyes, broad nasal bridge, midfacial retrusion (formerly known as midfacial hypoplasia), short, full-tipped nose with reduced nasal height, micrognathia in infancy changing to relative prognathia with age, and a distinct appearance of the mouth, with fleshy everted vermilion of the upper lip (see Figure 1). The facial appearance in SMS becomes more recognizable in early childhood (see Figure 2 and Figure 3), with persisting midfacial retrusion, relative prognathism, and heavy brows with coarsening facial appearance. Neurologic Manifestations Hypotonia is reported in virtually all infants, accompanied by hyporeflexia (84%) and generalized lethargy. the deletion size [Gropman et al 2006]. • In infancy and early childhood, these include infantile hypotonia, hyporeflexia, relative insensitivity to pain, and mild intention tremor (6-8 Hz) of the upper extremities [Gropman et al 2006]. • In later childhood, affected children often exhibit a characteristic appearance of the legs and feet observed in peripheral nerve syndromes or neuropathies (i.e., "inverted champagne bottle appearance") with pes cavus or pes planus deformity and unusual broad-based gait (foot flap). This can cause pain and discomfort. • Some individuals with a large deletion extending into PMP22 may have insensitivity to pain, resulting in injuries that are not apparent to them. This is associated with recurrent acute focal sensory and motor neuropathies mainly at entrapment sites, painless nerve palsy after minor trauma or compression, and evidence on physical examination of previous nerve palsy such as focal weakness, atrophy, or sensory loss. Toe walking (60%) may persist despite the absence of tight heel cords [Smith & Gropman 2021]. Microcephaly. Head circumference at birth is generally in the normal range with microcephaly developing over time [Gropman et al 2006]. been documented in 25% of individuals. Pubertal onset of catamenial seizures has also been observed in some females coinciding with menses [Merideth et al 2016, Smith & Gropman 2021]. Other seizure types have been reported but are not common in SMS, including tonic-clonic seizures [Maya et al 2014, Abad et al 2018] and absence seizures [Truong et al 2010]. One adult was reported to have a history of psychogenic seizures consisting of hyperventilation with tremors and a rapid pulse [Yeetong et al 2016]. Previous research has not found a correlation between the
