Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


reported to have a history of psychogenic seizures consisting of hyperventilation with tremors and a rapid pulse [Yeetong et al 2016]. Previous research has not found a correlation between the age of individuals with SMS and onset of seizures [Goldman et al 2006]. Stroke-like episodes have been reported in three individuals with SMS to date including: • A male born with bilateral cleft lip/palate and congenital heart defect who developed left hemiparesis at age 4.5 years [Smith & Gropman 2021]; • A 10-year-old female with a ventricular septal defect who was also diagnosed with moyamoya disease and had evidence of ischemic changes at age five years [Girirajan et al 2007]; • A 32-year-old female with evidence of severe atherosclerotic disease of the intracranial vessels documented after she experienced an ischemic infarct postoperatively following repeat cardiac surgery [Chaudhry et al 2007]. 10 GeneReviews ® Figure 2. Early school-age children with Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS). Male age four years (left) and female age five years (right); the female is also pictured at age 15 years in Figure 3. Note broad forehead, deep-set eyes, and midface retrusion. Neurodevelopmental Features Developmental delays are evident in early childhood, with most individuals with SMS functioning in the mild- to-moderate range of intellectual disability. When reported, measured developmental or intelligence quotients range from 20 to 78, with a majority falling in the moderate range. Individuals with heterozygous deletions of 17p11.2 are more cognitively impaired than those with intragenic RAI1 pathogenic variants [Edelman et al 2007, Linders et al 2023]. Comprehensive literature review by Korteling et al found that many neuropsychiatric manifestations that commonly emerge in childhood and adolescence persist into adulthood, including mild-to- moderate intellectual disability, features related to autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and/or attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (40%), self-injurious and physically aggressive behaviors (>50%), self-hugging behavior, circadian sleep-wake disorder, and seizures (20%). Note: Due to the maladaptive behaviors and sleep deficits, cognitive functioning may not be accurately assessed in many individuals and test scores may be an underestimation of an individual's true cognitive capacity. Gross and fine motor skills are delayed in the first year of life and may be exacerbated by generalized hypotonia. Issues related to sensory integration are frequently noted [Hildenbrand & Smith 2012]. Speech and language • In infancy, crying is infrequent and often hoarse. • Most infants show markedly decreased babbling and vocalization for age. Smith-Magenis Syndrome 11 • By age two to
