Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


observed in sequential processing and short-term memory [Dykens et al 1997]. • Relative strengths include long-term memory and perceptual closure (i.e., a process whereby an incomplete visual stimulus is perceived to be complete: "parts of a whole") [Dykens et al 1997, Udwin et al 2001]. Behavioral Manifestations The behavioral manifestations of SMS, which includes sleep, maladaptive and self-injurious behaviors (SIB), and stereotypies, is generally not recognized until age 18 months or older and escalates with age, often coinciding with expected life cycle stages: 18-24 months, school age, and onset of puberty [Gropman et al 2006]. Maladaptive behaviors in people with SMS reflect a complex interplay between physiology and environment that may be further compounded by an underlying developmental asynchrony; specifically, emotional maturity is delayed relative to intellectual functioning [Finucane & Haas-Givler 2009]. • With age, the gap between intellectual attainment and emotional development appears to widen for many people with SMS, and this disparity poses significant behavioral and programmatic challenges in older children and adults [Haas-Givler & Finucane 2014]. For example, adults with SMS may exhibit academic achievement at the 6- to 8-year-old level while emotional reactions are more reflective of the developmental level of a 1- to 3-year-old (i.e., referred to as the "inner toddler"). • One study found that 90% of individuals with SMS (ages 4 and 18 years) demonstrated significant social impairment (35% in the mild-to-moderate range and 55% in the severe range per the Social 12 GeneReviews ® Responsiveness Scale) per parent report, with manifestations that overlapped those of children with ASD or other developmental disorders [Laje et al 2010b]. • A large-scale investigation of children and adults with SMS (ages 4 to 30 years) and six other genetic syndromes associated with intellectual or learning disabilities reported high levels of autistic features on the Social Responsiveness Scale, 2nd edition (SRS-2), a parent report measure [Lee et al 2022]. Of the autism subdomains investigated, the Restricted Interests and Repetitive Behavior scale was the most impacted. The SMS group received a higher score on this scale than the six other genetic syndromes studied. It was also the highest score received of the five SRS-2 scales within SMS group. When examining scores on the social scales of the SRS-2 among SMS participants only, parents reported the lowest level of concern on the Social Motivation scale and intermediate concerns on the Social Communication, Cognition, and Awareness scales. • The degree
