Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


among SMS participants only, parents reported the lowest level of concern on the Social Motivation scale and intermediate concerns on the Social Communication, Cognition, and Awareness scales. • The degree of sleep disturbance remains one of the strongest predictors of maladaptive behavior [Dykens & Smith 1998, Arron et al 2011, Sloneem et al 2011, Smith et al 2019]. Self-injurious behaviors (SIB) are present in most individuals after age two years [Arron et al 2011, Sloneem et al 2011]. • A direct correlation exists between the number of different types, intensity, and frequency of SIB and the level of intellectual impairment. • Three behaviors distinctive to SMS include nail yanking (onychotillomania), skin picking, and insertion of foreign objects into body orifices (polyembolokoilamania); prevalence rates for these behaviors range from 25% to 90% of affected individuals depending on the age and group studied (see Genotype- Phenotype Correlations). ⚬ Nail yanking generally does not become a major problem until late childhood. ⚬ Object insertion in ears is most relevant in both children and adults; other body orifices (nose, vagina, and rectum) are generally not reported until late teens / adulthood [Gropman et al 2007]. • The overall prevalence of SIB increases with age, as does the number of different types of SIB exhibited [Finucane et al 2001], which may include self-hitting (71%), self-biting (77%), and skin picking (65%). Note: Given the high rates of SIB, including self-insertion of objects or digits into body orifices, caution must be taken when evaluating individuals with SMS for maltreatment or abuse. Although individuals with intellectual disability are at high risk for maltreatment, abuse may also be incorrectly suspected due to SIB or self-insertion behaviors. Sensory integration issues are present and persist throughout childhood. A prominent pattern of sensory processing difficulties is recognized, characterized by an imbalance in neurologic thresholds and a fluctuation between active and passive self-regulation [Hildenbrand & Smith 2012]. Other maladaptive behaviors may include the following: • Head banging, which may begin as early as age 18 months • Frequent outbursts / temper tantrums • Attention-seeking behaviors (especially from adults) • Impulsivity, which may increase over time, particularly in females [Martin et al 2006] • Inattention with or without hyperactivity • Oppositional behaviors • Aggression • Rapid mood shifts • Anxiety, which can become a significant issue in adolescence and adulthood • Toileting difficulties Stereotypies common to SMS include the following: Smith-Magenis Syndrome 13 diagnostic
