Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


2019]. ⚬ Developmental sleep changes from childhood through adolescence/adulthood are evidenced by an age-related variation in the timing of wake onset (but not sleep onset) and WASO [Smith et al 2019]. ⚬ Age differences are also associated with different patterns of sleep for SMS compared to healthy controls [Smith et al 2019]: In those younger than age ten years, late-night activity was greater in individuals with SMS than in pediatric controls. Older individuals with SMS (age >10 years) exhibited less late-night activity but increased early-night activity, consistent with poor "settling" and delayed sleep pattern. • Due to the propensity of weight gain as affected individuals age, obstructive sleep apnea may also develop and can contribute to the overall sleep disturbance. • Disrupted sleep becomes a significant problem in early childhood and is a major issue for caregivers, who themselves may become sleep deprived [Foster et al 2010, Agar et al 2022]. Most caregivers report experiencing major sleep deprivation and stress that significantly impacts their ability to function and support their child [Agar et al 2022]. Safety concerns and need to monitor their child overnight to prevent/avert wandering, food foraging, and/or self-injury requires use of a range of mitigating strategies (e.g., enclosed bed system / "safe space" for containment during sleep, bedroom adaptations, locked kitchen cabinets). 14 GeneReviews ® Growth and Feeding At birth, weight, length, and head circumference are generally in the normal range. Feeding difficulties in infancy leading to failure to thrive are common, including marked oral motor dysfunction with poor suck and swallow and textural aversion. In early infancy, length and weight gradually decelerate; short stature (height <5th centile) is frequently observed (67%), especially at young ages, but may not persist into adulthood. Sex-specific standardized growth curves (5th, 50th, and 95th centiles) for children with SMS have been published for length/height, weight, and head circumference for age 0-36 months and age 2-15 years (see Figures 4 and 5). SMS-specific growth curves permit the clinician to track an individual's growth trajectory, providing a more accurate assessment of SMS than standard population CDC/WHO curves (see Hoover-Fong et al , supplemental figures) (full text). Dietary preferences, hyperphagia, and food foraging at night (especially at older ages), coupled with a general sedentary lifestyle and psychotropic medication side effects (affecting appetite / weight gain), contribute to obesity (increased BMI), typically beginning in school-age children (age 6-9 years) [Gandhi et al 2022, Elatrash et
