Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


RAI1 pathogenic variants) assessed the prevalence of three features of BHDS (spontaneous pneumothorax, pathognomonic skin findings, and renal cancer). Among 117 respondents, five individuals reported spontaneous pneumothorax (4 of the 5 had a deletion of 17p11.2), and two individuals with deletions of 17p11.2 had fibrofolliculoma. No instances of renal cancer were reported [Finucane et al 2021]. Other Manifestations A male with SMS due to a confirmed RAI1 nonsense variant had three spontaneous pneumothoraces between ages five and ten years [Truong et al 2010]. A female with SMS and a confirmed RAI1 pathogenic variant had a spontaneous pneumothorax at age nine years [Truong et al 2010, Finucane et al 2021]. Neuroimaging Abnormalities The most common structural brain abnormalities identified on imaging are non-specific and include ventriculomegaly and cortical atrophy. Also reported are enlarged posterior fossa, periventricular gray matter heterotopia, and decreased grey matter in the insula and lenticular nucleus [Greenberg et al 1996, Boddaert et al 2004]. In addition, heterotopias and thin corpus callosum have been reported in several individuals [Capra et al 2014, Maya et al 2014]. Co-occurrence of moyamoya disease and SMS has been reported in an individual with a large deletion of 17p11.2 [Girirajan et al 2007]. Neuropathologic Abnormalities Foreshortened frontal lobes with a choroid plexus hemangioma have been reported on neuropathologic examination [Smith et al 1986]. Prognosis Insufficient longitudinal data are available to accurately determine life expectancy. One would expect that in the absence of major organ involvement the life expectancy of individuals with SMS would not differ from that of individuals with intellectual disability at large. Anecdotally, the oldest known individual with SMS lived to age 88 years [A Smith & E Magenis, unpublished data]. In the month prior to her death, she was reportedly her usual 20 GeneReviews ® alert, happy, "SMS" self with ongoing sleep issues and was being treated for chronic recurrent sinusitis. Four days prior to death, she suffered an apparent right-sided stroke with left-sided weakness. No autopsy was performed. Recurrence of SMS in two sibs, a 37-year-old male and his older 54-year-old sister, with deletion of 17p11.2 due to gonadal mosaicism and transmission from their 79-year-old mosaic mother (62% mosaicism in lymphocytes), has been reported [Smith et al 2006]. The brother, who died at age 45 years from aggressive B-cell lymphoma, showed postmortem central nervous system white matter findings in addition to unsuspected BHDS with chromophobe renal cell carcinoma and a
