Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


those with a 17p11.2 deletion [Alaimo et al 2014]. Individuals with a heterozygous pathogenic variant in RAI1 typically do not have short stature or other organ system involvement [Slager et al 2003, Bi et al 2004, Girirajan et al 2005]. Prevalence The birth incidence of SMS is estimated to be 1:25,000 births [Greenberg et al 1991]; the actual prevalence may be closer to 1:15,000 [Smith et al 2005]. Smith-Magenis Syndrome 21 Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders RAI1 repeat expansions. A pentanucleotide repeat expansion in intron 4 of RAI1 was reported in a Malian/ African family with benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy [Yeetong et al 2024]. Intronic pentanucleotide expansions are thought to act as gain-of-function variants resulting in focal RNA aggregation and RNA- mediated toxicity in cortical neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells [Ishiura & Tsuji 2020]. No features of Smith- Magenis syndrome (SMS) were described in affected family members. Deletions/duplications of the 17p11.2 region • Individuals with larger deletions extending distally to include PMP22 are also at risk for hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP). • Individuals with 17p11.2 duplication syndrome (Potocki-Lupski syndrome) have the recombination reciprocal of the SMS deletion and differ phenotypically and behaviorally from those with SMS [Potocki et al 2000a, Potocki et al 2007]. • Yuan-Harel-Lupski (YUHAL) syndrome (OMIM 616652) is caused by a contiguous gene duplication of chromosome 17p12-p11.2 that includes RAI1 and PMP22. YUHAL syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental delay and early-onset peripheral neuropathy. The disorder comprises features of both demyelinating Charcot-Marie-Tooth hereditary neuropathy type 1A (caused by duplication of PMP22) and Potocki-Lupski syndrome [Yuan et al 2015]. Differential Diagnosis Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) should be distinguished from other syndromes that include developmental delay, infantile hypotonia, short stature, distinctive facies, and behavioral manifestations. The pervasive behavioral aspects and circadian sleep disorder associated with inverted melatonin secretion can help distinguish SMS from other neurodevelopmental disorders. However, because the phenotype of SMS is broad and changes with time, all disorders with intellectual disability without other distinctive findings should be considered in the differential diagnosis. See OMIM Phenotypic Series for genes associated with: • Autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorders; • Autosomal recessive intellectual developmental disorders; • Nonsyndromic X-linked intellectual developmental disorders; • Syndromic X-linked intellectual developmental disorders. The most common of the neurodevelopmental disorders of interest in the differential diagnosis of SMS include Down syndrome (trisomy 21) and those listed in Table 3. 22
