Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


of 17p11.2. 16 in those w/deletion incl FLCN baseline; repeat imaging not • Recommendations include kidney cancer (majority of SMS deletion cases) necessary if normal. surveillance starting at 20 yrs & eval for • Renal. Baseline abdominal imaging both skin & lung manifestations of BHDS. (MRI w/contrast preferred) to assess for renal tumors; repeat screening every 3 yrs thereafter Discuss transition starting at age 12-14 yrs w/ Prepare affected persons for the adult consideration of medical, psychosocial (vs health care system & optimize autonomy Transition to adult care emotional, social), educational, recreational, & through the use of family & community vocational aspects that contribute to improved supports as needed. 17 long-term health outcomes. • Combination of ID, severe behavioral abnormalities, & sleep disturbance takes Respite care, annual family psychosocial significant toll on caretakers/parents & Impact on parents & sibs screenings, & family psychosocial sibs. support 18 • Incl family support services & resources as essential components of a holistic mgmt plan. ASM = anti-seizure medication; BHDS = Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome; ID = intellectual disability; SMS = Smith-Magenis syndrome 1. Education of parents/caregivers regarding common seizure presentations is appropriate. For information on non-medical interventions and coping strategies for children diagnosed with epilepsy, See Epilepsy Foundation Toolbox 2. See 2024 PRISMS Clinical and Research Consortium treatment recommendation: Strategies to Address Emotional and Behavioral Challenges in Smith-Magenis Syndrome (SMS). 3. The potential for more problematic or atypical behaviors with increased age underscores the need for early and ongoing intervention and caregiver education [Hildenbrand & Smith 2012]. 4. Bradley et al 5. Based on an extensive review of psychotropic medication use in a large cohort of individuals with SMS (n=62), use of polypharmacy and/or serial trials with minimal effectiveness was observed. Benzodiazepines obtained the lowest mean efficacy score in the "slightly worse" range, suggesting that use of these drugs may be detrimental to individuals with SMS [Laje et al 2010a]. 6. Sleep management is a challenge for physicians and parents. Prior to beginning any trial, a child's medical status and baseline sleep pattern must be considered. 7. Dosages should be kept low (≤3 mg). However, melatonin dispensed over the counter is not regulated by the FDA; thus, dosages may not be exact. No early and controlled melatonin treatment trials have been conducted. A monitored trial of four to six weeks on melatonin may be worth considering in affected individuals with sleep disturbance. 8. Polymeropoulos et
