Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


controlled melatonin treatment trials have been conducted. A monitored trial of four to six weeks on melatonin may be worth considering in affected individuals with sleep disturbance. 8. Polymeropoulos et al 9. Nine individuals with SMS were treated with oral beta-1-adrenergic antagonists (acebutolol, 10 mg/kg) [De Leersnyder et al 2001]. This treatment, however, did not restore nocturnal plasma concentration of melatonin. 10. Parents also reported subjective improvement in daytime behaviors with increased concentration. Contraindications to the use of beta-1-adrenergic antagonists include asthma, pulmonary problems, some cardiovascular disease, and diabetes mellitus. 11. Dietary changes with portion management in addition to increased movement and physical activity, limiting sedentary activity, and discouraging nighttime eating 12. Elatrash et al 13. Lazareva et al 14. See Constipation Treatment Recommendations for SMS. 15. Itoh et al , Spadoni et al 16. Vocke et al 18. Parents report high rates of depression and anxiety, and family stress is significantly higher in families of individuals with SMS than in those of children with non-specific developmental disabilities [Hodapp et al 1998, Foster et al 2010, Agar et al 2022]. 30 GeneReviews ® Developmental Delay / Intellectual Disability Management Issues The following information represents typical management recommendations for individuals with developmental delay and/or intellectual disability in the United States; standard recommendations may vary from country to country. Ages 0-3 years. Referral to an Early Intervention (EI) program for infants and toddlers (birth to age 3 years) is recommended and generally placed by the child's pediatrician. In the US, early intervention is a federally funded program available in all states that provides in-home services to target individual therapy needs. Services determined as necessary may include occupational, physical, speech, and feeding therapy as well as infant parents may choose to augment with private therapies. The primary document for families enrolled in their EI program is the Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP). Ages 3-5 years. In the US, preschool services for children age three to five years with disabilities are implemented by the public school system. The number of hours vary, and services may be provided in a specialized school program, childcare setting or in the home. A multidisciplinary team including the parent/ caregivers develop an Individualized Education Program (IEP), which is the legal document that guides the program, outlines specific services, accommodations, specially designed instruction, and behavioral supports. It is reviewed annually or as requested by the parent/caregiver or school personnel. All
