Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


of durable medical equipment and positioning devices as needed (e.g., wheelchairs, walkers, bath chairs, orthotics, adaptive strollers). • For muscle tone abnormalities including hypertonia or dystonia, consider involving appropriate specialists ® to aid in management of baclofen, tizanidine, Botox , anti-parkinsonian medications, or orthopedic procedures. Fine motor dysfunction. Occupational therapy is recommended for difficulty with fine motor skills that affec t adaptive function such as feeding, grooming, dressing, and writing. Oral motor dysfunction should be assessed at each visit and clinical feeding evaluations and/or radiographic swallowing studies should be obtained for choking/gagging during feeds, poor weight gain, frequent respiratory illnesses, or feeding refusal that is not otherwise explained. Assuming that the child is safe to eat by mouth, feeding therapy (typically from an occupational or speech therapist) is recommended to help improve coordination or sensory-related feeding issues. Feeds can be thickened or chilled for safety. When feeding dysfunction is severe, a nasogastric (NG)-tube or gastric (G)-tube may be necessary. Communication issues. Consider evaluation for alternative means of communication (e.g., augmentative and alternative communication [AAC]) for individuals who have expressive language difficulties. An AAC evaluation can be completed by a speech-language pathologist who has expertise in the area. The evaluation will consider cognitive abilities and sensory impairments to determine the most appropriate form of communication. AAC devices can range from low-tech, such as picture exchange communication, to high-tech, such as voice- rather support optimal speech and language development. Neurobehavioral/Psychiatric Concerns Consultation with specialized services (developmental pediatric, psychiatric, psychological) for concerns about emotions and behavior may be helpful in guiding parents through management strategies and options. A specialized physician (developmental pediatrician or psychiatrist) may discuss prescription medication trials when necessary (e.g., for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder). Concerns about serious aggressive or destructive behavior can be addressed by a pediatric psychiatrist. Individuals may qualify and benefit from interventions used in treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders and autism spectrum disorder, including applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA interventions are science based and targeted to the individual's behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses. Strategies for supports and interventions are typically developed with the team led by a board-certified behavior analyst (BCBA). Surveillance To monitor existing manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 6 are recommended. Table 6. Smith-Magenis Syndrome: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Neurologic Monitoring of those w/seizures as clinically indicated 1 At each visit &
