Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


home nursing, other local resources), care Family/Community At each visit coordination, or follow-up genetic counseling if new questions arise (e.g., family planning). BHDS = Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome; CHL = conductive hearing loss; IEP = individualized educational program; Ig = immunoglobulin; OSA = obstructive sleep apnea; SMS = Smith-Magenis syndrome; SNHL = sensorineural hearing loss; TSH = thyroid-stimulating hormone 1. Assess for new manifestations such as seizures or changes in behavior. 2. Particularly in school-age children 3. Periodic neurodevelopmental assessments and/or developmental/behavioral pediatric consultation can be an important adjunct to the team evaluation. 4. Chaudhry et al 5. Symptoms include onset of neurologic deficits of lower extremities, gait disturbance, loss of bowel/bladder control, progressive deformities of feet, and/or spinal stenosis. Agents/Circumstances to Avoid Use of psychoactive medications in SMS often begins in childhood with use of sleep aids and trials of differen t psychoactive medications to reduce/manage maladaptive behavior, with mixed response; no single regimen has shown consistent efficacy, and adverse reactions to some medications have been reported [Laje et al 2010a]. Polypharmacy is also a concern. Additionally, weight gain is a concern with many antipsychotics. Lacking well-controlled trials, when starting a new medication, care should be taken to track sleep and behavior changes over several days/weeks to monitor for potential side effects (e.g., increased appetite, weight gain) and adverse reactions and/or to determine potential efficacy. Pharmacologic intervention should be considered on an individual basis with recognition that some medications may exacerbate sleep or behavioral issues and may cause weight gain. Pharmacogenetic testing panels to identify potential gene-drug interactions may aid in tailoring therapeutic strategies for the individual. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Mode of Inheritance Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a heterozygous de novo deletion at chromosome 17p11.2 that includes RAI1 or a heterozygous intragenic RAI1 pathogenic variant. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband 34 GeneReviews ® • Almost all individuals reported to date with SMS whose biological parents have undergone genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo 17p11.2 deletion including
