Bookshelf_NBK1310
KEYWORDS: sms, individuals, syndrome, deletion, sleep, age, smith-magenis, smith-magenis syndrome, pathogenic, reported, genetic, years, smith, affected, behaviors


the recurrence risk to sibs is likely less than 1% (recurrence risk attributable to the possibility of gonadal mosaicism in a parent) [Zori et al 1993; Smith et al 2006; Campbell et al 2014; Authors, personal observation]. • If a parent has a balanced structural chromosome rearrangement, the risk to sibs is increased and depends on the specific chromosome rearrangement and the possibility of other variables. • If a parent of the proband is affected and/or has the genetic alteration identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs is 50%. Offspring of a proband • The offspring of an individual with SMS are at a 50% risk of having SMS, assuming the other biological parent does not also have SMS. • Individuals (females) with SMS are known to have given birth to a child with SMS [Smith et al 2006, Acquaviva et al 2017]. • Fertility issues in SMS remain unstudied. Smith-Magenis Syndrome 35 Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has an SMS-related genetic alteration or chromosome rearrangement, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults from families in which a chromosome rearrangement has been identified. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing High-risk pregnancies. SMS usually occurs as the result of a de novo genetic alteration; however, rare instances of vertical transmission from an affected parent to a child, parental mosaicism, and complex familial chromosome rearrangements leading to deletion of 17p11.2 and SMS have been reported. • Once the SMS-related genetic alteration has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. • In the rare instance of a complex familial chromosome rearrangement, prenatal testing is possible for a pregnancy at increased risk using prenatal chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) and sequencing on fetal cells. Note: Although a visible interstitial deletion of chromosome 17p11.2 can be detected in all individuals with the common approximately 3.7-Mb deletion by a routine G-banded analysis provided the resolution is adequate (≥550 band), this approach is not recommended for prenatal testing because it is not uncommon for
