VA ECMO for extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation (ECPR) in adults with
KEYWORDS: cardiac, arrest, cardiac arrest, ecmo, ecpr, committee, refractory, refractory cardiac, procedure, ecmo ecpr, outcomes, heart, research, people, heart rhythm


What research is needed More research is needed on: • patient selection • survival • neurological outcomes • timing of the intervention. Why the committee made these recommendations Clinical trial evidence suggests that, compared with conventional CPR, using VA ECMO for ECPR improves the likelihood of surviving with good brain function in adults with refractory cardiac arrest with a shockable heart rhythm or reversible causes. So, it can be used for this group. Clinical trial evidence is inconsistent for VA ECMO for ECPR in adults with refractory cardiac arrest with a non-shockable heart rhythm or irreversible causes. So, it is uncertain who in this group could benefit from this intervention, and more research is needed. 2 Information about the procedure 2.1 Extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation (ECPR) is a type of CPR that uses a venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA ECMO) machine to help people when conventional CPR does not work. The goal of ECPR is to restore circulation and gas exchange, and to allow time for other interventions. 2.2 In VA ECMO, blood is taken from the venous system (usually from the femoral vein or the right atrium) and pumped through an oxygenator, where oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged. It is then returned to the arterial system, usually through the femoral or axillary artery, or the ascending aorta. People are usually given a continuous infusion of an anticoagulant, usually heparin, to prevent blood clotting in the extracorporeal system. ECPR is used when conventional CPR is unable to restore spontaneous circulation. 3 Committee discussion The condition 3.1 Cardiac arrest is when normal blood circulation suddenly stops because the heart does not contract effectively. The underlying abnormal cardiac rhythms most associated with cardiac arrest are ventricular fibrillation, asystole, pulseless electrical activity, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia. Cardiac arrest leads to loss of consciousness, respiratory failure and, ultimately, death. Refractory cardiac arrest is defined as the lack of return of spontaneous circulation after 30 minutes of appropriate CPR, in the absence of hypothermia. Current practice 3.2 Treatment for cardiac arrest includes immediate CPR to restore the circulation and prevent subsequent brain injury. Defibrillation may be used to treat ventricular fibrillation and pulseless ventricular tachycardia rhythms. Standard care may also include mechanical ventilation, and medicines such as adrenaline and amiodarone. Resuscitation Council UK's 2021 resuscitation guidelines contain guidance on basic and advanced life support. Unmet need 3.3 Mortality remains high and neurological outcomes from cardiac
