VA ECMO for extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation (ECPR) in adults with
KEYWORDS: cardiac, arrest, cardiac arrest, ecmo, ecpr, committee, refractory, refractory cardiac, procedure, ecmo ecpr, outcomes, heart, research, people, heart rhythm


such as adrenaline and amiodarone. Resuscitation Council UK's 2021 resuscitation guidelines contain guidance on basic and advanced life support. Unmet need 3.3 Mortality remains high and neurological outcomes from cardiac arrest remain poor, despite advances in cardiac arrest management and post-resuscitation care. Data from NHS England indicates that the ambulance service responds to around 40,000 people needing resuscitation each year. The evidence 3.4 NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and a detailed review of the evidence from 13 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 9 systematic reviews, 1 long-term randomised controlled trial follow-up study, 2 retrospective registry studies, and 1 single-centre retrospective study. It is presented in the summary of key evidence section in the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.5 The professional experts and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: survival with favourable neurological outcome and restoration of organ function. 3.6 The professional experts and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: bleeding, leg ischaemia, stroke, infection, renal failure and circuit-related complications. 3.7 Patient commentary was sought but none was received. Committee comments 3.8 VA ECMO for ECPR should only be done in centres specialising in using VA ECMO for ECPR in refractory cardiac arrest. 3.9 VA ECMO for ECPR in refractory cardiac arrest is available in only a few centres. 3.10 The committee was told that there is a significant resource use associated with VA ECMO for ECPR. 3.11 VA ECMO for ECPR in refractory cardiac arrest is primarily for people with ischaemic heart disease. 3.12 Clinical experts advised that a shorter time between cardiac arrest and starting VA ECMO was associated with better outcomes. 3.13 The committee was informed that outcomes were better in younger people with fewer comorbidities. 3.14 The recommendations in this guidance include the use of VA ECMO during pregnancy or in the postpartum period. 3.15 Some people who had VA ECMO have become organ donors, and their organs have been transplanted. Equality considerations 3.16 There are few centres that specialise in using VA ECMO for ECPR in the UK. So, people in more rural areas may not have access to this intervention. 3.17 Pregnancy and maternity are protected characteristics under the Equality Act (2010). Women, trans men and non-binary
