Alcoholic cardiomyopathy overview
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, alcoholic, alcoholic cardiomyopathy, heart, alcohol, heart failure, failure, cardiac, findings, changes, dilated, ekg, dilated cardiomyopathy, patients, associated


Overview Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a disease in which the excessive use of alcohol use damages the heart muscle causing heart failure. It is characterized by constellation of findings which includes a history of excessive alcohol intake, physical signs of alcohol abuse, heart failure, and supportive findings consistent with dilated cardiomyopathy. Pathophysiology Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a type of dilated cardiomyopathy. Both acute and chronic alcohol consumption, in excessive amounts, has been associated with adverse effects on the myocardium leading to non-ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. It accounts for 21-36% of all cases of non- ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy [1]. The maximum recommended dose of alcohol consumption in US men and women is 14 drinks and 7 drinks respectively. Consumption above these levels has been shown to be associated with the increased risk of alcoholic cardiomyopathy [2]. Pathogenesis of this condition is multi-factorial. Differentiating Alcoholic Cardiomyopathy from Other Diseases Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Therefore, it must be differentiated from other forms of DCM like idiopathic DCM, connective tissue disorders etc. Epidemiology and Demographics Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is more prevalent in middle aged males between the ages of 35-50. However, females may be more sensitive to cardiotoxic effects of alcohol, and may develop alcoholic cardiomyopathy with lesser amounts of alcohol use, than males.[3][4] Natural History, Complications and Prognosis In patients who continue to abuse alcohol, 4 year survival rate is 50%. On the contrary, abstinence is associated with regression of symptoms and overall improvement. Improvement in cardiac function evident from echocardiographic findings can also be noted. Diagnosis History and Symptoms 1/3 Symptoms presented by the occurrence of alcoholic cardiomyopathy are the result of the heart failure and usually occur after the disease has progressed to an advanced stage. Therefore the symptoms have a lot in common with other forms of cardiomyopathy. Symptoms may develop acutely or insidiously. Physical Examination Patients with alcoholic cardiomyopathy present with signs similar to that of heart failure. Most common findings include pedal edema, increased jugular venous pressure, pulmonary edema, and abnormal heart sounds. Laboratory Findings Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is majorly a clinical and echocardiographic diagnosis. There are no pathognomonic laboratory findings diagnostic of this disorder. Electrocardiogram Although many EKG changes are seen in patients with alcoholic cardiomyopathy, none of them are pathognomonic for this condition. However, acute alcoholic intoxication is also associated with pathological EKG changes. Common EKG abnormalities in alcoholic cardiomyopathy include non- specific ST-T changes and
