Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


ABSTRACT Neurohormonal systems play a critical role in cardiovascular homeostasis as well cardiovascular pathophysiology and diseases such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Neurohormonal activation is an important cause and therefore an important therapeutic target to treat cardiovascular diseases. It is well established that activation of hormonal systems such as the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system leads to increased cardiac injury and dysfunction which predispose to congestive heart failure. Obesity is also associated with neurohormonal activation and it is associated with multiple hemodynamic and metabolic factors which increase the risk of developing cardiovascular and renal diseases. In addition to direct hemodynamic effects, activation of hormonal systems may cause cardiovascular dysfunction through mechanisms including inflammation, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction. In this chapter we briefly discuss the hemodynamic effects of several key cardiovascular hormones as well as their non-hemodynamic effects with a focus on inflammation, oxidative stress, and metabolic regulation. INTRODUCTION Neurohumoral stimulation is a key finding in syndromes such as chronic heart failure (CHF), type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and chronic kidney disease (CKD). Activation of cardiovascular hormonal systems such as the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) translates into progression of the underlying disease and/or development of cardiovascular comorbidity associated with an increased risk for major adverse cardiac events. Figure 1 provides an overview of cardiovascular neurohormonal systems pertinent to clinical syndromes such as CHF, T2DM and CKD. Figure 1 Regulation of hormones pertinent to cardiovascular syndromes: Angiotensin (Ang), Brain-natriuretic peptide (BNP), Endothelin-1 (ET-1) (Solid arrow: stimulation, non-solid arrow: inhibition). Based on epidemiologic data there is evidence that plasma levels of norepinephrine [1] and brain-natriuretic peptide (BNP) [2] are markers for adverse patient outcomes in CHF. Landmark studies have shown that CHF patients benefit from antagonism of the renin-angiotensin system (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), beta-adrenergic blockade, and mineralocorticoid-receptor blockade. Treatment with the ACEI enalapril reduced mortality in asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction, moderate heart failure and advanced heart failure [3-5]. Based upon data from multiple randomized controlled trials, beta-blockers were associated with a 30% reduction in mortality and 40% reduction in hospitalizations in patients with class II and III heart failure [6]. In addition to beta-adrenergic and renin-angiotensin system antagonism, the addition of mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonists has conferred survival benefits in selected patients with CHF. Based upon data from the Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study (RALES) [7], Eplerenone Post Acute Myocardial Infarction Efficacy and Survival Study (EPHESUS)
