Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


and vascular injury, however, it is becoming evident that central/visceral obesity is the driving force behind many of these abnormalities [23-25]. In patients with CAD and normal BMI, central adiposity (measured by waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio) was associated with increased mortality [25]. Besides non-pharmacologic interventions such as increased physical activity and a low-caloric diet, medical interventions influencing appetite and metabolic rate are investigated. Neurohumoral mechanisms may offer additional insights into evolution towards T2DM. Among hypertensives treated either with losartan or atenolol in the LIFE study, the losartan-treated branch had a greater benefit in terms of T2DM prevention when compared to the atenolol-treated group while blood pressure control was equal [26]. Furthermore, existing evidence strongly suggests that angiotensin II can promote insulin resistance and obesity. Consequently, specific neurohumoral mechanisms such as the RAAS may be intimately involved in diabetes evolution and RAAS blockade may ameliorate the deleterious effect of hyperglycemia. Research issues remain to be solved regarding specific signal cascades involved in specific states of neurohumoral stimulation associated with CHF, CKD, or T2DM. A better understanding of neurohumoral compensatory responses to pathologies may help explain a number of clinical puzzles and provide novel and better therapeutic tools. Overall, in this chapter, pertinent cardiovascular hormone actions are being highlighted with regard to hemodynamic actions as documented by alterations of systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output as well as non-hemodynamic effects such as inflammation, oxidative stress, and metabolic alterations. ACTIONS OF CARDIOVASCULAR HORMONES As an overview, cardiovascular effects are summarized for epinephrine, norepinephrine, B-type natriuretic peptide, renin, angiotensin II, aldosterone, endothelin and estrogen in Table 1 . In addition to their hemodynamic effects, hormones affect the cardiovascular system through non-hemodynamic mechanisms including inflammation, oxidative stress, and metabolic effects. In this chapter, we will briefly discuss the hemodynamic and non-hemodynamic effects of several hormones that have significant cardiovascular effects. Chronic inflammation as a result of cytokine activation may be monitored systemically by measuring C-reactive protein (CRP) released from the liver upon cytokine stimulation, by interleukin-6. An elevated CRP directly translates into a worse cardiovascular prognosis both in patients after myocardial infarction [27], and in apparently healthy persons without prior myocardial infarction, but with elevated CRP > 2 mg/l [28]. Therefore, cardiovascular hormone actions affecting interleukin pathways as detected by an increased CRP need to be regarded with scrutiny. Oxidative stress adversely affects cell function either by direct effects on membranes, proteins or nucleic
