Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


affecting interleukin pathways as detected by an increased CRP need to be regarded with scrutiny. Oxidative stress adversely affects cell function either by direct effects on membranes, proteins or nucleic acids or, indirectly, by scavenging nitric oxide and thereby disturbing vasomotor function. Oxidative stress in disease states such as T2DM may primarily be the result of endogenous sources ( Figure 3 ). Enzymes such as NADPH oxidase, xanthine oxidase, and uncoupled nitric oxidase are able to release reactive oxygen species. In addition, reactive oxygen species may leak from mitochondria. In cardiovascular high-risk patients, in-vitro antioxidants like ascorbic acid or tocopherol do not translate into cardiovascular endpoint reduction [29]. Alternatively, therapies addressing sources of oxidative stress have become focus of interest aiming to control the production of reactive oxygen species and to increase nitric oxide bioavailability. Medical interventions that lower endogenous oxidative stress include ACE-inhibition [30], beta blockade [31], or the use of statins [32, 33]. Figure 3 Consequences of disease-related oxidative - stress regarding arteriolar tone. (Solid arrow: stimulation, non-solid arrow: inhibition.) Heart failure is associated with reduced cardiac energy production and impaired myocardial efficiency leading to an inability of the heart to meet the metabolic demands of the tissues. Neurohumoral activation in conjunction with perturbations in myocardial fatty acid and glucose metabolism lead to mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced myocardial ATP production [34]. AMP-kinase is considered as an energy-sensor in the heart and stimulates cardiac energy production though fatty acid oxidation and glucose utilization [35]. Several hormones including insulin and adipokines such as leptin and adiponectin have been linked to AMP-kinase activity and may be important targets for stimulating myocardial ATP production. T2DM is associated with oxidative stress. Macro and microvascular complications of T2DM are closely related to elevated levels of oxidative stress. A recent study has shown that NADPH oxidase, a critical enzyme in oxidative stress cascade, is upregulated in vessels in patients with T2DM [36]. Low levels of adiponectin stimulate the activity of NADPH resulting in higher levels of oxidative stress. Table 1 Effects of hormones on the circulatory system. View in own window Target SVR HR SNS Oxidative Stress CRP Epinephrine EC,VSMC (↑↓) ↑ ↑ (↑↓) ↑ Norepinephrine VSMC ↑ ↑ ↑ ↑ ↓ BNP EC,VSMC ↓ ↔ ↓ ND ND Angiotensin II EC,VSMC ↑ (↑↓) ↑ ↑ ↔ Aldosterone EC,VSMC ↑ ↔ ND ↑ ↔ Endothelin VSMC ↑ (↑↓) ↑ ↑ ↑ Estrogen EC ↓ ↔
