Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


↔ ↓ ND ND Angiotensin II EC,VSMC ↑ (↑↓) ↑ ↑ ↔ Aldosterone EC,VSMC ↑ ↔ ND ↑ ↔ Endothelin VSMC ↑ (↑↓) ↑ ↑ ↑ Estrogen EC ↓ ↔ ↓ ↓ ↑ SVR, systemic vascular resistance; HR, heart rate; SNS, sympathetic nervous system; CRP, C-reactive protein; EC, endothelial cells, VSMC, vascular smooth muscle cell. Autonomic changes are assessed via HR variability, sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity, or norepinephrine plasma levels. Oxidative stress is assessed by isoprostane levels in serum. The state of inflammation is assessed by CRP levels Catecholamines Epinephrine stimulates α, β-1 and β-2 receptors nonselectively resulting in variable cardiovascular effects. Epinephrine causes vasoconstriction via activation of α-1 receptors and venoconstriction via α-2 actions [37]. Through β-1 mediated actions, epinephrine increases both ventricular contractility and heart rate thereby increasing myocardial workload and oxygen consumption. However, epinephrine dose-dependently leads to vasodilation in skeletal muscle arterioles as a first-line response to stress. Endothelial cells emerge as a target for epinephrine as well [38]. In addition to well characterized chronotropic and inotropic effects on the heart, epinephrine bears a certain antioxidant potential by increasing both intra- and extracellular superoxide dismutase, a major oxidant-stress defense. Hydrogen peroxide, the product of the reaction catalyzed by superoxide dismutase is a reactive oxygen species that is readily disposed of by both catalase and reduced glutathione. The induction of superoxide dismutase by epinephrine, e.g. during vigorous exercise, increases the amount of hydrogen peroxide that, in turn, is a known activator of the endothelial isoform of nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). Increased amounts of nitric oxide promote vasodilation, thereby increasing blood flow, tissue oxygenation and blood-based antioxidative stress defense [39, 40]. In addition, epinephrine increases plasma CRP in a dose-dependent manner, probably via a receptor mechanism [41, 42]. Norepinephrine is an agonist of α and β-1 adrenergic receptors mediating vasoconstriction. Sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activation leads to norepinephrine spillover from sympathetic nerve terminals and from adrenal medullary cells. Norepinephrine exerts positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on the heart as well as increased peripheral vascular resistance, thereby increasing blood pressure. However, increases in blood pressure may attenuate chronotropy via a baroreflex mechanism. On the level of adipocytes, norepinephrine mediates body-temperature increasing effects [43]. Norepinephrine also increases oxidative stress [44]. Interventions aimed at reducing renal sympathetic activity have been evaluated for chronic treatment of several cardiovascular diseases. Denervation of the renal sympathetic nerves is a novel treatment strategy for reducing
