Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


Interventions aimed at reducing renal sympathetic activity have been evaluated for chronic treatment of several cardiovascular diseases. Denervation of the renal sympathetic nerves is a novel treatment strategy for reducing blood pressure in individuals with resistant hypertension [45]. The Symplicity HTN-2 Study was a randomized controlled trial which demonstrated renal denervation (RDN) to be superior to medical management for office blood pressure control measured at 6 months (32/12 mmHg reduction in RDN group versus 1/0mmHg in medical therapy group) [46]. In addition to reductions in blood pressure, RDN denervation was associated with significant reductions in levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines CRP and IL-6 [47]. RDN in addition to pulmonary vein isolation may also reduce the recurrence of atrial fibrillation [48]. However, the long-term efficacy of this procedure is unknown. The Symplicity HTN-3 Study was the first prospective, multi-center study to evaluate RDN therapy in 535 resistant hypertensive patients from 88 centers in the US [49]. This study failed to demonstrate a significant reduction of office systolic blood pressure or 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure compared to sham controls. The debate over the effectiveness of this procedure continues and there are ongoing clinical trials evaluating several disease outcomes using this technique. Additionally, new procedures such as implantation of carotid sinus stimulators are being evaluated for treatment of resistant hypertension [50] and heart failure [51]. It has been shown that in T2DM there is an activation of sympathetic system [52]. Furthermore, insulin resistance improves following renal denervation for the treatment of resistant hypertension [53-55]. The effect of renal sympathetic denervation was evaluated in a sub-study of the Symplicity HTN-2 trial in 37 patients and 13 controls. Three months after renal denervation, fasting glucose, insulin, C-peptide levels and HbA1c were significantly reduced. Oral glucose tolerance and the sensitivity to insulin measured by the HOMA-IR (homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance) were improved as well [46]. Further research is needed to elucidate the mechanism by which sympathetic activation promotes insulin resistance. NATRIURETIC PEPTIDES The natriuretic peptides have several important physiologic effects which benefit the heart, vasculature, and kidneys to maintain cardiovascular homeostasis. This peptide system is a family of at least 3 members: atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), and C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) that exert local and humoral effects on blood pressure and extracellular body-fluid volume via vasodilation and natriuresis [56]. BNP is a key cardiovascular peptide hormone that is derived mainly from the left
