Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


local and humoral effects on blood pressure and extracellular body-fluid volume via vasodilation and natriuresis [56]. BNP is a key cardiovascular peptide hormone that is derived mainly from the left ventricle upon increased wall stress [57]. BNP binds to Natriuretic Peptide Receptors (NPR A–C) evoking an intracellular increase of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), a second messenger that is shared by substances like nitric oxide. NPR´s are found in vascular smooth muscle cells, endothelial cells, heart, adrenal gland, and in the kidney. Cleavage of BNP is widely maintained by neutral endopeptidases. BNP release is more pronounced in acute heart failure [58], and acute myocardial infarction [59]. For differentiating causes of dyspnea, BNP measurement was shown to be beneficial in the emergency setting [60]. In CHF, therapy may be optimized by serial BNP measurements aiming for the lowest level possible [61, 62]. Although BNP lowers blood pressure due to less systemic vascular resistance and cardiac filling pressures, no reflex increase of sympathetic activation occurs with resulting increases of heart rate. This is explained by a BNP-induced resetting of the baroreflex, by an antisympathetic mechanism, or both [63]. BNP promotes peripheral arteriolar vasodilation dose–dependently, thereby reducing cardiac filling pressures [64]. BNP antagonizes aldosterone [65] and blunts renin-angiotensin-aldosterone activation following furosemide in heart failure [66]. Plasma BNP can be a useful diagnostic tool in heart failure and can correlate with the NYHA class of dyspnea in CHF [67]. Nesiritide, a recombinant form of BNP, is approved for the treatment of acute heart failure. However, it has not been recommended for routine use in treatment of acute heart failure exacerbations, based on randomized controlled trial data demonstrating no difference in the rate of death or rehospitalization with nesiritide compared with placebo and its association with an increased risk of hypotension [68] Recently, inhibition of the neutral endopeptidase, neprilysin, in combination with the ARB (valsartan) was demonstrated to reduce the risk of death and hospitalization in patients with class II-IV CHF compared to patients on valsartan alone [69]. This may be related to beneficial effects of inhibiting neprilysin, subsequently preventing degradation of beneficial vasoactive peptides such as BNP and bradykinin which counter vasoconstriction, sodium retention and adverse myocardial remodeling in CHF. RENIN-ANGIOTENSIN SYSTEM Renin, an aspartyl protease synthesized by the precursor molecule (pro) renin, is able to cleave angiotensinogen to form angiotensin I at the origin of the angiotensin peptide cascade. Renin is released from renal
