Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


protease synthesized by the precursor molecule (pro) renin, is able to cleave angiotensinogen to form angiotensin I at the origin of the angiotensin peptide cascade. Renin is released from renal juxtaglomerular cells into the circulation by SNS activation (via β-1 receptor agonism), dopamine, and low sodium concentrations. In addition, renin expression is inhibited by vitamin-D receptor activation [70]. Besides catalyzing angiotensin I formation, both (pro) renin and renin exert biological effects via receptors within the kidneys, and a mitogen activated protein-kinase (MAPK) pathway [71]. Direct renin inhibition with Aliskiren has been evaluated as a therapy for hypertension and in CHF. Treatment with ACEIs results in increased plasma renin activity potentially increasing angiotensin II production via non-ACE pathways. Theoretically, direct inhibition of renin would inhibit cleavage of angiotensinogen to form angiotensin I, the rate-limiting step in the RAAS. This would ultimately blunt the increase in renin release observed with blockade of angiotensin II with ACEIs or ARBs allowing for more complete blockade of the RAAS. In addition to ACEIs or ARBs, more comprehensive RAAS blockade can be achieved that allows for a more effective attenuation of proteinuria in chronic renal insufficiency both in an animal model [60] and in T2DM patients [72]. As one underlying reason, direct renin inhibition preserves renal podocyte function in T2DM [73]. While Aliskiren has been shown to lower blood pressure and reduce left ventricular hypertrophy, studies of its effectiveness in patients with CHF have demonstrated conflicting results [74-76]. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstricting octapeptide cleaved from angiotensin I by ACE-1. Neutral endopeptidases favor the formation of angiotensin 1-7 and angiotensin 1-5. Both molecules exert ACE inhibition. In addition, angiotensin 1-7 mediates vasodilation through a receptor mechanism counteracting vasoconstriction mediated by angiotensin II [77, 78]. Angiotensin II has been linked to cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis. Thus inhibiting substrate formation or directly blocking its receptor, the angiotensin II type 1 receptor, has become a hallmark of treatment in cardiovascular medicine. Angiotensin II effects including increased plasma CRP levels may be due to local activation of endothelin [79]. Angiotensin increases oxidative stress [44]. Central angiotensin II is considered to be a potent activator of the SNS [80]. Besides hypertension, blockade of angiotensin II either with ACEIs or ARBs, has become a corner-stone therapy in CHF, CAD, diabetes mellitus, and in CKD. In CKD, both ACEI and ARB monotherapy were demonstrated to be beneficial in the “Ongoing Telmisartan Alone
