Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


has become a corner-stone therapy in CHF, CAD, diabetes mellitus, and in CKD. In CKD, both ACEI and ARB monotherapy were demonstrated to be beneficial in the “Ongoing Telmisartan Alone and in Combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial“(ONTARGET). However, combination therapy with ACEI and ARB were not superior to either monotherapy in CKD patients without proteinuria of more than 1 g per day [81]. ALDOSTERONE Aldosterone is the major human mineralocorticoid produced in the adrenal cortex. In certain conditions, it may also be locally released in both heart and vasculature [82, 83] affecting myocytes in a paracrine way. The adrenal secretion of aldosterone is stimulated mainly by angiotensin II, by potassium and, less potently, by corticotropin. An increase in serum potassium by 0.1mmol/L can elevate aldosterone by 35%, whereas a fall in serum potassium of 0.3 mmol/L can reduce plasma aldosterone by 46% [84, 85]. Chronically increased plasma corticotropin concentrations as in patients with congestive heart failure, may increase aldosterone secretion [86]. Aldosterone increases blood pressure via increased sodium reabsorption. ANP, BNP, and dopamine inhibit aldosterone secretion. Aldosterone binds to the cytoplasmic and transmembrane mineralocorticoid receptor inducing both genomic and non-genomic actions in targets like endothelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells, the kidney, colon, salivary glands, heart, and the brain [87]. Novel nonepithelial effects of aldosterone are mediated via a second messenger system which involves activation of the sodium/hydrogen antiporter [88]. Aldosterone regulates renal tubular sodium absorption and transcription of sodium-potassium ATPase. After a few days of extracellular fluid expansion by increased aldosterone levels, the individual is protected from continuous fluid expansion through an “escape” mechanism which denotes attaining a new sodium balance and the formation of a new steady state. Aldosterone-mediated effects include increased oxidative stress, apoptosis, cardiac fibrosis, as well as left-ventricular hypertrophy [89]. CRP is not affected by mineralocorticoid-receptor blockade [90]. Randomized clinical trials demonstrated aldosterone to play an important role in CHF. In RALES, treatment with the aldosterone antagonist spironolactone was shown to reduce mortality by 30% without affecting blood pressure in patients with NYHA class III and IV [7]. Similar positive outcome effects have been observed with eplerenone supplementation of standard therapy in patients with systolic heart failure and mild symptoms (NYHA class II) [9]. Likewise, for post-myocardial-infarction heart failure patients in EPHESUS, the more specific aldosterone antagonist eplerenone reduced total mortality by 26% [8]. In both studies, the CHF patients were receiving otherwise optimal
