Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


Likewise, for post-myocardial-infarction heart failure patients in EPHESUS, the more specific aldosterone antagonist eplerenone reduced total mortality by 26% [8]. In both studies, the CHF patients were receiving otherwise optimal medications including aspirin, statin, beta-blocker, ACEIs or ARBs as well as a reperfusion strategy within 14 days after the index acute coronary event in EPHESUS. Hypothetically, mineralocorticoid-receptor blockade helps prevent cardiac sudden death either by elevating potassium concentrations, thereby reducing the risk for incessant ventricular arrhythmias, or via direct effects on cardiac remodeling. Of note, mineralocorticoid receptor blockade had been shown to be efficacious in clinical trials in patients with hypertension and heart failure in spite of low/low normal plasma aldosterone [91]. ENDOTHELIN The vasculature, namely the endothelium, is able to release the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1, thus determining vascular tone along with endothelial vasodilators such as nitric oxide, hyperpolarizing factor, and prostacyclin. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is the most widely distributed member of the endothelin family ( Figure 4 ). ET-1 generation depends on endopeptidase and endothelin converting enzyme (ECE) activity. Neutral endopeptidases also catalyze the generation of the vasodilator Angiotensin 1-7 as well as the cleavage of BNP, whereas ECE is activated by angiotensin II, thus demonstrating the close relationship between these vasoconstrictors. In addition to vasoconstriction, ET-1 is sympatho-excitatory in the central nervous system [92]. Moreover, ET-1 supports angiotensin 2-induced aldosterone activation [93]. Finally, endothelin-1 promotes interleukin-6 and CRP activation [94]. Figure 4 Regulation of Endothelin-1 synthesis, consequences of endothelin. (Solid arrow: stimulation, non-solid arrow: inhibition.) SEX HORMONES Acknowledging that gender differences in longevity and in the onset of cardiovascular disease may be due to sex hormone differences, hormone replacement therapy has been considered one option for women with early menopause either naturally occurring or surgically induced. In hysterectomized women estrogen therapy has been demonstrated to be more favorable in terms of lipid state than combined estrogen/progestin hormone substitution. However, estrogen therapy increased CRP as shown in the PEPI trial [95]. No effect has been found with regard to hemodynamics at rest [96]. Randomized clinical trials with postmenopausal women using either a combined hormone replacement therapy or unopposed estrogen replacement therapy both for secondary [97] and for primary [98] prevention of myocardial infarction were stopped prematurely due to the worse outcome in the treatment groups. However, the estrogen-alone hormone-replacement-therapy arm of the Women Health Initiative (hysterectomized women) showed promising data [99]. One of the theories behind the lack of protective effect
