Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


in the treatment groups. However, the estrogen-alone hormone-replacement-therapy arm of the Women Health Initiative (hysterectomized women) showed promising data [99]. One of the theories behind the lack of protective effect of estrogen was timing of hormonal replacement. The average age in women in the WHI was 62 years, while the average menopause age in the U.S. is 51 years. Recently, the KEEPS study, where estradiol patches were administrated to postmenopausal women from the beginning of menopause, failed to show improvement in endothelial function compared to placebo [100]. At present, current guidelines restricting hormone replacement therapy to moderate or severe postmenopausal symptoms, will not be extended to primary or secondary cardiovascular protection [101]. More research is needed to elucidate the discrepancy observed with estrogen replacement between observational and randomized trials. Testosterone can be converted peripherally and in fatty tissue to estradiol via aromatase which is especially important because of the current obesity epidemic. Obese men are often found to be type 2 diabetics and may concomitantly suffer from testosterone deficiency syndrome [102, 103]. As with many things, it is hard to find Aristotle’s middle, i.e. which testosterone level would be best for each individual patient. Testosterone replacement use has dramatically increased among men in the last few years [104]. Although testosterone exhibits many beneficial metabolic effect and as well increases in muscle strength. A clinical trial in which testosterone was given to elderly man was stopped early due to higher incidence of cardiovascular diseases [105]. A recent retrospective study by Vigen et al. showed that testosterone replacement in men with many comorbidities including CAD (more than 80%), prior myocardial infarction (20%), diabetes mellitus (50%), and others, was associated with increases in all cause-mortality [106]. These studies had major flaws [107]. Elucidating the mechanism(s) by which testosterone promotes cardiovascular diseases in some patients will shed light on advancing our understanding of the complex actions of testosterone in nonreproductive organs and exploit the beneficial effects of testosterone while avoiding its undesirable cardiovascular side effects. Of note, some mechanisms contributing to thrombosis have been reported by Virchow as the triad: hypercoagulability, hemodynamic changes (stasis, turbulence), and endothelial dysfunction/injury. Testosterone replacement therapy can increase blood viscosity. On the other hand, even if platelet counts are very low (which may not reflect platelet functionality), one can still develop a myocardial infarction [108], underscoring that in each individual patient with various comorbidities, one or more mechanism/s of
