Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


very low (which may not reflect platelet functionality), one can still develop a myocardial infarction [108], underscoring that in each individual patient with various comorbidities, one or more mechanism/s of thrombosis may be in effect. Similarly, both growth hormone excess and growth hormone deficiency may put individuals having either of these conditions at a higher cardiovascular risk [109]. VASOPRESSIN Vasopressin, sometimes called antidiuretic hormone, is a hormone produced in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus and released by the posterior pituitary. It has powerful effects to regulate plasma osmolality. Vasopressin is also one of the most potent vasoconstrictors in the body, acting via activation of V1 receptors located on vascular smooth muscle cells. Vasopressin’s main function is to maintain plasma osmolality by increasing the permeability of the renal collecting tubules and collecting ducts to water, increasing body fluid volume [110]. Vasopressin is stimulated by hyperosmolality, hypovolemia, and hypotension. Vasopressin, due to its powerful vasoconstrictor action, has been used successfully in the setting of septic shock [111]. ADIPOKINES Adipose tissue is now recognized as a biologically active hormonal system which interacts with both the brain and heart. Adipokines can exert either pro- or anti-inflammatory effects. Tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) is the classic pro-inflammatory cytokine and it has been associated with obesity and the metabolic syndrome [112, 113]. TNF-α levels predict the risk of coronary artery disease and heart failure and increased circulating levels are associated with mortality [114, 115]. One of the adipokines that is felt to be anti-inflammatory and therefore potentially beneficial is adiponectin. Adiponectin inhibits nuclear factor k-β activity after treatment with TNF-α, promotes M2 macrophage polarization, and increases clearance of apoptotic cells, thus exhibiting multiple anti-inflammatory effects [116-118]. Although adiponectin is produced by adipose tissue, there is an inverse relationship of its plasma levels and BMI in humans. Low plasma levels of adiponectin are associated with obesity, diabetes, and coronary artery disease and the risk for myocardial infarction and increased levels are associated with reduced cardiovascular risk. Leptin is a hormone secreted by adipose tissue that has powerful effects to regulate body weight by reducing appetite and increasing metabolic activity via activation of the SNS. Leptin appears to prevent lipotoxic injury to the heart by increasing fatty acid oxidation [119, 120]. Stimulation of myocardial fatty acid oxidation and increased myocardial glucose utilization are proposed beneficial effects of leptin in settings of myocardial distress such as
