Hormones of the Cardiovascular System
KEYWORDS: heart, heart failure, failure, patients, cardiovascular, angiotensin, effects, myocardial, aldosterone, activation, disease, renal, study, stress, increased


increasing fatty acid oxidation [119, 120]. Stimulation of myocardial fatty acid oxidation and increased myocardial glucose utilization are proposed beneficial effects of leptin in settings of myocardial distress such as myocardial infarction or CHF [121]. Studies in rodent models have demonstrated that leptin’s beneficial metabolic effects may be mediated by augmented AMP-kinase activity [122, 123]. Leptin levels are elevated in patients with acute systolic heart failure. Animal studies have demonstrated that cardiac-specific deletion of the leptin receptor exacerbates myocardial injury in experimental myocardial infarction and worsened heart failure in cardiotoxic states [122, 123]. Summary Cardiovascular hormones play an important role in homeostatic processes in the healthy organism and have become therapeutic targets in clinical syndromes such as CHF, coronary artery disease, CKD, or T2DM. Each of these clinical syndromes is characterized by specific states of neurohumoral stimulation arising from attempts to counteract pathophysiologic dysregulations. In everyday medicine, combinations of the aforementioned clinical entities/syndromes are often encountered. Even though therapies targeting hormone effects may not cure the underlying disease, exaggerated hemodynamic and non-hemodynamic hormone effects may be attenuated, thereby improving prognosis and/or quality of life. Non-hemodynamic consequences of states of neurohumoral stimulation like inflammation and oxidative stress contribute to cardiac fibrosis and left ventricular hypertrophy. This, in turn, may lead to electrical instability and susceptibility for possibly life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. Neurohumoral blockade may primarily achieve a more stable and economic cell metabolism by changes in oxygen demand, in prevalent oxidative stress and inflammation. This, in turn, may slow down disease evolution. However, the exact state of neurohumoral stimulation depends greatly on the underlying pathology. For both CKD [11] and CHF [124], neurohumoral activation may represent a final common pathophysiologic pathway. Therapies designed to attenuate neurohumoral activation in CHF actually counteract a vicious cycle, because the consequences of neurohumoral stimulation include increased oxidative stress, that in turn may aggravate neurohumoral stimulation [125]. Hormonal mechanisms promoting chronic inflammation [126] and oxidative stress [127] are involved in coronary artery disease progression References 1. Cohn JN, Levine TB, Olivari MT, Garberg V, Lura D, Francis GS et al . Plasma norepinephrine as a guide to prognosis in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. N Engl J Med 1984; 311: 819-823. 2. Suzuki S, Yoshimura M, Nakayama M, Mizuno Y, Harada E, Ito T et al . Plasma level of B-type natriuretic peptide as a prognostic marker after acute myocardial infarction: a long-term follow-up analysis. Circulation
