Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


Rheumatic fever is a nonsuppurative, acute inflammatory complication of group A streptococcal pharyngeal infection, causing combinations of arthritis, carditis, subcutaneous nodules, erythema marginatum, and chorea. Diagnosis is based on applying the modified Jones criteria to information gleaned from history, examination, and laboratory testing. Treatment includes aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids during severe carditis, and antimicrobials to eradicate residual streptococcal infection and prevent reinfection. A first episode of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) can occur at any age but occurs most often between 5 years and 15 years of age, which are the peak years of age for streptococcal pharyngitis. ARF is uncommon before 3 years and after 21 years. However, preceding symptomatic pharyngitis is recognized in only about two thirds of patients with ARF. Worldwide, incidence ranges from 8 to 51/100,000 (1), with lowest rates (< 10/100,000) in North America and Western Europe and highest rates (> 10/100,000) in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, Australia, and New Zealand (2, 3, 4, 5). The attack rate (percentage of patients with untreated group A streptococcal pharyngitis who develop ARF) varies from < 1.0 to 3.0%. Higher attack rates occur with certain streptococcal M protein serotypes and a stronger host immune response (likely resulting from as-yet-uncharacterized genetic tendencies). In patients with a prior episode of ARF, the rate of recurrence of ARF in untreated group A streptococcal pharyngitis approaches 50%, underscoring the importance of long-term antistreptococcal prophylaxis. Incidence has declined in most resource-rich countries but remains high in resource-poor parts of the world, especially parts with aboriginal or native populations, such as Alaskan Native, Canadian Inuit, Native American, Australian Aboriginal, and Maori New Zealander, where incidence is as high as 50 to 250/100,000. However, the continued occurrence in the United States of local outbreaks of ARF suggest that more rheumatogenic strains of streptococci are still present in the United States. The prevalence of chronic rheumatic heart disease is uncertain because criteria are not standardized and autopsy is not done routinely, but it is estimated that worldwide there are ≥ 39 million patients with rheumatic heart disease, resulting in about 300,000 deaths annually. Pearls & Pitfalls Patients who have had rheumatic fever have about a 50% likelihood of having a recurrence if they have another episode of group A streptococcal pharyngitis that is untreated. Pathophysiology of Rheumatic Fever Group A streptococcal (GAS) pharyngitis is the etiologic precursor of ARF, but host
