Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


if they have another episode of group A streptococcal pharyngitis that is untreated. Pathophysiology of Rheumatic Fever Group A streptococcal (GAS) pharyngitis is the etiologic precursor of ARF, but host and environmental factors are important. GAS M proteins share epitopes (antigenic-determinant sites that are recognized by antibodies) with proteins found in synovium, heart muscle, and heart valve, suggesting that molecular mimicry by GAS antigens from rheumatogenic strains contributes to the arthritis, carditis, and valvular damage. Genetic host risk factors include the D8/17 B-cell antigen and certain class II histocompatibility antigens. Undernutrition, overcrowding, and lower socioeconomic status predispose to streptococcal infections and subsequent episodes of rheumatic fever. Remarkably, although GAS infections of both the pharynx and of skin and soft-tissue structures, bones or joints, lungs, and bloodstream may cause poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis, nonpharyngitis GAS infections do not lead to ARF. The reason for this distinct difference in complications resulting from infection by the same organism is not well understood. The joints, heart, skin, and central nervous system (CNS) are most often affected. Pathology varies by site. Joints Joint involvement manifests as nonspecific synovial inflammation, which if biopsied sometimes shows small foci resembling Aschoff bodies (granulomatous collections of leukocytes, myocytes, and interstitial collagen). Unlike the cardiac findings, however, the abnormalities of the joints are not chronic and do not leave scarring or residual abnormalities ("ARF licks the joints but bites the heart"). Heart Cardiac involvement manifests as carditis, typically affecting the heart from the inside out, ie, valves and endocardium, then myocardium, and finally pericardium. It is sometimes followed years to decades later by chronic rheumatic heart disease, primarily manifested by valvular stenosis, but also sometimes by regurgitation, arrhythmias, and ventricular dysfunction. In acute rheumatic fever, Aschoff bodies often develop in the myocardium and other parts of the heart. Fibrinous nonspecific pericarditis, sometimes with effusion, occurs only in patients with endocardial inflammation and usually subsides without permanent damage. Characteristic and potentially dangerous valve changes may occur. Acute interstitial valvulitis may cause valvular edema. In chronic rheumatic heart disease, valve thickening, fusion, and retraction or other destruction of leaflets and cusps may occur, leading to stenosis or insufficiency. Similarly, chordae tendineae can shorten, thicken, or fuse, worsening regurgitation of damaged valves or causing regurgitation of an otherwise unaffected valve. Dilation of valve rings may also cause regurgitation. Rheumatic valvular disease most commonly involves the mitral and aortic valves. The tricuspid and pulmonic valves are
