Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


of an otherwise unaffected valve. Dilation of valve rings may also cause regurgitation. Rheumatic valvular disease most commonly involves the mitral and aortic valves. The tricuspid and pulmonic valves are seldom if ever affected in isolation. In acute rheumatic fever, the most common cardiac manifestations are Mitral regurgitation Pericarditis Sometimes aortic regurgitation In chronic rheumatic heart disease, the most common cardiac manifestations are Mitral stenosis Aortic regurgitation (often with some degree of stenosis) Perhaps tricuspid regurgitation (often along with mitral stenosis) Skin Subcutaneous nodules appear indistinguishable from those of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), but biopsy shows features resembling Aschoff bodies. Erythema marginatum differs histologically from other skin lesions with similar macroscopic appearance, eg, the rash of systemic JIA, immunoglobulin A–associated vasculitis (formerly called Henoch-Schönlein purpura), erythema chronicum migrans, and erythema multiforme. Perivascular neutrophilic and mononuclear infiltrates of the dermis occur. CNS Sydenham chorea, the form of chorea that occurs with ARF, manifests in the CNS as hyperperfusion and increased metabolism in the basal ganglia. Increased levels of antineuronal antibodies have also been shown. Symptoms and Signs of Rheumatic Fever An initial episode of symptoms of rheumatic fever occurs typically about 2 to 3 weeks after the streptococcal infection. Manifestations typically involve some combination of the joints, heart, skin, and CNS (1). Joints Migratory polyarthritis is the most common manifestation of ARF, occurring in about 35 to 66% of children; it is often accompanied by fever. "Migratory" means the arthritis appears in 1 or a few joints, resolves but then appears in others, thus seeming to move from 1 joint to another. Occasionally monarthritis occurs in high-risk indigenous populations (eg, in Australia, India, and Fiji) but very rarely in the United States. Joints become extremely painful and tender; these symptoms are often out of proportion to the modest warmth and swelling present on examination (this is in contrast to the arthritis of Lyme disease, in which the examination findings tend to be more severe than the symptoms). Ankles, knees, elbows, and wrists are usually involved. Shoulders, hips, and small joints of the hands and feet also may be involved but almost never alone. If vertebral joints are affected, another disorder should be suspected. Arthralgia-like symptoms may be due to nonspecific myalgia or tenodynia in the periarticular zone; tenosynovitis may develop at the site of muscle insertions. Joint pain and fever usually subside within 2 weeks and seldom last > 1 month.
