Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


chorea without carditis recurs in patients who had chorea without carditis initially. Diagnosis of Rheumatic Fever Modified Jones criteria (for initial diagnosis) Testing for group A streptococcal (GAS) infection (culture, rapid strep test, or antistreptolysin O and anti-DNase B titers) ECG Echocardiography with Doppler Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) level Diagnosis of a first episode of ARF is based on the modified Jones criteria (1) (see table Modified Jones Criteria for a First Episode of Acute Rheumatic Fever (ARF)*); 2 major criteria or 1 major criterion and 2 minor criteria are required, each along with evidence of preceding GAS infection. Sydenham chorea alone (ie, without minor criteria) fulfills diagnostic criteria if other causes of movement disorder are ruled out. The modified Jones criteria were designed for the evaluation of ARF rather than for a possible recurrence. However, if patients have a reliable past history of ARF or rheumatic heart disease and also have documented GAS infection, the criteria may be used to establish the presence of a recurrence. A preceding GAS infection is suggested by a recent history of pharyngitis and is confirmed by 1 or more of the following: Positive throat culture Increased or preferably rising antistreptolysin O titer Positive rapid GAS antigen test in a child with clinical manifestations suggestive of streptococcal pharyngitis Recent scarlet fever is highly suggestive. Throat cultures and rapid strep antigen tests are often negative by the time ARF manifests, whereas titers of antistreptolysin O and anti-DNase B typically peak 3 to 6 weeks after GAS pharyngitis. About 80% of children with ARF have a significantly elevated antistreptolysin O titer; if an anti-DNase B antibody level is also done, the percentage with confirmed GAS infection is higher, especially if acute and convalescent samples are tested. Joint aspiration may be needed to exclude other causes of arthritis (eg, infection). The joint fluid is usually cloudy and yellow, with an elevated white blood cell (WBC) count composed primarily of neutrophils; culture is negative. Complement levels are usually normal or slightly decreased, compared with decreased levels in other inflammatory arthritides. ECG is done during the initial evaluation. Serum cardiac marker levels are obtained; normal cardiac troponin I levels exclude prominent myocardial damage. ECG abnormalities such as PR prolongation do not correlate with other evidence of carditis. Only 35% of children with ARF have a prolonged PR 7/14 interval; higher-degree heart block may occur but
