Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


such as PR prolongation do not correlate with other evidence of carditis. Only 35% of children with ARF have a prolonged PR 7/14 interval; higher-degree heart block may occur but is uncommon. Other ECG abnormalities may be due to pericarditis, enlargement of ventricles or atria, or arrhythmias. Echocardiography can detect evidence of carditis even in patients without apparent murmurs and is recommended for all patients with confirmed or suspected ARF. Echocardiography is also used to detect subclinical carditis in patients with apparently isolated Sydenham chorea and to monitor the status of patients with recurrences of carditis or chronic rheumatic heart disease. However, not all echocardiographic abnormalities represent rheumatic carditis; isolated trivial valvar regurgitation or trivial pericardial effusion may be a nonspecific finding. To maintain specificity, echocardiographic and Doppler results should meet the following criteria (1) for acute rheumatic carditis: Doppler flow criteria: Pathologic mitral regurgitation: Must be seen in at least 2 views, and have a jet length ≥ 2 cm in at least 1 view, a peak velocity of > 3 m/second, and a pansystolic jet in at least 1 envelope Pathologic aortic regurgitation: Must be seen in at least 2 views, and have a jet length ≥ 1 cm in at least 1 view, a peak velocity of > 3 m/second, and a pandiastolic jet in at least 1 envelope Echocardiographic morphologic criteria: Pathologic mitral valve morphologic changes include annular dilation, chordal elongation or rupture with flail leaflet, anterior (or less commonly posterior) leaflet tip prolapse, or beading/nodularity of leaflet tips. Pathologic aortic valve morphologic changes include irregular or focal leaflet thickening, coaptation defect, restricted leaflet motion, or leaflet prolapse. Chest x-rays are not routinely done but can detect cardiomegaly, a common manifestation of carditis in ARF. Biopsy of a subcutaneous nodule can aid in early diagnosis, especially when other major clinical manifestations are absent. ESR and serum CRP are sensitive but not specific. The ESR is typically > 60 mm/hour. CRP is typically > 3 mg/dL (> 30 mg/L) and often > 7 mg/dL (> 70 mg/L); because it rises and falls faster than ESR, a normal CRP may confirm that inflammation is resolving in a patient with prolonged ESR elevation after acute symptoms have subsided. In the absence of carditis, ESR usually returns to normal within 3 months. Evidence of acute inflammation, including ESR, usually subsides within 5 months in uncomplicated 9 carditis. The WBC count
