Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


the absence of carditis, ESR usually returns to normal within 3 months. Evidence of acute inflammation, including ESR, usually subsides within 5 months in uncomplicated 9 carditis. The WBC count reaches 12,000 to 20,000/mcL (12 to 20 × 10 /L) and may go higher with corticosteroid therapy. The differential diagnosis includes JIA (especially systemic JIA and, less so, polyarticular JIA), Lyme disease, reactive arthritis, arthropathy of sickle cell disease, leukemia or other cancer, systemic lupus erythematosus, embolic bacterial endocarditis, serum sickness, Kawasaki disease, drug reactions, and gonococcal arthritis. These are frequently distinguished by history or specific laboratory tests. The 8/14 absence of an antecedent GAS infection, the diurnal variation of the fever, evanescent rash, and prolonged symptomatic joint inflammation usually distinguish systemic JIA from ARF. TABLE Modified Jones Criteria for a First Episode of Acute Rheumatic Fever (ARF)* Manifestations Specific Finding Carditis† Chorea Major Erythema marginatum Polyarthritis Subcutaneous nodules Polyarthralgia‡ Elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (> 60 mm/hour) or C-reactive protein (> Minor 30 mg/L [> 285.7 nmol/L]) Fever (≥ 38.5° C) Prolonged PR interval (on ECG)§ 9/14 * Diagnosis of ARF requires 2 major or 1 major and 2 minor manifestations and evidence of group A streptococcal infection (elevated or rising antistreptococcal antibody titer [eg, antistreptolysin O, anti-DNase B], positive throat culture, or positive rapid antigen test in a child with clinical manifestations suggestive of streptococcal pharyngitis). † Carditis can be clinical and/or subclinical. Subclinical carditis is defined by strict echocardiographic criteria. ‡ Polyarthralgia is not used for diagnosis if polyarthritis is a major criterion for the patient. § PR interval is adjusted for age and is not used for diagnosis if carditis is a major criterion for the patient. Treatment of Rheumatic Fever Antibiotics Aspirin Sometimes corticosteroids The primary goals of rheumatic fever treatment are eradication of group A streptococcal infection, relief of acute symptoms, suppression of inflammation, and prophylaxis against future infection to prevent recurrent heart disease. For general management, patients should limit their activities if they have symptoms of arthritis, chorea, or heart failure. In the absence of carditis, no physical restrictions are needed after the initial episode subsides. In asymptomatic patients with carditis, strict bed rest has no proven value, despite its traditional usage. The management of chronic cardiac valvular disease and heart failure is discussed elsewhere. Antibiotic treatment Although poststreptococcal inflammation is well developed by the time ARF is detected, a 10-day course of oral
