Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


of chronic cardiac valvular disease and heart failure is discussed elsewhere. Antibiotic treatment Although poststreptococcal inflammation is well developed by the time ARF is detected, a 10-day course of oral penicillin or amoxicillin, or a single injection of penicillin G benzathine, is used to eradicate any lingering organisms and prevent reinfection. For specific regimens, see treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis. Antibiotic prophylaxis is continued as described below. Aspirin and other anti-inflammatory medications Aspirin controls fever and pain and should be given to all patients with arthritis and/or mild carditis. Although aspirin has been used for many decades, there are surprisingly few data from controlled trials to define the optimal dosing schedule. Most experts would give children and adolescents 15 to 25 mg/kg orally 4 times a day (to a maximum daily dose of 4 to 6 g) for 2 to 4 weeks and then taper the dose over another 4 weeks. Symptomatic ARF responds dramatically to aspirin. If no improvement is seen after 24 to 48 hours of high-dose aspirin therapy, the diagnosis of ARF should be reconsidered. Salicylate toxicity is the limiting factor to aspirin therapy and is manifested by tinnitus, headache, or hyperpnea; it may not appear until after 1 week of therapy. Salicylate levels are measured only to manage toxicity. Enteric-coated, buffered, or complex salicylate molecules provide no advantage. For patients with minimal to mild carditis, there are no controlled data to suggest that adding prednisone to aspirin therapy speeds resolution of illness or prevents rheumatic heart disease. Other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been reported in small trials to be effective; naproxen (7.5 to 10 mg/kg orally 2 times a day) is the most studied. However, other NSAIDs have few advantages over aspirin, especially in the first week of therapy when salicylism is uncommon. Acetaminophen is not effective for symptoms of ARF. Oral prednisone is recommended instead of aspirin for patients with moderate to severe carditis (as judged by a combination of clinical findings, presence of cardiac enlargement, and possibly by severely abnormal echocardiography results). If inflammation is not suppressed after 2 days or for severe heart failure, an IV corticosteroid pulse of methylprednisolone succinate (30 mg/kg IV once a day, maximum 1 g/day, for 3 successive days) may be given. Oral corticosteroids typically are given for 2 to 4 weeks and then tapered over another 2 to 3 weeks. Aspirin should be started during the corticosteroid
