Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


days) may be given. Oral corticosteroids typically are given for 2 to 4 weeks and then tapered over another 2 to 3 weeks. Aspirin should be started during the corticosteroid taper and continued for 2 to 4 weeks after the corticosteroid has been stopped. Aspirin dose is the same as above. Inflammatory markers such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein may be used to monitor disease activity and response to treatment. Recurrences of mild cardiac inflammation (indicated by fever or chest pain) may subside spontaneously; aspirin or corticosteroids should be resumed if recurrent symptoms last longer than a few days or if heart failure is uncontrolled by standard management (eg, diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, inotropic agents). Antibiotic prophylaxis Antistreptococcal prophylaxis should be maintained continuously after the initial episode of ARF to prevent recurrences. Antibiotics taken orally are slightly less effective as those given by injection. 11/14 However, with the oral route, painful injections are avoided, and clinic visits and observation for postinjection reactions are not needed. The optimal duration of antistreptococcal prophylaxis is uncertain. Children without carditis should receive prophylaxis for 5 years or until age 21 (whichever is longer). The American Heart Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics both recommend that patients with carditis without evidence of residual heart damage receive prophylaxis for 10 years or until age 21 (whichever is longer) (1). Children with carditis and evidence of residual heart damage should receive prophylaxis for > 10 years; many experts recommend that such patients continue prophylaxis indefinitely or, alternatively, until age 40. Prophylaxis should be life long in all patients with severe valvular disease who have close contact with young children because young children have a high rate of GAS carriage. The standard regimen for prophylaxis against recurrent GAS infection is penicillin G benzathine IM every 3 to 4 weeks. In parts of the world with high ARF endemicity, IM prophylaxis every 3 weeks is superior to every 4 weeks. Alternatives (eg, for patients unwilling to receive injections) are penicillin V or sulfadiazine or sulfisoxazole orally every day. For patients who are proved to be allergic to penicillin and sulfa, alternatives are erythromycin or azithromycin orally every day. The American Heart Association no longer recommends that patients with known or suspected rheumatic valvular disease take short-term antibiotic prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis for dental or oral surgical procedures unless they have an indwelling prosthetic valve (see
