Rheumatic Fever
KEYWORDS: arf, carditis, rheumatic, heart, patients, fever, disease, arthritis, acute, rheumatic fever, streptococcal, infection, gas, criteria, usually


that patients with known or suspected rheumatic valvular disease take short-term antibiotic prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis for dental or oral surgical procedures unless they have an indwelling prosthetic valve (see Prevention of Infective Endocarditis) (1). Prognosis for Rheumatic Fever Prognosis following an initial episode of ARF depends mostly on how severely the heart is affected, and whether there is a recurrent episode of ARF. Murmurs eventually disappear in about half of patients whose acute episodes were manifested by mild carditis without major cardiac enlargement or decompensation. However, many others develop chronic valvular disease, including some who recovered from the acute episode without evidence of valvular disease. Episodes of Sydenham chorea usually last several months and resolve completely in most patients, but about one third of patients have recurrences. Joint inflammation may take 1 month to subside if not treated but does not lead to residual damage. 12/14 In patients with chronic valvular disease, symptoms develop and progress slowly, typically over several decades. However, once significant symptoms develop, intervention is usually necessary. In resource- poor countries, chronic rheumatic heart disease is the cause of 25 to 45% of all cardiovascular disease. Key Points Rheumatic fever is a nonsuppurative, acute, inflammatory complication of group A streptococcal (GAS) pharyngeal infection occurring most often initially between ages 5 years and 15 years. Symptoms and signs may include migratory polyarthritis, carditis, subcutaneous nodules, erythema marginatum, and chorea. Chronic rheumatic heart disease, particularly involving the mitral and/or aortic valves, may progress over decades and is a major cause of heart disease in resource-poor parts of the world. Diagnosis of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) requires 2 major or 1 major and 2 minor manifestations (modified Jones criteria for a first episode of ARF) and evidence of GAS infection. Give antibiotics to eliminate GAS infection, aspirin to control fever and pain caused by arthritis and mild carditis, and corticosteroids for patients with moderate to severe carditis. Give prophylactic antistreptococcal antibiotics after the initial episode of ARF to prevent recurrences. Poststreptococcal Reactive Arthritis Poststreptococcal reactive arthritis is development of arthritis after group A streptococcal infection in patients who do not meet the criteria for acute rheumatic fever. Poststreptococcal reactive arthritis may or may not represent an attenuated variant of acute rheumatic fever (ARF). Patients do not have symptoms or signs of the carditis common in ARF. Compared with the arthritis of ARF, poststreptococcal reactive arthritis typically involves only 1
