Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


ABSTRACT Significant interest exists in understanding the shared metabolic dysregulation leading to obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Hence came the concept of the “metabolic syndrome” (MetS). Reaven first described MetS in his 1988 Banting lecture as “Syndrome X”. Reaven suggested that the syndrome hinged on the existence of insulin resistance and resulted in glucose intolerance, hypertension and dyslipidemia. The World Health Organization (WHO) produced the first formalized definition of the MetS in 1998. Since then multiple definitions of the syndrome have been proposed, the most recent being the Harmonized Definition where 3 of the 5 risk factors are present: enlarged waist circumference with population-specific and country-specific criteria; triglycerides ≥ 150 mg/dL, HDL-C < 40 mg/dL in men and < 50 mg/dL in women, systolic blood pressure ≥ 130 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 85 mm Hg and fasting glucose > 100 mg/dL, with the inclusion of patients taking medication to manage hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL-C, hypertension, and hyperglycemia. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) estimated the overall prevalence of MetS in adults (aged ≥ 20 years) in the United States as 33% from 2003 to 2012. The high prevalence is particularly alarming given that MetS also predisposes to a number of serious conditions beyond diabetes and CVD including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), cancer, and many other serious disease states. Hence, early identification and intervention are warranted. Lifestyle modification is the foundational intervention in treatment of MetS. Specifically, a healthy low-calorie, low fat diet and moderate physical activity of at least 150 minutes/week, resulting in a weight reduction of 7%. Obesity, hypertension and dyslipidemia may also be treated pharmacologically to meet individualized patient goals. Beyond the clinic imperative around MetS are its pathophysiologic underpinnings. This review will focus on the investigative work into the proximal origins of the MetS. Defects in insulin signaling occur in a shared environment of pro-inflammation, untoward adipokines coming from dysregulated fatty acid metabolism, as well as novel pathways involving the gut microbiota. Collectively, MetS continues to exist as a fertile area of research yielding significant insights into early events leading to the most prevalent cause of human morbidity and mortality. For in depth review of all related aspects of endocrinology, visit www.endotext.org . HISTORY AND DEFINITIONS The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a compilation of risk factors that predispose individuals to
