Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


For in depth review of all related aspects of endocrinology, visit www.endotext.org . HISTORY AND DEFINITIONS The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a compilation of risk factors that predispose individuals to the development of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Reaven ( 1 ) first described MetS in his 1988 Banting lecture as “Syndrome X. ” Reaven suggested that insulin resistance clustered together with glucose intolerance, dyslipidemia, and hypertension to increase the risk of CVD. The initial definition of metabolic syndrome included impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), hyperinsulinemia, elevated triglycerides (TG), and reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Hyperuricemia, microvascular angina, and elevated plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) were later proposed as possible additional components of the same syndrome ( 1 , 2 ). Obesity was not included as part of Syndrome X as Reaven believed that insulin resistance, not obesity, was the common denominator. Reaven noted that all of the elements of Syndrome X could occur in non-obese individuals, and while he acknowledged that obesity could lead to a decrease in insulin mediated glucose uptake, he stressed that obesity was only one of the environmental factors that affect insulin sensitivity ( 3 , 4 ). The World Health Organization (WHO) produced the first formalized definition of the MetS in 1998. The working definition included impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or diabetes mellitus and/or insulin resistance (as measured using a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp study) together with two or more additional components. Additional components included hypertension (defined as a blood pressure ≥160/90 mm Hg), raised plasma triglycerides (≥150 mg/dl) and/or low HDL-C (<35 mg/dl for men and <39 mg/dl for women), central obesity (defined either as body mass index (BMI) > 30 kg/m 2 or waist to hip ratio>0.90 for males and >0.85 for females) and microalbuminuria ( 5 ). Critics questioned the practicality of this definition given the need for a hyperinsulinemic clamp study. Others argued that measuring waist circumference was superior in terms of convenience to the waist to hip ratio with similar correlations to obesity. Additionally, there was a question about the value of including microalbuminuria in the definition as there was insufficient evidence of a connection with insulin resistance ( 5 ). These critiques led to the first revision of the definition of the syndrome in 1999 by the European Group for the Study of Insulin Resistance (EGIR). They renamed the syndrome the “insulin resistance
