Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


to the first revision of the definition of the syndrome in 1999 by the European Group for the Study of Insulin Resistance (EGIR). They renamed the syndrome the “insulin resistance syndrome” (IRS) as it included non-metabolic features. They excluded patients with diabetes because of the difficulty of measuring insulin resistance in these individuals. The need for hyperinsulinemic clamp studies was obviated by defining insulin resistance as a fasting insulin level above the 75 th percentile for the population. Additional criteria (elements associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease by the Second Joint Task Force of European and other Societies on Coronary Prevention) were also included, namely obesity (defined as waist circumference ≥ 94 cm (37 inches) for men and ≥ 80 cm (32 inches) for women), hypertension (now defined as a blood pressure ≥140/90 mm Hg) and dyslipidemia (with triglycerides ≥ 180 mg/dl or HDL-C ≤ 39). Additionally, microalbuminuria was omitted from the definition ( 6 ). The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) recognized that these multiple metabolic elements were cardiovascular risk factors and renamed the constellation of these metabolic risk factors as “The Metabolic Syndrome” ( 7 ). The criteria included any three of the following: obesity (defined as waist circumference ≥ 102 cm (40 inches) in males and ≥ 88 cm (35 inches) in females (based on the 1998 National Institutes of Health (NIH) obesity clinical guidelines; pediatric definitions use standardized Z-scores rather than waist circumference ( 8 )), hypertension (defined as blood pressure ≥ 130/85 mm Hg based on the Joint National Committee guidelines), fasting glucose > 110 mg/dL, triglycerides ≥ 150 mg/dL and HDL-C < 40 mg/dL. Additionally, in this report MetS was recognized as a secondary target of risk reduction therapy after the primary target of LDL cholesterol ( 7 ). In 2003, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) modified the ATP III criteria and restored the condition to the name “Insulin Resistance Syndrome,” again highlighting the central role of insulin resistance in the pathogenesis of the syndrome ( 9 ). This definition did not rely on strict diagnostic criteria. The components of the syndrome included some degree of glucose intolerance (but not overt diabetes), abnormal uric acid metabolism, dyslipidemia, hemodynamic changes (including hypertension), prothrombotic factors, markers of inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction. The AACE position statement also identified factors that increased the likelihood of developing the insulin
