Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


acid metabolism, dyslipidemia, hemodynamic changes (including hypertension), prothrombotic factors, markers of inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction. The AACE position statement also identified factors that increased the likelihood of developing the insulin resistance syndrome, including a diagnosis of CVD, hypertension, polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) or acanthosis nigricans, a family history of T2DM, hypertension or CVD, a personal history of gestational diabetes (GDM) or glucose intolerance, non-Caucasian ethnicity, a sedentary lifestyle, overweight/obesity (defined as BMI > 25 kg/m 2 or waist circumference > 40 inches in men and > 35 inches in women) and age > 40 years ( 9 ). The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) aimed to create a straightforward, clinically useful definition to identify individuals in any country worldwide at high risk of CVD and diabetes and to allow for comparative epidemiologic studies. This resulted in the IDF consensus definition of MetS in 2005 ( 10 ). Central obesity, as defined as BMI> 30 kg/m 2 or if ≤ 30 kg/m 2 by ethnic specific waist circumference measurements) was a requisite for the syndrome. Additionally, the definition required the presence of two of the following four elements: triglycerides ≥ 150 mg/dL, HDL-C < 40 mg/dL in men or < 50 mg/dL in women, systolic blood pressure ≥ 130 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 85 mmHg, fasting glucose > 100 mg/dL ( based on the 2003 ADA definition of IFG) ( 11 ) including diabetes and those with a prior diagnosis of or treatment of any of these conditions ( 10 ). In 2005, the American Heart Association (AHA)/ National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) also suggested criteria for diagnosis of the metabolic syndrome. Their revised definition of the metabolic syndrome was based on the ATP III criteria and required three of any of the five following criteria: elevated waist circumference ( ≥ 102 cm (40 inches) in males and ≥ 88 cm (35 inches) in females) , triglycerides ≥ 150 mg/dL and HDL-C < 40 mg/dL in men and < 50 mg/dL in women, elevated blood pressure ≥ 130/85 mm Hg and elevated fasting glucose > 100 mg/dL ( 12 ). As suggested by the IDF, ethnic-specific waist circumferences were taken into account when using this definition. Additionally, impaired fasting glucose was defined as >100 mg/dl, which was also consistent with the IDF guidelines. Finally, in an effort to provide more consistency in both
