Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


using this definition. Additionally, impaired fasting glucose was defined as >100 mg/dl, which was also consistent with the IDF guidelines. Finally, in an effort to provide more consistency in both clinical care and research of patients with MetS, the IDF, NHBLI, AHA, World Heart Federation, and the International Association for the Study of Obesity published a joint statement in 2009 that provided a “harmonized” definition of MetS ( 13 ). According to this joint statement, a diagnosis of the MetS is made when any 3 of the 5 following risk factors are present ( Table 1 ): enlarged waist circumference with population-specific and country-specific criteria; elevated triglycerides, defined as ≥ 150 mg/dL, decreased HDL-C, defined as < 40 mg/dL in men and < 50 mg/dL in women, elevated blood pressure, defined as systolic blood pressure ≥ 130 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 85 mm Hg and elevated fasting glucose, defined as blood glucose > 100 mg/dL, with the inclusion of patients taking medication to manage hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL-C, hypertension. and hyperglycemia. This definition is frequently referred to as the current Harmonization definition. Table 1. Criteria for Diagnosis of the Metabolic Syndrome View in own window Measure Categorical Cut-Points Waist circumference Population and country specific definitions Triglycerides * ≥ 150 mg/dL High Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (HDL-C)* Men < 40 mg/dL Women < 50 mg/dL Blood Pressure* ≥ 130/ ≥85 Fasting Glucose* ≥ 100 mg/dL * Drug treatment for elevated triglycerides, low HDL-C, elevated blood pressure or elevated glucose are alternate indicators It is important to note that in the current Harmonization definition, obesity is diagnosed using waist circumference and not BMI as waist circumference has been shown to better correlate with visceral adiposity and insulin resistance as well as the development of T2DM and CVD than does BMI ( 10 , 14 , 15 ). Subsequent to the establishment of the harmonized definition, waist to height ratio has been demonstrated to be superior to waist circumference and BMI as a screening tool for cardiometabolic risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and all outcomes) as well as predicting whole-body fat percentage and visceral adipose tissue mass ( 16 , 17 ). It is not clear if the definition of MetS will be revised over time to reflect these new findings. Additionally, in the current Harmonization definition, ethnic-specific waist circumference cut-off values are used, as it has been shown that certain
