Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


will be revised over time to reflect these new findings. Additionally, in the current Harmonization definition, ethnic-specific waist circumference cut-off values are used, as it has been shown that certain ethnic groups, especially South Asian populations, have higher degrees of visceral adiposity for given waist circumference measurements compared to Europeans ( 10 , 13 , 18 ). PREVALENCE The prevalence of MetS vary greatly depending on criteria used to define MetS, the age, gender, ethnicity and environment of the population being studied and obesity prevalence of the background population studied ( 25 ). Regardless of which criteria are used, however, the prevalence of MetS is high and is on the rise in many Western societies( 26 ). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) reported the overall prevalence of MetS in adults (aged ≥ 20 years) in the United States from 2003 to 2012 was 33% with the prevalence increasing with age, a finding that has been seen in other studies ( 24 , 25 , 27 , 28 ). The NHANES report indicates the highest prevalence amongst Hispanics followed by non-Hispanic whites and blacks. Other studies have shown that American Indian, Hawaiian, Polynesian, and Filipino populations develop MetS more than individuals of European descent ( 27 , 29-33 ). Urban populations have higher rates of MetS than rural populations ( 34 , 35 ). Similar to trends in Western societies, recent studies demonstrate rising rates of MetS in many developing countries ( 36 , 37 ). The development of these countries, bringing along a higher calorie diet and decreased physical activity, is thought to be largely responsible for the increased rate of MetS that is being observed ( 26 , 38 , 39 ). In summary, MetS affects a significant number of individuals worldwide. CLINICAL UTILITY The clinical utility of a diagnosis of MetS – vs. the individual components - has been studied extensively. Most recently, Pajunen and colleages compared the predictive ability of various definitions of MetS, namely the WHO, ATP III, IDF and new Harmonization definitions, found that all these definitions of MetS were significant predictors for incident CVD and T2DM. Additionally, the new Harmonization definition was found to be a better predictor of CVD endpoint than the sum of its components, as well as when compared to the Framingham risk score, but this was not the case for the prediction of T2DM ( 19 ).
