Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


than the sum of its components, as well as when compared to the Framingham risk score, but this was not the case for the prediction of T2DM ( 19 ). Importantly, extensive, frequently conflicting literature exists examining the ability of the various definitions of MetS to predict outcomes. Further, skeptics argue that making the diagnosis of MetS does not change the clinical management of these patients, as treatment of patients with MetS starts with diet and exercise and most physicians would offer the same recommendations to a patient with any of the individual elements of MetS ( 20 , 21 ). In an attempt to settle some of the controversy, a WHO Expert Consultation was undertaken in November 2008. The panel concluded that MetS has limited practical utility as a diagnostic or management tool. They determined that MetS should not be applied as a clinical diagnosis, but rather should be considered a pre-morbid condition and that people with established diabetes or known cardiovascular disease should be excluded ( 22 ). They also stated that further attempts to redefine it are inappropriate in light of current knowledge and understanding ( 23 ). Despite the conclusions of the panel, the diagnosis of MetS is still commonly encountered in clinical practice as well as in the research arena and arguably applies to roughly one-third of the US adult population ( 24 ). It also predisposes to a number of serious conditions beyond diabetes and CVD including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), cancer, and many others. PATHOGENESIS There are many different factors that contribute to the development of MetS. However, as initially proposed by Reaven, insulin resistance is thought to play a central role in connecting the different components of MetS and adding to the syndrome's development ( 1 , 40 ). Elevated free fatty acids (FFA) and abnormal adipokine profiles can both cause and result in insulin resistance and can manifest as MetS ( 41 ). In this section, we will discuss how these factors contribute to the development of the metabolic abnormalities that characterize insulin resistance and MetS. Insulin Action and Signaling Through its complex signaling cascades, insulin regulates glucose and fat metabolism. Pancreatic β-cells release insulin in response to increased circulating glucose levels and subsequently decreases plasma glucose concentrations by coordinately suppressing hepatic glucose production from amino acids and other
