Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


fat metabolism. Pancreatic β-cells release insulin in response to increased circulating glucose levels and subsequently decreases plasma glucose concentrations by coordinately suppressing hepatic glucose production from amino acids and other intermediates of metabolism (gluconeogenesis) and glycogen (glycogenolysis), and enhancing glucose uptake into the muscle and adipose tissue by mobilization of the insulin-responsive glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) ( Fig. 1 ) ( 42 ). Through actions on hormone sensitive lipase, nuclear receptor PPARγ, and fatty acid synthase, insulin inhibits lipolysis, promotes adipogenesis and adipose tissue differentiation, and under conditions of chronic hyperinsulinemia paradoxically increases fatty acid synthase( 41 , 43 ). Figure 1: Normal Insulin Action: In individuals with normal insulin sensitivity, the pancreatic β-cells release insulin in response to increased circulating glucose levels (as seen in the postprandial state). Insulin then decreases the plasma glucose concentration by suppressing hepatic glucose output and enhancing glucose uptake into adipose tissue and by skeletal muscle. Insulin resistance is most simply defined by its end organ effects; a decreased ability of insulin to suppress lipolysis and hepatic glucose production, as well as facilitate glucose uptake from peripheral tissues. There are numerous factors thought to mediate insulin resistance and its adverse effects in MetS. Despite its widespread appreciation in metabolic disease, insulin resistance is still not fully understood and remains an area of intense scientific investigation. In the following section, we will review the ways in which known factors affect insulin resistance in MetS. It has been thoroughly documented that FFAs mediate many undesirable metabolic effects, especially insulin resistance ( 44 ). FFAs are thought to be increased in obesity secondary to increased fat mass. Additionally, under conditions of insulin resistance, insulin’s inhibitory effects on lipolysis are reduced, leading to a further increase in FFAs. Increased FFAs are not only a result of insulin resistance, but a cause as well, thus creating a vicious cycle. FFAs can lead to insulin resistance via a variety of mechanisms that include but are not limited to the Randle cycle, the accumulation of intracellular lipid derivatives such as diacylglycerol and ceramides, inflammatory signaling, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Randle et al. first demonstrated that an elevation in FFA in the diaphragm and heart was associated with an increase in fatty acid oxidation and impaired glucose utilization ( 45 ). Via the Randle cycle effect, increased FFAs and fatty acid oxidation lead to increased intracellular glucose content and decreased glucose
