Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


fatty acid oxidation and impaired glucose utilization ( 45 ). Via the Randle cycle effect, increased FFAs and fatty acid oxidation lead to increased intracellular glucose content and decreased glucose uptake ( 46 ). Studies in rodents and humans have demonstrated that conditions of increased FFA either via lipid infusions or secondary to T2DM lead to impaired glucose uptake and utilization in insulin sensitive tissues ( 47 ). This occurs secondary to the inhibition of the insulin signaling pathway. As FFA levels increase, the capacity of the adipose tissue to take up and store FFAs can be exceeded. When this occurs, FFAs accumulate in tissues with limited ability for lipid storage, such as the liver and skeletal muscle. This phenomenon is known as ectopic fat deposition and is strongly associated with insulin resistance ( 48 ). Fatty acids accumulate in myocytes as fatty acid derivatives. Of these fatty acid derivatives, diacylglycerol (DAG), triacylglycerol, and ceramides directly correlate with insulin resistance. DAG interferes with normal insulin signaling by its interaction with a group of novel kinases, members of the protein kinase C family, that serine phosphorylate IRS, thereby impairing tyrosine phosphorylation and activation by insulin ( 41 , 48 , 49 ) Ceramide activates the enzyme protein phosphatase 2A, leading to dephosphorylation of AKT, thwarting insulin signaling and GLUT4 translocation to the cell membrane. This impairs insulin-mediated glucose uptake into the skeletal muscle ( 50 ). FFAs increase inflammatory signaling pathways through direct interaction with members of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family and indirectly through the secretion of cytokines, namely tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukins (IL), IL-1β and IL-6 ( 49 ). TLR are the pathogen recognition receptors of the innate immune system that function to facilitate the detection of microbes and transmit inflammatory signaling ( 51 , 52 ). In vitro, FFA can signal through TLR-2 and TLR-4 on macrophages, thereby inducing pro-inflammatory gene expression ( 52 , 53 ). Studies in mice with a loss of function mutation of the TLR-4 receptor are protected from diet-induced obesity and saturated fatty acid-induced insulin resistance ( 54 ). Similarly, animal studies in which TLR-2 is either absent or inhibited, demonstrate a resolution of high fat diet induced insulin resistance ( 55 , 56 ). A recent study in humans corroborates the importance of TLR-2 and TLR-4 in the development of FFA induced insulin resistance. Jialal and colleagues studied individuals with
