Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


55 , 56 ). A recent study in humans corroborates the importance of TLR-2 and TLR-4 in the development of FFA induced insulin resistance. Jialal and colleagues studied individuals with and without MetS (according to the NCEP ATP III definition) and found that those with MetS had increased expression and activity of TLR-2 and TLR-4 ( 51 ). TLR-4 activity leads to activation of c-Jun N- terminal kinase (JNK) and Iκβ kinase (IKK), which results in degradation of the inhibitor κβ (Iκβα) and activation of Nuclear Factor- κβ (NF- κβ). Through JNK and IKK activation, FFA lead to Ser phosphorylation of IRS-1 and impaired insulin signaling ( 57 , 58 ). Ding and colleagues assessed 1628 Chinese adults and reported that levels of IL-6 and C-reactive protein were significantly associated with MetS (using the Harmonized definition) which also increased concurrent to the increased number of MetS components, further supporting that MetS is a pro-inflammatory state ( 59 ). In obesity, adipose tissue infiltration by macrophages is increased. This leads to a pro-inflammatory state as macrophages produce TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β ( 60 , 61 ). Along with FFA signaling through TLR, these macrophage-derived inflammatory cytokines activate JNK and IKK to further interfere with insulin signaling and action ( 61 ). Additionally suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins are induced downstream of these inflammatory cytokines which terminate insulin signaling by promoting the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of IRS ( 62 ) . Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production increases with fat accumulation. FFAs activate ROS production by adipose tissue by stimulating NADPH oxidase and decreasing the expression of anti-oxidative enzymes ( 63 ). When adipose tissues is exposed to oxidative stress, there is a decrease in the anti-inflammatory adipokine, adiponectin (to be discussed in greater detail below) ( 64 ). In MetS, there is increased ROS production as a result of elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines and decreased levels of adiponectin ( 65 ). Increased levels of ROS lead to hindered insulin signaling by inducing IRS phosphorylation and impairing GLUT4 translocation and gene transcription ( 66 ). It has been shown that there is a connection between mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance in skeletal muscle that precedes the development of obesity and hyperglycemia. Animal studies demonstrate that mitochondrial number and function are intact, if not increased, under conditions of insulin resistance ( 67 , 68 ). On the other hand, studies in
