Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


hyperglycemia. Animal studies demonstrate that mitochondrial number and function are intact, if not increased, under conditions of insulin resistance ( 67 , 68 ). On the other hand, studies in obese, insulin-resistant individuals as well as those with T2DM have skeletal muscle mitochondria that are fewer in size as well as number. It has also been shown that these individuals exhibit down-regulation of the genes involved in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, the process by which mitochondria produce energy in the form of ATP ( 69-72 ). Studies demonstrate that PPARγ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), a transcriptional activator involved in mitochondrial biosynthesis, has diminished expression in patients with T2DM, obesity, or a family history of T2DM ( 73 , 74 ). Increased FFA uptake and their incomplete oxidation have also been implicated in mediating mitochondrial dysfunction in the skeletal muscle under insulin resistant conditions ( 75 ). Furthermore, mitochondrial dysfunction leads to increased oxidative stress and the formation of ROS, which further diminishes mitochondrial mass and function. As discussed above, increased FFAs in obesity and MetS are thought to lead to insulin resistance via several different mechanisms. These different mechanisms are not exclusive of one another and interact in such a way as to create a vicious cycle of insulin resistance. Adipokines Adipose tissue is an active endocrine organ that releases adipokines, bioactive mediators that affect metabolism ( 76 ). It has been demonstrated that individuals with MetS have an abnormal adipokine profile that affects insulin sensitivity ( 77 ). Adiponectin differs from other adipokines in that its level is inversely correlated with body adiposity and insulin resistance ( 78 ). The administration of recombinant adiponectin ameliorates insulin resistance in obese mice ( 78 ). Adiponectin transgenic mice demonstrate improvements in insulin sensitivity ( 79 ). Adiponectin increases insulin secretion in vivo and in vitro ( 80 ). In addition to its ability to improve insulin sensitivity in peripheral tissues, adiponectin has been shown to have effects on the central nervous system that affect food intake and energy expenditure ( 81 ). In humans, low levels of adiponectin have been strongly associated with insulin resistance, increased body adiposity, T2DM, and MetS ( 76 ). Genetic hypoadiponectinemia caused by a missense mutation leads to an increased propensity toward MetS ( 82 ). Longitudinal studies demonstrate that in individuals at high risk for developing T2DM, those with higher levels of adiponectin were less likely to develop
