Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


increased propensity toward MetS ( 82 ). Longitudinal studies demonstrate that in individuals at high risk for developing T2DM, those with higher levels of adiponectin were less likely to develop T2DM than those with lower levels of adiponectin ( 83 ) . Adiponectin levels have even been proposed to be used as a cut-off for managing the risk of developing MetS in a study of male Japanese workers. In a 3-year prospective cohort study, the risk of developing MetS, calculated by the accelerated failure-time model, demonstrated that the mean time to develop MetS declined with decreasing total adiponectin levels. Adiponectin modulates glucose metabolism through its interaction with its receptors, the adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1) and adiponectin receptor 2 (AdipoR2). Binding of adiponectin to AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 results in the activation of signaling pathways affecting glucose and fatty acid metabolism. As a result of adiponectin signaling, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is phosphorylated, leading to increased glucose uptake in the muscle and reduced gluconeogenesis ( 84 ). Adiponectin also has anti-inflammatory actions, suppressing TNF-α and IL-6 expression and anti-atherogenic effects, decreasing levels of pro-atherogenic small, dense low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and TG levels ( 76 , 85 ). In patients with insulin resistance, there is reduced responsiveness of the skeletal muscle, liver and adipose tissue to insulin. Insulin levels rise in an attempt to maintain euglycemia, and the result is hyperinsulinemia. Hyperinsulinemia has been shown to down-regulate the bioactive high-molecular weight form of adiponectin ( 86 ). Thus, the hyperinsulinemia in insulin resistance may decrease adiponectin further contributing to insulin resistance ( 77 ). Aside from the direct effects of insulin, changes that characterize the metabolic milieu of insulin resistance such as inflammation, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been shown to suppress adiponectin ( 77 ). This relationship is observed clinically in the same study by Ding and colleagues, showing a strong inverse association between adiponectin and HOMA-IR and an inverse trend between adiponectin and an increased number of MetS components ( 59 ). Hence, the association between insulin resistance and adiponectin appears to be complex and bidirectional. Further studies are necessary to better define this complicated relationship. Leptin, another important adipokine produced by adipocytes, exerts effects on appetite and energy expenditure. When leptin binds to its receptor, signaling pathways such as the Janus Kinase-Signal Transducers and Activation of Transcription (JAK/STAT) and IRS/PI3K are activated. The result is similar to what is
