Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


When leptin binds to its receptor, signaling pathways such as the Janus Kinase-Signal Transducers and Activation of Transcription (JAK/STAT) and IRS/PI3K are activated. The result is similar to what is observed when insulin binds the IR, in that anorexigenic pathways (involving POMC) are favored over orexigenic pathways (involving neuropeptides NPY and AgRP) ( 87 ). Studies suggest that leptin affects glucose metabolism independently of its effects on food intake. Studies in rodents suggest that leptin stimulated JAK/STAT signaling is important in food intake and energy expenditure while leptin mediated PI3K signaling plays a role in regulating glucose metabolism ( 88-90 ). Leptin also stimulates FFA oxidation in the liver, pancreas and skeletal muscle. Leptin opposes the action of insulin by decreasing insulin’s lipogenic effect on the adipocyte and depleting the triglyceride content of adipose tissue without increasing circulating FFA ( 91-93 ). Separate from its effects on lipid and glucose metabolism, leptin affects the immune system, by enhancing the production of inflammatory cytokines and by stimulating T–cell proliferation ( 94 ). While the absence of leptin leads to extreme obesity and insulin resistance, most obese individuals are not leptin deficient. Rather, they have increased levels of leptin but are immune to its appetite suppressant effects. This observation has given rise to the concept of leptin resistance in obesity ( 95 ). Similarly, elevated leptin levels have been observed in different populations with metabolic syndrome -( 96-98 ). Decreased sensitivity to leptin leads to increased triglyceride accumulation in adipose tissue, muscle, liver and pancreas, resulting in insulin resistance ( 76 ). An alternative perspective is the concept of hypothalamic leptin insufficiency, which states that in conditions of hyperleptinemia, the blood brain barrier prevents entry of leptin into the brain resulting in insufficiencies of leptin at important sites in the CNS ( 99 ). Regardless of whether the decreased responsiveness to leptin observed in obesity is due to leptin resistance or hypothalamic leptin insufficiency, the ability of leptin to activate hypothalamic signaling is decreased in obesity and insulin resistance ( 99 ). The role of resistin in MetS is not entirely understood. Resistin is an adipokine that has been seen to be increased in rodent models of obesity, leading to impaired insulin action and β-cell dysfunction ( 100 ). Resistin is highly associated with insulin resistance and T2DM in animal models ( 101 ). Resistin activates SOCS-3, which inhibits IR phosphorylation and
