Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


action and β-cell dysfunction ( 100 ). Resistin is highly associated with insulin resistance and T2DM in animal models ( 101 ). Resistin activates SOCS-3, which inhibits IR phosphorylation and downstream signaling proteins, leading to impaired insulin signaling ( 102 ). It also inhibits glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and the liver and enhances hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 101 , 103 ). In humans, the relationship of resistin, MetS and its components are not as clear, however associations between the components of MetS have driven an interest in further understanding its potential role. Resistin expression in humans differs from rodents in its low expression in white adipose tissue and regulation of concentration by peripheral blood mononuclear cells, macrophages and bone marrow cells ( 104 ). Its role in the inflammatory pathway has been well described, associated with upregulation of inflammatory cytokines and to induce monocyte-endothelial cell adhesions [127]. However, the role of resistin in insulin resistance has been controversial. ( 76 ). Increased resistin levels have been demonstrated in several studies with individuals with MetS but correlations have been more consistent in women than in men ( 105-107 ). Hence, more studies are necessary to better determine the role of resistin in MetS. Retinol Binding Protein-4 (RBP-4) is the vitamin A (retinol) transporter and is secreted from both adipose tissue and liver. RBP-4 has been shown to be increased in the adipose tissue of mice with an adipose-specific knockout of GLUT4 ( 108 ). RBP-4 levels are also elevated in humans with obesity, T2DM, impaired glucose intolerance and those with a strong family history of T2DM ( 109 , 110 ). The suggested mechanisms by which RBP4 can mediate insulin resistance include increased gluconeogenesis and impaired insulin action in the liver and muscle ( 108 ). However, there are other studies that do not support the relationship of RBP-4 with altered glucose metabolism ( 111 , 112 ). As with all other adipokines, further exploration is necessary to better define the role of RBP-4 in insulin resistance and MetS. Apelin, omentin and visfatin are other adipokines have been implicated in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance and MetS. However further study is necessary to better define the part they play in this process. Individuals with insulin resistance and MetS exhibit atypical adipokine profiles that not only result from insulin resistance but further contribute to its development and pathogenesis. Though there are many
