Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


process. Individuals with insulin resistance and MetS exhibit atypical adipokine profiles that not only result from insulin resistance but further contribute to its development and pathogenesis. Though there are many different factors that contribute to the development of MetS. Insulin resistance, via augmented FFA levels and irregular adipokine patterns, is largely responsible for the pathogenesis of the syndrome. Gut Microbiota There has been considerable interest in the gut microbiota and its relationship with inflammation and metabolism. With limited ability to digest polysaccharides, the gut microbiota in mammals represents an important system significant influence on energy harvest and efficiency( 113-115 ). In fact, mice raised in a germ-free environment, compared to conventionally raised mice, had lower body fat content and, following colonization with intestinal flora, there was an increase in body fat and hepatic triglyceride synthesis as well as the development of insulin resistance, independent of food intake and energy expenditure ( 113 ). Beyond alterations in energy harvest, the gut microbiota composition can also drive low level inflammation which has also been found to be a contributor to obesity and the metabolic syndrome ( 116 , 117 ). Interventional experiments with Roux en Y gastric bypass versus sham surgeries with subsequent microbiota transplant have further underscored the relationship of the microbiota with obesity ( 118 ). Observational human studies have noted differences in the microbial diversity in lean and obese subjects as well as in those with differences in microbial diversity based upon diet composition ( 119-121 ). Similar differences in microbiota composition have been seen in those with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 122 ). Furthermore, infusion of microbiota via gastrointestinal probe have demonstrated alterations in insulin sensitivity ( 123 ). The metabolic syndrome is a product of the complex intertwining of inflammation and insulin resistance; with its relationship to both of these, the gut microbiota has been demonstrated to have a strong influence on metabolic diseases. From observational to experimental data, the microbiota not only offers important insight into pathophysiology but also has the potential as a therapeutic target. TREATMENT Lifestyle modification is the foundational intervention in treatment of MetS. The Diabetes Prevention Program demonstrated that lifestyle intervention reduced the incidence of MetS by 41% compared with placebo. The intensive lifestyle intervention involved a healthy low-calorie, low fat diet and moderate physical activity of at least 150 minutes/week, resulting in a weight reduction of 7% (
