Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


with placebo. The intensive lifestyle intervention involved a healthy low-calorie, low fat diet and moderate physical activity of at least 150 minutes/week, resulting in a weight reduction of 7% ( 124 ). The recommended diet should include < 200 mg/day of cholesterol, < 7% saturated fat, with total fat comprising 25-35% of calories, low simple sugars and increased fruits, vegetables and whole grains ( 12 ). Smoking cessation should be instituted in all patients with MetS. Additionally, low dose aspirin is recommended in cases of moderate to high cardiovascular risk where no contraindication to aspirin therapy exists ( 12 ). For those patients in whom lifestyle intervention is not sufficient to treat their MetS, pharmacotherapy for the treatment of many of the components of MetS is available. Historically, many of the medications aimed to treat obesity have failed to gain approval or have been removed from the market by the FDA due to side effects and marginal success in weight reduction ( 125 ). However, in the last decade, an increasing number of pharmacotherapies have become FDA approved. Currently available FDA-approved pharmacotherapy for obesity includes phentermine, orlistat, phentermine/topiramate, locaserin, buproprion/naltrexone and liraglutide 3.0 mg. Further, individuals with morbid obesity (BMI> 40 kg/m 2 or >35 kg/m 2 with comorbidities) may be candidates for bariatric surgery ( 126 ). Bariatric surgery has been demonstrated to be an effective treatment of obesity with improvements in weight, T2DM, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and sleep apnea. Resolution rates of each component reported in the literature are variable, the type of surgery highly influential on the resolution of comorbidities ( 127 ). Some studies demonstrate superiority of surgical to nonsurgical treatment in weight loss and MetS ( 128 ). There are no pharmacologic agents specifically approved for prediabetes or the prevention of T2DM. In the Diabetes Prevention Program, metformin was shown to lead to weight loss and a 31% decrease in the incidence of T2DM compared to patients receiving placebo ( 124 ). It has been suggested that GLP-1 receptor agonists, agents now commonly used in the treatment of established T2DM, may have a role in prevention of T2DM, but more studies are needed. The American Diabetes Association recommends lifestyle modification over medication for the prevention of diabetes. However, they state that metformin therapy may be considered for the prevention of T2DM in individuals with IGT, IFG or HgA1c 5.7-6.4%, especially for those individuals with BMI> 35
