Metabolic Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, pubmed, resistance, insulin resistance, syndrome, mets, metabolic, diabetes, glucose, obesity, metabolic syndrome, free, free article, article, pmc free


diabetes. However, they state that metformin therapy may be considered for the prevention of T2DM in individuals with IGT, IFG or HgA1c 5.7-6.4%, especially for those individuals with BMI> 35 kg/m2, those aged < 60 years, and those with a prior diagnosis of GDM ( 129 , 130 ). Elevated blood pressure is first approached with lifestyle modification. If this fails to bring the blood pressure to goal range <140/90 or <130/80 in patients with diabetes or CKD, medication should be added. First line medications include thiazide diuretics in uncomplicated individuals, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) in those with diabetes, congestive heart failure or CKD, or beta blockers in individuals with angina ( 131 ). Drug therapy for dyslipidemia is generally approached with the use of HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors (statins). The primary objective in CVD risk reduction is to lower LDL-C values and the drug of choice for this purposes is statins, which have been shown not only to lower LDL-C, but also to modestly raise HDL-C and lower triglycerides ( 132 ). The second targets in lipid improvement to reduce CVD risk are HDL-C and triglycerides. Niacin is effective at raising HDL-C as well as lowering triglycerides and LDL-C. Fibrates are effective at lowering triglycerides but do not have the beneficial effects on HDL-C and LDL-C. Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) in fish oil can also be used to lower triglycerides with recent data from the REDUCE-IT trial demonstrating a reduced risk of ischemic events in patients with elevated triglycerides despite statin therapy receiving icosapent ethyl. CONCLUSION The metabolic syndrome is a collection of related risk factors that predispose an individual to the development of T2DM and CVD. It affects a large number of people worldwide and its prevalence is increasing. The diagnostic criteria for MetS have been harmonized for the purpose of providing more consistency in clinical care and research of patients with MetS. Insulin resistance remains at the core of the syndrome, as it did when it was first introduced by Reaven in 1988, and appears to contribute to the development of MetS, via elevated FFA levels and abnormal adipokine profiles. Insulin resistance has both metabolic and mitogenic effects and can result in the development of hyperglycemia and T2DM, hypertension, dyslipidemia, NAFLD, PCOS, OSA, sexual dysfunction, and cancer. In patients with MetS, lifestyle modification is imperative in decreasing the risk of
