886 Gut, 1991,32,886-892
KEYWORDS: explants, pha, small, microvilli, ofthe, intestinal, villus, culture, control, lectins, mmol, changes, organ, mucosa, brush


886 Gut, 1991,32,886-892 Pathological effects ofphaseolus vulgaris isolectins on pig junal in culture je mucosa organ M J LKik, J F J GKoninkx, A van denMuysenberg, FHendriksen Abstract deleterious material are needed. We chose The interaction ofplantlectins with pig small explants ofpig jejunal mucosa in organ culture, intestinal epithelium in organ culture was and therefore closely related to the situation in studied. The binding of Phaseolus vulgaris vivo, tostudytheinteraction betweenPhaseolus (PHA) isolectins E4 and L4 to the microvilli vulgaris (PHA) isolectins E4 (4 erythro- and microvillus vesicles in the top area ofthe agglutinating subunits) and L4 (4 leuco- viii was shown by immunoelectron micro- agglutinating subunits) and the jejunal mucosa scopy. Differences were observed in the in vitro. We investigated the binding of PHA distribution ofthe isolectins. In the explants isolectins E4 and L4 to the explants and the culturedforfivehourswiththePHAisolectins, subsequent lectin induced effects on mor- theenterocyteheightandthevilluslengthwere phologyandbrushborderenzymeactivity. decreased, and a lowervillus: crypt ratio was calculated. Ultrastructurally, the microvilli were shorter and irregularly positioned. After Methods incubation with both PHA E4 and PHA L4, Approval for the experiments was given by the clusters of small vesicles, tied off from the ethical and experimental committee of TNO- microvilli, were seen in higher numbers when CIVO,Zeist,TheNetherlands. compared with control explants. The activity Four 7 week old, male SPF pigs (CDI, of the brush border enzyme sucrase- Lelystad, The Netherlands) were premedicated isomaltase was reduced in the PHA E4 incu- with Stressnil and atropine and anaesthetised bated explants butdidnotchange inthe PHA withfluothaneandnitrousoxideinoxygen. The L4 incubated explants. This investigation abdomenwasopened and fourjejunal segments shows that explants of pig jejunal mucosa in 20 cmin lengthwere taken 3 m proximalto the organ culture are suitable for study of the ileocaecal ligament. Explants were prepared pathological effects of lectins on the small according to Danielsen et al.'5 The segments intestinal mucosa. This method may also be were cut open longitudinally at the mesenterial used in elucidating the mechanisms by which attachment and rinsed in Trowell's T8 medium damagetomucosalstructureoccurs. at 210C.'6 With a scalpel, the mucosa was separated from the submucosa and small explants(9mm2)werecutfromthemucosa. The Theubiquitouspresenceoflectins - forexample explantswere cultured according to themethod seedsoflegumeslikepulsesandbeans inplants described by Browning and Trier.'7 Briefly, the - eaten by man and his farm animals have been culture conditions areas follows. Explantswere describedinrecentsurveys. A1 placed ontriangularcut stainless steelgrids, the The biological activity of lectins can be villussidefacingupwards(sixexplantspergrid), abolished by proper heat treatment, although
