886 Gut, 1991,32,886-892
KEYWORDS: explants, pha, small, microvilli, ofthe, intestinal, villus, culture, control, lectins, mmol, changes, organ, mucosa, brush


farm animals have been culture conditions areas follows. Explantswere describedinrecentsurveys. A1 placed ontriangularcut stainless steelgrids, the The biological activity of lectins can be villussidefacingupwards(sixexplantspergrid), abolished by proper heat treatment, although in sterile plastic organ culture dishes (Falcon heat processing is not always very effective.5 3037). Tothecentralwellofthesedishes09ml Since most lectins are resistant to proteolytic ofTrowell'sT8 mediumwasadded, untilathin breakdowninthegastrointestinaltract,theycan layer was drawn over the villous surface ofthe reach the small intestine in a biological active explants by capillary action. In the isolectin form and bind to the glycoconjugates of the experiments, 50 [igofthePHAE4andPHA L4 mucus and glycocalyx."7 Pusztai et all" suggest isolectins respectively (E-Y Laboratories Inc, Pathology,Facultyof morphological and functional changes in the Trowell'sT8medium. Theouterringofthedish VeterinaryMedicine, UniversityofUtrecht, epithelium of the small intestine leading to contained 3 ml ofbidistilled water. The dishes Utrecht,The reduced efficiency of nutrient utilisation. wereplacedinanairtightcontainer,gassedwith Netherlands Despite several studies, however, the patho- a mixture of95% 02 and CO2 for 15 minutes,'7 MJLKik F GKoninkx genesisoflectininducedchangesintheintestinal and placed in an incubator (37°C). Explants J J AvandenMuysenberg tract has not fully been explained."'-'2 In vitro cultured forfive hours in Trowell's T8 medium studies show promising results in investigation andexplantsculturedforfivehoursinTrowell's TNO-CIVO,Toxicology andNutritionInstitute, of the effects of lectins on the small intestinal T8 medium in the presence of 50 ,ug per ml of Zeist,TheNetherlands mucosa without any interference from the PHAE4andL4respectively, wereprocessedfor FHendriksen luminal contents and the intestinal micro histomorphometric, electron microscopic, and Correspondenceto: flora.6 Moreover, the experimental conditions biochemicalexaminations. M Vet J er L in K a i r k y , P D a e t p ho a l r o t g m y e , n F t a o c f ulty ofthe mucosal explants can be controlled more ofVeterinaryMedicine, precisely than those in in vivo studies'4 and UniversityofUtrecht, Yalelaan1,POBox80.158, therefore may allow investigators to single out TISSUEPROCESSINGFORMORPHOMETRIC 3508TDUtrecht,The thedirecteffect ofanygivendamagingagenton ANALYSIS Netherlands. the mucosa. Another advantage of in vitro For morphometric analysis one explant from Acceptedforpublication 10September1991 studies is the fact that only small amounts of each dish was fixed in 0 I mmol/l phosphate Pathologicaleffectsofphaseolusvulgarisisolectinsonpigjejunalmucosainorganculture 887 buffered 4% formalin pH 7 3, dehydrated, and strip of parafilm. All incubations were carried embedded in paraffin. Serial sections (5 [tm) out at room temperature. The immunolabelling were cut and stained with haematoxylin and procedure is outlined as follows. Sections were eosin(HE). Usingthesesections, 10wellorient- incubatedandpretreatedon20 tldropletsof1% atedvilliandcryptsweremeasuredbymeansofa bovine serum albumine (BSA) (Organon, Oss, TEAImageManagersystem(DIFA,Breda,The The Netherlands) in 0
