886 Gut, 1991,32,886-892
KEYWORDS: explants, pha, small, microvilli, ofthe, intestinal, villus, culture, control, lectins, mmol, changes, organ, mucosa, brush


cut and stained with haematoxylin and procedure is outlined as follows. Sections were eosin(HE). Usingthesesections, 10wellorient- incubatedandpretreatedon20 tldropletsof1% atedvilliandcryptsweremeasuredbymeansofa bovine serum albumine (BSA) (Organon, Oss, TEAImageManagersystem(DIFA,Breda,The The Netherlands) in 0 1 mmol/l phosphate buf- Netherlands). Thevillusheightwasrepresented fered saline, pH 7*4 (1% BSA/PBS) for 15 bythedistancefromthecryptopeningtothetip minutes. Excessbufferwasremovedwithpieces ofthevillus,andthecryptdepthfromthebaseof offilteringpaperbeforethegridswereincubated the crypt to the level ofthe crypt opening. The on 20 >t droplets consisting ofantibody diluted villus:crypt ratio was calculated to indicate the in 1% BSA/PBS for 30 minutes. The final extent ofmorphological abnormality. The same dilution of both primary antibodies was 1:160 sections were used to measure the enterocyte with 1% BSA/PBS. After incubation the grids heightfromatleast25epithelialcellswithbasal- were washed three times for five minutes by centrally situated nuclei distributed randomly floating, sectiondown,onfresh20 tldropletsof over the villi. Crypt enterocytes as well as 1%BSA/PBS. Excessbufferwasremovedbefore enterocytes intheextrusion zonewereexcluded incubation for 30 minutes with colloidal gold fromthesemeasurements. labelled secondary antibody. In this study goat anti-rabbit conjugated to 15 nm colloidal gold (EM grade) (Janssen Pharmaceutica, Berrse, TISSUEPROCESSINGFORSCANNINGELECTRON Belgium) was used in a final dilution of 1:20. MICROSCOPY Before counterstaining with uranyl magnesium Oneexplantperdishwasfixedin2-5%glutaral- acetate and lead citrate, the grids were washed dehyde in 0 1 mmol/l cacodylate buffer (pH three times for five minutes with droplets of 7-35; 440; mOsm) for24hoursat4°C, andthen bidistilled water. Grids were air dried and rinsedin0-1mmol/lcacodylatebuffer(pH7 35). examined with a Philips EM41OLS electron The fixed explants subsequently were treated microscope at 60 kV. Control sections were according to the OTOTO method (alternating treated as above, omitting theprimary antibody osmium tetroxide and thiocarbohydrazide incubationstep.'9 immersion),'8 dehydrated through graded con- centrations of ethanol, transferred to amylace- tate,criticalpointdriedwithC02,andmounted, SUCRASE-ISOMALTASEENZYMEACTIVITYASSAY villus side upwards, on aluminium stubs with Three explants from each dish were frozen silver paint. Specimens were examined using a (liquid nitrogen) and stored at -70°C before Cambridge Camscan scanning electron micro- analysis. The explants were pooled (three scopeat 10kV. explants for eachtime pointor PHA concentra- tion) in 2 ml of 2 mmol/l TRIS-50 mmol/l mannitol buffer (pH 7*1). From here all TISSUEPROCESSINGFORTRANSMISSIONELECTRON procedures were performed at 4°C, unless MICROSCOPY mentionedotherwise. One explant per dish was fixed in 0-1 mmol/l The explants were sonified twice for 10 cacodylate buffered 2 5% glutaraldehyde (pH seconds in 1 ml of bidistilled water. After 7-35, 440 mOsm) for 24 hours at 4°C, and sonification an aliquot of the suspension was subsequently rinsed in 0-1 mmol/l cacodylate used for protein determination.20 Sucrase- buffer (pH 7 35).
