886 Gut, 1991,32,886-892
KEYWORDS: explants, pha, small, microvilli, ofthe, intestinal, villus, culture, control, lectins, mmol, changes, organ, mucosa, brush


440 mOsm) for 24 hours at 4°C, and sonification an aliquot of the suspension was subsequently rinsed in 0-1 mmol/l cacodylate used for protein determination.20 Sucrase- buffer (pH 7 35). After postfixation with 1% isomaltase(EC3.2.1.48)activitywasdetermined OS04in0 1 mmol/l cacodylate buffer(pH 7 35) according to Messer and Dahlqvist,2' using suc- for16hoursat4°C,theexplantsweredehydrated rose (Serva, Heidelberg, Germany)as substrate. ingradedwater-aceton mixturesandembedded The specific enzyme activity was calculated as in an EponAraldite mixture. Semi-thin sections U/gofproteinandexpressedasthemeanrelative were stained with toluidine blue. Ultra-thin specificenzymeactivity(SEM). sections were stained with uranylmagnesium acetate and leadcitrate and examined with a PhilipsEM41OLSelectronmicroscopeat60kV. STATISTICALANALYSIS The statistical significance of differences between means was analysed using the paired TISSUEPROCESSINGFORIMMUNOELECTRON Student's t test. In the Tables the values are MICROSCOPY expressed as percentages of the corresponding Oneexplantperdishwasfixedin2%paraformal- controlvalues. dehyde and 0 5% glutaraldehyde in 0 1 mmol/l cacodylatebuffer(pH7-35)forsevendaysat4°C and subsequently embedded in Lowicryl (poly- Results merised at 20°C with 360 nm wavelength UV light). Ultra-thin sections were cut with a glass MORPHOLOGIC CHARACTERISTICS OF PIG JEJUNAL knife on a Reichert Ultracult E ultramicrotome EXPLANTS and collected on uncoated 150 mesh copper The histology ofthe control explants and PHA grids. Theprimaryantibodiesusedinthisstudy E4culturedexplantsareshowninFigure lAand were rabbit anti-PHA E4 and rabbit anti-PHA Brespectively. Theresultsofthemorphometric L4 (E-Y Laboratories Inc, San Mateo, CA, analysisofpigjejunalexplantsfromPHAE4and USA). Section labellingwasperformed byfloat- PHA L4 incubated and control explants are inggrids,sectionsdown,ondropletsplacedona summarised in Table I. The morphology ofthe 888 Kik,Koninkx,vandenMuysenberg,Hendriksen ;___- ff Ew . 8 Figure1:EffectsofPhaseolusvulgarisisolectinE4(PHAE4)onpigmucosalexplantsinorganculture(A). Controlexplant culturedforfivehoursinTrowell'sT8medium(B).ExplantculturedinTrowell'sT8supplementedwith50[tgofPHAE41ml. Thedepthofthecryptsremainsunchanged. control explants, cultured for five hours in showed that culturingexplants forfive hours in Trowell's T8 medium looked normal by light Trowell's T8 medium did not influence the microscopy. InexplantsculturedinPHAisolec- morphology ofvilli and microvilli (Figs 2A and tins E4 and L4 there was a considerable reduc- B). However, as shown in Figure 3 A to D, tion in the villus:crypt ratio. (Incubation ofthe exposureoftheexplantsto 50 .tg/mlofPHA E4 explants with the isolectins resulted in reduc- andPHAL4respectively,resultedinchangesin tions of30-1% forPHA E4and 36-7% forPHA themorphologyofthevilliandmicrovilli. Inthe L4.) As shown in Table I, the PHA induced PHA E4 cultured explants a pock pitted villi reductioninthevillus:cryptratiooftheexplants surface and fusion ofmicrovilli were seen (Figs was due to a change in the villus length only, 3A and B). The villi of the PHA L4 cultured whereas the PHA L4 induced decrease was explantswerecoveredwithdotsofmaterial(Figs accomplished by both a decrease of the villus 3Cand D), whichoncross section seemedto be lengthand an increase ofthecryptdepth. After derivedfromthemicrovilli. incubation of the explants for five hours with The transmission electron
