Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management NICE guideline Published: 6 July 2016 Last updated: 8 September 2023 www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng50 Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Your responsibility The recommendations in this guideline represent the view of NICE, arrived at after careful consideration of the evidence available. When exercising their judgement, professionals and practitioners are expected to take this guideline fully into account, alongside the individual needs, preferences and values of their patients or the people using their service. It is not mandatory to apply the recommendations, and the guideline does not override the responsibility to make decisions appropriate to the circumstances of the individual, in consultation with them and their families and carers or guardian. All problems (adverse events) related to a medicine or medical device used for treatment or in a procedure should be reported to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency using the Yellow Card Scheme. Local commissioners and providers of healthcare have a responsibility to enable the guideline to be applied when individual professionals and people using services wish to use it. They should do so in the context of local and national priorities for funding and developing services, and in light of their duties to have due regard to the need to eliminate inequalities. Nothing in this guideline should be interpreted in a way that would be inconsistent with complying with those duties. Commissioners and providers have a responsibility to promote an environmentally sustainable health and care system and should assess and reduce the environmental impact of implementing NICE recommendations wherever possible. Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) This guideline is the basis of QS152. Overview This guideline covers assessing and managing suspected or confirmed cirrhosis in people who are 16 years or older. It aims to improve how cirrhosis is identified and diagnosed, and gives advice on the monitoring, prevention and early management of complications. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals caring for people with cirrhosis • Commissioners and providers of healthcare services • People with cirrhosis, their families and carers Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of
