Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


informed decisions about their care, as described in making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Diagnosis 1.1.1 Be aware that there is an increased risk of cirrhosis in people who: • have hepatitis B virus infection • have hepatitis C virus infection • misuse alcohol • are living with obesity (body mass index [BMI] of 30 kg/m2 or higher) • have type 2 diabetes. See NICE's guidelines on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), alcohol-use disorders: diagnosis and management of physical complications, alcohol-use disorders: prevention, alcohol-use disorders: diagnosis, assessment and management of harmful drinking (high-risk drinking) and alcohol dependence, type 2 diabetes in adults, obesity and chronic hepatitis B. 1.1.2 Discuss with the person the accuracy, limitations and risks of the different tests for diagnosing cirrhosis. 1.1.3 Offer transient elastography to diagnose cirrhosis for: • people with hepatitis C virus infection Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) • men and people registered male at birth who drink over 50 units of alcohol per week and have done so for several months • women and people registered female at birth who drink over 35 units of alcohol per week and have done so for several months • people diagnosed with alcohol-related liver disease. 1.1.4 Offer either transient elastography or acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (whichever is available) to diagnose cirrhosis for people with NAFLD and advanced liver fibrosis (as diagnosed by a score of 10.51 or above using the enhanced liver fibrosis [ELF] test). See the section on assessment for advanced liver fibrosis in the NICE guideline on NAFLD. 1.1.5 Consider liver biopsy to diagnose cirrhosis in people for whom transient elastography is not suitable. 1.1.6 Do not offer tests to diagnose cirrhosis for people who are living with obesity (BMI of 30 kg/m2 or higher), or who have type 2 diabetes, unless they have NAFLD and advanced liver fibrosis (as diagnosed by a score of 10.51 or above using the ELF test). See the section on assessment for advanced liver fibrosis in the NICE guideline on NAFLD. 1.1.7 Ensure that healthcare professionals who perform or interpret non-invasive tests are trained to do so. 1.1.8 Do not use routine laboratory
