Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


liver fibrosis in the NICE guideline on NAFLD. 1.1.7 Ensure that healthcare professionals who perform or interpret non-invasive tests are trained to do so. 1.1.8 Do not use routine laboratory liver blood tests to rule out cirrhosis. 1.1.9 Refer people diagnosed with cirrhosis to a specialist in hepatology. 1.1.10 Offer retesting for cirrhosis every 2 years for: • people diagnosed with alcohol-related liver disease • people with hepatitis C virus infection who have not shown a sustained virological response to antiviral therapy Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) • people with NAFLD and advanced liver fibrosis. For recommendations on diagnosing cirrhosis and reassessing liver disease in people with hepatitis B virus infection, see the section on assessing liver disease in secondary specialist care in the NICE guideline on chronic hepatitis B. 1.2 Monitoring Risk of complications 1.2.1 Refer people who have, or are at high risk of, complications of cirrhosis to a specialist hepatology centre. 1.2.2 Calculate the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score every 6 months for people with compensated cirrhosis. 1.2.3 Consider using a MELD score of 12 or more as an indicator that the person is at high risk of complications of cirrhosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma 1.2.4 Offer ultrasound (with or without measurement of serum alpha- fetoprotein) every 6 months as surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) for people with cirrhosis who do not have hepatitis B virus infection. 1.2.5 Do not offer surveillance for HCC for people who are receiving end of life care. For people with cirrhosis and hepatitis B virus infection, see the section on surveillance testing for HCC in adults with chronic hepatitis B in the NICE guideline on chronic hepatitis B. Oesophageal varices 1.2.6 After a diagnosis of cirrhosis, offer the person an upper gastrointestinal Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) endoscopy to detect oesophageal varices unless they are planning to take carvedilol or propranolol to prevent decompensation (see the section on primary prevention of decompensation). [2016, amended 2023] 1.2.7 Offer surveillance using upper gastrointestinal endoscopy every 3 years to people who: • have already had an endoscopy to detect oesophageal varices, and in whom none have been found and • are not taking carvedilol or propranolol. [2016, amended 2023] 1.2.8 Consider simultaneous endoscopic variceal band ligation if medium or large varices are detected during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (see the section on preventing bleeding from medium or large oesophageal
