Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


assessment and management (NG50) Primary prevention of decompensation 1.3.3 For people who have cirrhosis and confirmed, or suspected, clinically significant portal hypertension (for example, as indicated by a hepatic venous pressure gradient of more than 10 mmHg or the presence of oesophageal varices), consider the following options for the primary prevention of decompensation: • carvedilol as the first-choice treatment, because it has fewer side effects and a greater effect on portal vein pressure or • propranolol as the second-choice treatment, if carvedilol is contraindicated. Follow the section on safe prescribing and use of carvedilol and propranolol in people with cirrhosis. In September 2023, the use of carvedilol and propranolol for the primary prevention of decompensation was off-label. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on primary prevention of decompensation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: clinical and cost effectiveness of non-selective beta-blockers for the primary prevention of decompensation in people with compensated cirrhosis. Preventing bleeding from medium or large oesophageal varices 1.3.4 If the person with cirrhosis has medium or large oesophageal varices: • discuss the benefits and harms of all treatment options in line with NICE's guidelines on shared decision making and patient experience in adult NHS services Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) • explain what treatment involves and ask about any potential barriers that could prevent them from accessing treatment (for example, they may find it difficult to take tablets regularly because they are dependent on alcohol or are experiencing homelessness). 1.3.5 For people with medium or large oesophageal varices, offer: • carvedilol or propranolol or • endoscopic variceal band ligation, if either carvedilol or propranolol are not tolerated or contraindicated, or the person cannot take tablets regularly because of their circumstances. Follow the section on safe prescribing and use of carvedilol and propranolol in people with cirrhosis. In September 2023, the use of carvedilol for preventing variceal bleeding was off-label. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on preventing bleeding from medium or large oesophageal varices. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A:
