Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


practice, see the rationale and impact section on preventing bleeding from medium or large oesophageal varices. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: clinical and cost effectiveness of non-selective beta-blockers and endoscopic variceal band ligation for the primary prevention of bleeding in people with oesophageal varices due to cirrhosis. Preventing spontaneous bacterial peritonitis 1.3.6 Do not routinely offer antibiotics to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) in people with cirrhosis and ascites. 1.3.7 Consider antibiotics to prevent SBP only if: • the person is at high risk of developing SBP because they have severe liver disease (for example, they have an ascitic protein of 15 g per litre or less, a Child–Pugh score of more than 9, or a MELD score of more than 16) or Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) • the consequences of an infection could seriously impact the person's care, for example, if it could affect their wait for a transplant or a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent insertion (TIPS). 1.3.8 When offering antibiotics to prevent SBP: • follow local microbiological advice (in line with NICE's guideline on antimicrobial stewardship: systems and processes for effective antimicrobial medicine use) • continue with treatment until the ascites is resolved. For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on preventing SBP. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: use of antibiotics to prevent SBP. Treatment for upper gastrointestinal bleeding 1.3.9 Offer prophylactic intravenous antibiotics for people with cirrhosis who have upper gastrointestinal bleeding. 1.3.10 Review the use of intravenous antibiotics prescribed for upper gastrointestinal bleeding in line with the section on prescribing intravenous antimicrobials in the NICE guideline on antimicrobial stewardship. Treating refractory ascites 1.3.11 Consider a TIPS procedure for people with cirrhosis who have refractory ascites. Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Effectiveness of endoscopic variceal band ligation plus a non- selective beta-blocker for preventing variceal bleeding in people with medium or large oesophageal varices What is the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of endoscopic variceal band ligation plus a non-selective beta-blocker compared with either of these interventions alone for preventing variceal bleeding in adults with cirrhosis and medium
