Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


effectiveness and cost effectiveness of endoscopic variceal band ligation plus a non-selective beta-blocker compared with either of these interventions alone for preventing variceal bleeding in adults with cirrhosis and medium or large oesophageal varices? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on preventing bleeding from medium or large oesophageal varices. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: clinical and cost effectiveness of non-selective beta-blockers and endoscopic variceal band ligation for the primary prevention of bleeding in people with oesophageal varices due to cirrhosis. 2 Antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) in people with cirrhosis and ascites? Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on preventing SBP. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: use of antibiotics to prevent SBP. 3 Primary prevention of decompensation using non-selective beta-blockers What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of non-selective beta-blockers for the primary prevention of decompensation in people with compensated cirrhosis and signs of clinically significant portal hypertension from non-invasive tests (such as tests to measure liver stiffness, or biomarkers)? For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on primary prevention of decompensation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: clinical and cost effectiveness of non-selective beta-blockers for the primary prevention of decompensation in people with compensated cirrhosis. Other recommendations for research 4 Assessing the risk of cirrhosis How can the development of a risk tool help identify people at risk of cirrhosis? Why this is important For much of the time, until presentation with jaundice or decompensation, liver disease may remain asymptomatic and silent. The earlier that liver disease and even cirrhosis is diagnosed, the better the opportunity to treat, limiting disease progression and, in many cases, offering a cure. The prevention of progression to end-stage liver disease, avoiding complications, and reducing the need for investigation, hospitalisation and intervention Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) would have the potential for very large savings for the NHS. The earlier the diagnosis, the greater the potential patient
