Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


and intervention Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) would have the potential for very large savings for the NHS. The earlier the diagnosis, the greater the potential patient and financial benefit. This is why GPs need a guide or 'toolkit' to identify people who are at high risk of having, or developing, advanced liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. One approach would be to identify a retrospective cohort of people with cirrhosis, and to look at their cirrhosis risk factors. The proposed study should use a multivariate analysis to find the risk factors associated with the outcome of cirrhosis. By weighting the risk factors according to their association with the outcome, a risk tool should be developed to predict a person's risk of developing cirrhosis. 5 Treating small oesophageal varices Do non-selective beta-blockers improve survival and prevent first variceal bleeds in people with cirrhosis that is associated with small oesophageal varices? Why this is important Bleeding from oesophageal varices is a major complication of cirrhosis. Approximately half of patients with cirrhosis have oesophageal varices, and one-third of all patients with varices will experience bleeding at some point. Despite improvements in the management of acute haemorrhage in recent decades, the 6-week mortality associated with variceal bleeding remains at 10% to 20%. The risk of variceal bleeding increases with variceal size. Whether non-selective beta-blockers are of benefit as primary prophylaxis in people with cirrhosis and small oesophageal varices has not been adequately studied. 6 Antibiotic resistance in treating spontaneous bacterial peritonitis How frequently does antibiotic resistance occur, and how significant are antibiotic treatment-related complications when antibiotics are used for the primary prevention of SBP in people at high risk of having, or developing, cirrhosis? Why this is important SBP is the most common serious infection in people with cirrhosis, occurring in 25% of those who develop ascites. It is associated with significant morbidity and mortality rates of 20% to 40%. It occurs most commonly in people with advancing liver disease; Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) approximately 70% of cases occur in people with Child–Pugh class C cirrhosis. Several oral antibiotics that have been investigated for the prophylaxis of SBP have shown benefits and a significant reduction in the incidence of SBP in people at high risk of having, or developing, cirrhosis. However, they are associated with antibiotic resistance, adverse reactions and drug interactions. There is a lack of good
