Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


of SBP in people at high risk of having, or developing, cirrhosis. However, they are associated with antibiotic resistance, adverse reactions and drug interactions. There is a lack of good quality, recent evidence regarding the prevalence and consequences of antibacterial resistance that may occur during long- term oral antibiotic therapy when used to prevent SBP. 7 Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent What is the quality of life in people who have had a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent (TIPS)? Why this is important Before TIPS, people may have had several problems resulting from portal hypertension, including variceal bleeding from veins in the stomach, oesophagus or intestines, ascites or hydrothorax – all of which will have had a detrimental effect on their quality of life. TIPS should alleviate these problems, but little is known about the consequential effect on quality of life and any effects that potential problems following TIPS (for example, hepatic encephalopathy, stent blockages, infection and cardiac problems) have on each person. It is therefore important to assess what benefits TIPS has to the quality of life of people with advanced liver disease. 8 Acute hepatic encephalopathy In people with cirrhosis and an acute episode of hepatic encephalopathy secondary to a clearly identified, potentially reversible precipitating factor, does management of the precipitating event alone improve the hepatic encephalopathy without specific treatment? Why this is important Hepatic encephalopathy is a major complication of cirrhosis. Approximately 50% of people with cirrhosis will develop clinically apparent hepatic encephalopathy at some stage after diagnosis – the risk being around 5% to 25% within 5 years. Hospital admissions are common and inpatient stays often prolonged. The presence of hepatic encephalopathy is Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) associated with a significant increase in mortality; survival after the first episode is 42% at 1 year and 23% at 3 years. At present, treatment of hepatic encephalopathy is directed primarily at reducing the production and absorption of gut-derived neurotoxins, particularly ammonia, mainly through bowel cleansing, and the use of non-absorbable disaccharides, such as lactulose, although several other agents such as non-absorbable antibiotics are also used. However, in approximately 50% of people admitted with episodic hepatic encephalopathy, there is a clearly defined precipitating factor (for example, infections, gastrointestinal bleeding or overuse of diuretics). Treatment is often challenging and some people may need to be cared for in an intensive care setting, at least initially. The identification and
