Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


gastrointestinal bleeding or overuse of diuretics). Treatment is often challenging and some people may need to be cared for in an intensive care setting, at least initially. The identification and correction of any precipitating events is important as there is evidence that this alone may improve hepatic encephalopathy without recourse to specific therapies. However, this has not been rigorously tested in a randomised clinical trial. Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Oesophageal varices Recommendation 1.2.8 Why the committee made the recommendation People are usually offered an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy to detect oesophageal varices. If varices are found, they can be treated with either non-selective beta-blockers or endoscopic variceal band ligation. The 2023 update of this guideline recommends carvedilol or propranolol as potential options for preventing decompensation in people who have clinically significant portal hypertension (see the recommendations on primary prevention of decompensation). Therefore, the committee agreed that endoscopy is unnecessary for this group of people because these medicines prevent variceal bleeding. They amended the 2016 recommendations to clarify this. Based on their knowledge and experience, the committee agreed that endoscopy presents an opportunity to carry out one-off endoscopic variceal band ligation on medium or large varices at the same time. This is because the equipment and preparation are the same for both procedures. They noted that it may not always be possible to offer the endoscopic variceal band ligation during endoscopy because some healthcare professionals will not be trained, or have experience, in carrying out the procedure. How the recommendation might affect practice The additional resource impact of carrying out endoscopic variceal band ligation at the same time as endoscopy, where possible, is expected to be small. Return to recommendation Safe prescribing and use of carvedilol and Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) propranolol in people with cirrhosis Recommendations 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 Why the committee made the recommendations Carvedilol and propranolol are commonly used in practice to prevent variceal bleeding. However, the committee noted that healthcare professionals often prefer to prescribe carvedilol because it has anti-alpha adrenergic vasodilatory effects in addition to beta- blockade and is also better tolerated. Both medicines need to be used with caution because they have a much greater effect on the heart rate and blood pressure of people with liver disease than
