Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


better tolerated. Both medicines need to be used with caution because they have a much greater effect on the heart rate and blood pressure of people with liver disease than in people who do not have liver disease. The committee further noted that the BNF states carvedilol should be used with caution in people with moderate hepatic impairment and avoided in those with severe hepatic impairment. Based their experience and expertise, the committee agreed that 'moderate' would apply to many people with cirrhosis. They were also aware of a growing body of research suggesting it should not be given to some people with large-volume or refractory ascites, so used this as an example of 'severe' hepatic impairment. The committee noted that the BNF recommends a lower starting dose for propranolol for preventing variceal bleeding in people with cirrhosis, which the committee agreed to include in the recommendation. The same approach should also be taken with carvedilol; however, the committee were concerned that healthcare professionals may not be aware of this, because this is an off-label use of the medicine. Therefore, they recommended that, when used, carvedilol should also be started at a much lower dose than in people without liver disease and included an example of a suitable dosage in the recommendation to help guide healthcare professionals. How the recommendations might affect practice The committee noted that the use of non-selective beta-blockers to prevent decompensation is an emerging practice, but that they are already widely used for preventing variceal bleeding. Health economic analysis shows that the cost of prescribing these medicines is outweighed by savings in terms of preventing decompensation and reducing the number of endoscopic variceal band ligation sessions required. Return to recommendations Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Primary prevention of decompensation Recommendation 1.3.3 Why the committee made the recommendation The committee acknowledged that portal hypertension is not measured directly as a matter of routine in the UK, but agreed that clinically significant portal hypertension can be through non-invasive methods, including tests to measure liver stiffness, or serum biomarkers. Emerging evidence on the effectiveness of carvedilol and propranolol in preventing primary decompensation in people with clinically significant portal hypertension is unclear but looks promising. Therefore, the committee agreed that either medicine could be a potential treatment option. In the committee's view, carvedilol may be more effective in reducing pressure in the portal vein because it has
