Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


committee agreed that either medicine could be a potential treatment option. In the committee's view, carvedilol may be more effective in reducing pressure in the portal vein because it has anti-alpha adrenergic vasodilatory effects in addition to beta-blockade. The committee made a recommendation for research on the effectiveness of non- selective beta-blockers in people with clinically significant portal hypertension that has been diagnosed through non-invasive investigations. They also noted that a large, National use of carvedilol for this indication. They agreed this evidence could help inform future updates of this guideline. How the recommendation might affect practice The committee noted that prescribing non-selective beta-blockers for this indication is a new practice, and that they are not widely used in this way across the NHS. However, health economic analysis shows that the additional cost of prescribing these medicines is outweighed by the savings in terms of preventing decompensation. Return to recommendation Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Preventing bleeding from medium or large oesophageal varices Recommendations 1.3.4 and 1.3.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Non-selective beta-blockers or endoscopic variceal band ligation can be used to prevent oesophageal variceal bleeding. The committee agreed that most people would prefer to take medication instead of undergoing an invasive procedure, especially as this would instead, if they have had adverse reactions to non-selective beta-blockers, find it difficult committee agreed it was important to discuss all treatment options, and talk with the person about their preferences and personal circumstances, to identify the right treatment for them. The evidence did not distinguish between the clinical effectiveness of non-selective beta- blockers and endoscopic variceal band ligation. However, non-selective beta-blockers were found to be more cost effective when people were able to take these medicines regularly. The studies did not look at the use of endoscopic variceal band ligation in conjunction with a non-selective beta-blocker to prevent variceal bleeding, which the committee agreed could have an additional benefit. They therefore made a recommendation for research to look at the effectiveness of combining both treatments. How the recommendations might affect practice In the committee's experience, both non-selective beta-blockers and endoscopic variceal band ligation are in common use for preventing oesophageal variceal bleeding. These recommendations will increase the use of non-selective beta-blockers to prevent variceal bleeding and should reduce both the use of endoscopic variceal band ligation and the costs associated with that procedure. Return to recommendations Cirrhosis
