Cirrhosis in over 16s:
KEYWORDS: cirrhosis, people, committee, liver, variceal, recommendations, bleeding, evidence, management, varices, use, carvedilol, assessment, people cirrhosis, oesophageal


use of non-selective beta-blockers to prevent variceal bleeding and should reduce both the use of endoscopic variceal band ligation and the costs associated with that procedure. Return to recommendations Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) Preventing spontaneous bacterial peritonitis Recommendations 1.3.6 to 1.3.8 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee looked at evidence that compared different types of antibiotics for preventing spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) in people with cirrhosis and ascites. They noted that 1 of the antibiotics in the evidence (norfloxacin) was not available in the UK, and that the fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics (which includes ciprofloxacin) was the subject of a 2019 MHRA drug safety update that includes restrictions and precautions for their use. The evidence did not demonstrate any overall benefit of antibiotic prophylaxis when compared with no prophylactic treatment. Therefore, the committee agreed that antibiotics should not be routinely offered to prevent SBP in people with cirrhosis and ascites, unless they were at high risk of developing the infection, or its impact could be severe. Most of the evidence focused on people who had low ascitic protein count, so this was included as an example of a measure that could be used to identify risk factors. The committee also included other measures for assessing the severity of liver disease. The committee agreed that, because the evidence showed no overall benefit of using 1 antibiotic over another, prescribers should follow local microbiological advice. This would mean local pathogen distribution would be taken into account and would lead to better antimicrobial stewardship. The committee also noted the importance of good antimicrobial stewardship to reduce the potential emergence of drug-resistant bacteria. The committee agreed that the evidence was not methodologically robust, the sample sizes were small, and none of the studies looked at quality-of-life data. Therefore, they made a recommendation for research on antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent SBP to encourage studies that are more rigorous and look at clinically important outcomes such How the recommendations might affect practice In the committee's experience, there is wide variation in practice in the prescribing of antibiotics for preventing SBP. The 2023 recommendations suggest using antibiotics for Cirrhosis in over 16s: assessment and management (NG50) can be based on local microbiological advice and funding agreements, which may reduce the costs of prescribing antibiotics where necessary. It also makes clear that antibiotics are not necessary for everyone with cirrhosis and ascites.
