ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on The Management of Chronic and Acute Heart Failure:
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, symptoms, treatment, help, medications, hfref, improve, blood, shown, team, types, physical


What Are Clinical Practice Guidelines? Clinical Practice Guidelines are written by a team of healthcare professionals and scientists and are mainly intended for healthcare professionals. They provide diagnosis and treatment recommendations based on medical and scientific evidence to ensure that patients receive appropriate care. This document is for patients with heart failure and their caregivers and is based on the longer European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Clinical Practice Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. What Will This Document Tell Me? This guide for patients aims to provide you with an overview of the latest evidence- based recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of your condition. In particular, it should help you to understand the: • main types of heart failure • medicines you may be offered • devices that might be considered appropriate • importance of being treated by a multidisciplinary team • importance of rehabilitation • importance of looking after yourself and managing your condition This document is not intended as a guide on how the heart works, nor can it be exhaustive. Readers interested in details of the recommendations are kindly referred to the 2021 ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines and the 2023 Focused Update.1 People seeking more general information about heart failure should visit www.heartfailurematters.org If you are a healthcare professional, the ESC hopes that this document, translated into the language of your patients, will provide them and their caregivers with an understanding of their diagnosis and treatment as a patient with heart failure. Please disseminate it widely. How Will This Document Help Me? This document is intended to contribute to your understanding of your condition and give you the knowledge and confidence to be involved in shared decision-making with your healthcare providers regarding treatment and other aspects of your health. It also provides suggestions on ways to look after yourself, which is essential in the effective management of heart failure. 1 What is Heart Failure? Heart failure is not a single disease but a ‘syndrome’ made up of symptoms, such as breathlessness or fatigue, that may appear alongside signs such as swollen ankles, caused by something wrong in the heart. Heart failure can be acute (comes on quickly and severely, requiring urgent attention) or chronic (long-lasting, with the coming-and-going of symptoms). This document mainly refers to chronic heart failure. Types of Heart Failure Heart failure occurs when the pumping action of
