ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on The Management of Chronic and Acute Heart Failure:
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, symptoms, treatment, help, medications, hfref, improve, blood, shown, team, types, physical


urgent attention) or chronic (long-lasting, with the coming-and-going of symptoms). This document mainly refers to chronic heart failure. Types of Heart Failure Heart failure occurs when the pumping action of the heart is impaired. This impairment may be mild or severe. Generally, there are three types of chronic heart failure based on the amount of blood that is pumped out of the heart’s main pumping chamber, the left ventricle, during each heartbeat. This is known as the ‘left ventricular ejection fraction’. The three types of chronic heart failure are: • Heart Failure with reduced Ejection Fraction (HFrEF) • Heart Failure with mildly reduced Ejection Fraction (HFmrEF) • Heart Failure with preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) HFrEF HFmrEF HFpEF Left ventricular ≤ 40 (less or equal 41%-49% ≥ 50% (greater or ejection fraction to) equal to) Changes in In HFrEF, the heart HFmrEF is between In HFpEF, the heart heart structure is usually enlarged HFrEF and HFpEF is less enlarged compared with a than in HFrEF; the normal heart and left ventricle is pumping weakly smaller compared with the HFrEF heart and stiffened Changes in The left ventricle fills with higher pressure than is normal. heart function There is higher pressure in the lungs, veins and liver that can lead to breathlessness and/or oedema (swelling) The changes associated with each type of chronic heart failure are shown below: Left ventricle Right ventricle Normal heart Left Left ventricle Right ventricle Right ventricle ventricle Weakened Stiffened heart muscle heart muscle HFrEF HFpEF Advanced Heart Failure Advanced heart failure is a development of chronic heart failure when symptoms cannot be fully controlled despite maximum therapy. This is sometimes referred to as ‘resistance to treatment’. Advanced heart failure is different from when acute heart failure arises in a patient with chronic heart failure, which describes the rapid onset of a change in heart function that requires urgent attention. Image adapted from: Bloom MW, et al. Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2017;3:17058. Diagnosis of Heart Failure To be diagnosed with heart failure, you must have symptoms and/or signs of heart failure as well as abnormalities and functional problems in the heart as seen on tests. The types of tests and investigations you may have to diagnose your condition are shown below: Blood tests, Electrocardiogram (ECG), X-ray Echocardiogram (echo), such as BNP/ checks electrical activity of ultrasound of the heart NT-proBNP the heart These tests will identify which type
