ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on The Management of Chronic and Acute Heart Failure:
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, symptoms, treatment, help, medications, hfref, improve, blood, shown, team, types, physical


are shown below: Blood tests, Electrocardiogram (ECG), X-ray Echocardiogram (echo), such as BNP/ checks electrical activity of ultrasound of the heart NT-proBNP the heart These tests will identify which type of heart failure you have (HFrEF, HFmrEF, or HFpEF) and guide the appropriate course of treatment. You may need further tests for better evaluation of the features of your heart failure and how your condition will develop. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is sometimes used instead of or with an echo to identify particular characteristics of the heart, including scarring of the heart muscle. The types of treatments that you receive will be chosen depending on how much help your heart needs to function. The more that is known about your diagnosis, the better your doctors can personalise your treatment options, which may improve your symptoms and/or outcomes. Severity Classification of Heart Failure Following diagnosis, doctors will often classify your condition using the New York Heart Association (NYHA) Functional Classification system, according to the severity of your symptoms and how they affect your physical activity: NYHA class Description Class I No limitation of physical activity. Ordinary physical activity does not cause excessive symptoms, e.g., breathlessness, fatigue or palpitations (more noticeable or ‘skipping’ heartbeats) Class II Slight limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest, but ordinary physical activity causes excessive symptoms Class III Significant limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest, but less than ordinary physical activity causes excessive symptoms Class IV Unable to do any physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms can be present even at rest. If any physical activity is done, discomfort is increased Hereditary Forms of Heart Failure Some causes of heart failure, such as a disease of the heart muscle called cardiomyopathy, may be ‘hereditary’, meaning they can be passed down in your family. Genetic testing should be considered in people who may have cardiomyopathy depending on age, family history and heart structure. Treatment for Heart Failure Care from a multidisciplinary team (healthcare professionals across different specialities) is key to meeting the three major goals of treatment for people with heart failure: 1. longer life 2. prevent hospital stays due to worsening heart failure 3. decrease symptoms and improve quality of life Some of the ways that you and your multidisciplinary team can help to achieve these goals are shown below: Multidisciplinary team Management Medication Devices Surgery Lifestyle and monitoring Help patients live longer, prevent hospital
