ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on The Management of Chronic and Acute Heart Failure:
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, symptoms, treatment, help, medications, hfref, improve, blood, shown, team, types, physical


and/or coronary artery disease, many are treated with ACE-I/ angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB), BB or MRA. Initiation and Dosage of Heart Failure Medications Medicines are the first treatment for all types of heart failure and should be started as early as possible, before devices or other non-medicinal treatments are used. When diagnosed with heart failure, it is recommended that you are started on all medications quickly and their doses be rapidly increased because we know that this is the best way to improve your symptoms and reduce your risk of dying or going to hospital. If you had been admitted to hospital because of heart failure, you may be asked to return to the clinic for outpatient follow-ups and optimisation of your medication in the first weeks after discharge. Managing Heart Failure Alongside Other Health Conditions Many people with heart failure also have other health conditions such as diabetes, kidney disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Your heart failure treatment might be changed if you have one of these conditions, are pregnant or have another condition such as congenital heart disease. For people with heart failure and atrial fibrillation, anticoagulants (‘blood thinners’) are often needed to prevent stroke, and digoxin is sometimes given to slow a high heart rate. For people who don’t have enough iron, it is recommended to give an iron infusion to decrease symptoms, improve quality of life and prevent hospital admissions. Devices and Surgery for Heart Failure Devices Medical devices can help support the heart by using electrical signals to keep it beating regularly and/or improve how it works. These devices, placed under the skin near the collarbone, may not only improve symptoms but have been shown to help people with heart failure live longer. Three types of devices that may be recommended to you are shown below: A pacemaker monitors heart rate and sends small and painless electrical Pacemaker impulses to the heart to start each heartbeat if needed An Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) is a pacemaker-like device that can deliver either a painless electrical impulse or a more ICD noticeable shock to the heart to correct the heart rhythm if it senses a serious problem that could lead to sudden cardiac arrest A cardiac resynchronisation therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) is a special CRT-P type of pacemaker that makes the different parts of the heart pump /CRT-D together. It can be combined with an ICD
