ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines on The Management of Chronic and Acute Heart Failure:
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, symptoms, treatment, help, medications, hfref, improve, blood, shown, team, types, physical


cardiac resynchronisation therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) is a special CRT-P type of pacemaker that makes the different parts of the heart pump /CRT-D together. It can be combined with an ICD (CRT-D) People with HFrEF are at increased risk of cardiac arrest, where the heart suddenly stops pumping. Pacemakers may be recommended for people with a heartbeat that is too slow or too fast. A pacemaker monitors heart rate and sendssm all and painless People who have recoPvaceermedak ferrom cardiac arrest and those with a history of heart attack electrical impulses to the heart to start each heartbeat if needed. are most likely to receive an ICD. In people with other heart disease not related to the blood vessels of the heart, ICDs are most helpful in those under 70 years old. An Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) is a pacemaker-like A cardiac resynchronisatioICnD theradpeyvi c(eC tRhaTt) c adne dveiclivee mr eaithye br ae puasineleds si nel eccetrritcaali nim ppeulosep oler at o more noticeable shock to the heart to correct the heart rhythm if it improve heart function and quality of life, depending on the results of an ECG as well as senses a serious problem that could lead to sudden cardiac arrest. how well and for how long medications are working. A cardiac resynchronisation therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) is a CRT-P Some of the important steps in stpheeci apl rtoypcee osfs p oacfe rmeackeeirv tihnagt m oark erse tphlea dciiffnegre antn p iamrtsp olaf nted /CRT-D device are shown below: the heart pump together. It can be combined with an ICD If you have a left You should receive A review of You should be evaluated ventricular ejection education around medications by an experienced fraction ≤35%, you the purpose (particularly cardiologist before your should be considered of the device diuretic therapy) device is replaced, in for an implanted and potential is advised after case management goals device (ICD or CRT) complications receiving a CRT or needs have changed Time Surgery Some people with underlying cardiac diseases that are causing heart failure will benefit from surgery or other procedures. Some of the common surgical or catheter procedures for heart failure, who they are for, and what they do and how, are listed below: Procedure/ surgery Who’s it for? What it does and how Catheter People with worsening heart Restores normal heart rhythm by ablation failure symptoms due to atrial blocking extra electrical
