Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


ABSTRACT Clinical practice guidelines are developed to create a synthesis of evidence which, in turn, leads to recommendations that improve clinical decision-making. Guidelines are helpful for busy clinicians to improve outcomes and reduce unnecessary practice variation. Historically, guidelines were largely based on expert opinion. The modern approach to guideline development includes a complete review and grading of the available evidence. The evidence is then used to construct recommendations for clinical practice with grades based on the level of evidence to support them. Pediatric lipid guidelines were first published in 1992. These guidelines included a screening approach based on family history and recommended a population approach to improve diet and physical activity in all children and adolescents, as well as a high-risk approach. This approach focused on treatment with lifestyle or with pharmacologic agents for those identified at high risk. The 2011 Integrated Guidelines provide the most comprehensive and up-to-date approach to pediatric dyslipidemia. In these guidelines, universal screening in 9-11-year-olds is recommended to identify children with genetic dyslipidemia or more lifestyle- related dyslipidemia. Pharmacologic treatment is recommended only for a small group of children and adolescents with marked elevation of LDL-C due to genetic dyslipidemias. New guidelines from the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology largely support the Integrated Guidelines. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL PRACTICE AND GUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT Clinical practice guidelines are becoming an increasingly important aspect of clinical care. Guidelines are designed to create a synthesis of evidence, including expert opinion where little evidence exists, to provide a straightforward approach to clinical decision making. Guideline development recognizes that the average practicing clinician has difficulty keeping abreast of developing medical science across a wide range of areas. This is especially true for generalists in primary care who must cover a wide range of medical issues with their patients. Guidelines are particularly helpful where there may be conflicting evidence or a range of levels of quality among studies included in the evidence base. In addition, when guidelines are widely utilized, they help to diminish unnecessary practice variation, improve outcomes, and potentially can reduce costs by providing a more efficient pathway to appropriate diagnosis and treatment while eliminating unnecessary tests and procedures. While the value of well-done clinical practice guidelines is now widely accepted, concerns have been expressed historically about their development ( 1 ). These concerns include
