Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


unnecessary tests and procedures. While the value of well-done clinical practice guidelines is now widely accepted, concerns have been expressed historically about their development ( 1 ). These concerns include the fact that there were no standards for the guideline development process or guideline committee composition. This sometimes resulted in concerns about the balance in expertise. In addition, relationships between committee members and pharmaceutical companies or other entities were often not disclosed, making potential conflicts of interest difficult to discern. There also have been no universal standards for the approach to reviewing and grading the evidence. This can lead to selective inclusion of research or to different approaches to weighting of the evidence. There has also been no standard approach to translating the evidence review into graded recommendations, which is the aspect of the process that is most useful, and most used by clinicians. Often, clinical recommendations were presented as unanimous when, in fact, there was substantial discussion and even disagreement on the part of the committee members. This lack of a standard accepted process has sometimes led to clinical practice guidelines from different organizations that presented very different recommendations on the same topic, which potentially increases the confusion of clinicians even more. As more experience has been gained with the process of guideline development, the process has improved over time. Presently, the government and health organizations which oversee guideline construction now generally focus on more balanced committee membership and a more transparent approach to potential conflicts of interest. They require completion of a documented review of the evidence, increased transparency of committee discussion, and improved identification of expert opinion in the guideline development process. However, key elements of the process remain controversial. Good guidelines require the development of good key questions at the onset of the process. Constructing the best key questions still seems more of an art than a scientific endeavor. In addition, different organizations have different approaches to grading evidence and to constructing and grading recommendations from the evidence. For example, some organizations will essentially accept only evidence derived from randomized controlled clinical trials. While those trials do represent the strongest science, they are also the most difficult and expensive studies to perform. Clinical trials by their nature often address very narrow scientific and clinical questions. In addition, there are many areas that remain unaddressed by clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including areas where such
