Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


nature often address very narrow scientific and clinical questions. In addition, there are many areas that remain unaddressed by clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including areas where such trials are difficult to perform or even may be considered unethical, as well as areas where funding for such studies has not been available. In the past, clinical practice guidelines have been viewed as static documents. This is not appropriate as the science that informs clinical decision making is always evolving. In the case where the science is rapidly evolving, a guideline may be out of date shortly after it is published. Thus, guideline creation should best be viewed as a continuous improvement process with new studies reviewed and graded as they become available. Newer electronic data bases and electronic health records make this approach to ongoing refinement of guidelines more feasible. Unfortunately, guidelines are often not implemented in practice. Research has demonstrated that there is often a lag, which can be as long as a decade or more between development and routine implementation of guidelines ( 2 ). This suggests that clinicians may be implementing treatment that is not supported by the best evidence. This is an area where more research is needed to determine best practices to encourage and enhance utilization of guidelines once they are developed. GUIDELINES FOR PEDIATRIC DYSLIPIDEMIA National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) 1992 The first guidelines on pediatric lipid management were developed by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) of the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and were published in 1992 ( 3 ). The guidelines were developed by a pediatric committee that worked in parallel with the NCEP adult panel of experts. The guideline construction did not involve a complete, formal evidence review with grading of the evidence. Much of the report was based on expert opinion and extrapolation of data collected in adults to create an approach to pediatric patients. The report presented two approaches to pediatric dyslipidemia. The first was a population-based approach, which focused on diet and lifestyle issues for the entire population. The second was focused on identification and treatment of higher risk children and adolescents. The goal of the population approach was to prevent dyslipidemia from developing in the first place. This has come to be called primordial prevention. The population approach encourages healthy diet and physical activity for all children and adolescents. This approach includes
