Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


developing in the first place. This has come to be called primordial prevention. The population approach encourages healthy diet and physical activity for all children and adolescents. This approach includes all family members, as well. The individualized approach aimed to identify and treat children and adolescents who are at greatest risk for having high blood cholesterol as adults and who had an increased lifetime risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. In the individual approach, the committee recommended selective screening of children who have a family history of premature cardiovascular disease or at least one parent with elevated serum cholesterol. This approach assumed that all adults would have their lipid levels tested as part of routine care. The committee considered universal screening, but decided that the selective screening approach would recognize the influence of genes and environment and would be more efficient. This selective screening approach, sometimes referred to as cascade screening, is used in many European countries to identify children and adolescents with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). The committee also presented cut points for acceptable, borderline and high elevated LDL-C based on percentiles from the Lipid Research Clinical Prevalence Study ( 4 ). The panel then used these cut points to establish an approach to initiation of and goals for diet therapy. The panel developed separate cut points derived from studies of adults for initiation of drug therapy. They developed a two-step approach to diet therapy with Step 2 having greater restriction of saturated fat and cholesterol in the diet. For drug therapy, the panel recommended the use of bile acid sequestering agents for routine use. This report did not provide a focus on triglycerides or HDL-C and did not recommend the use of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors for pharmacologic therapy. These 1992 Guidelines served as the approach to screening, diagnosis, and treatment for many years. They also served as the basis for research with investigators studying the effectiveness of a selective approach to screening and other aspects of the guidelines ( 5 ). In addition, clinical trials were launched to study the effect of dietary and pharmacologic intervention in children and adolescents with dyslipidemia ( 6 , 7 ). As new evidence became available, some of which supported the 1992 Guidelines and others which suggested alternative approaches, organizations such as the American Academy of Pediatrics ( 8 , 9 ) and the American Heart Association ( 10 , 11 ) empaneled
