Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


and others which suggested alternative approaches, organizations such as the American Academy of Pediatrics ( 8 , 9 ) and the American Heart Association ( 10 , 11 ) empaneled committees to produce guidelines and recommendations, which were refinements of the original 1992 guidelines. None of these efforts included a formal, complete review and grading of the evidence or grading of the recommendations. United States Preventive Services Task Force 2016 In a parallel process, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) initiated a review of the evidence regarding cholesterol screening in children and adolescents ( 12 ). This review was updated in 2016. The USPSTF uses a formal evidence review and grading based on a series of key questions. The USPSTF has reported an “I” recommendation on lipid screening. This means that they found insufficient evidence for or against lipid screening in children and adolescents. This is a call for more research in this area. There are several reasons why an “I” recommendation resulted from the USPSTF review of the evidence. The first has to do with the key questions asked as the framework for the review. A close inspection of the key questions demonstrates that several of the key questions are probably not answerable because the types of studies needed to answer the questions cannot reasonably be done. The USPSTF also requires a very high standard for research, including randomized clinical trials of screening, which are much less likely to be done in children than in adults. The 2016 USPSTF review of cholesterol screening was improved in several ways compared to previous reviews ( 13 - 15 ). First, there was a separate analysis of the evidence to support screening for individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia. In previous USPSTF reviews, these individuals had been excluded from consideration. The 2016 USPSTF review also included a review of the evidence to screen for multifactorial dyslipidemia. The key questions were also modified somewhat from previous reviews. However, the answer for key questions, such as: 1. Does screening for dyslipidemia in asymptomatic children and adolescents delay or reduce the incidence of myocardial infarction or stroke in adulthood, or 2. Does treatment of dyslipidemia with lifestyle modification or lipid lowering medications in children and adolescents delay or reduce the incidence of adult myocardial infarction and stroke events? These questions still require studies that are virtually impossible to do. Such studies would require randomization of
