Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


adolescents delay or reduce the incidence of adult myocardial infarction and stroke events? These questions still require studies that are virtually impossible to do. Such studies would require randomization of young individuals and following them for decades to observe the outcomes. Utilization of these key questions make it quite difficult for the USPSTF to achieve anything other than an “I” statement for pediatric lipid screening. There were several commentaries of the 2016 USPSF reviews that serve to put the results in broader context ( 16 , 17 ). These commentaries pointed out that a statement of insufficient evidence for or against lipid screening was not particularly helpful for the clinician on the front line and that other health organizations, such as the American Heart Association and the American Academy of Pediatricians have recommended lipid screening in children and adolescents based on separate review and grading of the evidence. It is important to note that an “I” statement from the USPSTF should not be taken as a recommendation against lipid screening. The USPSTF does recommend against screening when the evidence demonstrates that screening or treatment are ineffective or harmful. In the face of an “I” statement and given the high bar for evidence required by the USPSTF, it is up to individual clinicians and health organizations to weight the available evidence and decide on a course of action. National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) 2011 In 2011, the results of an NHLBI panel, which performed a complete review and grading of the evidence for screening and treatment of cardiovascular disease risk factors in children and adolescents, including dyslipidemia, were published as part of an integrated approach to CVD risk factor evaluation and management ( 18 , 19 ). These Integrated Guidelines represent the most comprehensive, up-to-date approach to lipid screening, diagnosis, and treatment and are a departure from previous guidelines. First, the guidelines recommended universal screening for lipid disorders. This means that all children should have their lipids tested one time between the ages of 9-11. This can be performed with either a fasting lipid profile or a non-fasting test to evaluate non-HDL-C. This universal approach was recommended because studies showed that using only a selective screening approach based on family history would potentially miss 30-60% of children and adolescents with substantial elevations of cholesterol ( 5 ). The universal screening approach is largely designed to identify children with genetic
