Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


family history would potentially miss 30-60% of children and adolescents with substantial elevations of cholesterol ( 5 ). The universal screening approach is largely designed to identify children with genetic dyslipidemia, such as familial hypercholesterolemia. However, it will also identify children with dyslipidemia, largely elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C, due to lifestyle factors and obesity. The Integrated Guidelines continued to support both a population and a high-risk approach to dyslipidemia. The recommendation for diet for the general population is the Cardiovascular Health Integrated Lifestyle Diet (CHILD) 1. For higher-risk patients identified through screening, the CHILD 2-LDL diet was recommended if the LDL-C was elevated. This diet further restricts intake of saturated fat and cholesterol in the diet. For those with elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C, the CHILD 2-TG diet was recommended. This diet includes reduced intake of simple sugars in addition to reduction in saturated fat. The Integrated Guidelines presented statin agents as first-line pharmacologic treatment for substantial elevation of LDL-C (>190mg/dL) with no other risk factors, or >160mg/dL with 1 high level or ≥ 2 moderate-level risk factors in children and adolescents age 10 years and older. The Integrated Guidelines have not been without controversy ( 20 - 22 ). In addition, uptake of the Integrated Guidelines has been less than optimum ( 23 , 24 ). One potential reason for confusion regarding the guidelines is the potential concern about the impact of obesity on dyslipidemia. This result, in part, derives from a misunderstanding of the difference between the issues related to genetic forms of dyslipidemia, such as FH, and those that are largely due to lifestyle. It needs to be clarified that most individuals who have an LDL-C level in the range where medication would be recommended have a genetic form of dyslipidemia, usually heterozygous FH. Children and adolescents with lifestyle-based dyslipidemia rarely have LDL-C levels that would trigger the recommendation for pharmacologic treatment. Obesity results in elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C with only a modest increase in LDL-C. These children and adolescents should be treated with changes in lifestyle, including a more healthful diet and increased levels of physical activity. Estimates are that fewer than 1% of children and adolescents would qualify for statin treatment ( 25 ). American Heart Association (AHA) and the National Lipid Association (NLA) This potential confusion over different aspects of dyslipidemia and their consequences have led to American Heart Association (AHA) and
