Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


). American Heart Association (AHA) and the National Lipid Association (NLA) This potential confusion over different aspects of dyslipidemia and their consequences have led to American Heart Association (AHA) and the National Lipid Association (NLA) to sharpen the focus on familial hypercholesterolemia ( 25 - 27 ). While these scientific statements did not include a formal review and grading of the evidence, they provided a new focus for clinicians and may simplify the clinical approach to pediatric dyslipidemia. Clinicians should probably focus first on identification and treatment of individuals with the array of genetic defects that underlie FH and their family members who also have this genetic abnormality. Because this genetic defect occurs in approximately 1:250 individuals, it is one of the most prevalent genetic diseases. Individuals with heterozygous FH have substantial and often marked elevation of LDL-C. These individuals have been shown to be at increased lifetime risk of atherosclerotic CVD and are at risk for adverse outcomes in their 30’s, 40’s, 50’s and 60’s. Unfortunately, the first clinical sign of the disease for these patients may be a myocardial infarction or sudden cardiac death. Because this is often an asymptomatic condition, particularly in childhood, lipid testing is essentially the only way to identify affected individuals. Treatment with statins and other pharmacologic agents can be quite effective at lowering LDL-C levels and decreasing the risk for adverse cardiovascular outcomes. American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Cholesterol Clinical Practice Guidelines 2018 The most recent clinical practice guidelines regarding dyslipidemia are the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Cholesterol Clinical Practice Guidelines published in 2018 ( 28 ). These guidelines included a complete evidence review and systematic grading of the evidence and the recommendations. These guidelines largely focus on the management of blood cholesterol in adults, but also included a section on children. These guidelines indicate that, in children (age 10-19 years of age) and young adults (20-39 years of age), priority should be given to evaluation of lifetime risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and promotion of lifestyle risk reduction. In the AHA/ACC 2018 guidelines, screening for dyslipidemia based on family history is given a B-nonrandomized level of evidence and a IIa strength of recommendation ( 28 ). Universal screening for dyslipidemia once between age 9-11 years and once between age 17-21 is given a B-nonrandomized level of evidence and a IIb strength of recommendation. The B-NR level of evidence indicates
