Guidelines for Screening, Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: guidelines, evidence, screening, children, approach, adolescents, children adolescents, lipid, clinical, dyslipidemia, american, pubmed, heart, association, cholesterol


dyslipidemia once between age 9-11 years and once between age 17-21 is given a B-nonrandomized level of evidence and a IIb strength of recommendation. The B-NR level of evidence indicates moderate quality of evidence from observational studies. The class IIa recommendation is a moderate recommendation, while a class IIb recommendation is considered weaker (might be reasonable). For treatment of dyslipidemia in children and adolescents, lifestyle approaches receive a level A for the evidence and have a class I strength of recommendation. For children and adolescents age 10 and over with an LDL-C persistently above 190mg/dL or above 160mg/dL with a clinical presentation consistent with familial hypercholesterolemia who do not adequately respond to lifestyle change after 3-6 months, initiating statin therapy received a B-randomized level of evidence and a class IIa recommendation ( 22 ). These newest guidelines are essentially in line with the 2011 Integrated Guidelines from the NHLBI. However, they also emphasize that more high-quality evidence is needed. This should drive research efforts in the areas of screening and management for pediatric dyslipidemia. CONCLUSION In conclusion, the evidence related to risk, identification, and effective treatment of dyslipidemia has continued to expand. This has allowed development of guidelines for management of pediatric patients with dyslipidemia. Unfortunately, uptake of these guidelines by primary care clinicians has been slow. There is a need for ongoing high-quality studies in this area so that new study results can be included in subsequent evidence reviews and clinical practice guidelines can be improved. A major limiting factor in the development of Guidelines regarding the screening, identification, and treatment of dyslipidemia in children and adolescents is the lack of studies which produce the evidence to support such guidelines. There are examples of guidelines in pediatric healthcare that have been well accepted based on evidence. These include US Preventive Services Task Force recommendations for screening for obesity using Body Mass Index ( 22 ), guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute ( 23 ), and for the diagnosis and management of an initial urinary tract infection in febrile infants from the American Academy of Pediatrics ( 24 ). These guidelines have generally been accepted in pediatric practice, although not always without controversy ( 25 ). As we seek to improve outcomes through better standardization of delivery of healthcare, improved evidence-based guidelines will be increasingly important. REFERENCES 1. Sniderman AD,
