Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


ABSTRACT Combined dyslipidemia (CD) is now the predominant hyperlipidemic pattern in childhood, characterized by moderate to severe elevation in triglycerides (TG) and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) with reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). In youth, CD occurs almost exclusively with obesity and is highly prevalent, seen in 30-60% of obese adolescents. With nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, the CD pattern is represented as increased small, dense LDL and overall LDL particle number and decreased total HDL-C and large HDL particles, a highly atherogenic pattern. CD in childhood is associated with pathologic evidence of atherosclerosis and ultrasound findings of vascular dysfunction in children, adolescents, and young adults; it is also predictive of early clinical cardiovascular events in adult life. CD is strongly associated with visceral adiposity, insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and the metabolic syndrome, suggesting an underlying, integrated pathophysiologic response to excessive weight gain. In almost all cases, CD responds well to lifestyle intervention including weight loss, changes in dietary composition, and increased physical activity. Evidence-based recommendations for management of CD are provided. Rarely, drug therapy is needed and the evidence for drug treatment of CD in childhood is reviewed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . DEFINITION, ATHEROGENICITY, AND PREVALENCE The pediatric obesity epidemic has resulted in a large population of children and adolescents with secondary combined dyslipidemia (CD). This is now the predominant hyperlipidemic pattern in childhood, characterized by moderate to severe elevation in triglycerides (TG) and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) with reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) ( 1 ). Analysis by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) shows that the combined dyslipidemia pattern on standard lipid profile is represented at the lipid subpopulation level as increased small, dense LDL and LDL particle number with decreased total HDL-C and large HDL particles ( 2 , 3 , 4 ). High LDL particle number and elevated small, dense LDL particles have each been shown to predict clinical cardiovascular disease ( 5 - 11 ). The atherogenicity of this lipid sub-population pattern is complex and includes the high concentration of circulating LDL particles, decreased binding of small, dense LDL particles to the LDL receptor, prolonged residence time in plasma and therefore prolonged arterial wall exposure, greater binding of small, dense LDL particles to arterial wall proteoglycans, and increased susceptibility to oxidation ( 12 - 18 ). Consistent with these findings, genetic
