Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


and BMI change ( 34 ). In autopsy studies in children, adolescents and young adults, non-HDL-C and HDL-C levels were the best lipid predictors of pathologic atherosclerotic lesions, better than any other lipid measure ( 35 ). Non-HDL-C measured in childhood was a significant predictor of subclinical atherosclerosis in adulthood, assessed by higher carotid intima media thickness (cIMT) measurements ( 36 ). In adults, non-HDL-C has been shown to be the best independent lipid predictor of cardiovascular disease events ( 37 , 38 ). Normative values for non-HDL-C are included in the 2011 NHLBI pediatric guidelines which recommend this measure for population screening ( 1 ) ( Table 1 ). The TG/HDL-C ratio is a strong predictor of coronary disease extent in adults and is considered to be a surrogate index of the atherogenicity of the plasma lipid profile ( 39 , 40 ). In children, an elevated TG/HDL-C ratio correlates with insulin resistance and with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( 41 - 43 ). In a study of normal weight, overweight, and obese white children and adolescents, top tertile TG/HDL-C correlated significantly with increased cIMT in multivariate analysis ( 43 ). There are ethnic differences in lipid measures which manifest during adolescence: African-Americans have significantly lower triglycerides and higher HDL-C levels and this impacts non-HDL-C and the TG/HDL-C ratio ( 44 - 47 ). In a study of obese black and white adolescents, TG/HDL-C and non-HDL-C were surrogate markers for elevated small dense lipoprotein particles on NMR spectroscopic analysis ( 48 ). A TG/HDL-C ratio above 3 and non-HDL-C above 120 mg/dL in white subjects, and TG/HDL-C ratio above 2.5 and non-HDL-C levels above 145 mg/dL in black subjects were the best lipid predictors of LDL-C particle concentration ( 48 ). The HEALTHY study characterized lipids in a large, diverse population of sixth grade children and found that 33% of overweight/obese children had an elevated TG/HDL-C ratio and 11.2% had an elevated non-HDL-C ( 49 ). NMR spectroscopy confirmed that the CD findings on standard lipid profile identified the lipid subpopulation pattern of increased total and small, dense LDL particles ( 50 ). GENETIC ASPECTS OF COMBINED DYSLIPIDEMIA In the literature, the terminology describing combined dyslipidemia also includes “mixed dyslipidemia” and “atherogenic dyslipidemia” ( 51 , 52 ). Combined dyslipidemia is the term used most commonly in pediatrics ( 53 ). There is overlap in the lipid phenotype between
