Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


dyslipidemia” and “atherogenic dyslipidemia” ( 51 , 52 ). Combined dyslipidemia is the term used most commonly in pediatrics ( 53 ). There is overlap in the lipid phenotype between CD and familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL), which was originally considered to be a genetically discrete entity ( 54 , 55 ). However, current evidence suggests that FCHL is a multigenic dyslipidemia with variable expression in different pedigrees ( 56 , 57 ). There is well-established familial aggregation of the combined dyslipidemia phenotype in pediatric and adult studies, beyond the historic studies of FCHL ( 58 , 59 ). Emerging evidence from gene sequencing studies suggests that variants in the genes controlling TG metabolism, particularly those encoding lipoprotein lipase, may be important factors in the expression of hypertriglyceridemia and combined dyslipidemia ( 59 , 60 ). As with CD, the mechanism of increased CVD risk in FCHL is the presence of increased numbers of apolipoprotein B-containing particles, particularly small, dense LDL particles, so genetic analysis is not critical for patient management at this time ( 61 , 62 ). EVIDENCE FOR ACCELERATED ATHEROSCLEROSIS WITH COMBINED DYSLIPIDEMIA An important initiating step in atherosclerosis is subendothelial retention of LDL-containing lipoproteins ( 63 ). Combined dyslipidemia is highly atherogenic because its sub-population composition with increased LDL particles and small dense LDL is associated with facilitated sub-endothelial retention by multiple mechanisms ( 12 - 18 ). Consistent with these findings, recent genetic evidence from mutational analyses, genome-wide association studies, and Mendelian randomization studies indicates that triglycerides and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins are an important source of increased small, dense LDL particle populations. In childhood, the atherogenicity of combined dyslipidemia is seen in anatomic and histologic changes at autopsy and with structural and functional vascular changes in vivo. CD in childhood is also predictive of accelerated atherosclerosis and of early cardiovascular events in adult life. In both the Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth Study and the Bogalusa Heart Study, high non-HDL-C and low HDL-C were strongly associated with autopsy evidence of premature atherosclerosis ( 64 - 66 ). Obese youth with elevations in TG and low HDL-C had thicker CIMT, higher pulse wave velocity (PWV), and increased carotid artery stiffness ( 67 - 69 ). A strong association between higher TG/HDL-C ratio, higher non-HDL-C, and higher PWV in both lean and obese children has been demonstrated after adjustment for other CVD risk factors ( 70 ). CD
