Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


association between higher TG/HDL-C ratio, higher non-HDL-C, and higher PWV in both lean and obese children has been demonstrated after adjustment for other CVD risk factors ( 70 ). CD identified in childhood is associated with atherosclerotic vascular change measured in adulthood by CIMT and PWV ( 71 - 73 ). Most importantly, in the long-term Princeton Follow-up Study, elevated TG and TG/HDL-C ratio at a mean age of 12 years predicted clinical cardiovascular events at late follow-up 3 to 4 decades later ( 74 , 75 ). This is the first childhood lipid parameter shown to be associated with premature clinical cardiovascular disease. Thus, the combined dyslipidemia pattern seen with obesity in childhood and adolescence identifies pathologic evidence of atherosclerosis and vascular dysfunction in adolescence and young adulthood, and predicts early clinical events in adult life. While evidence like this in pediatrics strongly supported the importance of high triglycerides/ combined dyslipidemia in the development of atherosclerotic vascular change and subsequent premature cardiovascular clinical cardiovascular disease, LDL-C has been the principal, long-time focus for investigation and management in adult atherosclerosis. Since the time this chapter was first developed in 2016, a flurry of studies in adults have addressed the importance of hypertriglyceridemia – the “neglected major cardiovascular risk factor” – in atherogenesis ( 76 ). These include epidemiologic studies which identify high serum TGs as a marker for TG-rich lipoproteins, now recognized as strong, independent predictors of ASCVD and all-cause mortality; Mendelian randomization studies which identify TG-rich lipoproteins as causally associated with ASCVD and all-cause mortality; and intervention trials identifying high TGs and non-HDL-C as the mediators of residual atherosclerotic risk when LDL-C levels are below prescribed targets ( 77 - 80 ). Unfortunately, as discussed in other Endotext chapters, recent randomized trials using triglyceride lowering drugs have failed to demonstrate a decrease in atherosclerotic cardiovascular events in adults. PATHOPHYSIOLOGIC ASSOCIATIONS There is a tight connection between CD and obesity, visceral adiposity, insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and the metabolic syndrome. Obesity The association between CD and obesity is strong and consistent with CD seen in 20 to 60% of obese youth ( 25 - 27 ). The prevalence of CD increases as obesity severity increases ( 28 - 30 ). In multiple studies, excessive intake of sugars, particularly fructose, has been associated with obesity and with combined dyslipidemia in children and adults ( 81 - 87 ).
