Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


- 30 ). In multiple studies, excessive intake of sugars, particularly fructose, has been associated with obesity and with combined dyslipidemia in children and adults ( 81 - 87 ). By contrast, low sugar intake is associated with higher HDL in females during adolescence ( 88 ). Visceral Adiposity There is a close correlation between CD and abdominal obesity. In susceptible individuals with an underlying racial/ethnic/familial/genetic predisposition , excessive weight gain occurs disproportionately as visceral fat (VAT). This is thought to reflect the inability of the subcutaneous adipose tissue depot to expand, resulting in ectopic fat deposition, primarily in the viscera but also in the liver, heart, and skeletal muscle ( 89 , 90 ). Based on correlation with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, waist circumference (WC) is an effective measure of abdominal obesity in youth, with WC above the 90 th %ile for age and sex strongly predicting high TGs, reduced HDL-C, and hyperinsulinemia ( 91 , 92 ). Using NHANES norms for WC, the prevalence of abdominal obesity increased more than 65% in boys and girls aged 2 to 19 years between 1988-1994 and 1999-2004 ( 93 , 94 ). From NHANES survey results in 5- to 18-year-olds from 1999 to 2008, waist/height ratio (WHtR), another measure of central adiposity, was integrated with BMI percentiles and measures of cardiometabolic risk: obese subjects with normal WHtR < 0.5 had cardiometabolic risk similar to subjects with normal BMI percentiles, while increasing WHtR was significantly associated with dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and the metabolic syndrome ( 95 ). There are known racial/ethnic differences in the tendency to develop visceral adiposity with Hispanic, Native-American, and Asian populations at elevated risk ( 96 ). Especially in Asians, increased VAT can develop in the absence of any other measure of adiposity and this is associated with hypertriglyceridemia, CD, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) ( 97 ), VAT contributes directly to high TGs because delivery of FFAs to the liver via the portal vein is proportionate to visceral fat mass. Progression of VAT correlates significantly with development of CD ( 98 ) Insulin Resistance and Type 2 Diabetes Insulin resistance is considered a primary abnormality in development of CD and associated cardiovascular disease. Obesity correlates with hyperinsulinemia in children, adolescents, and adults ( 99 , 100 ). In the Bogalusa Heart Study, serial cross-sectional surveys showed that higher BMI was associated with higher fasting insulin levels
