Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


hyperinsulinemia in children, adolescents, and adults ( 99 , 100 ). In the Bogalusa Heart Study, serial cross-sectional surveys showed that higher BMI was associated with higher fasting insulin levels in childhood and adolescence and with higher fasting glucose levels in young adulthood ( 101 ). Insulin resistance (IR) correlates strongly with abdominal obesity, high TGs, and reduced HDL-C in children, adolescents, and adults. During puberty, insulin resistance is physiologic with an average 50% decrease in insulin sensitivity, associated with compensatory doubling of insulin secretion to maintain glucose homeostasis. The pattern of insulin resistance is exaggerated in obese adolescents and persists after puberty is complete ( 102 ). Hyperinsulinemia enhances hepatic VLDL synthesis, manifest as high TGs ( 103 ). At the tissue level, IR promotes lipoprotein lipase dysfunction, further elevating TGs ( 104 ). In normoglycemic adolescents, IR and CD were seen only in obese subjects and the dyslipidemia correlated with the degree of IR ( 105 ). In a hyperinsulinemic–euglycemic clamp study, elevated TGs with reduced HDL-C identified in vivo IR ( 41 ). Progression from IR to impaired fasting glucose to type 2 diabetes (T2DM) has been documented in youth, especially with a family history of diabetes ( 101 ). T2DM is increasingly common in adolescents with a prevalence of 0.46 per 1000 individuals in 2009, a 31% increase from 2001 ( 106 ). In children and adults, the interplay between insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in normoglycemic and hyperglycemic individuals is complex and at this time, incompletely elucidated ( 107 ). Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease CD is also strongly linked with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), defined as hepatic fat infiltration in >5% of hepatocytes with no evidence of hepatocellular injury on liver biopsy and no history of alcohol intake ( 109 ). NAFLD is highly correlated with obesity, affecting at least 38% of obese adolescents in autopsy series and ~50% in epidemiologic surveys ( 109 , 110 ). On evaluation, the most common findings are hepatomegaly and mild-to-moderate elevation in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ( 108 ). Hepatic fat deposition usually occurs in the context of generalized obesity but reflects much more strongly, the presence of increased visceral adiposity. In obese children and adolescents, sequential increase in waist circumference, a proxy measure of visceral fat, is associated with progressive increase in odds ratio for prediction of ultrasound-detected hepatic steatosis ( 112 ). NAFLD is strongly associated
