Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


25 years later ( 125 ). Summary CD is strongly associated with a complex of related cardiometabolic factors. From existing studies, it appears that visceral adiposity develops in children and adolescents with underlying racial/ethnic/familial/genetic susceptibility in response to excessive weight gain. This initiates a cascade of pathophysiologic reactions which result in CD, insulin resistance/ T2DM, and NAFLD and combined, the metabolic syndrome. These prevalent combinations are powerful predictors of cardiometabolic risk ( 1 , 115 , 116 ). MAKING THE DIAGNOSIS OF COMBINED DYSLIPIDEMIA The 2011 NHLBI pediatric guidelines were the first to recognize the importance of high TGs and CD in childhood ( 1 ). The guidelines recommend selective lipid screening when overweight or obesity is first identified (BMI ≥ 85 th %ile for age/sex); when any other major cardiovascular risk is present; and when there is a family history of early cardiovascular disease or of treated dyslipidemia ( 1 ). While non-fasting measures of total cholesterol and HDL–C are accurate and non-HDL-C can be used for general screening, hypertriglyceridemia can only be identified on a fasting lipid profile (FLP) so a FLP is recommended for selective screening in these settings. Normative values for the lipid components are shown in table 1 with values above the 95 th %ile considered elevated for TC, TG, non-HDL-C, and LDL-C; and below the 5 th %ile considered as reduced for HDL-C. If the first FLP results are abnormal, testing should be repeated after 2 weeks but before 3 months and results averaged to determine baseline lipid values. Measurement of TGs is subject to considerable biologic variability with median variation between measurements of 23.5% compared with ~ 5-6% for cholesterol and HDL-C so if the first 2 test results are highly disparate, a third fasting measurement is recommended ( 127 , 128 ). For the rare child with CD in whom TGs consistently exceed 500 mg/dL and who is at risk for pancreatitis, treatment is described in detail in the NHLBI guidelines and in other Endotext chapters ( 1 ). When high TGs or CD are confirmed, specific evaluation for co-morbidities is recommended: a. Waist circumference and WHtR as measures of visceral adiposity ( 91 - 93 ) b. Assessment of fasting glucose to evaluate glucose intolerance per the recommendations of the American Diabetic Association ( 129 ) c. ALT measurement to check for NAFLD ( 108 ) d. Evaluation for the MS
