Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


to evaluate glucose intolerance per the recommendations of the American Diabetic Association ( 129 ) c. ALT measurement to check for NAFLD ( 108 ) d. Evaluation for the MS cluster As noted, there are racial, ethnic and gender differences in TG levels in childhood and adolescence. African-Americans have significantly lower triglycerides and higher HDL-C levels compared with Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites ( 45 - 47 ). With puberty, HDL-C levels drop a mean of 10 mg/dL in males with no change in females, regardless of race/ethnicity ( 1 ). These differences suggest that race-, gender- and developmental stage-specific cut points may be needed to optimally identify high TGs and CD but normative tables for American youth based on these factors are not currently available. LIFESTYLE MANAGEMENT OF COMBINED DYSLIPIDEMIA Evidence for Response to Lifestyle Changes Multiple studies have shown significant improvements in CD in response to weight loss, change in diet composition, and increased activity ( 130 ). In all age groups, even small amounts of weight loss are associated with significant decreases in TGs, often with increases in HDL–C ( 1 , 131 - 137 ). In adults, weight loss of as little as 5% results in a 20% decrease in TGs and an 8 to 10% increase in HDL-C ( 133 ). In youth, a decrease in BMI z-score of at least 0.15 kg/m 2 is associated with significant improvement in triglycerides and HDL-C ( 134 ). The magnitude of TG decreases correlates directly with the amount of weight loss. Acute weight loss in children and adolescents has been shown to significantly decrease TGs and LDL particles and small dense LDL on NMR analysis ( 137 ). Changes in diet composition have also been shown to be an effective treatment for high TGs and CD. In light of the strong evidence in children and adults associating excessive sugar intake with obesity and with combined dyslipidemia, decreasing simple carbohydrate intake especially in the form of added sugars is a common and important focus ( 73 - 80 ). In adults, a low-carbohydrate diet with monounsaturated fat enrichment significantly decreased TGs by a mean of 63%, with associated increases in HDL–C ( 138 ). One-year follow-up of young children (mean age 21 months) with elevated TGs treated with a diet restricted in sugar and carbohydrates was associated with a significant TG decrease from a mean of 274.1 +/- 13.1
