Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


(mean age 21 months) with elevated TGs treated with a diet restricted in sugar and carbohydrates was associated with a significant TG decrease from a mean of 274.1 +/- 13.1 mg/dL before treatment to 88.8 +/- 13.3 mg/dL ( 139 ). In adolescents and young adults, low glycemic-load diets are as effective as low-fat diets in achieving weight loss and are associated with decreased TGs and increased HDL-C ( 140 - 143 ). In obese children and adolescents, a low-carbohydrate diet with or without weight loss significantly reduces TGs ( 144 , 145 ). These diet composition changes have also been shown to significantly improve the LDL subpopulation pattern ( 138 , 148 ). Combined, diet composition changes lower TGs by at least 20% ( 135 ). Exercise has also been effective in treating CD in youth, alone and in the context of a weight loss plan. Aerobic activity facilitates the hydrolysis and utilization of triglycerides in skeletal muscle, reducing deposition as adipose tissue. In adults, moderately intense activity vs no activity was associated with 20% lower TGs, with lowest levels in the highest activity subjects ( 147 ). In cross-sectional studies in youth, low cardiorespiratory fitness is a strong predictor of high triglycerides as part of the MS cluster, and high fitness is associated with a low metabolic risk score ( 149 - 151 ). In randomized controlled trials, aerobic exercise interventions are associated with significant decreases in TG levels and increases in HDL-C, proportionate to training intensity ( 152 - 155 ). Several studies have attempted to define the optimal type, volume, and intensity of activity required for cardiovascular risk reduction. A systematic review of activity-related benefits concluded that youth aged 5 to 17 years required at least 60 minutes of at least moderate intensity activity every day ( 156 ). Aerobic activities should make up the majority, at vigorous intensity whenever possible. These recommendations are very similar to the Physical Activity Guidelines from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ( 157 ). A randomized, controlled trial in obese children showed that 20 or 40 minutes of supervised aerobic exercise 5 days per week demonstrated dose-response benefits for insulin resistance and visceral adiposity, both strongly associated with CD ( 158 ). Pooled data from the International Children’s Accelerometry Database shows that replacement of 10 mins of sedentary time/day with 10 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous activity was associated
