Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


median height and weight for that height to give a body mass index of 21.5 for adult females and 22.5 for adult males. b A sedentary activity level in childhood, as in adults, means a lifestyle that includes only the light physical activity associated with typical day-to-day life. c Moderately active in childhood means a lifestyle that includes some physical activity, equivalent to an adult walking about 1.5 to 3 miles per day at 3 to 4 miles per hour, in addition to the light physical activity associated with typical day-to-day life. d Active means a lifestyle that includes more physical activity, equivalent to an adult walking more than 3 miles per day at 3 to 4 miles per hour, in addition to the light physical activity associated with typical day-to-day life. Diet composition is focused on limitation of simple carbohydrates especially sweets and added sugars with complete elimination of all sugar-sweetened beverages. The diet recommendations from the NHLBI guidelines are shown in table 3 . Table 3. DIET COMPOSITION: Healthy Lifestyle/ Combined Dyslipidemia/ High TGs View in own window 1. Teach portions based on estimated energy requirements for age/gender/activity level. ( Table 2 ) 2. Primary beverage: Fat-free unflavored milk. 3. No sugar-sweetened beverages; encourage water intake. 4. Limit refined carbohydrates (sugars, baked goods, white rice, white bread, plain pasta), replacing with complex carbohydrates (brown rice, whole grain bread, whole grain pasta). 5. Encourage dietary fish content* * The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Environmental Protection Agency are advising women of childbearing age who may become pregnant, pregnant women, nursing mothers, and young children to avoid some types of fish and shellfish and eat fish and shellfish that are lower in mercury. For more information, call the FDA’s food information line toll free at 1–888–SAFEFOOD or visit: https://www ​.cfsan.fda ​.gov/~dms/admehg3.html 6. Fat content: Total fat 25–30% of daily kcal/EER Saturated fat </= 8% of daily kcal/EER Cholesterol <300 mg/d Avoid trans fats as much as possible Mono- and polyunsaturated fat up to 20% of daily kcal/ EER 7) Encourage high dietary fiber intake from naturally fiber-rich foods (fruits, vegetables, whole grains) with a goal of “age plus 5 g/d. These diet recommendations are those recommended for all healthy children over age 2 from the NHLBI Guidelines with intensification of limitation of simple carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates like white rice, white bread, and plain pasta are replaced with complex
