Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


). While not necessary for lipid management, a repeat fasting lipid panel after 1 to 3 months of diet change can be an effective motivator for children and families since TG levels decrease rapidly in response to changes in diet composition and even minimal weight loss ( 167 ). A regular exercise schedule derived from the evidence is prescribed, simultaneous with the diet recommendations. All children and adolescents should be involved in 60 minutes or more of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity daily, with vigorous intensity activity at least 3 days/week ( 1 , 168 , 169 ). Any kind of aerobic activity is useful but weight bearing activity is most effective. To promote compliance, a discussion about the kind of exercise that will be easiest for each child and family to sustain should be undertaken and specific follow-up of activity at subsequent evaluations is recommended. A combined diet and activity approach to weight loss like this has been shown to be effective in management of high TGs and CD ( 167 - 174 ). For obese children and their families, weight loss can be an emotional issue so an alternative approach aimed at changing diet composition and activity without a direct approach to weight can be used. The same diet change and activity recommendations described above are prescribed but there is no calculation of caloric needs and no specific focus on weight loss. This approach has been shown to be successful in addressing high TGs and CD, particularly when combined with cognitive behavioral therapy ( 167 , 174 - 180 ). Follow-Up After 6 months of the selected diet and activity plan, the fasting lipid profile (FLP) should be repeated: If TGs are normal (<100 mg/dL, <10 years; <130 mg/dL, 10–19 years), continue the diet and activity recommendations and reassess the FLP every 12 months If TGs are > 100 mg/dL but < 200 mg/d in children < 10 years of age, > 130 mg/dL but < 200 mg/dL in 10-19 years old: ➢ Intensify counselling for the high TG/CD diet and increased activity. ➢ Recommend increased dietary fish content. ➢ Increase frequency of contact with MD and/or RD. ➢ Repeat FLP in 6 months If TG are > 200 mg/dL but less than 500 mg/dL and lifestyle recommendations have been attempted with no weight loss, consider referral to an intensive weight loss program ( 1 ). If TG
