Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


200 mg/dL but less than 500 mg/dL and lifestyle recommendations have been attempted with no weight loss, consider referral to an intensive weight loss program ( 1 ). If TG are > 200 mg/dL but less than 500 mg/dL despite weight loss in an adolescent who has at least 2 additional high-level cardiovascular risk factors ( table 5 ), medication can be considered ( 1 ). Table 5. High Level Cardiovascular Risk Factors for Management of Combined Dyslipidemia in Childhood View in own window (+) Family history: Myocardial infarction, angina, coronary artery bypass graft/ stent/ angioplasty, sudden cardiac death in parent, grandparent, aunt, or uncle; Male < 55 y, female < 65 y. Diabetes mellitus, type 1 or type 2 Hypertension requiring drug treatment Current cigarette smoking BMI>97th%ile Application of these recommendations is usually associated with significant improvements in hypertriglyceridemia and CD on intermediate-term follow-up, with increasing evidence of lipid subpopulation and vascular response to lifestyle change. There are no published long-term studies of lifestyle change. MEDICATION THERAPY FOR HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA AND COMBINED DYSLIPIDEMIA Information on drug therapy for treatment of hypertriglyceridemia and CD in childhood is limited. Drugs which could potentially be used are described below. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors (Statins) In adults with high cholesterol and CD, statin therapy beneficially alters the standard lipid and LDL particle profiles and improves vascular function and clinical cardiovascular outcomes ( 181 - 183 ). In childhood, statin treatment has focused on children with monogenic hyper-cholesterolemia (FH) in whom statins effectively lower LDL-C levels and improve LDL-C subpopulation characteristics ( 184 , 185 ). Two pediatric trials of children with FH showed improved vascular measures in response to statin therapy ( 185 , 186 ). There are as yet no published studies examining statin effects on clinical outcomes in youth with CD . A systematic review of statin therapy in children with FH analyzed studies that included more than 1000 children ( 188 ). Treatment with statins significantly decreased LDL-C but change in TGs was much less consistent. No statistically significant differences were found between statin-treated and placebo-treated children for the occurrence of any adverse events, including problems with sexual development, muscle toxicity, or liver toxicity. An important study reported late follow-up of 184 patients with genetically confirmed familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) who were started on pravastatin therapy at a mean age of 12 years as part of a placebo-controlled trial. After 20 years, FH
