Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


patients with genetically confirmed familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) who were started on pravastatin therapy at a mean age of 12 years as part of a placebo-controlled trial. After 20 years, FH participants had mean LDL cholesterol levels 32% below baseline levels in the original trial. Mean progression of carotid intima–media thickness in FH subjects was similar to that of unaffected siblings. The cumulative incidence of cardiovascular events and death from cardiovascular causes was lower among the FH participants than among their affected parents for whom statins were available much later in life. This landmark report emphasizes the safety, effectiveness and benefit of long-term statin therapy initiated in childhood for treatment of FH ( 189 ). DoIt!, an ongoing Pediatric Heart Network trial is evaluating the clinical and vascular responses to statin therapy in adolescents with obesity and CD. Enrollment is ongoing with a planned sample size of more than 300 subjects. Results are anticipated soon ( 190 ). Omega-3 Fish Oil Omega-3 fish oil therapy has been shown to be safe in adults, with some reports that TG levels decreased by as much as 30–45%, with associated increases in HDL–C ( 191 ). However, more recent reports including a Cochrane systematic review of 25 randomized, controlled trials have shown no conclusive benefits of standard fish oil treatment (usually 1 gram per day) on serum lipids or cardiovascular disease outcomes ( 192 - 194 ). Two randomized, controlled trials of omega-3 fish oil in adolescents showed statistically insignificant decreases in TGs and no change in LDL particle number or size ( 195 , 196 ). Evidence from multiple trials in adults with established CV risk shows conflicting results for benefit from omega-3 fatty acids and/or EPA. A detailed discussion of the potential benefits of omega-3-fattys on cardiovascular outcomes are discussed in detail in other Endotext chapters. There is as yet no information on use of EPA in children or adolescents. PPAR-Alpha Agonists (Fibrates) In adults, fibrates have been used effectively and safely to lower TG levels, alone and in combination with statins (fenofibrate should be used in combination as gemfibrozil increases the risk of muscle disorders) ( 197 ). Fibrates reduce cholesterol synthesis and lower plasma TGs by 30-50% with an increase in HDL-C of 2-20%. Fibrate therapy beneficially alters LDL subclass distribution with an increase in LDL size and a decrease in LDL particles ( 198 ). In children, treatment with
