Combined Dyslipidemia in Children and Adolescents
KEYWORDS: pubmed, children, risk, adolescents, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, cardiovascular, disease, lipid, associated, obese


in HDL-C of 2-20%. Fibrate therapy beneficially alters LDL subclass distribution with an increase in LDL size and a decrease in LDL particles ( 198 ). In children, treatment with fibrates in a single small randomized trial (n=14) and 3 case series (n=7, n=17, n=47) was associated with significant TG lowering by as much as 54% with an associated 17% increase in HDL-C ( 199 - 202 ). One child was thought to have myositis on clinical grounds with no lab changes and there were mild, transient elevations in liver enzymes in 2 subjects but no other potentially adverse effects were reported. There are no long-term-trials of fibrates in children and no studies of the vascular or clinical response to treatment. Summary Evidence for drug therapy of moderate hypertriglyceridemia or CD in childhood is limited. Statins improve LDL-C subpopulation characteristics on NMR analysis in children with FH ( 184 , 185 ). There is substantial evidence that statins as a group are safe and effective for long-term treatment of hypercholesterolemia beginning in childhood ( 189 ). Despite concern about hepatic side-effects, current evidence indicates that statins are safe in patients with NAFLD and may improve liver function tests ( 203 ). Statin therapy therefore appears to be the logical theoretical choice for treatment of CD if drug therapy is needed. The possibility of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) as secondary treatment for adults with established CVD and residual risk due to high TGs represents a theoretical treatment option but results are controversial and there is no reported experience for use in youth ( 204 ). There are no current trials of any other medication in children with combined dyslipidemia.-A large body of evidence indicates that lifestyle therapy is highly effective for management of CD in youth and that a decision to initiate drug treatment should only be made in an adolescent with multiple additional high-level risk factors after intensive long-term efforts at lifestyle modification. CONCLUSION In youth, CD is a prevalent, highly atherogenic lipid disorder, almost always associated with obesity. High TGs and CD are strongly associated with a complex of related risk factors including visceral adiposity, insulin resistance/T2DM, NAFLD, and the metabolic syndrome complex which significantly exponentiate risk for CVD. Primary therapy is lifestyle change focused on weight loss, change in diet composition, and increased activity. These interventions are usually very effective. Drug therapy is only rarely needed in the multiple
