Management of Hospitalized Children with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: children, levels, pancreatitis, htg, use, patients, pubmed, management, pediatric, shtg, apheresis, acute, severe, treatment, insulin


ABSTRACT Severe hypertriglyceridemia (SHTG) is uncommon in children. Those with triglyceride (TG) levels greater than 1,000 mg/dL are likely to have a monogenic disorder affecting TG metabolism or a combination of polygenic and small-effect genetic variants that increase the risk of hypertriglyceridemia (HTG), in addition to other factors such as obesity and insulin resistance, poorly controlled diabetes, or medications that interfere with TG metabolism. When present, SHTG is associated with an increased risk of acute pancreatitis and, long-term, may contribute to ASCVD-related morbid and premature mortality. In 2011 the NHLBI Expert Panel published recommendations for clinical management of children with HTG in the ambulatory setting ( 1 ). Presently, however, there are no pediatric guidelines to assist clinical decision-making when aggressive therapy of SHTG in critically ill children who require hospitalization, with or without pancreatitis, might be indicated. In this article we focus on the inpatient management of SHTG. Other Endotext chapters address genetic and secondary causes of HTG and the outpatient management of these disorders ( 2 - 5 ). For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Severe HTG is uncommon in children but is most commonly encountered in youth who are obese and insulin resistant, those who have poorly controlled diabetes, or who require medications that interfere with TG metabolism ( Table 1 ). Although rare, those with monogenic disorders have severe elevations of TG, typically >1000 mg/dL, while those with polygenic and small-effect genetic variants that contribute to alternations in lipid and lipoprotein metabolism are more common and in combination with secondary causes of HTG can lead to TG levels >1000 mg/dL ( Table 2 and 3 ). Such severe elevations may cause significant morbidity, including pancreatitis, and occasionally may be life-threatening, necessitating aggressive TG lowering. Table 1. Common Secondary Causes of Dyslipidemia View in own window Condition Screening Tests Hypothyroidism Liver Diseases Kidney diseases Diabetes Mellitus Obesity / Insulin Resistance Free T4, TSH CMP CMP/ UA CMP/ UA/Fasting or Random Glucose / HgbA1c CMP/ Fasting Glucose and Insulin Medications Steroids, retinoids, oral contraceptives, protease inhibitors T4, thyroxine; TSH, thyroid-stimulating hormone; CMP, comprehensive metabolic profile; UA, urinalysis; HgbA1c, glycosylated hemoglobin. Table 2. The Prevalence and Etiology of Extreme HTG (TG > 2,000 mg/dL) in Children View in own window Dallas Children’s Hospital Total % Study Population 30,623 100% Extreme HTG 31 0.1% Primary Genetic Causes Type
