Management of Hospitalized Children with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: children, levels, pancreatitis, htg, use, patients, pubmed, management, pediatric, shtg, apheresis, acute, severe, treatment, insulin


BP = blood pressure; SD = standard deviation; ULN = upper limit of normal. TREATMENT OF HTG-RELATED PANCREATITIS The management of acute pancreatitis secondary to HTG is similar to the management of pancreatitis due to other causes ( Table 4 ) except for the need to lower TG levels as quickly as possible. With cessation of food intake plasma TG usually decrease rapidly (approximately 50% decrease in 24 hours). Parenteral feeding with lipid emulsions should be avoided since they will delay the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins and exacerbate the HTG. In patients on ventilators the use of propofol should be avoided. Reduction of TG levels to well below 1,000 mg/dL generally prevents further episodes of pancreatitis. Table 4. Guidelines for Treatment of Children with Acute Pancreatitis (Modified from 12) View in own window 1. Adequate fluid resuscitation with crystalloid appears key, especially within the first 24 hours. 2. Analgesia may include opioid medications when opioid-sparing measures are inadequate. 3. Pulmonary, cardiovascular, and renal status should be closely monitored, particularly within the first 48 hours. 4. Enteral nutrition should be started as early as tolerated, whether through oral, gastric, or jejunal route. Lipid emulsions should not be used. 5. There is little evidence to support the use of prophylactic antibiotics, antioxidants, probiotics, or protease inhibitors. 6. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and endoscopic ultrasonography have limited roles in diagnosis and management. 7. Children should be carefully followed for development of early or late complications and recurrent attacks. TREATMENT OF SEVERE HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA IN PATIENTS WITH PANCREATITIS Children with SHTG who are symptomatic, especially those with severe pancreatitis, may require rapid TG lowering. In situations where urgent reduction in TG levels is needed, a more aggressive approach than fasting and avoidance of fat may be indicated, including use of intravenous insulin, heparin, or both ( 13 ), and TG removal (e.g., plasmapheresis, apheresis) ( Table 5 ). A single session of plasmapheresis has been shown to lower TG levels by up to 70% ( 14 ). While apheresis can rapidly lower TG, rigorous proof of efficacy is lacking. Studies comparing technical aspects of apheresis are also limited, such as different apheresis techniques (plasma exchange vs. double-membrane filtration) and proper fluid replacement (fresh frozen plasma vs. albumin). Apheresis is expensive, not widely available and vascular access challenging. Furthermore, a large retrospective study comparing two groups of adults with HTG before and after the availability
