Management of Hospitalized Children with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: children, levels, pancreatitis, htg, use, patients, pubmed, management, pediatric, shtg, apheresis, acute, severe, treatment, insulin


plasma vs. albumin). Apheresis is expensive, not widely available and vascular access challenging. Furthermore, a large retrospective study comparing two groups of adults with HTG before and after the availability of apheresis found no benefit ( 15 ). However, the authors suggested the timing of apheresis could be a critical factor, based on other reports showing that maximal reduction in morbidity and mortality can be achieved when apheresis is used as early as possible. Randomized trials have not compared the efficacy of insulin and heparin to standard therapy or apheresis for the treatment of pancreatitis secondary to HTG. In patients with poorly controlled diabetes (i.e., elevated plasma glucose levels) insulin should be administered to both lower glucose levels and increase lipoprotein lipase activity thereby accelerating the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. Table 5. More Aggressive Management for HTG View in own window Method Route Mechanism a Insulin Dose: 0.05-0.1/kg/hr by continuous IV infusion. Administer concomitant IV dextrose to avoid hypoglycemia. Consider use of the “2-bag” system to titrate insulin and dextrose delivery. Insulin increases lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity which can degrade chylomicrons and thus reduce serum TG. Intravenous insulin may be more effective than subcutaneous insulin in severe cases of HTG. b Heparin Generally, not recommended as a monotherapy. Stimulates release of endothelial LPL into circulation. However, use of heparin may only result in transient rise in LPL followed by increased degradation of plasma stores causing LPL deficiency. c Double membrane filtration or plasma exchange Adequate vascular access may be challenging. Expensive procedure; not available in all medical centers. The beneficial effect of plasmapheresis is believed to be due to a rapid decrease in TG levels. The effects of heparin, the removal of excessive proteases from the plasma, and replacement of consumed protease-inhibitors with new ones from donor plasma may play an additional beneficial role. Use of donor plasma carries risks of transfusion-related allergic reaction or infection. Requires transient anti-coagulation. a ( 16 ), b ( 17 ), c( 18 ). Presently there are no pediatric guidelines to assist clinical decision-making when more aggressive therapy might be appropriate. In general, more aggressive TG-lowering should be considered in symptomatic children who fail to respond to conventional treatment (avoidance of fat intake) and in whom there is evidence of organ dysfunction or failure (Figure). In addition to the parameters listed in the Figure, given the effects of SHTG, alternated sensorium may also
