Management of Hospitalized Children with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: children, levels, pancreatitis, htg, use, patients, pubmed, management, pediatric, shtg, apheresis, acute, severe, treatment, insulin


and in whom there is evidence of organ dysfunction or failure (Figure). In addition to the parameters listed in the Figure, given the effects of SHTG, alternated sensorium may also be considered as an indication for aggressive TG lowering. Although plasma exchange for treating TG-related AP was included in the 2007 Guidelines on the Use of Therapeutic Apheresis in Clinical Practice from the Apheresis, the strength of the evidence was assigned to category III (“suggestion of benefit or for which existing evidence is insufficient to establish or clarify the risk/benefit”) ( 19 ). Therefore, clinical judgement is needed in deciding when use of more aggressive HTG-lowering treatment. FOLLOW-UP CARE Following recovery from the acute episode of pancreatitis, the goal is to maintain a TG level of 500mg/dL or less. Management of HTG is discussed in detail in other Endotext chapters ( 2 - 5 ) and therefore will only be briefly discussed here. It is very important to recognize that the treatment of HTG is different in individuals with familiar chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) vs. multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MCS). The primary treatment of individuals with FCS is dietary. Dietary fat calories need to be severely restricted to approximately 5-20% of calories. Such a fat restricted diet is very difficult for most patients to follow consistently. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT), which are not incorporated into chylomicrons and are delivered to the liver via the portal vein, are a potential alternate source of fats for these patients. One should monitor for deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, K) and recommend appropriate replacement as needed. Pregnancy in adolescents with FCS need to be carefully planned with close monitoring to avoid acute pancreatitis. Similar, to the treatment of MCS described below, drugs that increase TG levels should be discontinued if possible and medical conditions that tend to increase TG levels, optimally treated. Omega-3-fatty acids (fish oils) do not usually lower TG levels in patients with FCS. Fibrates are also not effective; however, a few studies have suggested that orlistat may be beneficial. Volanesorsen (Waylivra ® ), an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of apolipoprotein C-III mRNA, is approved for treatment of FCS in Europe but not the United States. FCS patients treated with volanesorsen had a 77% decrease at 3 months in TG levels (mean decrease of 1,712 mg/dl) whereas those receiving placebo had an 18% increase in TG levels ( 20 ). Volanesorsen can lead to
