Management of Hospitalized Children with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: children, levels, pancreatitis, htg, use, patients, pubmed, management, pediatric, shtg, apheresis, acute, severe, treatment, insulin


decrease at 3 months in TG levels (mean decrease of 1,712 mg/dl) whereas those receiving placebo had an 18% increase in TG levels ( 20 ). Volanesorsen can lead to thrombocytopenia and, therefore, was not approved in the US but it is hoped that second generation inhibitors of apolipoprotein C-III will not demonstrate this side effect. In patients with MCS, it is important to reverse the secondary factors that result in the marked HTG. For example, improving diabetic control, weight loss, eliminating ethanol intake, and discontinuing drugs that raise TG levels. In patients with markedly elevated TG levels (>1000mg/dL) initial management should include a very low-fat diet until the TG levels decrease. Once the TG decreases, a diet that reduces carbohydrate intake, particularly simple sugars, and minimizes alcohol intake should be encouraged. Weight loss can be helpful in lowering TG levels in those who are overweight or obese. If TG remain elevated after the above measures one can consider the use of drugs that lower TG levels such as omega-3-fatty acids and fibrates ( Table 6 ). Many patients with MCS are at high risk for the future development of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Therefore, once the high TG levels are lowered a repeat lipid panel is recommended to determine whether treatment strategies to reduce the risk of ASCVD are needed. Table 6. Medications for Primarily Lowering Triglycerides ( 21 ) View in own window Medication Pediatric Dosing Adult Dosing Side Effects Indication / Comments Fibric Acid Derivatives Fenofibrate (Many generic preparations available) Pediatric safety and efficacy not established. Not FDA approved for use in children. Product specific. Generally, employ full dose in the setting of normal renal function. Skin rash, gastrointestinal (nausea, bloating, cramping), myalgia; lowers blood cyclosporine levels; potentially nephrotoxic in cyclosporine treated patients. Avoid in patients with CrCl < 30 mL/min. Hypertriglyceridemia. Monitor renal function; avoid in the presence of severe renal function. Regular monitoring of liver function test is required. Discontinue if persistent elevation of LFTs > 3 X ULN. Gemfibrozil (Lopid) Pediatric safety and efficacy not established. Not FDA approved for use in children. 1200 mg p.o. daily, divided BID, 30 mins before breakfast and dinner Potentiates warfarin action. Absorption of gemfibrozil diminished by bile acid sequestrants. Hypertriglyceridemia. Use with caution in patients with renal impairment, contraindicated with severe renal impairment; use contraindicated with hepatic impairment. Avoid with concurrent statin therapy. Nicotinic Acid Niacin (Multiple preparations
