Management of Hospitalized Children with Severe Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: children, levels, pancreatitis, htg, use, patients, pubmed, management, pediatric, shtg, apheresis, acute, severe, treatment, insulin


sequestrants. Hypertriglyceridemia. Use with caution in patients with renal impairment, contraindicated with severe renal impairment; use contraindicated with hepatic impairment. Avoid with concurrent statin therapy. Nicotinic Acid Niacin (Multiple preparations available) Age ≥ 10 Pediatric safety and efficacy not established. Not FDA approved for use in children. If used, suggested dose Initial: 100-250 mg/d (Max: 10 mg/kg/day) divided three times daily with meals Slowly titrate to max dose of intermediate release niacin (3 g/day) or slow-release niacin) 2 g/day) Prostaglandin-mediated cutaneous flushing, headache, warm sensation, and pruritus; dry skin; nausea; vomiting; diarrhea; and myositis. Adjunct therapy to reduce high TG. For Ped dosing may titrate weekly by 100 mg/day or every 2 – 3 weeks by 250 mg/day. No dosing adjustment has been provided by the manufacturer for renal or hepatic impairment. Contraindicated in the presence of significant unexplained hepatic dysfunction, active liver disease, or unexplained persistent LFT elevation. Omega 3 Fatty Acids Ethyl esters (Lovaza) Pediatric safety and efficacy not established. Not FDA approved for use in children. 2-4 g EPA + DHA daily, divided BID Eructation, dyspepsia. Diarrhea (7%-15%) most commonly reported. May enhance anticoagulant and antiplatelet effects of other medications. Adjunct therapy to reduce high TG. No dosage adjustments required for impaired renal or hepatic function. Periodic monitoring of ALT and AST is recommended for patients with hepatic impairment. Icosapent (Vascepa) Pediatric safety and efficacy not established. Not FDA approved for use in children. 2-4 g EPA daily, divided BID Arthralgia, oropharyngeal pain Statins Statins (Multiple preparations available) Not FDA approved for use in children other than familial hypercholesterolemia. Product specific. Headache; nausea; sleep disturbance; elevations in hepatocellular enzymes and alkaline phosphatase. Myositis and rhabdomyolysis, primarily when given with gemfibrozil or cyclosporine; myositis is also seen with severe renal insufficiency (CrCl < 30 mL/min). If used off label in HTG, statins are most often used in combination with other drugs, such as fibrates, in order to achieve synergistic effects. CONCLUSION Aggressive therapy in symptomatic children with SHTG, when indicated, can rapidly lower levels of TG, potentially reducing morbidity and mortality in critically ill hospitalized children with and without acute pancreatitis. An algorithm to categorize severity of illness, the presence of pancreatitis and/or organ dysfunction, and local pancreatic or systemic complications or exacerbations of prior co-morbid disease can assist clinical decision-making in helping to determine appropriate candidates for aggressive TG-lowering therapy. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The authors would like to acknowledge
