HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2015 February ; 110(2): 223–263. doi:. ACG Clinical Guideline: Genetic Testing and Management of Hereditary Gastrointestinal Cancer Syndromes FACG5,6,7, Francis M. Giardiello, MD8, Heather L. Hampel, MS, CGC9, and Randall W. Burt, 3 Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA Cleveland, Ohio, USA Abstract This guideline presents recommendations for the management of patients with hereditary gastrointestinal cancer syndromes. The initial assessment is the collection of a family history of cancers and premalignant gastrointestinal conditions and should provide enough information to develop a preliminary determination of the risk of a familial predisposition to cancer. Age at diagnosis and lineage (maternal and/or paternal) should be documented for all diagnoses, especially in first- and second-degree relatives. When indicated, genetic testing for a germline Massachusetts 02215, USA. . CONFLICT OF INTEREST Specific author contributions: Each of the authors (Syngal, Hampel, Burt, Brand, Giardiello, and Church) played a role in writing portions of the manuscript. Dr Syngal assimilated the sections into the comprehensive document and each co-author subsequently provided feedback in conference calls and written form on subsequent revisions. Potential competing interests : Dr Syngal has served as a consultant to EXACT Sciences and Merck. She is an unpaid collaborator/ advisor to Myriad Genetics. One of her mentees receives research grant support from Myriad Genetics. Dr Syngal does not receive salary support from this grant, but is a collaborator on the project. Dr Brand has served as a consult to Myriad Genetics and is a Scientific Advisory Board Member for Asuragen. Ms Hampel has received honoraria from Quest Diagnostics and InVitae Laboratory for educational talks in the past year. In addition, she receives research genetic testing support from Myriad Genetics. Dr Burt consults for Myriad Genetics. The authors have no relationships with the funding sources specified. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript mutation should be done on the most informative candidate(s) identified through the family history evaluation and/or tumor analysis to confirm a diagnosis and allow for predictive testing of at-risk relatives. Genetic testing should be conducted in the context of pre- and post-test genetic counseling to ensure the patient's informed decision making. Patients who meet clinical criteria for a syndrome as well as those with identified pathogenic germline mutations should receive appropriate surveillance measures in order to minimize
