HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


patient's informed decision making. Patients who meet clinical criteria for a syndrome as well as those with identified pathogenic germline mutations should receive appropriate surveillance measures in order to minimize their overall risk of developing syndrome- specific cancers. This guideline specifically discusses genetic testing and management of Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis (AFAP), MUTYH-associated polyposis (MAP), Peutz–Jeghers syndrome, juvenile polyposis syndrome, Cowden syndrome, serrated (hyperplastic) polyposis syndrome, hereditary pancreatic cancer, and hereditary gastric cancer. Hereditary gastrointestinal (GI) cancer syndromes represent a phenotypically diverse group of disorders that exhibit distinct patterns of inheritance in an individual's progeny. Over the past few decades, the expansion of familial cancer registries and advancement in genomics have led to the development of clinical diagnostic criteria for specific hereditary syndromes as well as the discovery of multiple genes in which germline mutations predispose individuals to syndrome-associated neoplastic manifestations. Th is guideline first discusses essential elements of a patient's personal and family history that allow for risk assessment for potential inherited cancer susceptibility. It then addresses the currently most well- characterized GI cancer susceptibility syndromes: Lynch syndrome (LS), familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis (AFAP), MUTYH-associated polyposis (MAP), Peutz–Jeghers syndrome (PJS), juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS), Cowden syndrome (CS), serrated (hyperplastic) polyposis syndrome, hereditary pancreatic cancer, and hereditary gastric cancer. For each of these syndromes, we outline diagnostic criteria and indications for genetic evaluation, describe the currently known associated underlying genes, and make recommendations for surveillance and management of at-risk individuals and those found to carry a definitive disease-causing mutation. Finally, we discuss the elements of informed consent that must accompany genetic evaluation as well as currently evolving genetic testing technologies that may change how genetic testing is conducted in the near-term future. Each section of the document presents summary statements, the key recommendations related to the section topic, followed by a summary of the supporting evidence (Tables 1 and 2). A search of MEDLINE via the OVID interface using the MeSH term “hereditary years 1966–2013 was performed to develop the document and create summary statements and recommendations. “Summary statements” and “recommendations” are distinguished by whether it was possible to address the quality of evidence supporting the statements based on an objective grading system. An objective measure that provides assessment of the strength of data regarding prognostic indicators does not currently exist, and similarly, “motherhood” statements (such as the importance of
