HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


objective grading system. An objective measure that provides assessment of the strength of data regarding prognostic indicators does not currently exist, and similarly, “motherhood” statements (such as the importance of obtaining a family history) that are based on sound clinical judgment are often not subject to systematic clinical studies as they are understood to reflect sound clinical practice. The summary statements therefore reflect consensus opinion by the authors and a thorough literature review that reflects expert Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript opinion by leaders in the field and other consensus guidelines. For management recommendations, where alternative strategies are and should be subject to rigorous assessment, the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system was used to grade the strength of recommendations and the quality of evidence (1). An explanation of the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations is shown in Table 3. The quality of evidence, which influences the strength of the recommendation, ranges from “high” (further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect) to “moderate” (further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate) to “low” (further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate), and to “very low” (any estimate of effect is uncertain). The strength of a recommendation is graded as strong when the desirable effects of an intervention clearly outweigh the undesirable effects and is graded as conditional when uncertainty exists about the trade-offs. The field of cancer genetics poses some challenges with respect to the GRADE system. Because of the rarity of the syndromes, and the relatively recent discovery of cancer susceptibility genes, data regarding long-term outcomes regarding optimal management are the gold standard of systems such as GRADE, are difficult to conduct in rare diseases, where the main objective outcome, reduction in cancer mortality, takes years to assess and large patient numbers. The reader, therefore, should take the assessments of quality of evidence with caution— the often “low” or “very low” quality gradings reflect primarily a lack of available data and not that the quality of studies conducted thus far has been poor. STANDARDS FOR MINIMAL CANCER FAMILY HISTORY ASSESSMENT IN GI
