HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


gradings reflect primarily a lack of available data and not that the quality of studies conducted thus far has been poor. STANDARDS FOR MINIMAL CANCER FAMILY HISTORY ASSESSMENT IN GI PRACTICE Summary statements • A family history of cancer and premalignant GI conditions that provides sufficient information to develop a preliminary determination of the risk of a familial predisposition to cancer should be obtained for all patients being evaluated in outpatient gastroenterology and endoscopy practices. • Essential elements of a family history include presence and type of cancer diagnoses in first- and second-degree relatives, and presence and (ideally) type of polyps in first-degree relatives; age and lineage should be noted for each diagnosis. Summary of evidence Approximately 5–10% of cancers are attributable to a hereditary cancer predisposition syndrome. Identifying those patients who have an inherited cancer predisposition syndrome has significant benefit to both the patient and at-risk relatives. For the index patient, the diagnosis of a hereditary cancer syndrome has implications for his/her surveillance strategy for multiple component tumors in terms of age of initiation and intervals between surveillance exams, and may lead to the consideration of prophylactic surgery or more Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript extensive surgery in the case of neoplasia development. the diagnosis of an inherited syndrome also has significant implications for management of the patient's immediate and extended family. Features of a patient's personal history may be the initial clue to the possibility of an inherited predisposition to cancer. Hallmark features, whose specifics are outlined in detail in the remainder of this guideline, include early age at onset of polyps or cancer and unusual numbers or histologies of cancers or premalignant conditions. Family history is the other key component to the identification of those individuals who may have an inherited predisposition to malignancy or who are at increased risk for additional primary cancers. The goal of any cancer family history, in combination with the patient's personal history, is to provide enough information to make a preliminary determination about whether the patient may have a familial predisposition to cancer, may benefit from genetic counseling and possibly testing for underlying cancer susceptibility genes, or may not need genetic counseling and testing, but still require more intensive surveillance than the average- or moderate-risk patient. As there is currently no clear evidence base to define how
