HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


may not need genetic counseling and testing, but still require more intensive surveillance than the average- or moderate-risk patient. As there is currently no clear evidence base to define how family history should be taken or what constitutes the right amount of information for an initial cancer screening family history, an expert panel was recently convened to define how and what to collect for a family cancer history (2). The panel agreed that although the gold standard family history is the comprehensive, three-generation pedigree used in medical genetics, counseling, and research settings, this evaluation is time consuming and not feasible in general medical practice. For most patients, family history of cancer and premalignant conditions in close relatives is most relevant. Guidelines for consideration of Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast and Ovarian, (3) focus on first- and second-degree relatives, although they may optionally incorporate family history in third-degree relatives. Th us, family history of cancer in first-degree (parents, children, and siblings) and second- degree (grandparents, aunts/uncles, nieces/nephews, grandchildren, and half-siblings) relatives is often sufficient to assess a patient's empiric risk of common cancers or a cancer patient's risk of a second primary cancer. Relatives’ age at cancer or polyp diagnosis should also be assessed because this factors into both genetic risk assessment guidelines and cancer screening recommendations. Maternal and paternal lineages should be assessed separately. Accuracy of self-reported cancer family history in first-degree relatives (FDRs) has been shown to be >75% for most cancers, including colorectal, breast, ovarian, and pancreatic cancers. Studies have shown a decrease in the accuracy of reported family history in more distant relatives, ranging from 50 to 80% depending on the cancer (4,5). Hence, the routine review of family medical records, although not required during family history collection, can be helpful in particular cases where the cancer site is in question. LYNCH SYNDROME (LS) Tumor testing and indications for genetic testing Summary statements Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1. All newly diagnosed colorectal cancers (CRCs) should be evaluated for mismatch repair deficiency. 2. Analysis may be done by immunohistochemical testing for the MLH1/MSH2/ MSH6/PMS2 proteins and/or testing for microsatellite instability (MSI). Tumors that demonstrate loss of MLH1 should undergo BRAF testing or analysis for MLH1 promoter hypermethylation. 3. Individuals who have a personal history of a tumor showing evidence of mismatch repair deficiency (and
