HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


loss of MLH1 should undergo BRAF testing or analysis for MLH1 promoter hypermethylation. 3. Individuals who have a personal history of a tumor showing evidence of mismatch repair deficiency (and no demonstrated BRAF mutation or hypermethylation of MLH1), a known family mutation associated with LS, or a risk of ≥5% chance of LS based on risk prediction models should undergo genetic evaluation for LS. Summary of evidence LS, the most common cause of inherited CRC, is an autosomal-dominant condition defined by the presence of a germline mutation in a DNA mismatch repair gene (or EPCAM). It was often previously referred to as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. LS tumors are associated with changes in the length of nucleotide repeat sequences of tumor DNA, termed MSI. MSI results from defective mismatch repair and is associated with loss of expression of the MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and/or PMS2 proteins that can be detected by immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis. Multiple international studies have demonstrated that the prevalence of MSI in population-based series of CRC ranges from 7 to 19% (6–10). The sensitivity of MSI testing among those with MLH1 or MSH2 mutations is 80–91%, and is 55–77% among those with MSH6 or PMS2 mutations; the specificity of MSI testing is 90% (11). The sensitivity of IHC testing, regardless of the MMR gene involved, is 83% and the specificity is 89% (11). MSI and IHC results are highly correlated (9,12), and as protein feasible option for widespread MSI screening. In order to facilitate surgical planning, tumor testing on suspected CRC should be performed on preoperative biopsy specimens if possible. For individuals whose IHC indicates loss of the MLH1 protein, determination of the mechanism of loss should be pursued as an additional screening step, and this may be done by analysis for a BRAF mutation or promoter hypermethylation studies. Almost no LS demonstrate evidence of MMR deficiency, independent of somatic MLH1 silencing, should undergo genetic testing. Genetic etiology Summary statement • Genetic testing of patients with suspected LS should include germline mutation genetic testing for the MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2, and/or EPCAM genes (13–23), or the altered gene(s) indicated by IHC testing. Summary of evidence In 1993, genome-wide linkage analysis in several large families with autosomal-dominant CRC and the demonstration of associated tumor MSI led to the subsequent cloning of the Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
