HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


the demonstration of associated tumor MSI led to the subsequent cloning of the Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript mismatch repair genes MLH1 and MSH2, followed by MSH6, PMS2, and EPCAM (13–23). Multiple large international population-based series have demonstrated that MMR gene mutations account for 1–3% of newly diagnosed CRC cases (6,7,9,10,12). LS should be considered in individuals whose tumors show evidence of MMR deficiency as discussed above (without the presence of a BRAF mutation or MLH1 promoter hypermethylation), and those whose personal and/or family history fullfill the Amsterdam criteria, Bethesda Guidelines, or who have a ≥5% risk of carrying a germline mutation based on available prediction models (24,25) (Table 4). The computational models all appear to outperform criteria in identifying mutation carriers. In families where LS is a consideration, and no tumor sample is available for analysis, direct germline testing of an unaffected at-risk individual whose risk is calculated to be ≥5% based on the PREMM1,2,6 risk prediction model (accessible at is a strategy that has been demonstrated to be cost effective in improving health outcomes (26). The complexity of clinical criteria used as a quick initial screen in busy practices to identify which patients need further risk assessment (27) (Table 4). Surveillance and management of CRC Recommendation 1. In individuals at risk for or affected with LS, screening for CRC by colonoscopy should be performed at least every 2 years, beginning between ages 20 and 25 years. Annual colonoscopy should be considered in confirmed mutation carriers (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence for screening, and very low quality of evidence for annual surveillance and age of initiation). Summary of evidence The precursor lesion for a LS-related CRC is an adenomatous polyp that is often proximal and can occasionally be flat rather than elevated/polypoid and likely to demonstrate villous features, high-grade dysplasia, and a preponderance of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (28). The historical term nonpolyposis CRC was intended to differentiate this condition from FAP in which patients develop hundreds of adenomas. LS patients develop few (usually <10) early-onset adenomas, but the adenoma–carcinoma sequence appears to be accelerated in LS with polyp to cancer dwell times estimated at 35 months compared with 10–15 years in sporadic cancer (29). Reports of lifetime risks of CRC for MLH1 and MSH2 gene mutation carriers range from 22 to 74% (30–35) (Table 5).
