HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


of CRC is less and age of diagnosis later (37,49) than in patients with MLH1 and MSH2 mutations. In these affected individuals, consideration could be given to starting surveillance at age 25–30 in MSH6 and PMS2 carriers (24), unless an early-onset cancer exists in a given family; however, this approach of gene-specific alterations in surveillance has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Recommendation 2. Colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA) is the preferred treatment of patients affected with LS with colon cancer or colonic neoplasia not controllable by endoscopy. Segmental colectomy is an option in patients unsuitable for total colectomy if regular postoperative surveillance is conducted (conditional recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Summary of evidence The treatment for patients with CRC or premalignant polyps that cannot be removed by colonoscopy is subtotal colectomy with IRA. A high rate of metachronous CRC (16% at 10 years; 41% at 20 years) is noted in LS patients who have undergone segmental surgical resection of the initial CRC in several retrospective studies (48,50,51). A standard low anterior resection or abdominal perineal resection may be performed to treat rectal cancers in LS patients, although the residual colon is at high risk of metachronous neoplasia. Younger patients may be offered a total proctocolectomy and ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA), or ileostomy. A recent retrospective study of 79 LS patients with rectal cancer who had undergone proctectomy found a cumulative risk of metachronous colon cancer to be 19% at 10 years, 47% at 20 years, and 69% at 30 years after surgical resection (51). The risk of metachronous cancer is substantially abated if extensive colectomy is performed (0– 3.4%) (48,50,51). In a Dutch study, no difference in global quality of life was noted between 51 LS patients who underwent partial colectomy and 53 patients who underwent subtotal colectomy, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript although functional outcome (stool frequency, stool-related aspects, social impact) was worse after subtotal colectomy than after partial colectomy (52). A comparison of life expectancy gained performing total colectomy vs. hemicolectomy in LS patients at ages 27, 47, and 67 years by Markov modeling was 2.3, 1, and 0.3 years, respectively. These investigators concluded that total colectomy is the preferred treatment in LS but hemicolectomy may be an option in older individuals. Consideration for less extensive surgery may be given in patients
