HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


investigators concluded that total colectomy is the preferred treatment in LS but hemicolectomy may be an option in older individuals. Consideration for less extensive surgery may be given in patients who are >60–65 years of age. The option of prophylactic colectomy should be discussed with mutation carriers who have an endoscopically normal colon as an alternative to surveillance. Although rarely chosen, it may be attractive to patients from families where the prevalence of colon cancer is very high, or for whom colonoscopy is difficult. Direct comparative studies of extensive surgery vs. annual or biennial surveillance have not been conducted, and are unlikely be instituted because of the multitude patient-dependent factors that affect comorbidities and quality of life. Surveillance and management of extracolonic malignancies Gynecologic malignancies Recommendations 3. Hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy should be offered to women who are known LS mutation carriers and who have finished child bearing, optimally at age 40–45 years (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). 4. Screening for endometrial cancer (EC) and ovarian cancer should be offered to women at risk for or affected with LS by endometrial biopsy and transvaginal ultrasound annually, starting at age 30 to 35 years before undergoing surgery or if surgery is deferred (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence EC is the second most common cancer occurring in LS. Estimates of the cumulative lifetime risk of EC in LS patients range from 15 to 71%, with variability depending on specific gene mutation (31,33,35–37,49) (Table 7); reports of age at diagnosis of this malignancy are clearly a decade or more younger than sporadic EC but range from 48 to 54 years (31,33,35– 37,49) (Table 7). Estimates of the cumulative lifetime risk of ovarian cancer in LS patients ranges from 3.4 to 22% (31,38,53–55) (Table 7). Because of the worrisome cumulative risk of EC, several annual screening modalities have been proposed including pelvic exams, transvaginal ultrasound, endometrial sampling, and CA 125 testing. Few studies of these interventions have been conducted and there is currently no evidence of survival benefit from EC surveillance (Table 8). Decrease in death from EC screening may be difficult to prove as 75% of LS patients with EC present with stage 1 disease and have an 88% 5-year survival rate. Transvaginal ultrasound has poor sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of EC in this population (56,57). However, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC
