HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


an 88% 5-year survival rate. Transvaginal ultrasound has poor sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of EC in this population (56,57). However, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript endometrial sampling appears useful in identifying some asymptomatic patients with EC and those with premalignant endometrial lesions (Table 8). Currently, no studies on the effectiveness of ovarian screening are available for women in LS families. One retrospective study of 315 women with MMR mutations who did and did not have hysterectomy and oophorectomy revealed no cancers in the surgical group compared with a 33% and 5.5% rate of uterine and ovarian cancer, respectively, in the nonsurgical group (58). Cost-effectiveness analysis modeling of gynecological screening vs. prophylactic gynecological surgery (hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy) in a theoretical population of 30-year-old women with LS revealed that prophylactic surgery had lower cost and higher quality-adjusted life-years (59). An additional modeling study evaluated multiple screening and surgical strategies. Th is investigation concluded that annual screening starting at age 30 years followed by prophylactic surgery at age 40 years was the most effective gynecologic cancer prevention strategy, but incremental benefit over prophylactic surgery at age 40 years alone was attained at substantial cost (60). Recommendations 5. Screening for gastric and duodenal cancer can be considered in individuals at risk for or affected with LS by baseline esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with gastric biopsy at age 30–35 years, and treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection when found. Data for ongoing regular surveillance are limited, but ongoing surveillance every 3–5 years may be considered if there is a family history of gastric or duodenal cancer (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence). 6. Screening beyond population-based recommendations for cancers of the urinary tract, pancreas, prostate, and breast is not recommended unless there is a family history of the specific cancers (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence The impact of a family history of extracolonic cancers on other at-risk relatives has not been systematically studied. Some studies show clustering of extracolonic cancers in families, whereas others have not (discussed when available in section below for individual cancers). generally done on a case-by-case basis, taking into account cancer history in at-risk first- and second-degree relatives on the affected side of the family. Some studies have estimated the lifetime risk of gastric cancer in LS to be as high as
