HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


in at-risk first- and second-degree relatives on the affected side of the family. Some studies have estimated the lifetime risk of gastric cancer in LS to be as high as 13%, but it is currently much lower in North America and Western Europe. A carefully conducted time trend study of gastric cancer found an 8.0% and 5.3% lifetime risk of this malignancy in males and females with MMR gene mutation, respectively, and lack of familial clustering (61). The majority of gastric cancers in LS patients appear to be histologically classified as intestinal type (61,62), and, consequently, potentially amenable to endoscopic surveillance. There are no studies that have evaluated the effectiveness of screening and surveillance for gastric cancer in LS patients. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The lifetime risk for small bowel cancer ranges from 0.4 to 12.0% (31,34,53,54,63,64). The majority of small bowel cancers in a LS cohort were located in the duodenum or ileum (65) and within the reach of EGD and colonoscopy with dedicated ileal intubation. Studies of small bowel screening in LS patients are lacking. However, one screening investigation of 35 gene mutation carriers found that 2 had jejunal adenomas and 1 had a jejunal cancer (66) (Table 8). Six additional patients had capsule endoscopy images of uncertain clinic relevance, prompting further invasive investigation in five patients. A recent publication suggested that routine surveillance of the small bowel in LS was not cost efficient (55). Estimates of the lifetime risk of urinary tract cancer in LS range from 0.2 to 25%, depending on the study and which urinary tract cancers are included (transitional cell carcinoma of the ureter, renal pelvis, and bladder) (31,53,54,63,64,67). Currently, a dearth of literature on screening for urinary cancer in LS patients exists. One retrospective study evaluating screening for urinary cancer by urine cytology in individuals in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer or LS families found a poor (29%) sensitivity in diagnosing cancer in asymptomatic patients and production of many false positive results requiring invasive investigation (68) (Table 8). Screening has not been shown to be effective with urine cytology and urinalysis for microscopic hematuria for urinary cancer in the general population and in groups at higher risk for bladder cancer from environmental factors (69,70). The benefit of ultrasound screening is unknown. In summary, limited data exist to advocate urinary
