HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


general population and in groups at higher risk for bladder cancer from environmental factors (69,70). The benefit of ultrasound screening is unknown. In summary, limited data exist to advocate urinary screening. The risk of pancreatic cancer (PC) in LS patients was noted to be elevated in two cohort studies. In one study, the standardized incidence ratio for PC was 10.7 (95% confidence interval, 2.7–47.7), with a 10-year cumulative risk of 0.95% (71), and the other study reported a 8.6-fold increase (95% confidence interval, 4.7–15.7), with cumulative risk of 3.7% by age 70 years (72). The benefit of screening for PC in LS has not been evaluated. An international pancreas consensus panel recommended that, based on expert opinion, mismatch repair gene mutation carriers with one affected FDR should be considered for annual PC surveillance with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or endoscopic ultrasound based on early data in other cohorts with comparable risk (73). There are conflicting data regarding the risk of several other extracolonic cancers in patients with LS. The relationship between LS and breast cancer is unclear. Although a small registry reports have not demonstrated this consistently (55,75). In two recent studies the relative risk of prostate cancer is 2.0- to 2.5-fold the general population risk (54,76); however, the effectiveness of intensive screening beyond population recommendations has not been evaluated. Prevention strategies Diet, exercise, smoking, and supplements—A prospective analysis of 386 patients with LS undergoing surveillance revealed that current smokers had an increased risk of colorectal adenomas compared with past smokers and never smokers (hazard ratio of 6.1 vs. 3.0 vs. 1, respectively (77). Excess body weight (body mass index >25 kg/m 2) has been shown to be associated with an elevated risk (hazard ratio of 8.7 compared with normal Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript weight) of colorectal adenomas in men with LS in the same cohort; an elevated risk was not found in women with a high body mass index (78). Chemoprevention Recommendation 7. Although data suggest that daily aspirin may decrease the risk of colorectal and extracolonic cancer in LS, currently the evidence is not sufficiently robust or mature to make a recommendation for its standard use (conditional recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Summary of evidence Resistant starch and aspirin have been assessed as chemopreventive agents in patients with LS. The Colorectal/Adenoma/Carcinoma Prevention Programme
