HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


its standard use (conditional recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Summary of evidence Resistant starch and aspirin have been assessed as chemopreventive agents in patients with LS. The Colorectal/Adenoma/Carcinoma Prevention Programme 2 (CAPP2) was a randomized placebo-controlled trial with a two-by-two design investigating the effect of resistant starch (Novelose) 30 g per day and aspirin 600 mg per day taken for up to 4 years on development of colorectal adenoma and cancer (79). Th is study randomized 727 participants to starch or placebo and 693 between aspirin and placebo. The use of resistant starch, aspirin, or both had no effect on the incidence of colorectal neoplasia in LS carriers over a mean follow-up period of 29 months. The CAPP2 investigators subsequently evaluated the long-term effect of 600 mg of aspirin usage on CRC development (80). At a mean follow-up of 55.7 months, intention-to-treat analysis of time to first CRC showed a hazard ratio of 0.63 (95% confidence interval, 0.35–1.13, P =0.12). An intention-to-treat analysis of all LS cancers (colorectal, endometrial, ovarian, pancreatic, small bowel, gallbladder, ureter, stomach, kidney, and brain) revealed a protective effect of aspirin vs. placebo (hazard ratio, 0.65; 95% confidence interval, 0.42–1.00, P =0.05). During the intervention, adverse events did not differ between aspirin and placebo groups. The CAPP2 trial has several limitations. First, ascertainment of the end point, CRC, was not standardized, and more intensive colonoscopic evaluation could have occurred in the aspirin group than in the non-aspirin group because of more frequent adverse effects after intervention. Second, the extracolonic cancers did not undergo molecular evaluation to assess whether they were related to the germline MMR mutation. In addition, the dose of daily aspirin utilized in the CAPP2 trial is significantly higher than that noted to be effective (75 mg a day) in sporadic CRC chemoprevention. The CAPP3 trial is currently underway to establish the optimum dose and duration of aspirin treatment. Although data exist to suggest that aspirin may decrease the risk of colorectal and extracolonic cancer in LS, currently the evidence is not sufficiently robust or mature to make a recommendation for its standard use. Adenomatous polyposis syndromes Familial adenomatous polyposis/MUTYH-associated polyposis/attenuated polyposis indications for genetic evaluation—Summary statement Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • Individuals who have a personal history of >10 cumulative colorectal adenomas, a family history of one of
