HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • Individuals who have a personal history of >10 cumulative colorectal adenomas, a family history of one of the adenomatous polyposis syndromes, or a history of adenomas and FAP-type extracolonic manifestations (duodenal/ampullary adenomas, desmoid tumors (abdominal>peripheral), papillary thyroid cancer, congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium, epidermal cysts, osteomas) should undergo assessment for the adenomatous polyposis syndromes. Summary of evidence There are three known hereditary syndromes where inheritance of germline mutations produces enhanced colorectal carcinogenesis, manifested by early age of onset of multiple colorectal adenomas with the potential for early development of CRC: FAP, AFAP and MAP. FAP is the defined by the presence of ≥100 synchronous colorectal adenomas inherited in an autosomal-dominant manner. Estimates of the prevalence of FAP vary from 1 in 6,850 to 1 in 31,250 live births (2.29 to 3.2 cases per 100,000 individuals) (81–87). The frequency is fairly constant throughout the world, with men and women being affected equally. Patients with 10 to 99 synchronous adenomas have oligopolyposis or AFAP. AFAP is defined by <100 adenomas at presentation inherited in an autosomal-dominant pattern. Patients with AFAP have fewer adenomas than those with typical FAP, averaging 25 polyps in one study and exhibiting a more proximal colonic preponderance than in typical FAP (88–90). However, the polyp number is extremely variable within many kindreds. In 2002, an attenuated polyposis syndrome was described in three siblings affected with multiple adenomas and/or CRC inherited in an autosomal-recessive pattern (91). Th is recessive condition is referred to as MAP and is characterized by an increased risk for CRC and multiple adenomatous polyps that can mimic FAP or AFAP. There are two settings in which to consider genetic testing for the adenomatous polyposes syndromes: (i) testing an individual with a phenotype suggestive of one of the polyposes, but germline mutation. The first setting is usually defined as a patient with ≥10 cumulative adenomas, or sometimes suggestive extracolonic manifestations, but no known family history of an underlying pathogenic mutation. Genetic testing in this setting should be comprehensive and the absence of a mutation does not definitively rule out a clinical diagnosis if the phenotype is striking. In the second setting, relatives of an individual with a known pathogenic mutation are tested for the presence or absence of that particular mutation. A positive test indicates the diagnosis of a syndrome, whereas
