HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


relatives of an individual with a known pathogenic mutation are tested for the presence or absence of that particular mutation. A positive test indicates the diagnosis of a syndrome, whereas a negative test (absence of mutation) rules it out and establishes that the individual is not at a syndromic risk for cancer and polyps. Genetic etiology Summary statement Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • Genetic testing of patients with suspected adenomatous polyposis syndromes should include APC and MUTYH gene mutation analysis. Summary of evidence FAP arises from germline mutations of the APC gene on chromosome 5q21 (92,93). FAP is dominantly inherited and is close to 100% penetrant. Up to one-third of newly diagnosed cases not belonging to previously identified families appear to represent either de novo germline mutations or mosaicism (81,94–98). APC is a tumor suppressor gene; thus, gene inactivation occurs only after both alleles are mutationally damaged. In FAP, one allele is inherited in a mutated form. Adenoma formation is initiated when the second allele is damaged or lost by a somatic event. The progression of adenoma to carcinoma after APC inactivation is similar in FAP and the sporadic setting in that mutations accumulate in additional relevant genes including K-ras, p53, a gene or genes on chromosome 18, and possibly others (99). Although mutations have been found scattered throughout the APC gene, most are located in the 5′ end of exon 15, often called the mutation cluster region (100,101). The location of mutations in the APC gene correlate to some degree with colonic adenoma number, desmoid tumor occurrence, and congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (102). Individuals with >1,000 polyps exhibit mutations in the mid-portion of the gene (102,103). AFAP arises from APC mutations at either the far proximal (5′) end of the gene, the far distal (3′) end of the gene, or in certain locations of exon 9 (90,102). Whole or partial gene deletions may also give an attenuated phenotype. MAP is a recessively inherited syndrome due to biallelic (homozygous or compound heterozygous) MUTYH mutations. MUTYH is a base excision repair gene involved in DNA oxidative damage repair whose protein repairs oxidative damage to the DNA (91). Failure of base excision repair results in CG–AT transversions in multiple genes, including APC and KRAS (91,104,105). Polyp and cancer predisposition occur with germline MUTYH colon
