HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


the current time is to manage monoallelics as individuals with a FDR with CRC, offering colonoscopy as a surveillance modality every 5 years, beginning 10 years earlier than the earliest CRC diagnosis. Polymerase-proofreading associated polyposis is a newly described syndrome and only a few families have been characterized (117). Its phenotype includes oligo-adenomatous polyposis and an early age of onset of colorectal and EC. In a recent study of 858 familial/ early-onset CRC cases and polyposis, one known POLE germline mutation and one new POLD1 mutation were identified (118). Polymerase proofreading-associated polyposis is dominantly inherited and penetrance appears high. Patients with clinical suspicion of an adenomatous polyposis syndrome should have genetic counseling and testing for germline mutations in APC and MUTYH. Failure to identify a mutation in an index case does not rule out the diagnosis of adenomatous polyposis, as remains high, testing for other possible underlying genes should be considered. Failure to find a mutation means that all close relatives must still be screened as if they have FAP. Finding a mutation confirms the diagnosis of adenomatous polyposis and allows relatives to be tested with a high degree of accuracy. Once an affected patient has been genotyped, all at-risk relatives can be screened for the mutation. Surveillance and management of CRC and polyps Recommendation 8. In individuals at risk for or affected with the classic AP syndromes, screening for CRC by annual colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy should be performed, beginning at puberty. In families with AFAP or MAP, surveillance should be by colonoscopy (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Summary of evidence Colon screening should be performed in those with a clinical or genetic diagnosis of FAP or in FDRs of those with FAP if genetic testing is uninformative or has not been done. In families where no mutation can be found, all at-risk relatives must undergo endoscopic screening. Colonoscopy should begin at puberty, or whenever there are suggestive Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript symptoms such as chronic diarrhea, rectal bleeding, or abdominal pain. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is also reasonable in families with classic FAP, until a polyp is found. If this is proved to be an adenoma, full colonoscopy should be done. During colonoscopy, polyp number, size, and distribution should be recorded, and several polyps should be biopsied. The average age of FAP diagnosis in
