HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


an adenoma, full colonoscopy should be done. During colonoscopy, polyp number, size, and distribution should be recorded, and several polyps should be biopsied. The average age of FAP diagnosis in patients presenting with symptoms is 35.8 years (range, 4–72 years) in the St Marks FAP registry in London (81). Polyps begin to appear most often in the second or third decade of life. The mean age of polyp occurrence is 15.9 years (range, 8–34 years) (119). Adenomatous polyps are usually distributed evenly throughout the colon, with a slight distal colonic excess. The size of the polyps depends on the stage at which the patient is examined. Even in fully developed cases, however, 90% of adenomas are <0.5 cm in diameter, and <1% of polyps are >1 cm. Polyps may either carpet the colon with myriad small lesions or occur as more distinct and somewhat larger lesions. Striking heterogeneity of polyp number and growth rate has been observed (120). Histopathology demonstrates tubular adenomas, indistinguishable from common or sporadic adenomas. Villous and tubulovillous histologies are also seen, but much less frequently and usually in larger polyps. A histologic feature of FAP not observed in the general population is dysplastic or adenomatous epithelial cells in single crypts or even portions of single crypts. These are called microadenomas and are often seen in FAP biopsy specimens of normal-appearing mucosa (81). Budding of dysplastic epithelium from normal crypts can be observed and aberrant crypt foci have been reported to occur with increased frequency in FAP (121). These lesions are similar to microadenomas but are identified with methylene blue staining of the colonic mucosal surface. Colonic adenocarcinoma is the inevitable consequence of FAP unless the colon is removed. There is a 25% incidence of colon cancer in newly diagnosed FAP patients, not belonging to known families, that remains common because of the high frequency of de novo germline mutations (94,122). In the St Mark's series, the average age at cancer diagnosis was 39 years. By 45 years of age, 87% had developed cancer, and by 50 years, it increased to 93%. Colon cancer has been reported as early as 9 years of age, although the occurrence of malignancy before adolescence is very unusual. Multiple colonic malignancies were present in ~48% of those with cancer (41% synchronous and 7% metachronous). Of the malignancies, 84% were at or distal to the splenic flexure, a fraction almost identical to
