HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


48 years (107,134,135). Although the predominant polyp type in patients with MAP is an adenoma, multiple hyperplastic and/or sessile serrated polyps (also referred to as sessile serrated adenomas) may occur. In a small study of 17 patients with MAP, 8 (47%) had at least one hyperplastic and/or sessile serrated polyp, 3 (~18%) met criteria for serrated polyposis (previously referred to as hyperplastic polyposis, see Serrated polyposis section below for additional details), and 1 patient had over 100 hyperplastic and sessile serrated polyps (136). Treatment of MAP follows the same principles as AFAP. The disease may be managed endoscopically with at least yearly colonoscopy. If the polyps become endoscopically uncontrollable, then colectomy is indicated. Currently, there is no consensus as to whether monoallelic MUTYH mutations warrant increased CRC screening. No recommendations for treatment or surveillance of patients with polymerase proofreading-associated polyposis have been made because the frequency of polyps, cancer, and the extracolonic phenotype have yet to be determined, but the options of close endoscopic surveillance and colectomy seem reasonable. Recommendation 9. Absolute indications for immediate colorectal surgery in FAP, AFAP, and MAP include: documented or suspected cancer or significant symptoms. Relative indications for surgery include the presence of multiple adenomas >6 mm, a significant increase in adenoma number, the presence of an adenoma with high- grade dysplasia, and inability to adequately survey the colon because of multiple diminutive polyps (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence Development of colon cancer in classic FAP is inevitable if the colon is not removed. An appropriately timed colectomy remains the cornerstone of colon cancer prevention in FAP (127,137,138). Prophylactic surgery can be planned at a suitable time (late teens to early twenties), based on the risk of cancer posed by the polyp burden. Indications for early Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript surgery include polyps >10 mm diameter, polyps with high-grade dysplasia, marked increases in polyp number from one exam to the next, and symptoms. Surgical options are colectomy with IRA (for <20 rectal and <1,000 colonic adenomas) and proctocolectomy with IPAA (for severe or profuse adenomas, >20 rectal adenomas, and >1,000 colonic adenomas). A laparoscopic approach is now often used for both surgical approaches. Conversion from IRA to IPAA may occasionally be needed because of development of numerous or advanced rectal adenomas. Proctocolectomy with ileostomy is rarely
