HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


now often used for both surgical approaches. Conversion from IRA to IPAA may occasionally be needed because of development of numerous or advanced rectal adenomas. Proctocolectomy with ileostomy is rarely needed. APC mutation location, allowing prediction of severity of rectal polyposis and likelihood of future completion proctectomy, has been suggested as a factor to consider in determining which procedure should be done (139). Colectomy with IRA is a single-stage procedure with slightly less morbidity than the IPAA surgery, but some rectal cancer risk remains and yearly proctoscopy is essential (139,140). Even after total proctocolectomy and IPAA, adenomas and cancers may occur in the anal transition zone and in the pouch itself; lifelong endoscopic surveillance is required (141– 143). Possible morbidities from either surgery include increased bowel frequency and incontinence. Pouch surgery is associated with some loss of fertility in women and some loss of sexual function in men. Patients with AFAP can often be managed for many years with colonoscopic polypectomy and may possibly never need colectomy (90). If surgical resection is indicated, AFAP patients can almost always undergo colectomy and IRA because of rectal sparing of polyps. After colectomy with IRA in a large series of patients with AFAP, an average of 3.4 recurrent polyps (range, 0–29) and only one cancer was found in the postcolectomy rectal remnant over a mean follow-up of 7.8 years (range, 1–34 years) (90). Similar to AFAP, FAP, and some multiple adenoma patients, subtotal colectomy with close subsequent surveillance would seem to be the best option for MAP patients with relative rectal sparing. Restorative proctocolectomy is indicated if the rectum is substantially involved. Surveillance and management of extracolonic malignancies Recommendations 10. Screening for gastric and proximal small bowel tumors should be done using upper endoscopy including duodenoscopy starting at age 25–30 years. Surveillance should be repeated every 0.5–4 years depending on Spigelman stage of duodenal polyposis: 0=4 years; I=2–3 years, II=1–3 years, III=6–12 months, and IV=surgical evaluation. Examination of the stomach should include random sampling of fundic gland polyps. Low-grade dysplasia is common in fundic gland polyps, and surgery should be reserved for high-grade dysplasia or cancer (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence). 11. Annual thyroid screening by ultrasound should be recommended to individuals affected with FAP, MAP, and attenuated polyposis (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author
