HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


individuals affected with FAP, MAP, and attenuated polyposis (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 12. Biannual screening should be offered to affected infants annually until age 7 years with α-fetoprotein and ultrasounds (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence The phenotype of FAP includes benign and malignant neoplasms in other organs. Other organs commonly affected include the thyroid (with papillary thyroid cancer), adrenal (non functioning adenomas), the small intestine (adenomas or carcinoma), bones (osteomas), retina (congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigmented epithelium), and skin (epidermoid cysts). However, the most common causes of death in FAP after CRC are duodenal or ampullary cancer and desmoid disease. Endoscopically visible duodenal adenomas are found in more than half of FAP patients (101,144,145). The lifetime risk for duodenal cancer is 3 to 5%, but in some series it has been even higher (81,101,127,144,146). The age of duodenal cancer diagnosis ranges from 17 to 81 years, with a mean between 45 and 52 years. Approximately half of duodenal cancers are ampullary or periampullary, whereas others are elsewhere in the duodenum (147). Duodenal cancer is one of the leading causes of death in FAP patients who have had prophylactic colectomy (147–150). Adenomas beyond the duodenum may occur throughout the small bowel but are concentrated for the most part in the proximal jejunum (50% of cases) and distal ileum (20% of cases) (151–153). The polyps are most commonly 1 to 10 mm in diameter and multiple. Most duodenal polyps cluster around the ampulla, although in some patients there are small adenomas scattered throughout the duodenum. Adenomas may progress, often slowly, and there is evidence of an adenoma–carcinoma sequence similar to that observed in the colon (101). Adenomas sometimes grow large, exhibit villous histology and increasing degrees of dysplasia, and may cause symptoms. A scoring system has been developed to evaluate the severity of duodenal polyposis and is now widely applied as the Spigelman staging system (154) (Table 9). The risk for duodenal cancer increases to 36% within 10 years for Spigelman stage IV patients (155). The risk of exhibiting Spigelman stage IV duodenal polyposis is 43% by age 60 years and 50% by age 70 years (156). Patients with Spigelman Stage IV duodenal adenomatosis are candidates for a pancreas-preserving duodenectomy. This is much less morbid
