HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


stage I disease; (iii) every 1–3 years for stage II disease; (iv) every 6–12 months for stage III disease; and (v) for stage IV disease: surgical evaluation, expert surveillance every 3–6 months and complete mucosectomy or duodenectomy, or Whipple procedure if duodenal papilla is involved (101,127). Another approach to screening is every 3-year endoscopy if adenomas are not found and annually if they are. The stomach should be examined during endoscopy and any polyps judged to be of concern because of size, color, or gross appearance biopsied. The role of examination of the small bowel beyond reach of the upper endoscope by computed tomography (CT) enterography, push or balloon enteroscopy, or capsule endoscopy if upper endoscopy demonstrates severe duodenal polyposis is uncertain (153). In contrast to colorectal polyps and cancer, the expression of upper GI polyps, both gastric and duodenal, does not appear to be attenuated in number, age at emergence, or cancer risk in AFAP compared with FAP (89,162); therefore, EGD surveillance should also be performed at age 25–30 years, and continued according to the rules stated for classical FAP. Given that the risk of duodenal cancer in MAP is similar to that of AFAP and FAP, upper GI endoscopy with added side-viewing duodenoscopy should be considered, starting at around age 30 years and repeated at intervals similar to AFAP and FAP, again depending on duodenal findings (166). Gallbladder, bile ducts, and pancreas Both adenomatous change and cancer have been reported in the gallbladder, bile ducts, and pancreas (138,151,167–170). Biliary and pancreatic duct obstructions have arisen from both benign and malignant lesions. The cancer risks are shown in Table 7. There are no surveillance strategies that are currently recommended for these malignancies. Extraintestinal malignancies Up to 12% of FAP patients have thyroid cancer and 80% have nodular thyroid (171). The mean age of diagnosis of thyroid cancer is 28 years, ranging from 12 to 62 years (172). A female preponderance is observed, and the histology is predominantly papillary, commonly Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with a cribriform–morular pattern. Annual thyroid ultrasound is recommended for thyroid screening in FAP (171). Hepatoblastoma occurs in 1.6% of FAP patients, exhibits a male predominance, and associates somewhat with mutations in the 5′ end of the APC gene. Th is malignancy most often occurs in the first 5 years of
