HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


patients, exhibits a male predominance, and associates somewhat with mutations in the 5′ end of the APC gene. Th is malignancy most often occurs in the first 5 years of life, with some risk up to 15 years of age (173). Screening with every 3- to 6-month serum α-fetoprotein and liver ultrasound for the first 5 to 10 years in FAP patients has been suggested but is still debated. A family history of hepatoblastoma may be an indication to do this from age 6 months to 6 years. A decision to perform hepatoblastoma screening mandates genetic testing in infancy to see if the child carries the mutation. Desmoid tumors Screening is not done for desmoids, but evaluation is done for palpable masses and a full work-up for suggestive symptoms. Periodic abdominal imaging is not generally recommended, but preoperative abdominal CT scan before colectomy may be considered if desmoids have been an issue in family members. The lifetime risk of extracolonic tumors in MAP is not as well defined as the colorectal phenotype. In a large study of 276 MAP patients, 17% had extracolonic lesions, with an estimated 38% lifetime risk of extracolonic malignancy that is approximately double the risk in the general population (174). Similar to FAP and AFAP, the lifetime risk of duodenal cancer in MAP has been estimated to be 4% (174). Although gastric lesions have been found in up to 11% of patients with MAP, data are currently lacking to support an increased risk of gastric cancer (107). Other cancers such as endometrial, breast, ovarian, bladder, various skin, and thyroid have been reported in patients with MAP (107), although it is still not clear whether the lifetime risk for these malignancies is increased. Although rare, other findings seen in patients with MAP have included sebaceous gland adenomas, carcinomas and epitheliomas, lipomas, congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium, osteomas, desmoid tumors, epidermoid cysts, and pilomatrixomas (107). Surveillance and disease management of the colon in MAP should be similar to patients with multiple adenomas, AFAP, and FAP (166). In women with a POLD1 mutation, pelvic ultrasound and selective endometrial biopsy may be considered as the POLD1 variant has been associated with endometrial and possibly brain tumors. Recommendation 13. Postsurgical surveillance should include yearly endoscopy of rectum or ileal pouch, and examination of an ileostomy every 2 years (strong recommendation, low quality level of evidence). Summary of evidence Adenomas
