HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


Postsurgical surveillance should include yearly endoscopy of rectum or ileal pouch, and examination of an ileostomy every 2 years (strong recommendation, low quality level of evidence). Summary of evidence Adenomas may develop in the ileal pouch after colectomy with IPAA surgery, or they may develop in the small segment of remaining rectal epithelium after restorative Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript proctocolectomy (175–177). There appears to be a small but real risk for cancer in the ileal pouch (177–179). Advanced dysplasia and cancer may occur at the anal transition zone, either from rectal tissue unexpectedly remaining with ileo-anal anastomosis or from the short segment of rectum often remaining with restorative proctocolectomy (143,150,180). After colectomy or proctocolectomy, endoscopic surveillance of the rectum or ileal pouch should continue yearly. Concerning polyposis in the rectum (large adenomas, high-grade dysplasia, >20 adenomas) is treated either by polypectomy or proctectomy. Pouch polyposis can be treated by polypectomy or chemoprevention with sulindac. Ileostomies should be checked every 2 years as adenomas and even cancer can develop on the stoma. Prevention strategies Much attention and effort has been given to examining chemoprevention for colonic and duodenal polyps in FAP (127). Considerable regression and prevention of colonic and rectal adenomas has been demonstrated with sulindac, but cancer prevention is less certain. Celecoxib appears to have a more modest effect in the colon and rectum, but some effect in duodenal adenoma regression as well. Celecoxib was approved for use in the United States for several years for FAP, but this indication has now been removed. Concern over cardiovascular side effects of long-term cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors has dampened enthusiasm for their use in FAP. In view of the uncertainty of cancer prevention with sulindac, it is not considered a substitute for colectomy but has shown utility in rectal surveillance by substantially decreasing the number of adenomas needing removal at periodic examination. Chemoprevention studies examining nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and other agents continue in the hopes that colectomy might be delayed. Hamartomatous polyposis syndromes Peutz–Jeghers syndrome Indications for genetic testing: Summary statement • Individuals with perioral or buccal pigmentation and/or two or more histologically characteristic GI hamartomatous polyp(s) or a family history of PJS should be evaluated for PJS. Summary of evidence PJS is an autosomal-dominantly inherited syndrome that includes histologically distinctive hamartomatous polyps of the GI tract and
