HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


Table 10 for specific recommendations. A consortium review group has recommended that upper GI endoscopy (EGD) and colonoscopy be done first at age 8 years (182). If polyps are found, both examinations should be repeated every 3 years. If none are found, a second baseline examination should be done at age 18 years and then every 3 years there-after. Similar surveillance is recommended for the small bowel, i.e., first examine the small bowel by video capsule endoscopy at age 8 years, but then repeat this surveillance every 3 years from that age. Modern CT enterography is accurate at detecting small bowel polyps, particularly those ≥1 cm in diameter, but repeated X-ray exposure is problematic. Treatment involves EGD and colonoscopic removal of polyps (probably all those >0.5 or 1 cm in diameter) (185). Clearing of all polyps is preferable but not always possible. Colectomy is sometimes necessary to control colonic polyps and should be considered if colonoscopic management is difficult and especially if neoplastic change is found in colonic polyps. Intussusception is the primary complication of small bowel polyps, starting at a young age, and continuing throughout life (188). Surveillance and treatment of the small bowel are based in large part on prevention of this complication. In the recent study by van Lier et al. (188), the initial episode of intussusception occurred at a median age of 16 years (range, 3–50 years), with 50% of first episodes presenting by age 20 years. Of all intussusceptions, 80% presented as an acute abdomen and the average polyp size causing this complication was 3.5 cm (range, 15–60 cm). When small bowel intussusceptions occur, surgery is often necessary and should include careful examination of the entire small bowel to eliminate all significant polyps. Intraoperative endoscopy is often a helpful adjunct to accomplish extensive polyp removal. This is also an appropriate time to examine and remove gastric and duodenal polyps of significant size (201). The advent of video capsule endoscopy, double balloon enteroscopy, and CT enterography is changing diagnostic and management approaches to PJS by allowing earlier detection of polyps and non-operative removal in many cases (202–205). Prevention strategies Chemoprevention approaches to decrease polyp burden in PJS are under study but not yet a reality. PJS polyps exhibit overexpression of COX-2, suggesting that COX-2 inhibitors may be useful in reducing polyps (206). Hyperactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin has been associated with PJS. In addition,
