HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


polyps exhibit overexpression of COX-2, suggesting that COX-2 inhibitors may be useful in reducing polyps (206). Hyperactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin has been associated with PJS. In addition, inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin in a PJS mouse model has demonstrated decreased polyp burden (207). Everolimus, a mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor, is under study as a potential agent for treatment of PJS (182). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Juvenile polyposis syndrome Indications for genetic testing—Summary statement • Individuals with five or more juvenile polyps in the colorectum or any juvenile polyps in other parts of the GI tract should undergo evaluation for JPS. Summary of evidence JPS is an autosomal-dominantly inherited condition where multiple juvenile polyps are found in the colorectum (98%), stomach (14%), jejunum and ileum (7%), and duodenum (7%) (183,208–210). The incidence of JPS is between 1 in 100,000 and 1 in 160,000 individuals (210). The polyps in JPS vary in size from small sessile nodules to pedunculated lesions that are ≥3 cm in diameter. Most large polyps are pedunculated, but small polyps, especially those in the stomach, are sessile. Grossly, most polyps exhibit a surface that is smooth, rounded, reddish colored, and without fissures or lobulations; large polyps may appear to be multilobulated. A white exudate is often seen on the polyp surface. On cut section, there are cystic spaces filled with mucin. Microscopically, there is abundant lamina propria with benign but often elongated and cystically dilated glands and lack of a smooth muscle core. Excess chronic inflammatory cells are sometimes present. The epithelial lining of the surface and cysts is nondysplastic and reflects the area of the GI tract where the polyp is located. Polyps begin to appear in the first decade of life, and dozens to many hundreds of polyps are present in the fully developed syndrome. Most patients develop symptoms in the first two decades of life. The average age at diagnosis is 18.5 years but may be later. Rectal bleeding with anemia is the most common presenting symptom, followed by abdominal pain, diarrhea, passage of tissue per rectum, and intussusception (183,208). The majority of colonic polyps, 70% in one study, occurred in the proximal colon (210). The generally accepted clinical criteria for JPS include: (i) at least five juvenile polyps in the colorectum; (ii) juvenile polyps
