HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


70% in one study, occurred in the proximal colon (210). The generally accepted clinical criteria for JPS include: (i) at least five juvenile polyps in the colorectum; (ii) juvenile polyps in other parts of the GI tract; or (iii) any number of juvenile polyps in a person with a known family history of juvenile polyps (210). Genetic etiology Summary statement • Genetic evaluation of a patient with possible JPS should include testing for SMAD4 and BMPR1A mutations. Summary of evidence Juvenile polyposis occurs as a result of mutations of the SMAD4 gene (also called the MADH4 gene) or the BMPR1A gene (210–214). Up to 60% of individuals with clinically defined JPS are now found to exhibit mutations of the SMAD4 or BMPR1A genes (215). Approximately 25% of newly diagnosed cases are sporadic and thus represent new or de novo mutations, whereas 75% will have a family history (183). Fourteen percent of mutations are large deletions and 10% are promoter mutations (215–217). Both genes are tumor suppressor genes involved in the tumor growth factor-β signaling family and directly or indirectly affect cell growth inhibition and apoptosis. There is evidence that normal bone morphogenetic protein signaling also suppresses Wnt signaling to ensure a balanced control Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of stem cell self-renewal (218). Biallelic gene inactivation has been noted in both stromal cells and epithelial cells of polyps (208,219). Genetic testing is particularly important in JPS, both to confirm the diagnosis in a proband and to test relatives. Testing is also important to separate JPS from other conditions in which juvenile polyps form, especially CS and Bannayan–Riley–Ruvalcaba syndrome. Once a disease-causing mutation is identified in a patient with JPS, other family members should undergo mutation-specific testing to determine whether the disease is present or absent so that appropriate surveillance can be undertaken. Surveillance and management Recommendations 15. Surveillance of the GI tract in affected or at-risk JPS patients should include screening for colon, stomach, and small bowel cancers (strong recommendation, very low quality of evidence). 16. Colectomy and IRA or proctocolectomy and IPAA is indicated for polyp-related symptoms, or when the polyps cannot be managed endoscopically (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). 17. Cardiovascular examination for and evaluation for hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia should be considered for SMAD4 mutation carriers (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence).
