HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


(strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). 17. Cardiovascular examination for and evaluation for hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia should be considered for SMAD4 mutation carriers (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence JPS mutation carriers have a very high risk for colon cancer and an increased risk for gastric, duodenal, and pancreatic cancers (Tables 5 and 7). The cancer risk in JPS is believed to arise from adenomatous tissue within the juvenile polyp, as up to 50% of juvenile polyps in JPS contain areas of adenomatous change. The risk of colon cancer is 17–22% by age 35 years and approaches 68% by age 60 years (183,220). The mean age of colon cancer is 34 years, with a range of 15 to 68 years. Gastric cancer risk is 30% in those with SMAD4 mutations (183,210). The median age of upper GI carcinoma is 58 years, with a range of 21 to 73 years (221,222). Surveillance guidelines for JPS are found in Table 10. Colonoscopy should be annual, beginning at age 12 years or earlier if symptoms occur, especially rectal bleeding. It should be repeated every 1 to 3 years depending on polyp burden and polyps ≥5 mm should be removed (210). Upper endoscopy is recommended every 1 to 3 years beginning at age 12 years, or earlier for symptoms, and should be repeated every 1 to 3 years, depending on severity with removal of polyps ≥5 mm. The small bowel past the duodenum should be periodically surveilled, depending on initial polyp findings, by enteroscopy, capsule endoscopy, and/or CT enterography if duodenal polyposis is present or if there is unexplained anemia, protein-losing enteropathy, or other small bowel symptoms. Patients with limited numbers of polyps in any area of the GI tract can usually be managed with endoscopic polypectomy. Colectomy with IRA is indicated if cancer, high-grade dysplasia, or polyposis cannot be adequately controlled endoscopically (183,208). Surveillance of the Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript remaining rectum or pouch is necessary (223). Proctocolectomy with IPAA may be needed depending on the number of rectal polyps (223). Half of those with IRA will later need proctectomy because of polyp perfusion. Complete or partial gastrectomy may also be necessary for patients with advanced dysplasia, gastric cancer, or even massive gastric polypsis that cannot be effectively controlled endoscopically (183,208). Other screening should
