HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


Complete or partial gastrectomy may also be necessary for patients with advanced dysplasia, gastric cancer, or even massive gastric polypsis that cannot be effectively controlled endoscopically (183,208). Other screening should include annual complete blood count, cardiovascular examination, and hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia protocol evaluation if SMAD4 mutation is present (210). Cowden syndrome (PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome) Summary statement • Individuals with multiple GI hamartomas or ganglioneuromas should be evaluated for CS and related conditions. Summary of evidence CS and its variants, including Bannayan–Riley–Ruvalcaba syndrome and PTEN hamartoma Colonic polyps are found in up to 95% of CS patients undergoing colonoscopy (224,225). Polyps are few to numerous (even hundreds) and are distributed throughout the colon. The natural history of polyps is not well characterized, although polyps may occur at a young age. Hamartomatous polyps are the most common histologic type, occurring in up to 29% in one study (224). Polyp types include juvenile polyps, ganglioneuromas, adenomas, and inflammatory polyps (224,226,227), and less commonly leiomyomas, lipomas, and lymphoid polyps (228). Hyperplastic polyps have also been reported as an association, but have not been observed in all studies (224,227). The majority of CS patients have multiple synchronous histologic types at colonoscopy. A frequent finding in the esophagus is diffuse glycogenic acanthosis (228,229). One or several such lesions may occasionally be observed in patients undergoing EGD for various reasons, but diffuse, sometimes many hundreds of lesions are observed in ≥80% of those with PHTS (227). It has been suggested that diffuse esophageal glycogenic acanthosis combined with colonic polyposis should be considered pathognomonic for CS (228). Several investigations report the frequent finding of multiple hamartomatous polyps in the stomach, duodenum, and small bowel (183,224,229). Similar to the colon, histologies include hamartomas, hyperplastic polyps (different from colonic hyperplastic polyps), ganglioneuromas, adenomas, and inflammatory polyps. An upper GI study of 10 phosphate and tensin homolog (PTEN) mutation-positive patients found all 10 to have multiple hyperplastic gastric polyps and 3 to have multiple hamartomatous polyps in that location (227). One patient had a single hamartomatous polyp in the duodenum whereas three had adenomatous polyps. There are reports of gastric and colon cancers in CS patients (183,230). Specific indications for evaluation for CS are delineated in Table 11. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Genetic etiology Summary statement • Genetic evaluation of a patient with possible CS
