HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Genetic etiology Summary statement • Genetic evaluation of a patient with possible CS should include testing for PTEN mutations. Summary of evidence CS is caused by mutations in the PTEN gene (231–234). Once a disease-causing mutation is identified in a patient with CS or related conditions, other family members should undergo mutation-specific testing to determine whether the disease is present or absent so that appropriate surveillance can be undertaken. Surveillance and management Recommendation 18. Surveillance in aftected or at-risk CS patients should include screening for colon, stomach, small bowel, thyroid, breast, uterine, kidney, and skin (melanoma) cancers (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence Management of PHTS involves prevention and early detection of the associated cancers through surveillance. Colon cancer has not been associated with CS historically (183), although recent studies have indeed shown increased risk for this malignancy. One multicenter study found 13% of PTEN mutation carriers to have colon cancer, all younger than 50 years of age (224). Investigations have now indicated a 9 to 16% lifetime risk for large bowel cancer (225,235,236). It is uncertain whether colon malignancy arises from adenomatous and/or hamartomatous polyps in PHTS, although there is little doubt as to the increased risk and possibility of young age onset. Surveillance recommendations are provided in Table 10. Recommendations are all expert opinion based rather than evidence based, and derived from screening guidelines of the relevant cancers in other settings but adjusted for the malignancy risks observed in PHTS. Hereditary mixed polyposis syndrome (HMPS) is a condition that was originally described in a large Ashkenazi Jewish family with multiple colorectal polyps and cancer. Affected patients exhibited mixed juvenile–adenomatous polyps and also adenomatous, hyperplastic, serrated adenomas, and mixed hyperplastic–adenomatous polyps and adenocarcinomas. Mean age of polyp occurrence in one family was 28 years. HMPS may be misdiagnosed as JPS or serrated polyposis syndrome (SPS) and vice versa. Even though HMPS linked to a locus on chromosome 15q13.3–q14 in a number of families, which includes the CRAC1 gene, the etiology remains elusive. Recently, a duplication 40 kb upstream of the GREM1 gene locus at chromosome 15 was found in two individuals with HMPS. The authors hypothesized that this duplication interacts with the GREM1 promoter causing increased GREM1 expression, resulting in a predisposition to multiple colorectal polyps. Am J Gastroenterol.
