HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


two individuals with HMPS. The authors hypothesized that this duplication interacts with the GREM1 promoter causing increased GREM1 expression, resulting in a predisposition to multiple colorectal polyps. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Genetic testing for GREM1 mutation and expression might be considered in families with adenomatous and hamartomatous polyposis in which an etiology cannot be determined. Management from what is now known should probably be similar to that for FAP, depending on the polyp number, size, and histology. Serrated polyposis syndrome Clinical definitions—Summary statement • Individuals who meet at least one of the following criteria have the clinical diagnosis of SPS: (i) at least 5 serrated polyps proximal to the sigmoid colon with ≥2 of these being >10 mm; (ii) any number of serrated polyps proximal to the sigmoid colon in an individual who has a first-degree relative with serrated polyposis; and (iii) >20 serrated polyps of any size, distributed throughout the large intestine. Summary of evidence SPS, previously referred to as hyperplastic polyposis syndrome, is a rare condition currently defined by clinical criteria and characterized by a predisposition to serrated polyps and an increased risk of CRC (237–239). Originally, hyperplastic polyps were the only lesion included in the diagnostic criteria for hyperplastic polyposis (240). In addition to hyperplastic polyps, other serrated polyps including sessile serrated polyps and traditional serrated adenomas may also be found, and hence the preferred term serrated polyposis syndrome (241). The updated World Health Organization (WHO) diagnostic criteria for SPS include any one of the following: (i) at least five serrated polyps proximal to the sigmoid colon with two or more of them >10 mm in diameter, (ii) any number of serrated polyps proximal to the sigmoid colon in an individual who has a FDR with SPS, or (iii) >20 serrated polyps of any size, but distributed throughout the colon (242). The true prevalence of SPS is not known, but had been previously estimated to be 1:100,000 based on a large screening colonoscopy study of 50,148 participants in which 28 subjects (0.06%) were found to have the syndrome. (243). More recent studies have evaluated the prevalence of SPS based on the WHO criteria. The National Health Service Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (NHSBCSP) reviewed all pathology and colonoscopy records for guaiac fecal occult blood test-positive patients presenting for index screening colonoscopy (244). Out
