HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


criteria. The National Health Service Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (NHSBCSP) reviewed all pathology and colonoscopy records for guaiac fecal occult blood test-positive patients presenting for index screening colonoscopy (244). Out of 755 patients, 5 (0.66%) met SPS criteria 1 and/or 3 (244). There-fore, 1 in 151 patients in the NHSBCSP met SPS criteria during their index colonoscopy, a much higher rate than previous reports of SPS in the general population (244). In a study from Barcelona, the prevalence of SPS in patients undergoing colonoscopy after a positive fecal immunochemical testing was 8 out of 2,355 (0.34%) (245). Genetic etiology Summary statement • Indications for genetic testing. A clear genetic etiology has not yet been defined for SPS, and therefore genetic testing is currently not routinely recommended for SPS Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript patients; testing for MUTYH mutations may be considered for SPS patients with concurrent adenomas and/or a family history of adenomas. Summary of evidence Although the genetic etiology of SPS remains unknown, 3 patients were found to meet diagnostic criteria for SPS in a series of 17 biallelic MUTYH mutation carriers (18%) (136). Conversely, only one biallelic MUTYH mutation carrier was observed in a study of 126 patients with SPS (0.8%) (246). In both studies, the patients who met criteria for SPS also reported a history of adenomas. These observations indicate some overlap in the presentation (and potentially the pathogenesis) of MAP and serrated polyposis. Although data are currently limited, it may be reasonable to consider genetic testing for MUTYH mutations in patients with SPS, particularly if adenomas are concurrently seen. Although the mechanisms are not entirely clear, there seems to be a strong association between smoking and SPS (247). In a small study of 32 SPS patients, the rate of current smoking was 47%, and this was significantly higher than the rate in colonoscopy controls (17%) and population controls (12%) (247). In another study of patients with multiple serrated polyps, many of whom met criteria for SPS, 51 of 88 (58%) were ever smokers (248). It is speculated that smoking, although not the cause of SPS, does intensify the phenotypic expression and therefore may be a modifiable risk factor for colorectal lesions(247). Various studies have shown that a family history of colorectal and other cancers is common and even increased in patients with
