HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


40 (5.0%) had KRAS mutations, and 17 of 45 (38%) had loss of immunohistochemistry expression of MLH1 and PMS2 (255). There are no available studies regarding the effectiveness of surveillance in SPS. Based on the reported colon cancer risks, colonoscopy and polypectomy is recommended for individuals who fulfill the WHO definition of SPS. Complete clearance of all polyps ≥1 cm should be done when possible. Subsequent colonoscopy intervals should be determined by the number and size of polyps, as well as the number of concurrent adenomas, but generally should be performed every 1–3 years. Recommendation 20. Indications for surgery for SPS include an inability to control the growth of serrated polyps, or the development of cancer. Colectomy and IRA is a reasonable option given the risks of metachronous neoplasia (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence Surgery is advised when polyps cannot be endoscopically controlled (256). Prophylactic or therapeutic colectomy is indicated with an inability to control the growth of serrated polyps, the presence of high-grade dysplasia in a serrated polyp that cannot be removed in its entirety, or the development of cancer. Subtotal colectomy and IRA is a reasonable option given the risks of metachronous neoplasia. Surveillance and management of extracolonic malignancies Recommendation 21. There is no evidence to support extracolonic cancer surveillance for SPS at this time. Screening recommendations for family members are currently unclear pending further data and should be individualized based on results of baseline evaluations in family members (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence The data on extracolonic cancers in SPS are insufficient at this time, although Win et al. (250) reported an increased risk of colorectal and pancreas cancer in relatives of patients with SPS. However, PC was not found in any of the 115 patients with SPS in a study by Kalady et al. (249). In a larger study of 105 patients with SPS and 341 FDRs, no increased risk of extracolonic malignancies were seen in patients or their relatives (257). Hazewinkel Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript et al. (257) concluded that extracolonic cancer in SPS and their FDRs is not increased compared with the general population. Familial cases of SPS have been reported, although infrequently in most studies. However, a recent prospective study of 78 FDRs of patients with SPS found that
