HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


with the general population. Familial cases of SPS have been reported, although infrequently in most studies. However, a recent prospective study of 78 FDRs of patients with SPS found that the incidence of SPS was 32% (258). Only one of these relatives was diagnosed with CRC during screening colonoscopy (258). Other studies have reported a family history of CRCs in 50–59% of FDRs of patients with SPS (241,248). In one of these studies, only 2 (5%) of the 38 probands with SPS reported a family history of SPS (241). In a recent study, Boparai et al. (259) FDRs of serrated polyposis patients had five times the incidence of CRC, suggestive of a hereditary disorder. Surveillance recommendations for individuals with a family history of serrated polyposis are currently unclear, pending further data. It is reasonable to screen FDRs at the youngest age of onset of serrated polyposis diagnosis (after the exclusion of other genetic causes), and subsequently per colonoscopic findings (248). The frequency and age of initiation of colonoscopic screening in at-risk family members of patients with SPS is less clear. Oquinena et al. (258) recommended that colonoscopy in FDRs start at age 35 years (or 10 years before the youngest age of SPS onset in the family, whichever comes first) and then every 3–5 years if no polyps are found. If the FDRs are found to meet SPS criteria 1 or 3, annual surveillance should be performed or every 2 years if only SPS criteria 2 is met (258). On the contrary, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommends that FDRs should have colonoscopy at the earliest of the following: (i) age 40 years, (ii) same age as the youngest SPS diagnosis in the family, and (iii) 10 years before CRC in the family in a patient with SPS (260). Further work is ongoing to better define the cancer risks in probands and their relatives so that accurate risk stratification and risk recommendations can be made regarding SPS. Prevention strategies Summary of evidence—Observational studies suggest a strong association between smoking and SPS. Independent studies have reported significant smoking history in patients with SPS, leading to the assumption that smoking may be a modifiable risk factor in the pathogenic pathway of colorectal lesions (248,250). Hereditary pancreatic cancer Clinical definitions—Summary statement • Individuals should be considered to be at risk for familial pancreatic adenocarcinoma if they: (i) have a known genetic syndrome
