HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


colorectal lesions (248,250). Hereditary pancreatic cancer Clinical definitions—Summary statement • Individuals should be considered to be at risk for familial pancreatic adenocarcinoma if they: (i) have a known genetic syndrome associated with pancreatic cancer, including hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome, familial atypical multiple melanoma and mole syndrome (FAMMM), PJS, LS, or other gene mutations associated with an increased risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma; (ii) have two relatives with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, where one is a FDR; (iii) have three or more relatives with pancreatic cancer; or (iv) have a history of hereditary pancreatitis. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary of evidence The known hereditary syndromes associated with an increased risk for developing PC along with their relative risk for developing PC are shown in Table 12. PC is one of the key cancers used in determining whether a patient's family history warrants genetic risk evaluation for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome according to the NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast and Ovarian (3). Referral for genetic assessment for FAMMM syndrome should be considered in a PC patient with a personal or family history of melanoma or multiple dysplastic nevi (261). Patients who meet the aforementioned criteria for LS, PJS, or FAP may also be at increased risk for PC. Consideration for genetic counseling for testing for hereditary pancreatitis is based on expert opinion and warranted for PC patients with a personal history of at least 2 attacks of acute pancreatitis of unknown etiology, a family history of pancreatitis, or early-age onset chronic pancreatitis (262,263). The risk for development of PC in those patients with an inherited predisposition for PC development is shown in Table 12. The risk is highest in hereditary pancreatitis (53-fold risk) (264), PJS (132-fold risk) (197), and FAMMM families with a known CDKN2A mutation (13- to 39-fold risk) (265–267). The risk is not as great for BRCA1 (~2-fold) (268), BRCA2 (3- to 9-fold) (269,270), LS (9- to 11-fold) (71,271), and ATM (~3-fold) (272) mutation carriers based on registry data. There are currently no data available on the risk of developing PC in PALB2 mutation carriers. Familial pancreatic cancer (FPC) has been defined by consensus opinion as families with ≥2 FDRs relatives who do not meet criteria for a known PC-associated hereditary syndrome (262). Case reports first demonstrated families with an excess number of PC
