HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Based on this degree of risk, candidates for PC surveillance are limited at this time to unaffected individuals from pancreatic cancer-prone families who are candidates for pancreatic surgery. Unlike colon cancer, in which colonoscopy has been proven to be an effective screening tool to reduce colon cancer-related mortality, there is no proven strategy for PC (294). As stated in a recent International Cancer of the Pancreas Screening Consortium summit (73), recommendations for screening patients with a family history of PC “are primarily based on evidence of increased risk, rather than a proven efficacy of screening.” In light of these acknowledged limitations in PC screening, expert opinion has repeatedly emphasized the importance of performing PC surveillance in the setting of active peer-reviewed research protocols by experienced centers utilizing a multidisciplinary team approach (73,262,292). Attempts at a unified recommendation for age to commence screening have been unsuccessful with no clear consensus achieved despite being addressed at two international meetings (73,262). Two recently reported surveillance studies have shown that the majority of significant lesions have been found in older patients (295,296). Canto et al. (295) reported in their large multicenter surveillance study of high-risk individuals that the prevalence of pancreatic lesions was age related with a significant difference found in the number of lesions detected between patients <50 years old when compared with patients ≥50 years old. Furthermore, all pancreatic lesions with high-grade dysplasia were in patients >65 years of age. Ludwig et al. (296) also reported differences in finding a significant abnormality based on age, with a yield of 35% in those >65 years old as compared with only 3% in those ≤65 years old. Several studies in both the hereditary and sporadic setting have found that smokers have an earlier age of PC diagnosis as compared with nonsmokers (297–299), but no data exist regarding whether smoking status should affect surveillance strategy. Endoscopic ultrasound and MRI/magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography are the preferred imaging modalities for surveillance as they do not involve the use of radiation like CT scanning and are significantly more accurate in finding pancreatic lesions, particularly small cystic lesions, based on data from CAPS3 study (295). Recommendation 24. Because of the increased risk for PC development when compared with a pancreatic cyst in the sporadic setting, cystic lesion(s) of the pancreas detected during surveillance of a hereditary pancreatic cancer-prone family
