HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


the increased risk for PC development when compared with a pancreatic cyst in the sporadic setting, cystic lesion(s) of the pancreas detected during surveillance of a hereditary pancreatic cancer-prone family member requires evaluation by centers experienced in the care of these high-risk individuals. Determining when surgery is required for pancreatic lesions is difficult and is best individualized after multidisciplinary assessment (conditional recommendation, low quality of evidence). Summary of evidence The most common findings in surveillance studies are cystic lesions in the pancreas (295,300). Management of these cysts is unclear as similar to cysts in a nonhereditary setting, most are benign or just have low-grade dysplasia (73,292). Recent consensus recommendations propose that these patients be followed according to international Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript consensus guidelines for sporadic branch duct intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (301), although the majority agreed that surgery should be considered for those branch duct intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms ≥2 cm in size (73). Prevention strategies—As smoking has been shown to be an independent risk factor for PC in families with FPC, all high-risk individuals should be counseled against smoking (302). In individuals with hereditary pancreatitis, in addition to smoking cessation, a low-fat diet should also be recommended. Hereditary gastric cancer Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer Clinical definitions: Summary statement • Individuals with (i) ≥2 cases of diffuse gastric cancer, with at least one diagnosed at <50 years, (ii) ≥3 cases of documented diffuse cancer in first- or second-degree relatives independent of age of onset; (iii) diffuse gastric cancer diagnosed at <40 years; and (iv) a personal or family history of diffuse gastric cancer and lobular breast cancer with one diagnosed at <50 years should be evaluated for hereditary diffuse gastric cancer. Summary of evidence It is estimated that there were ~ 21,600 new cases of gastric cancer in the United States in 2013 (303). The lifetime risk for gastric cancer is ~ 0.9% (303). The majority of gastric cancer cases are sporadic, but familial clustering is present in ~ 10% of cases. There are two main types of gastric cancer: diffuse and intestinal. Intestinal-type gastric cancer is a component tumor in LS, familial adenomatous polyposis, and PJS. These syndromes have already been described previously in this guideline, including the risks for gastric cancer, surveillance guidelines for gastric cancer, and genetic testing recommendations, and therefore
