HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


polyposis, and PJS. These syndromes have already been described previously in this guideline, including the risks for gastric cancer, surveillance guidelines for gastric cancer, and genetic testing recommendations, and therefore intestinal forms of gastric cancer will not be discussed in this section. The only hereditary cancer susceptibility syndrome known to cause diffuse gastric cancer is hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC). Th is condition was originally described in three Maori families with autosomal-dominant diffuse gastric cancer in New Zealand in 1964 (304). Approximately 1–3% of diffuse gastric cancers are attributable to HDGC. A genetic evaluation for HDGC is indicated for families having individuals with (i) ≥2 cases of diffuse gastric cancer, with at least one diagnosed at <50 years, (ii) ≥3 cases of documented diffuse cancer in first- or second-degree relatives independent of age of onset; (iii) diffuse gastric cancer diagnosed at <40 years; and (iv) a personal or family history of diffuse gastric cancer and lobular breast cancer with one diagnosed at <50 years (305). Genetic etiology Summary statement • Genetic testing of individuals who fulfill HDGC clinical criteria should include analysis of CDH1 mutations. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary of the evidence Mutations in the E-cadherin gene (CDH1) were found to be the cause of HDGC in 1998 through linkage analysis (306). The CDH1 gene encodes for the cell-to-cell adhesion protein E-cadherin. This initial finding led to subsequent studies confirming the presence of CDH1 mutations in other gastric cancer families (307–309). Genetic testing for the CDH1 gene is indicated for individuals from families who meet HDGC criteria and should be initiated in an affected individual if at all possible. CDH1 testing should include sequencing analysis (3–50% of mutations are sequence changes) and deletion/duplication analysis (4% of mutations are large rearrangements) (305). Between 10.5 and 47% of individuals meeting these criteria will be found to have a CDH1 mutation (305). Once a mutation has been identified in a family, all at-risk individuals should be tested beginning at age 16 years, given the early ages of gastric cancer diagnosis in some families (310). Surveillance and management Recommendation 25. Management for patients with HDGC should include (i) prophylactic gastrectomy after age 20 years (>80% risk by age 80 years); (ii) breast cancer surveillance in women beginning at age 35 years with annual mammography colonoscopy beginning at age
