HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


and should be used with caution. Given the penetrance of this condition, it is recommended that these individuals undergo screening every 6–12 months beginning 5–10 years before the earliest cancer diagnosis in the family (313,314). It is recommended that this is a detailed 30-min endoscopic examination of the gastric mucosa with multiple random biopsies (313,314). Some studies have shown an improved detection rate of early gastric cancer with indigo-carmine staining or a pH-sensitive congo red dye followed by pentagastrin stimulation (315) Because of limited data, the breast cancer surveillance guidelines are based on those for women with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. Given that lobular breast cancers can be difficult part of the surveillance regimen. The colonoscopy guidelines are also based on limited evidence at present. Informed consent Genetic testing should only be done in the setting of pre- and posttest genetic counseling. Full informed consent should always be part of the process of cancer genetic counseling. Nongenetics professionals should consider offering cancer genetic testing only if they are able to provide or make available adequate genetic education and counseling as well as access to preventive and surveillance options. Otherwise they should consider referring the patient and family for these services. Standards for informed consent that should be adopted in gastroenterology practices are outlined in Table 14. Emergence of new genetic testing technologies The advent and commercial availability of next-generation sequencing panels have increased both the complexity and the ease of cancer genetic testing significantly in the past few years. Next-generation sequencing allows for analysis of multiple genes at one time for a lower cost than traditional Sanger sequencing. There are multiple cancer gene panels including anywhere from 6 to 52 genes now offered at a variety of diagnostic laboratories. Some limitations of the new technology include the longer turnaround time (results can take up to 3 months instead of 2–3 weeks) and a higher chance of finding uncertain results (known as variants of uncertain significance) given the large number of genes included. In addition, there are some genes on these panels for which there are very little data available about the associated cancer risks or appropriate management and others for which the cancer risks are so low that the family would be managed based on the cancer history and not the mutation result. In these cases, the results are not useful clinically and can cause confusion for the patient.
