HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: cancer, manuscript, author, author manuscript, patients, years, risk, polyps, manuscript author, surveillance, age, evidence, family, genetic, mutation


family would be managed based on the cancer history and not the mutation result. In these cases, the results are not useful clinically and can cause confusion for the patient. However, gene panels also may streamline testing for individuals at increased risk for a cancer susceptibility syndrome and reduce greatly the need for sequential tests where multiple diagnoses are under consideration. In general, genetics professionals are using the next-generation sequencing panels for patients with a long list of differential diagnoses (e.g., if testing for >1 possible genetic syndrome) because the panels are much more cost effective and can shorten the diagnostic journey. It is conceivable that gene panels may in a short period of time replace in large part individual genetic tests and Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2015 December 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript that testing for all the syndromes discussed in this guideline will soon be done simultaneously for at-risk patients. CONCLUSION Several well-established hereditary cancer syndromes now exist, each with implications for specific cancer risks in GI and other organ systems. The assessment for cancer susceptibility should be a standard part of patient evaluations in gastroenterology office and endoscopy practices. A systematic and focused family history of cancer and premalignant conditions is the first step and sufficient to screen for ~ 10–15% of patients who may need more detailed risk assessment by more extensive family history assessment, genetic counseling, and genetic testing. The underlying genetic etiologies for several syndromes are now well established, and the array of cancer susceptibility genes is continually expanding. Genetic testing is widely available and should be part of standard of care of patients at increased risk for a hereditary cancer syndrome. Mutation carriers and at-risk individuals require intensive surveillance, possibly prophylactic surgery, and family counseling, and management needs to be individualized based on the syndrome under consideration, as well as the specifics of the family history at hand. There is a dire need of organized collaborative international efforts to study benefits of surveillance and surgical strategies in patients with these relatively rare syndromes in order to be able to offer truly evidence-based management recommendations. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This guideline was produced in collaboration with the Practice Parameters Committee of the American College of guideline monitor for this document. We are grateful to Christine Hachem, Lauren Gerson, and Maria Susano for assistance with guideline development, to Paul Moayyedi
