Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


Summary The evidence for the efficacy of ramipril in relieving the symptoms of peripheral arterial disease is very limited. Two small RCTs (Ahimastos et al. 2006, n=40 and Shahin et al. 2013a, n=33) found that, compared with placebo, over 24 weeks, ramipril 10 mg daily improved maximum and pain-free walking times and distances in people with stable intermittent claudication, a symptom of peripheral arterial disease. However, while these differences were statistically significant, the clinical importance of the results is unclear. No adverse effects were reported in 1 study. In the other study, the adverse effect most often reported with ramipril was cough, which led to discontinuation in some cases. The studies have many limitations and ramipril has not been compared directly with other treatments for intermittent claudication. Higher quality evidence on the efficacy and safety of ramipril is needed in order to determine its place in therapy. A third study (n=212) was originally included in this evidence summary but has now been removed. This follows a statement published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), which advises that the study has been retracted after the lead author admitted to fabricating the results of this and a related study. This author was also the lead author for another study included in this evidence summary (Ahimastos et al. 2006) and it is unclear whether the integrity of that study is also affected. However, because of the paucity of evidence, the decision has been taken to present the results, with the proviso that the data may not be robust. Regulatory status: Ramipril is licensed for reducing cardiovascular risk in people with peripheral arterial disease, but its use to treat symptoms of peripheral arterial disease is off-label. Effectiveness Safety Compared with placebo over • According to the summary of product 24 weeks, ramipril 10 mg daily characteristics for Tritace, common adverse statistically significantly improved: effects of ramipril (seen in between 1 in 10 and 1 in 100 people) include headache, dizziness, • mean maximum walking time cough, sinusitis, dyspnoea, gastrointestinal and mean pain-free walking disturbances, rash, muscle spasms, myalgia, time (Ahimastos et al. 2006, hyperkalaemia, hypotension, syncope, chest n=40; both p<0.001; clinical pain and fatigue. importance unclear) • No adverse effects were reported the study by • mean maximum walking Ahimastos et al. (2006). In Shahin et al. distance and mean pain-free (2013a), the adverse effect most often walking distance (Shahin et
