Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


reported the study by • mean maximum walking Ahimastos et al. (2006). In Shahin et al. distance and mean pain-free (2013a), the adverse effect most often walking distance (Shahin et al. reported with ramipril was cough, which led to 2013a, n=33; both p=0.001; discontinuation in some cases. clinical importance unclear). Patient factors Resource implications • Renal function should be • The cost of 28 days' treatment with ramipril assessed before and during 10 mg is £1.28 for capsules, £1.32 for tablets ramipril treatment, particularly and £358.40 for 2.5 mg/5 ml oral solution in people with renal impairment. (Drug Tariff, October 2015). • The results of the studies may not be generalisable to people with certain comorbid conditions (for example, disease limiting mobility or renal impairment). • Most of the participants in the studies were white and it is known that ACE inhibitors are less effective for treating hypertension in people of African or Caribbean family origin; therefore, the studies may not apply to this population. • It is not known how ramipril compares with other treatments for intermittent claudication. Introduction and current guidance Peripheral arterial disease, also known as peripheral vascular disease, is a condition in which arteries that carry blood to the legs (or less commonly the arms) are narrowed or blocked. Peripheral arterial disease is generally caused by atherosclerosis and it is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events even when it is asymptomatic. The most common initial symptom of peripheral arterial disease is pain in the legs while walking, which is relieved by rest, known as intermittent claudication. Treatment options for intermittent claudication include management of cardiovascular risk factors (for example, smoking, obesity, diabetes, hypertension, using antiplatelet drugs and statins), supervised exercise and vasoactive drug treatment (naftidrofuryl oxalate). See the NICE guideline on lower limb peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management for more information. Full text of introduction and current guidance. Product overview Ramipril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) that is licensed for treating hypertension, renal disease and symptomatic heart failure. It is also licensed for the secondary prevention of acute myocardial infarction, and the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in people with manifest atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease (including peripheral arterial disease) or diabetes with at least one cardiovascular risk factor. See the summary of product characteristics for Tritace for more information. This evidence summary considers the evidence for using ramipril to treat the
