Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


with at least one cardiovascular risk factor. See the summary of product characteristics for Tritace for more information. This evidence summary considers the evidence for using ramipril to treat the symptoms of peripheral arterial disease (intermittent claudication), rather than for reducing cardiovascular risk in people with peripheral arterial disease. The use of ramipril to treat symptoms of peripheral arterial disease is off-label. Full text of product overview. Evidence review • This evidence summary discusses 2 randomised controlled trials (RCTs: Ahimastos et al. 2006 and Shahin et al. 2013a [n=40 and n=33 respectively]) that evaluated ramipril for treating people with stable intermittent claudication and concurrent medical treatment, and no comorbid conditions limiting walking ability or renal impairment. Participants were randomised to receive ramipril 10 mg daily or placebo for 24 weeks (including a 2-week dose titration period using ramipril 5 mg daily in Shahin et al. 2013a). • Ahimastos et al. (2006) found that ramipril 10 mg daily statistically significantly increased mean maximum walking time (451 seconds, p<0.001) and mean pain-free walking time (227 seconds, p<0.001) compared with placebo over 24 weeks. Shahin et al. (2013a) reported walking distance rather than time and found that, compared with placebo, ramipril 10 mg daily statistically significantly improved mean maximum walking distance (131 m, p=0.001) and mean pain-free walking distance (122 m, p=0.001) over 24 weeks. Although unclear from the data reported, improvements from baseline in the studies may be clinically important (see the evidence review section of this evidence summary for more details). • Ahimastos et al. (2006) found that ramipril 10 mg daily improved Walking Impairment Questionnaire distance, speed and stair-climbing scores at 24 weeks compared with baseline (all p<0.001) but no comparisons with placebo are reported. • Shahin et al. (2013a) found no statistically significant differences between the groups in the 3 quality of life measures used in the study (scores (EQ-5D, Short-Form 36 Health Survey [SF-36] and King's College Hospital's vascular quality of life questionnaire [VascuQoL]). • According to the summary of product characteristics for Tritace, common adverse effects of ramipril (seen in between 1 in 10 and 1 in 100 people) include headache, dizziness, cough, sinusitis, dyspnoea, gastrointestinal disturbances, rash, muscle spasms, myalgia, hyperkalaemia, hypotension, syncope, chest pain and fatigue. Renal function should be assessed before and during ramipril treatment, particularly in people with renal impairment. • No adverse effects were reported the study by Ahimastos et al. (2006).
