Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


fatigue. Renal function should be assessed before and during ramipril treatment, particularly in people with renal impairment. • No adverse effects were reported the study by Ahimastos et al. (2006). In Shahin et al. (2013a), the adverse effect most often reported with ramipril was cough, which led to discontinuation in some cases. • The 2 studies were small (n=33 and n=40), affecting their statistical power to detect differences between the groups. Participants had stable intermittent claudication that limited their mobility and exercise tolerance, and stable concurrent medical therapies. The results may not be generalisable to people with less severe intermittent claudication or comorbid conditions (for example, concomitant disease limiting walking, including coronary artery disease, or renal impairment). Most of the participants in the studies were white and it is known that ACE inhibitors are less effective for treating hypertension in people of African or Caribbean family origin; therefore, the studies of intermittent claudication may not apply to this population. The treatment period was 24 weeks and it is not known whether benefits will be maintained in the longer term. It is also not known how ramipril compares with other treatments for intermittent claudication because the studies were placebo controlled. Full text of evidence review. Context and estimated impact for the NHS The cost of 28 days' treatment with ramipril 10 mg is £1.28 for capsules, £1.32 for tablets and £358.40 for 2.5 mg/5 ml oral solution (Drug Tariff, October 2015). Full text of context and estimated impact for the NHS. Information for the public A plain English summary is available on the NICE website. This sets out the main points from the evidence summary in non-technical language and may be especially helpful for people with peripheral arterial disease who are thinking about trying ramipril. About this evidence summary 'Evidence summaries: unlicensed or off-label medicines' summarise the published evidence for selected unlicensed or off-label medicines that are considered to be of significance to the NHS, where there are no clinically appropriate licensed alternatives. The summaries provide information for clinicians and patients to inform their decision-making and support the construction and updating of local formularies. The summaries support decision-making on the use of an unlicensed or off-label medicine for an individual patient, where there are good clinical reasons for its use, usually when there is no licensed medicine for the condition requiring treatment, or the licensed medicine is not appropriate for that
