Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


where there are good clinical reasons for its use, usually when there is no licensed medicine for the condition requiring treatment, or the licensed medicine is not appropriate for that individual. The strengths and weaknesses of the relevant evidence are critically reviewed within this summary, but this summary is not NICE guidance. Full evidence summary Introduction and current guidance Peripheral arterial disease, also known as peripheral vascular disease, is a condition in which arteries that carry blood to the legs (or less commonly the arms) are narrowed or blocked. The usual cause of peripheral arterial disease is atherosclerosis (Cilostazol, naftidrofuryl oxalate, pentoxifylline and inositol nicotinate for the treatment of intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease NICE technology appraisal 223). The NICE guideline on lower limb peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management highlights that the condition is a marker for increased risk of cardiovascular events even when it is asymptomatic. The most common initial symptom of peripheral arterial disease is pain in the legs while walking, which is relieved by rest, known as intermittent claudication. When circulation is severely reduced, critical limb ischaemia occurs, characterised by ischaemic pain at rest, ulceration, tissue loss and gangrene. The incidence of peripheral arterial disease increases with age. Population studies have found that about 20% of people aged over 60 years have some degree of peripheral arterial disease. Incidence is high in people who smoke, people with diabetes and people with coronary artery disease. In most people with intermittent claudication the symptoms remain stable, but approximately 20% will develop increasingly severe symptoms, of whom some will develop critical limb ischaemia. Mild intermittent claudication is generally managed in primary care: referral to secondary care is usually reserved for people whose symptoms do not resolve or deteriorate, or are disabling. Treatment options for intermittent claudication include management of cardiovascular risk factors (for example, smoking, obesity, diabetes, hypertension, using antiplatelet drugs and statins), supervised exercise and vasoactive drug treatment (naftidrofuryl oxalate). People with severe and disabling intermittent claudication that is inadequately controlled by the above treatments are often referred to secondary care for consideration of endovascular treatment (such as angioplasty and stenting) and bypass surgery. NICE technology appraisal guidance on cilostazol, naftidrofuryl oxalate, pentoxifylline and inositol nicotinate for the treatment of intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease recommends naftidrofuryl oxalate as an option for treating intermittent claudication in people for whom vasodilator therapy is
