Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


nicotinate for the treatment of intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease recommends naftidrofuryl oxalate as an option for treating intermittent claudication in people for whom vasodilator therapy is considered appropriate after taking into account other treatment options. Cilostazol, pentoxifylline and inositol nicotinate are not recommended. The NICE guideline on lower limb peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management advises that naftidrofuryl oxalate should be considered only when supervised exercise has not led to satisfactory improvement and the person prefers not to be referred for consideration of angioplasty or bypass surgery. Progress should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months and treatment discontinued if there has been no symptomatic benefit. For more information on the management of peripheral arterial disease, see the NICE clinical knowledge summary on peripheral arterial disease and the NICE pathway on lower limb peripheral arterial disease. This evidence summary considers the evidence for using ramipril to treat the symptoms of peripheral arterial disease (intermittent claudication), rather than for reducing cardiovascular risk in people with peripheral arterial disease. Product overview Drug action Ramipril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor), which causes vasodilation by inhibiting the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor angiotensin II, and preventing the breakdown of the vasodilator bradykinin (see the summary of product characteristics for Tritace). Regulatory status Ramipril is licensed for treating hypertension, renal disease and symptomatic heart failure. It is also licensed for the secondary prevention of acute myocardial infarction, and the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in people with manifest atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease (including peripheral arterial disease) or diabetes with at least one cardiovascular risk factor. See the summary of product characteristics for Tritace for more information. The use of ramipril to treat symptoms of peripheral arterial disease is off-label. In line with the guidance from the General Medical Council (GMC), it is the responsibility of the prescriber to determine the clinical need of the patient and the suitability of using ramipril outside its authorised indications. Cost The usual dose of ramipril for licensed indications is 1.25 mg daily to 10 mg daily. For this dose range, the cost of ramipril tablets and capsules is between £1.07 and £1.33 for 28. Ramipril 2.5 mg/5 ml oral solution costs £96.00 for 150 ml (Drug Tariff, October 2015). Evidence review This evidence summary discusses 2 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated ramipril for treating intermittent claudication in people with peripheral
