Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


£96.00 for 150 ml (Drug Tariff, October 2015). Evidence review This evidence summary discusses 2 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated ramipril for treating intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease. A third RCT (Ahimastos et al. 2013, n=212) was originally included in this evidence summary but has now been removed. This follows a statement published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), which advised that the RCT has been retracted after the lead author, Anna Ahimastos, admitted to fabricating the results of this and a related study. This author was also the lead author for another RCT included in this evidence summary and it is unclear whether the integrity of that study is also affected. However, because of the paucity of evidence, the decision has been taken to present the results, with the proviso that the data may not be robust. The results of a meta-analysis by Shahin et al. (2013b) have also been removed from the evidence summary because they were primarily based on the RCT by Ahimastos et al. (2013). However, some background data on the studies that are still included was obtained from the meta-analysis and is still referenced within the document. Ahimastos et al. (2006) and Shahin et al. (2013a) • Design: Both studies were randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials. • Patients: The study by Ahimastos et al. (2006) was undertaken in Australia and included 40 people. Shahin et al. (2013a) was undertaken in the UK and included 33 people. Participants in both studies had stable intermittent claudication for 6 months (which limited their mobility and exercise tolerance), an ankle brachial pressure index (ABPI, a measure of the severity of peripheral arterial disease) of less than 0.9 at rest, blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg or less, and no concomitant disease limiting walking (including coronary artery disease), renal impairment or ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker treatment. Participants in Ahimastos et al. (2006) had no history of diabetes or hypertension. See table 1 for more information on baseline characteristics. • Intervention and comparison: In the study by Ahimastos et al. (2006), participants were randomised to receive ramipril 10 mg daily or placebo for 24 weeks, and were asked to maintain their lifestyle throughout the trial. Baseline characteristics were reported to be similar between the groups. In Shahin et al. (2013a), participants were randomised to receive ramipril 5 mg daily or placebo for 2 weeks,
