Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


experienced cough and 1 experienced dizziness. The person with dizziness and 1 person with cough withdrew from the study. Of the 19 people randomised to receive placebo, 2 withdrew without giving a reason. According to the summary of product characteristics for Tritace, common adverse effects of ramipril (seen in between 1 in 10 and 1 in 100 people) include headache, dizziness, cough, sinusitis, dyspnoea, gastrointestinal disturbances, rash, muscle spasms, myalgia, hyperkalaemia, hypotension, syncope, chest pain and fatigue. Serious adverse effects include angioedema, hyperkalaemia, renal or hepatic impairment, pancreatitis, severe skin reactions and neutropenia/agranulocytosis. Renal function should be assessed before and during ramipril treatment, particularly in people with renal impairment. Evidence strengths and limitations The Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation study showed that ramipril has beneficial effects on morbidity and mortality and it is licensed for the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with manifest atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease (including peripheral arterial disease). The 2 small RCTs by Ahimastos et al. (2006) and Shahin et al. (2013a) suggest that ramipril 10 mg daily also improves treadmill walking ability (maximum walking and pain free walking) in people with intermittent claudication over 24 weeks and the improvements appear to be clinically important. This is supported by improvements in WIQ distance, speed and stair-climbing scores in Ahimastos et al. (2006), which may be more representative of activities of daily living than treadmill tests. However, the WIQ is a measure of walking impairment generally, not just that due to intermittent claudication, and Ahimastos et al. (2006) state that the WIQ has restricted capacity to discriminate between people with poor exercise tolerance. In addition, the studies have other limitations. Clinical specialists involved in the development of the NICE technology appraisal considered that neither ABPI or pain-free walking distance were clinically relevant outcome measures because ABPI is used in clinical practice only as a diagnostic tool for peripheral arterial disease, and pain-free walking distance can be difficult to assess without using a fixed-speed treadmill because patients usually adjust the speed of their walking to avoid pain and to maximise walking distance. Treadmill testing is unlikely to be offered in the course of routine clinical practice. In addition, the clinical specialists agreed that maximum walking distance was the most suitable outcome measure. One of the specialists involved in the production of this evidence summary considered that walking times (used in Ahimastos et al. 2006) are of little value
