Symptoms of peripheral arterial disease: ramipril
KEYWORDS: ramipril, walking, disease, people, peripheral, ahimastos, arterial, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, intermittent claudication, intermittent, claudication, evidence, shahin, reported


most suitable outcome measure. One of the specialists involved in the production of this evidence summary considered that walking times (used in Ahimastos et al. 2006) are of little value in assessing clinical impact of treatments for intermittent claudication. In addition, walking distance should be supported by a quality of life measure because a small increase in walking distance may not affect a person's quality of life. Shahin et al. (2013a) found no differences between the groups in 3 quality of life measures. The 2 studies were small (n=33 and n=40), affecting their power to detect differences between the groups. Participants had stable intermittent claudication that limited their mobility and exercise tolerance, and stable concurrent medical therapies. The results may not be generalisable to people with less severe intermittent claudication or comorbid conditions (for example, concomitant disease limiting walking, including coronary artery disease, or renal impairment). Participants in Ahimastos et al. (2006) had no history of diabetes or hypertension. A higher proportion of participants in Shahin et al. (2013a) had hypertension or diabetes mellitus and took antiplatelet and lipid-lowering drugs than in the other study. Most of the participants in the studies were white and male (average age about 65 years) and around 40% were smokers. It is known that ACE inhibitors are less effective for treating some hypertension in people of African or Caribbean family origin; therefore, the studies on intermittent claudication may not apply to this population. Ramipril has not been compared directly with other treatments for intermittent claudication. Also, the dose of ramipril used in the 2 RCTs was the maximum licensed dose (10 mg) and it is not known whether lower doses would also improve intermittent claudication. The treatment period was 24 weeks and it is unclear whether benefits will be maintained in the longer term. Overall, specialists involved in the production of this evidence summary consider that the improvements in walking seen with ramipril in the studies may be clinically relevant. However, they stress that higher quality evidence is needed before recommendations can be made about when it should be used. In line with the NICE technology appraisal guidance on cilostazol, naftidrofuryl oxalate, pentoxifylline and inositol nicotinate for the treatment of intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease, vasoactive drugs are now used infrequently for intermittent claudication. Off-label drugs should only be considered when there are good clinical reasons to do so, usually when
