Observational Study
KEYWORDS: patients, study, cid, treatment, mebeverine, improvement, patient, symptoms, sulpiride, gastrointestinal, fgids, efficacy, tgsrs, weeks, demonstrated


FGIDs, various pharmaco- psychologicalfactorsearlyinlifecanconsid- logical medications or combinations may erablyaffecttheindividual’ssusceptibilityto gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction, including be required for treatment. Symptom-based impaired motility, visceral hypersensitivity, treatment may be effective for diarrhea- or weakened mucosal immunity.3 The most dominant or constipation-dominant disor- widely known GI dysfunctions include ders. In addition, antidepressants can be irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), FD, and particularlybeneficialbecauseoftheireffects functional constipation.4 The absence of a on the gut and brain.6 defined pathology and specific biomarkers 5HT-agonists/antagonists,locallymediat- makes the diagnosis of FGIDs challenging eddrugs,andcentrallyactingdrugsarecon- for clinicians. Consequently, symptom- sidered for their stress-related effects on the based diagnosis is used to distinguish and gut.3 Sulpiride, a dopamine agonist, is treateachcondition.ThenewRomeIIIclas- primarily used at high doses as an antipsy- sification was established to enhance the choticforthemanagementofschizophrenia. FGIDs by categorizing symptoms into clus- slows gastric emptying, making it a useful ters that are constant across populations. adjunctive treatment option for duodenal The criteria subclassifies FD into epigastric ulcers.7 According to the British Society of El-Kassas et al. 3 ment of FD.8 Department of Tropical Medicine and Mebeverine is an antispasmodic medica- Infectious Diseases at Tanta University tionthatrelievesabdominalpaincausedby Hospital. The study was approved by spasms and functional disorders in the the research ethical committee of Tanta intestinal smooth muscles, particularly in Faculty of Medicine (Approval Number: IBS. It helps regulate bowel movements 30430/07/15). The reporting of this and relaxes the intestinal smooth muscles.9 study conforms to the Strengthening At doses between 135 and 270mg, mebever- the Reporting of Observational Studies in ine demonstrates low anticholinergic side Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines.11 effects. Mebeverine was recognized as a treatment option for IBS in the 1960s. Study population Chakraborty et al. reported a considerable The study included 253 patients fulfilling reduction in IBS symptoms with immediate- thefollowingcriteria:(a)malesandfemales releaseandcontrolled-releaseformulationsof aged18to60yearsdiagnosedwithFGIDs, mebeverine.10 includingFD,IBS,functionalgastrointesti- This study aimed to evaluate the safety nal colic, and postdysenteric colitis; and efficacy of a combination of 100mg (b) patients with GI manifestations accom- mebeverine and 25mg sulpiride (ColonaVR) panied with psychogenic and migraine-like in patients with FGIDs. headaches; (c) patients willing and able to complete all study visits and procedures; Methods and (d) patients capable of providing written informed consent in a consecutive Design order. Patients with the following criteria were This was a Phase IV, multicenter, prospec- excluded: (a) patients with alarming symp- tive, open-label, cohort study conducted in toms suggestive of organic GI disorders Egypt to evaluate the safety and efficacy of (e.g. bleeding per rectum,
