Observational Study
KEYWORDS: patients, study, cid, treatment, mebeverine, improvement, patient, symptoms, sulpiride, gastrointestinal, fgids, efficacy, tgsrs, weeks, demonstrated


excluded: (a) patients with alarming symp- tive, open-label, cohort study conducted in toms suggestive of organic GI disorders Egypt to evaluate the safety and efficacy of (e.g. bleeding per rectum, melena, and thecombinationofmebeverineandsulpiride markedweightloss);(b)patientswithahis- in patients with FGIDs. Written informed toryofinflammatoryboweldisease;lactose consent was obtained prior to study-related intolerance; malignancy; major hepatic, procedures. renal, or hematological diseases; and those Each patient was assessed against the who underwent laparoscopic or open selection criteria. The total participation abdominal surgery within the previous 6 duration was approximately 3 weeks, con- months; (c) patients with a history of sisting of a 1-week screening period and a peptic ulcer disease, GI bleeding, intestinal 2-week ((cid:1)1 week) treatment period. The stenosis or obstruction, and pancreatic treatment duration included two visits: a insufficiency within the previous 6 months; baseline visit and a follow-up visit after (d)patientswithahistoryofaknownaller- 2 weeks ((cid:1)1 week). All patient details were gy to the study drug and patients taking deidentified. concomitant medications that act on or influenceGItractmotility(e.g.cholagogues Setting and prokinetic agents); (e) patients who The study was conducted at three active were maintainedon antidepressant oranxi- sites in Egypt: The National Hepatology olytic treatment; and (f) pregnant or 4 Journal of International Medical Research lactating female patients and female improvement of “at least one point scale patients of childbearing age not using reduction”inthetGSRSforeachpresented contraception. symptom;(b)numberofpatientswithrelief or improvement based on the overall phy- Intervention sician assessment of clinical outcome; (c) timetorelief/improvement tothepresented The study drug consisted of film-coated symptoms as per physician assessment of tablets containing 25mg sulpiride and the clinical outcome; (d) mebeverine and 100mg mebeverine HCL. One tablet was sulpiride overall tolerability, as assessed by administered 3–4 times daily (preferably physician/patient; (e) number of patients 20min before meals). The treatment dura- compliant with the prescribed medication tion was 2 weeks. and reasons for noncompliance, if any; and (f) number of patients who discontin- Outcome measures ued the study drug due to AEs. At the baseline visit, the investigators Outcome measures were assessed at base- line and after 2 weeks ((cid:1)1 week). Tailored conducted a physical examination and assessed vital signs. They completed the gastrointestinal symptoms rating scale baseline tGSRS questionnaire to rate the (tGSRS) was used to evaluate the efficacy intensity, frequency, duration, request for of mebeverine and sulpiride in patients with relief, and impact on social performance FGIDs.12 The gastrointestinal symptom of the presented GI tract symptoms. The rating scale (GSRS), foundation for investigators
