Observational Study
KEYWORDS: patients, study, cid, treatment, mebeverine, improvement, patient, symptoms, sulpiride, gastrointestinal, fgids, efficacy, tgsrs, weeks, demonstrated


of mebeverine and sulpiride in patients with relief, and impact on social performance FGIDs.12 The gastrointestinal symptom of the presented GI tract symptoms. The rating scale (GSRS), foundation for investigators prescribed mebeverine and tGSRS, is recognized as a valid and reliable sulpiride at their sole discretion, guided by toolforevaluatingGIsymptoms.Numerous the summary of product characteristics studies have demonstrated its internal (SmPC).Patientswereprovidedalaborato- consistency (Cronbach’s alpha generally ry referral form to undergo the specified between 0.61 and 0.87 across domains) and tests 2–3 days before their next visit. Any test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation AEs or SAEs occurring from the informed coefficient (ICC) ranging from 0.36 to 0.75 consent date were recorded along with any in different translations and contexts).13–15 concomitant medications. Currently,therearenodocumentedstud- At the end of the study visit, the inves- ies on the local validation of the GSRS or tigators assessed the laboratory results and tGSRS specifically in an Egyptian popula- completed the follow-up tGSRS question- tion. However, the GSRS has been used in naire to evaluate changes in the intensity, Egyptian research in some previous frequency, duration, request for relief, and studies.16 impact on social performance of the pre- Primary efficacy outcome measures were sented GI tract symptoms. A thorough as follows: (a) relative percent change in medical evaluation, including physical the total tGSRS score and (b) number of examination and vital signs assessment patients achieving (cid:3)50% relative improve- were carried out. The occurrence of AEs ment in the total tGSRS score. and SAEs since the previous visit and any Primarysafetyoutcomemeasuresincluded changes in concomitant medications were the occurrence of study drug-related adverse recorded. Assessment of the overall clinical events (AEs)/serious adverse events (SAEs), outcomebythephysicianandassessmentof represented as incidence and attack rates. the physician/patient’s overall tolerability Secondary outcome measures were as of mebeverine and sulpiride by the physi- follows: (a) number of patients achieving cian and patient were documented. El-Kassas et al. 5 Statistical analysis Table1. Demographic dataat baseline. Wilcoxonsigned-ranktestwasusedtocom- Values pare the mean scores at baseline and at the Demographiccharacteristics n(%) end of the study. Paired t-test and repeated Sex measureanalysisofvariance(ANOVA)test Male 61 (24.1%) was used to estimate the change in numer- Female 192(75.9%) ical variables throughout the study visits Maritalstatus (dependingonthedistributionofdata,non- Married 232(91.7%) parametric substitution tests were applied). Single 14 (5.5%) Divorced 4 (1.6%) Chi-square test was used for unpaired cate- Widowed 3 (1.2%) gorical variables and McNemar’s test for Educationlevel paired categorical variables. Uneducated 69 (27.3%) Basiceducation 66 (26.1%) Ethical
