Observational Study
KEYWORDS: patients, study, cid, treatment, mebeverine, improvement, patient, symptoms, sulpiride, gastrointestinal, fgids, efficacy, tgsrs, weeks, demonstrated


events were nonserious and 0.18mg/dL at baseline to 0.72(cid:1)0.15mg/dL exhibited good recovery. No corrective treat- at follow-up and showed a statistically sig- mentwasadministeredforanyofthe4events. nificant difference (p¼0.049); however, this For cases of mild diarrhea and dyspep- difference was not clinically significant. sia,noactionwastakenregardingthestudy medication; however, the medication was Discussion withdrawn (temporarily, permanently, or delayed) in cases of moderate diarrhea This cohort study evaluated the safety and and galactorrhea. efficacy of mebeverine and sulpiride in Table3. Detaileddescription ofadverse events. Actiontaken Relationship Systemorgan Preferred Corrective Seriousness withstudy tostudy class(SOC) term(PT) Severity treatment criteria Outcome drug drug Reproductive Galactorrhea Moderate No No Recovered Withdrawn Related systemand (temporarily, breastdisorders permanently, ordelayed) Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia Mild No No Recovered None Possibly disorders related Gastrointestinal Diarrhea Moderate No No Recovered Withdrawn Probable/ disorders (temporarily, likely permanently, related ordelayed) Gastrointestinal Diarrhea Mild No No Recovered None Possibly disorders related DataofadverseeventswerecodedusingMedDRA(MedicalDictionaryforRegulatoryActivities)version19. 8 Journal of International Medical Research patientswithFGIDs.TheGSRSisaneffec- innauseaandbelchingandcompletedisap- tive disease-specific tool used to assess GI pearance of vomiting and pain were symptoms according to symptom review observed after 4 weeks of treatment.7 points rated on a seven-point scale ranging mostpatientsexperiencedrelieforimprove- from no discomfort to severe discomfort. mentofsymptomsafterthestudyduration, The patient’s score can be calculated using with few patients reporting no change and the mean of the total points, where higher onedemonstratingworseningofsymptoms. scores indicate greater symptom severity.13 Theseresultswereconsistentwiththoseofa According to the efficacy results of crossover study comparing the efficacy of mebeverine and sulpiride, the mean sustained-release and immediate-release tGSRS score significantly decreased from mebeverine in patients with IBS. In the baselineafter2weeksoftreatment,indicat- study, among 60 patients, 44 (73%) experi- ingrelativeimprovementintheexperienced enced improvement in symptoms after 3 symptoms. Most patients reached (cid:3)50% weeks of treatment, whereas one (1.67%) relative improvement in the tGSRS score, patient reported worsening of symptoms further establishing the efficacy of the with the immediate-release formulation. study drug. A study conducted on the At 6 weeks, 13 (21.6%) patients demon- effect of mebeverine in improving IBS strated improvement in symptoms.20 naires also demonstrated a decrease in the most patients demonstrated excellent toler- mean score after 4 weeks and more than ability; 26 tolerated the treatment fairly, 50% decrease in symptom severity after and only one exhibited poor tolerance. In 8 weeks of treatment.17 contrast, according to patient’s assessment, In terms of patient improvement in fewer patients reported excellent tolerance, tGSRS with “at least one point scale reduc- with 110 patients reporting fair tolerance tion,” most patients demonstrated improve- and six patients
