Observational Study
KEYWORDS: patients, study, cid, treatment, mebeverine, improvement, patient, symptoms, sulpiride, gastrointestinal, fgids, efficacy, tgsrs, weeks, demonstrated


patient improvement in fewer patients reported excellent tolerance, tGSRS with “at least one point scale reduc- with 110 patients reporting fair tolerance tion,” most patients demonstrated improve- and six patients reporting poor tolerance mentinabdominaldistensionandepigastric/ tomebeverineandsulpiride. These findings abdominal pain. These findings maybecor- highlight a discrepancy between physician related to the fact that abdominal pain is and the patient judgments, which is consis- considered highly prevalent in the primary tentwiththatofastudyexaminingtheper- care population.18 Improvement was also ception of physicians and patients with noticedinearlysatiety/postprandialfullness, FGIDs through telephone call requests. In nausea and vomiting, feeling of incomplete the study, patients described their symp- evacuation,hardstools,urgentneedfordef- toms and procedure-related concerns. The ecation, loose stools, and increased and results indicated that patients tended to decreased passage of stools. A study com- believetheirsymptomstobemoredisabling paring the efficacy of mebeverine versus and severe, whereas physicians were more pinaverlum bromide for patients with IBS inclined to minimize the severity of these demonstrated improvementin the daily def- described symptoms.21 ecationfrequencyandstoolconsistencywith Most patients were compliant with the mebeverine after 2 weeks of treatment.19 prescribed treatment, with only one non- median time for clinical improvement was These results align with those ofarandom- 2 weeks, which was relatively shorter than ized control study on the management of that of another study assessing the efficacy IBS using mebeverine, methylcellulose, pla- ofsulpiride for FD, where an improvement cebo, and a cognitive behavioral therapy El-Kassas et al. 9 (CBT) self-management program, which were not balanced through stratification; a reported 80% compliance to the prescribed higher proportion of patients were female, medication. Noncompliance was attributed from rural areas, uneducated, or unem- to either worsening of symptoms or unspe- ployed, factors that may influence severe cified reasons.22 FGIDs or placebo responses. Fifth, the Four AEs experienced by four patients short follow-up period restricted evaluation were documented during the study. Among of long-term effects and sideeffects,suchas thesepatients,oneexperienceddiarrhea,one drug dependence or tolerance. Finally, the patient had mild dyspepsia, and one had study did not analyze outcomes across dif- moderate galactorrhea. According to the ferent FGID subgroups; therefore, future World Health Organization (WHO) causal- researchshouldfocusonidentifyingthesub- ity assessment, mild diarrhea and dyspepsia groups that respond better to treatment. wereconsideredpossiblyrelatedtothestudy medication, moderate diarrhea was consid- ered probablyrelated, andgalactorrhea was Conclusion considered related to the study medication. This study demonstrated that a combina- In a study evaluating the safety of tion of mebeverine and sulpiride immediate-release versus sustained-release (ColonaVR) may be an effective treatment mebeverine, two
