Observational Study
KEYWORDS: patients, study, cid, treatment, mebeverine, improvement, patient, symptoms, sulpiride, gastrointestinal, fgids, efficacy, tgsrs, weeks, demonstrated


medication. This study demonstrated that a combina- In a study evaluating the safety of tion of mebeverine and sulpiride immediate-release versus sustained-release (ColonaVR) may be an effective treatment mebeverine, two patients discontinued the option for FGIDs. The findings revealed study due to AEs, one patient experienced notable symptom improvements, potential- epigastric discomfort, and one patient ly enhancing patients’ QoL. The combina- reported nausea; however, it was uncertain tion therapy was generally well tolerated, whether these events were drug-related AEs.23 with a safety profile comparable to that of existing treatments. Although further Overall, the study results on mebeverine research is warranted to verify long-term and sulpiride demonstrated significant improvement in the symptoms of FGIDs. safety and effectiveness across different Most patients achieved (cid:3)50% relative patient groups, these preliminary results improvement in their rating scores and, suggest that mebeverine and sulpiride according to the assessment, most patients could represent a viable option for manag- experienced symptomatic relief after 14 ing FGIDs and an alternative treatment days of treatment. Most patients did not strategy for patients with limited treatment report any AEs during the study period, choices. and all reported AEs were nonserious. Theseresultssupporttheuseofmebeverine Acknowledgments and sulpiride for the treatment of FGIDs. WeacknowledgetheuseoftheGrammarlytool Our study has several limitations. First, solely for punctuationediting; all scientific con- it was a single-arm trial without randomi- tent and intellectual insights remain the sole zationoracontrolgroupsuchasplaceboor responsibility ofthe authors. standard treatment, which limits the ability to definitively prove efficacy, although it Author contribution demonstrates promising outcomes and Mohamed El-Kassas: Conceptualization. safety. Second, the open-label design may Ahmed Tawheed: Writing – Review & Editing. have introduced expectation bias from Hesham El Halwagy: Investigation, Formal patients and doctors. Third, as the GSRS analysis. Reem Ezzat: Investigation. Amr El is patient-reported, it is particularly suscep- Fouly: Writing – Original Draft. Asem Elfert: tible tobias.Fourth,baselinecharacteristics Supervision. 10 Journal of International Medical Research Data availability statement 9. DanilukJ,Malecka-WojcieskoE,Skrzydlo- RadomanskaB,etal.Theefficacyofmebe- All data can be provided upon reasonable verine in the treatment of irritable bowel request. syndrome-A systematic review. J Clin Med 2022;11: 1044. Declaration of conflicting interests 10. ChakrabortyDS,HazraA,SilA,etal.Will The authors declare no competing interests for controlled release mebeverine be able to thiswork. surpass placebo in treatment of diarrhoea predominant irritable bowel syndrome? Funding JFamilyMedPrimCare2019;8:3173–3178. This was a funded study by Rameda 11. VonElmE,AltmanDG,EggerM;STROBE Pharmaceutical Company. The funders had no Initiative, et al. The Strengthening the roleinstudydesign,datacollection,dataanaly- Reporting of Observational Studies in sis, or datainterpretation.
