Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


ABSTRACT Disorders of steroidogenesis resulting in deficiencies of cortisol and/or aldosterone are collectively referred to as Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH). These autosomal recessive enzymatic defects are typified by pathogenic variants in CYP21A2 encoding 21-hydroxylase. Deficiency in this important enzyme leads to deficiency of cortisol synthesis and accumulation of precursors, such as 17-hydroxyprogesterone, which are then shunted into the androgen synthetic pathway. Consequently, affected female fetuses undergo virilization of the external genitalia in early gestation. In classic salt wasting CAH patients, the parallel pathway to aldosterone is also impaired. Newborn screening has been instrumental in earlier diagnosis, permitting prompt glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid treatment. Inadequate or excessive steroid replacement may disrupt normal growth and pubertal progress in children and impair reproductive function and cardiometabolic health in adults. Owing to combined adrenal hormone deficiencies, CAH patients are at increased the risk for adrenal crises during stressful periods. Here we discuss the characteristics of several enzyme defects and describe current and new treatment strategies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Cortisol is produced from cholesterol in the adrenal cortex’s zona fasciculata in a series of five enzymatic reactions. Deficiency of any enzyme that impairs cortisol synthesis leads to chronic stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and over-secretion of the adrenal precursors to the enzymatic defect. The various types of congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH are listed in Table 1 ; each unique disorder is identified by a combination of elevated precursors and deficient products. About 90-95% of CAH patients suffer from steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21OHD) ( 1 ). PHYSIOLOGY OF ADRENAL STEROID BIOSYNTHESIS Zonation The adrenal gland consists of an inner medulla which secretes catecholamines and an outer cortex which secretes steroids. The cortex consists of 3 concentric zones: the outer zona glomerulosa, the large middle zona fasciculata, and the zona reticularis adjacent to the medulla. The cortex is maintained from a stem cell population located under the capsule and in the zona glomerulosa; newly differentiated cells move centripetally through the 3 zones and transdifferentiate as necessary for their roles in each zone. Table 1. Summary of the Clinical, Hormonal, and Genetic Features of Steroidogenic Defects View in own window Condition Gene Chromosome Abnormal protein Genitalia Mineralo-corticoid Effect Typical Features Lipoid CAH STAR 8p11.2 StAR Female; no pubertal development Salt wasting All steroid products low Lipoid CAH CYP11A1 15q23-24 P450scc Female; no pubertal development
