Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


the 11-oxo (11-keto) group in 11-ketotestosterone is illustrated in green. Colored rectangles indicate the following: gray, early steps of steroidogenesis common to all zones of the cortex; orange, steps in the zona glomerulosa leading to aldosterone; blue, steps in the zona fasciculata leading to cortisol; magenta; steps in the zona reticularis and extra-adrenal tissues leading to androgens; purple, the “backdoor” or alternate pathway from 17-OH progesterone to dihydrotestosterone (for clarity, the alternative pathway from progesterone is not shown); green, conversions leading to 11-oxo androgens. From ( 1 ). All steroid biosynthesis starts from cholesterol, which is imported into mitochondria, facilitated by the steroidogenic acute regulatory (STAR) protein. STAR protein levels are highly regulated by trophic stimuli (see the next section) and this initial step is the main way in which adrenal and gonadal hormone secretion is regulated. In mitochondria in all zones of the adrenal cortex, cholesterol is converted to pregnenolone by CYP11A1, the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme (previously termed P450scc). As with other cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, CYP11A1 is a membrane-bound enzyme of approximately 50 kilodaltons (kD) molecular weight. Like other mitochondrial P450 enzymes (including CYP11B1 and CYP11B2, discussed below), it is the terminal oxidase of an electron-transport chain that starts with adrenodoxin reductase (ferredoxin reductase, FDXR), a flavoprotein that accepts pairs of electrons from NADPH and transfers them singly to an iron-sulfur protein, adrenodoxin (ferredoxin, FDX1), which transfers them in turn to the P450. The side-chain cleavage reaction is actually a series of 3 reactions, sequential hydroxylations at C-22 and C-20, creating 20R,22R-dihydroxycholesterol, and then C20-C22 bond cleavage yielding pregnenolone. ZONA GLOMERULOSA Pregnenolone then exits mitochondria and enters the endoplasmic reticulum. In the zona glomerulosa, 3β hydroxysteroid type 2 (HSD3B2, a “short chain dehydrogenase” enzyme) converts pregnenolone to progesterone, and 21-hydroxylase (CYP21A2, P450c21) converts progesterone to deoxycorticosterone. As with other “microsomal” P450s located in the endoplasmic reticulum (including CYP17A1, discussed below), CYP21A2 accepts electrons directly from a different flavoprotein than FDXR, P450 oxidoreductase (POR), without the participation of an intermediate electron transport partner like FDX1. Deoxycorticosterone re-enters mitochondria where it is converted to aldosterone by CYP11B2, the aldosterone synthase enzyme (P450aldo). CYP11B2 is normally exclusively expressed in the zona glomerulosa. As with cholesterol side-chain cleavage, the conversion of deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone also requires 3 steps catalyzed by the same enzyme: 11β hydroxylation, 18-hydroxylation, and conversion of the 18-hydroxymethyl group to an aldehyde. ZONA FASCICULATA In the zona fasciculata,
