Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


for adrenal rest tumors in CAH patients ( 11 ). Backdoor Pathway to Dihydrotestosterone The “backdoor pathway” ( Figure 1 ) also plays a role in human male sex differentiation ( 12 - 15 ). In this pathway, 17OHP and progesterone are converted to dihydrotestosterone (DHT, the most potent endogenous androgen in humans) without going through DHEA, androstenedione or testosterone, so that these steroids can contribute to the virilization of female fetuses with 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( 16 , 17 ). To enter the backdoor pathway, progesterone or 17-hydroxyprogesterone are 5α-reduced by steroid 5α-reductase type 1 (SRD5A1) to yield 5α-dihydroprogesterone and 17α-hydroxy-dihydroprogesterone, respectively. These 3-ketosteroids are subsequently 3α-reduced to allopregnanolone and 17α-hydroxyallopregnanolone, respectively, by either AKR1C2 or AKR1C4 ( 12 ). CYP17A1 converts allopregnanolone to 17α-hydroxyallopregnanolone and then to androsterone via its 17,20-lyase activity. Androsterone can then be activated to DHT by sequential 17β-reduction and 3α-oxidase reactions. The oxidative 3aHSDs are short chain dehydrogenases ( 18 ). The most active member of these is retinol dehydrogenase, also called 17bHSD6, which probably catalyzes the final step in the backdoor pathway. Regulation of Secretion Cortisol and aldosterone secretion are independently regulated. Figure 2. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Schematic of the HPA axis with the hypothalamus, pituitary gland and the adrenal cortex shown, including the negative feedback loop. CRH, corticotropin-releasing hormone; ACTH, adrenocorticotropic hormone. Figure created in BioRender.com. From ( 19 ). HYPOTHALAMIC PITUITARY ADRENAL (HPA) AXIS Cortisol is regulated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis ( Figure 2 ). Low cortisol levels are sensed by the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, which secretes corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH, also termed corticotropin-releasing factor), which travels via the hypothalamic-pituitary portal circulation to trigger specific G-protein coupled receptors in the anterior pituitary (CRF-R1 and CRF-R2), thus stimulating release of corticotropin (adrenocorticotropic hormone, ACTH). Cortisol negatively feeds back at both the hypothalamic and pituitary levels to suppress ACTH secretion. ACTH occupies a specific G-protein coupled receptor, termed the melanocortin-2 receptor (MC2R), on the surface of cells in the zona fasciculata. This receptor is coupled to G s proteins, so when the receptor is activated by ACTH, it increases intracellular levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), activating protein kinase A. Protein kinase A has many intracellular effects, including phosphorylating and thus activating cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which binds to specific sites in many ACTH-regulated genes. Within minutes, this increases transcription of STAR and expression of STAR protein, quickly increasing
