Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


activating cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which binds to specific sites in many ACTH-regulated genes. Within minutes, this increases transcription of STAR and expression of STAR protein, quickly increasing cortisol biosynthesis. Over hours to days, ACTH increases expression of steroidogenic enzymes and then hypertrophy of the zona fasciculata. RENIN-ANGIOTENSIN-ALDOSTERONE SYSTEM Figure 3. The renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS). The RAAS is regulated by various factors that operate to maintain volume status and blood pressure. Normal arrow heads indicate stimulatory; blunt ends indicate inhibitory pathways. ACE, angiotensin converting enzyme. Adapted from ( 20 ). In contrast, aldosterone is regulated mainly by the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, with ACTH playing only a minor role ( Figure 3 ). Decreased intravascular volume or sodium concentration are sensed by the juxtaglomerular apparatus in each nephron in the kidney, stimulating secretion of renin. This proteolytic enzyme cleaves angiotensin I from its precursor, angiotensinogen; angiotensin I is converted to angiotensin II by angiotensin converting enzyme, mainly in the pulmonary endothelium. In the zona glomerulosa, angiotensin occupies the angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R), which couples to G q/11 proteins (which are different from the G s proteins to which the MC2R couples). This increases levels of free intracellular calcium, which becomes bound to several isoforms of calmodulin (CaM), activating several CaM-activated kinases which phosphorylate transcription factors, rapidly increasing STAR expression in a manner similar to that induced by ACTH in the zona fasciculata, with slower increases in expression of steroidogenic enzymes. Extracellular potassium also stimulates aldosterone secretion. It depolarizes the cell membrane, triggering voltage-sensitive calcium channels, allowing entry of calcium into the cell and triggering CaM kinases in a similar way to activation of the AT1R by angiotensin II. 21-HYDROXYLASE DEFICIENCY (21OHD) Epidemiology Classic 21OHD is found in 1:14,000-1:18,000 live births on newborn screening, although higher frequencies may be seen in some areas ( 1 ). Another recent systematic review and meta-analysis of classic CAH revealed an overall CAH incidence of 1:9,500 ( 21 ), but these statistics may be skewed, based on data derived from populations with high rates of consanguinity ( 22 ). About three-quarters of classic CAH patients have aldosterone deficiency associated with the salt-wasting phenotype. Non-classic (NC) CAH is a milder form of 21OHD and thus is not a specific target for newborn screening. This often asymptomatic variant may be found in approximately 1:200 individuals across most Caucasian ethnicities ( 23 ). Pathophysiology We will
