Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


thus is not a specific target for newborn screening. This often asymptomatic variant may be found in approximately 1:200 individuals across most Caucasian ethnicities ( 23 ). Pathophysiology We will concentrate on the pathophysiology of 21OHD as this enzymatic defect accounts for the vast majority of cases. Complete deficiency of CYP21A2 prevents conversion of both progesterone to deoxycorticosterone and 17OHP to 11-deoxycortisol, thus inhibiting aldosterone and cortisol biosynthesis, respectively. ALDOSTERONE DEFICIENCY Aldosterone deficiency reduces the number of open epithelial sodium channels on the apical surface of cells in the distal nephron and reduces expression of the sodium-potassium ATPase. These effects impede sodium resorption from, and potassium excretion into, the urine, causing hyponatremia, hypovolemia and hyperkalemia that are most severe in early infancy. Beside aldosterone deficiency itself, accumulated steroid precursors such as 17OHP antagonize mineralocorticoid action ( 24 ). In response to hypovolemia and hyponatremia, renin levels increase. After infancy, renin levels are an excellent way to monitor adequacy of mineralocorticoid replacement. CORTISOL DEFICIENCY Cortisol deficiency can cause hypoglycemia and can also decrease vascular tone and cardiac output; the latter effects can exacerbate the effects of the hypovolemia caused by aldosterone deficiency, risking hypotension and if severe, vascular collapse. Hypotension and hypovolemia trigger baroreceptors, increasing secretion of anti-diuretic hormone (vasopressin) from the posterior pituitary, which is also increased as a direct consequence of cortisol deficiency. Vasopressin decreases excretion of free water to defend against hypovolemia, at the cost of exacerbating hyponatremia. ANDROGEN EXCESS Cortisol deficiency decreases negative feedback inhibition on the HPA axis, leading to overproduction and accumulation of cortisol precursors, particularly 17α-hydroxypregnolone and 17OHP, proximal to the blocked 21-hydroxylase step. These are then shunted into androgen biosynthesis. The 17,20 lyase activity of CYP17A1 converts 17α-hydroxypregnolone to DHEA, which is then converted to the weak androgen, androstenedione. As discussed previously, progesterone and 17OHP are converted by the ”backdoor pathway” to the potent androgen, dihydrotestosterone. The virilizing effects of androgen excess are discussed below. ADRENOMEDULLARY DYSFUNCTION Catecholamine secretion may be impaired in patients with severe 21OHD. This is a consequence of the fact that cortisol is required to stimulate the development of chromaffin cells responsible for epinephrine and norepinephrine production. Histologic examination of glands from individuals with 21OHD reveals generalized disorganization of both the adrenal cortex and medulla ( 25 ). Epinephrine deficiency, together with aldosterone and cortisol deficiencies, increases the risk for adrenal crisis with hypovolemic, hypoglycemic shock. Phenotypic Spectrum of
