Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


both the adrenal cortex and medulla ( 25 ). Epinephrine deficiency, together with aldosterone and cortisol deficiencies, increases the risk for adrenal crisis with hypovolemic, hypoglycemic shock. Phenotypic Spectrum of 21OHD CAH owing to 21OHD has historically been classified into several subtypes caused by allelic variation in the CYP21A2 gene (see below). The first distinction is between more severe, “classic” 21OHD and milder “non-classic” disease. Classic 21OHD is further divided into “salt wasting” and “simple virilizing” forms. Whereas this classification is heuristically useful, genetic evidence (see later) suggests that 21OHD is best viewed on a continuum ranging in severity from life-threatening to asymptomatic. Table 2. Clinical Features in Individuals with Classic and Non-Classic 21-Hydroxylase Deficiency View in own window Feature 21-OH Deficiency Classic Non-Classic Salt wasting Simple virilizing Prenatal virilization Females only (severe) Females only (moderate) Absent Postnatal virilization (hyperandrogenism)* Females and Males Females and Males Typical Salt wasting* Yes Often transiently, in infancy Absent Adrenal crisis* Potentially Potentially Absent * Present in the untreated/sub-optimally treated state. SALT-WASTING FORM The most severe form of 21OHD is marked by insufficient aldosterone production disrupting sodium homeostasis. Symptoms of salt wasting CAH in infants include failure to thrive, vomiting, dehydration, and hypotension, progressing without treatment to adrenal crisis, shock and death. The onset of salt wasting can be as early as age one to four weeks of life if untreated and may occur in patients of any age during intercurrent stressful episodes or illnesses associated with high fevers, emesis and dehydration. Prior to the era of newborn screening (see below), affected males were at high risk for neonatal salt-wasting adrenal crisis because their normal genitalia did not alert medical professionals to their condition. In contrast, the diagnostic process leading to treatment is hastened in females born with atypical genitalia. Laboratory findings include hyponatremia, and hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis, increased urinary sodium excretion and elevated renin (or plasma renin activity, PRA). SIMPLE-VIRILIZING FORM Simple virilizing 21OHD, a less severe allelic variant, is also typified by prenatal virilization in affected females which tends to be milder than in females with salt-wasting 21OHD. Both males and females exhibit postnatal virilization if untreated as discussed above. After early infancy, overt evidence of mineralocorticoid deficiency is absent, and adrenal crises seldom occur in patients for whom aldosterone production is at least 2% of normal. NON-CLASSIC FORM Non-classic 21OHD (NC 21OHD), also termed late-onset 21OHD, is a third, more common
