Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


crises seldom occur in patients for whom aldosterone production is at least 2% of normal. NON-CLASSIC FORM Non-classic 21OHD (NC 21OHD), also termed late-onset 21OHD, is a third, more common phenotypic manifestation. Individuals with this condition retain ~20-50% of wild type enzyme activity. As such precursor steroids are normal to slightly elevated in the basal state, especially in the early morning. Clinical manifestations do not include atypical female genitalia; rather, these individuals avoid neonatal detection in most cases although they can occasionally be detected by newborn screening. The presentation is of variable onset and severity of hyperandrogenism including accelerated linear growth and premature pubarche in early childhood. Adolescents and young women may develop pubertal disorders such as acne, hirsutism, oligomenorrhea and reproductive problems. In distinction from classic CAH, those diagnosed with NC 21OHD do not always require glucocorticoid treatment, except for patient-important hyperandrogenic symptoms. Moreover, people with NC 21OHD do not typically suffer from adrenal crises, unless they were previously treated with suppressive doses of glucocorticoids. They do not require mineralocorticoid supplements. In boys, physical signs suggestive of a non-physiologic source of androgen excess are early appearance of pubic hair, enlarged phallus, and smaller testes than would be expected given the other signs of puberty. However, adolescent and adult males with NC-CAH may exhibit variable or no overt signs of androgen excess. Indeed, in the course of family investigations, incidental hormonal or genetic detection of asymptomatic NC 21OHD (previously termed “cryptic” 21OHD) is not uncommon. Occult 21OHD may also be revealed during evaluation of adrenal or gonadal tumors. Clinical Features EXTERNAL GENITALIA Since adrenal steroid production begins at about the 7 th week of gestation, female fetuses with one of the virilizing forms of classic CAH (commonly classic 21OHD or 11OHD) are exposed to unusually elevated levels of androgens beginning in the mid-to-late first trimester. External genitalia of 46, XX newborns show clitoral enlargement, fusion and scrotalization of the labia majora, and in extreme cases, a penile-like urethra. ( 13 ) ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Different degrees of virilization according to the scale developed by Prader ( 15 ). Stage I: clitoromegaly without labial fusion Stage II: clitoromegaly and posterior labial fusion Stage III: greater degree of clitoromegaly, single perineal urogenital orifice, and almost complete labial fusion Stage IV: increasingly phallic clitoris, urethra-like urogenital sinus at base of clitoris, and complete labial fusion Stage V: penile clitoris, urethral
