Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


single perineal urogenital orifice, and almost complete labial fusion Stage IV: increasingly phallic clitoris, urethra-like urogenital sinus at base of clitoris, and complete labial fusion Stage V: penile clitoris, urethral meatus at tip of phallus, and scrotum-like labia (appear like males without palpable gonads). INTERNAL GENITALIA In contrast to the external genitalia, internal female genitalia, the uterus, upper one-third of the vagina, cervix, fallopian tubes and ovaries, develop normally in 46, XX individuals affected with virilizing forms of CAH. Internal female structures are Müllerian derivatives and are not androgen responsive. In normal 46 XY males, the testes secrete anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), which causes Müllerian structures to involute, but the ovaries in 46 XX individuals with CAH are unaffected and therefore do not secrete high amounts of AMH. However, under the influence of excess androgen in prenatal life, the lower two-thirds of the vagina may fail to separate from the urethra, forming a urogenital sinus. Females born with virilized external genitalia, but normal female internal genitalia are potentially fertile. Urinary tract obstruction, recurrent infections, and gynecologic complications may be indications for surgical intervention. GROWTH If children are untreated or inadequately treated, resulting in continued exposure to excessive adrenal androgens, they may display progressive penile or clitoral enlargement, premature pubic and axillary hair development (pubarche), acne and rapid linear growth. Sex hormone-induced accelerated growth is usually accompanied by accelerated epiphyseal maturation and closure, resulting in a final adult height that is below mid-parent target height ( 26 ). Excess glucocorticoid treatment is also known to stunt growth, and clinical guidelines suggest using the lowest replacement doses that achieve acceptable adrenal control or about 10-15 mg/m 2 /day of hydrocortisone in divided doses ( 17 ). Exceeding the upper limits of glucocorticoid dosing during the first two years of life or during the anticipated pubertal growth spurt has the most deleterious effects on ultimate height attainment ( 27 , 28 ). PUBERTY The peak pubertal growth spurt tends to occur one to two years earlier in CAH compared with otherwise healthy children, and total pubertal growth is decreased ( 28 ) . Poorly controlled girls experience delayed and/or irregular menarche often attributed to elevated levels of adrenal-derived progesterone ( 29 ). As noted above, inadequate hydrocortisone replacement may cause several complications, including advanced epiphyseal development sometimes leading to central precocious puberty. Excess adrenal androgens aromatized to estrogens and/or more active androgens may cause
