Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


above, inadequate hydrocortisone replacement may cause several complications, including advanced epiphyseal development sometimes leading to central precocious puberty. Excess adrenal androgens aromatized to estrogens and/or more active androgens may cause premature maturation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis leading to true central precocious puberty, particularly when a previously untreated or inadequately treated child is then appropriately treated and adrenal androgen levels decrease ( 30 ). In such cases, glucocorticoid treatment is supplemented with a long-acting GnRH analog to preserve linear growth ( 31 ). Beside irregular menses, hyperandrogenism may also manifest as hirsutism, acne and male-pattern alopecia. This constellation of symptoms also is typical for polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), a known complication of poorly controlled CAH ( 32 ). CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM EFFECTS Gender Prenatal androgen exposure in girls and women with CAH has a variable effect on gender role behavior, gender identity, sexual orientation and maternal tendencies ( 33 ). Gender identity is largely female ( 34 ). Cognition A separate Swedish study of children with 21OHD (mean age 11.5 years) demonstrated normal intelligence, with some impairment of executive function( 35 ). In a review of MRI studies gray matter volume (especially the amygdala and hippocampus) was reduced among 21OHD patients versus controls ( 36 ). Affective Disorders Affective disorders including anxiety and depression tend to be more frequent among children and adolescents with 21OHD compared with controls based on prescription databases in the US ( 37 ). Quality of life parameters were reported as poorer by parents than by young 21OHD patients themselves in a UK study ( 38 ). As with many chronic illnesses, multiple factors determine mental health and social functioning ( 39 ).Children with severe salt-wasting 21OHD have poorer cognitive outcomes ( 40 ) and regionally smaller gray matter volume versus controls ( 41 ). Females tend to show male-pattern behaviors, although gender identity is usually female ( 42 ). Anxiety and depression are frequent among children and adolescents with 21OHD compared with controls based on prescription databases in the US ( 37 ). As with many chronic illnesses, multiple factors determine mental health and social functioning. FERTILITY Sub-fertility in females with virilizing CAH may arise for hormonal, anatomic and psychologic reasons. As discussed, inadequate glucocorticoid suppression of adrenal progesterone and androgens disrupts the HPA axis; this may trigger secondary ovarian hyperandrogenism (PCOS). These issues may be ameliorated by more rigorous glucocorticoid management (with hydrocortisone or prednisolone)
