Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


of adrenal progesterone and androgens disrupts the HPA axis; this may trigger secondary ovarian hyperandrogenism (PCOS). These issues may be ameliorated by more rigorous glucocorticoid management (with hydrocortisone or prednisolone) in women trying to conceive. Current guidelines recommend that follicular phase serum progesterone be maintained at <0.6 ng/ml (2 nmol/L) to optimize chances for ovulation and conception ( 17 ). Vaginal stenosis may cause dyspareunia. A narrow pelvic inlet may complicate vaginal delivery if pregnancy is achieved and carried to term. Fecundity is lower among women with CAH compared to the general population (0.25 vs 1.8 live births; reviewed in ( 29 )). Psychosocial factors may include reduced maternal instincts, perhaps attributable to contra-sexual behavioral effects of androgen excess. Subfertility among males with CAH is also caused in part by inadequate glucocorticoid treatment, leading to elevated adrenal androstenedione and low testicular testosterone and intratesticular adrenal rests, and reduced sperm counts ( 43 ). Testicular adrenal rest tumors (TARTs) may be found even in young boys, more commonly among severe salt-wasting patients. TARTs are often ACTH-dependent, regressing in response to aggressive attempts at HPA axis suppression ( 44 ). Ultrasound monitoring is suggested on a regular basis starting in the peri-pubertal period for early detection of these testicular lesions. LONG-TERM COMPLICATIONS Major sequelae of the disorder itself and/or chronic steroid treatment in children with CAH are perturbations of growth and puberty ( 26 ). Lack of appropriate adrenal control leads to acne, female hirsutism, male pattern hair loss, altered body habitus, irregular menses, and sub-fertility. Over time poor control results in adrenal cortical hyperplasia, adrenal tumors, polycystic ovary syndrome, and testicular tumors of adrenal-like tissue in males ( 45 ) The more severe the CYP21A2 pathogenic variant, the greater the risk for TARTs. Periodic testicular ultrasound is suggested for monitoring. A high serum level of androstenedione relative to testosterone is suggestive of inadequate adrenal control and/or structurally significant testicular tumors. Displacement of testicular parenchyma impairs local testosterone production and causes oligospermia. Alterations in the plasma metabolome are seen in young adult 21OHD patients treated with glucocorticoids ( 46 ) presumably contributing to long-term adverse outcomes. Both children and adults are prone to being overweight and obese associated with cardiometabolic changes, high blood pressure, dyslipidemia and abnormal carotid intimal thickness (reviewed in ( 47 )). Adrenal sex hormone excess and therapeutic glucocorticoids respectively influence bone mineral accrual in positive and negative ways.
