Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


other chromosome also carries a pathogenic variant. The second type of intergenic recombination that generates 21OHD alleles includes apparent gene conversion events that result in the transfer to CYP21A2 of smaller-scale deleterious mutations normally present in the CYP21A1P pseudogene ( 57 - 60 ). Almost 500 additional mutations have been described including point mutations, small deletions, small insertions, and complex rearrangements of the gene (Human Gene Mutation Database (HGMD, http://www.hgmd.cf.ac.uk ). Both classic and non-classic 21-hydroxylase deficiency are inherited in a recessive manner as allelic variants of CYP21A2 . The fact that most cases of 21OHD are caused by a very limited number of mutations has facilitated the elucidation of robust genotype-phenotype associations. These mutations can be divided into 4 genotype groups ( 61 ), currently termed 0, A, B and C in decreasing order of severity ( Figure 6 ). Group 0 contains null mutations (mostly deletions, nonsense mutations and frameshifts) that completely abolish enzymatic activity. Group A has a single mutation, a mutation near the 3’ end of intron 2 that activates a cryptic splice site (c.293-13A/C>G, “intron 2 G” mutation) ( 68 ), that severely affects but does not completely prevent synthesis of a functional protein. This is the single most common pathogenetic variant in most populations (often 20-25% of alleles). Group B mutations (mainly Ile172Asn) yield an enzyme with ~1% of normal activity. Group C mutations have 20% (p.Pro30Leu) to 50% (p.Val281Leu) of normal activity, but the activity of the Pro30Leu mutant enzyme can be further decreased by the presence of additional mutations in the 5’ flanking region of the mutant gene that decrease gene expression ( 62 ). Because 21OHD is inherited in a recessive manner, the phenotype is generally conferred by the less affected allele. In meta-analyses of almost 3000 patients ( 1 ), the most and least affected genotype groups—0 and C—are 96% associated with salt-wasting and non-classic forms of CAH, respectively. Group A is 89% associated with salt-wasting disease with almost all of the remaining cases in this group classified as simple virilizing. Patients in Group B are generally (79-89%) classified as simple virilizing. Pro30Leu mutations caused by gene conversions that extend into the 5’ flanking region of CYP21A2 can also behave as simple virilizing alleles ( 62 - 64 ). Figure 6. Top, Structure of the CYP21 genes. Exons are numbered. Mutations affecting enzymatic function that are normally present in the
