Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


as simple virilizing alleles ( 62 - 64 ). Figure 6. Top, Structure of the CYP21 genes. Exons are numbered. Mutations affecting enzymatic function that are normally present in the CYP21A1P pseudogene are shown. They are positioned vertically to show the severity of CAH they cause when transferred to CYP21A2 in gene conversion events. These are grouped into 4 mutation groups (0, A-C) and are associated with particular forms of CAH, as indicated. Bottom, Associations between CYP21A2 mutation groups and forms of CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency. These are displayed in tabular form on the left and as histograms on the right. Adapted and updated from ( 1 ); data are from ( 56 , 61 , 64 - 68 ). DISORDER OF 11β-HYDROXYLASE ISOENZYMES 11β-Hydroxylase Deficiency 11β-Hydroxylase Deficiency (11OHD) is diagnosed in approximately 1:100,000 live births in most non-consanguineous populations ( 69 ), but is more common in regions where kindred marriages are customary. For instance, among Moroccan Jews who emigrated to Israel, the prevalence has been estimated at 1:5,000-7,000( 70 ) and 1:8000 in Saudi Arabia ( 71 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Androgen Excess The inability to synthesize cortisol decreases negative feedback on the HPA axis, leading to overproduction and accumulation in the zona fasciculata of precursors proximal to the blocked enzymatic conversions of 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol and deoxycortisterone to corticosterone. The “17-hydroxy” steroids proximal to 11-deoxycortisol also accumulate and are shunted into androgen biosynthesis through both classic and “backdoor” pathways as is seen in 21OHD. Thus, signs of androgen excess are prominent in patients with 11–OHD including prenatal virilization of affected females, owing to pathogenetic mechanisms identical to those seen in 21OHD. The gonads and the internal genital structures are normal; thus, affected females have reproductive potential. Because infants with 11OHD rarely have salt wasting crises (see below) and are not consistently detected on the newborn screen for 21OHD, the diagnosis may be delayed in males and in severely virilized females. In this situation, manifestations of androgen excess continue into early childhood and may be more severe than in 21OHD, where diagnosis is more likely to be delayed in less severely affected patients. Both girls and boys experience rapid growth with accelerated skeletal maturation leading to premature closure of the epiphyses and short adult stature. Early onset acne, pubic hair and phallic enlargement accompany the other untimely growth effects. Adrenal sex steroids may also affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis
