Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


of the epiphyses and short adult stature. Early onset acne, pubic hair and phallic enlargement accompany the other untimely growth effects. Adrenal sex steroids may also affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis leading to precocious puberty when the patient is finally treated. Oligo- or amenorrhea occurs in females, and TARTs and oligospermia are found in males. Mineralocorticoid Excess Patients with 11OHD may secrete large amounts of deoxycorticosterone from the “17-deoxy” pathway active in the zona fasciculata. This can act as a mineralocorticoid, causing sodium retention and low renin hypertension. Elevated blood pressure is not a consistent feature in infancy and childhood but has been reported ( 72 , 73 ) Outcomes of uncontrolled hypertension in this group of patients include cardiovascular and renal complications. Approximately two-thirds of patients with 11OHD eventually develop high blood pressure ( 74 ). Hypokalemia is relatively rare in children and does not correlate with blood pressure ( 75 ). High levels of DOC suppress plasma renin activity resulting in low levels of aldosterone. However, aldosterone biosynthesis itself is usually unimpaired because it is catalyzed by the distinct isozyme, CYP11B2. Thus, aldosterone may be detectable in patients who are adequately treated with a glucocorticoid. NONCLASSIC 11OHD A mild non-classic form of 11OHD is rarer than NC 21OHD. Non-classic 11OHD has been diagnosed in children with mild hypertension, virilization or precocious pubarche ( 76 ) and in adults with signs of androgen excess or infertility ( 76 , 77 ). Aldosterone Synthase Deficiency Infants with sodium wasting associated with hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism, but with normal cortisol and sex steroid synthesis, may have an inherited defect in the aldosterone synthase enzyme (CYP11B2, corticosterone methyl-oxidase, P450aldo)( 78 ). This was first described among consanguineous Jewish families of Iranian origin ( 79 ) but a large cohort of Greek patients has also been described ( 80 ). The clinical presentation varies with age ( 81 ). Infants may develop signs and symptoms of mineralocorticoid deficiency at a few days to weeks of age, including poor feeding, irritability, weight loss accompanied by vomiting, dehydration, and occasionally frank shock. These signs and symptoms are usually not as severe as those caused by salt-wasting forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia which include deficiencies of both cortisol and aldosterone. Patients with aldosterone synthase deficiency may have elevated levels of deoxycorticosterone, although not as high as in 11OHD, which attenuate hyponatremia and shock. The severity improves with age, attributed
