Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


North African origin, in whom 11OHD occurs relatively frequently. This mutation is in the heme-binding peptide of the enzyme and abolishes enzymatic activity. As of late 2025, 246 mutations in CYP11B1 are present in the Human Gene Mutation Database ( http://www.hgmd.cf.ac.uk ). Because CYP11B2 remains active in almost all patients with 11OHD, aldosterone synthesis is usually unaffected. In contrast, inactivating variants in CYP11B2 cause aldosterone synthase deficiency; 76 such mutations have been reported to date. Aldosterone synthase deficiency stereotypically occurs in Jews originating in Isfahan, Iran; all such patients are homozygous for 2 mutations, Arg181Trp (R181W) and Val386Ala (V386A). Homozygosity for either mutation alone is insufficient to cause the disease ( 89 ). As noted, aldosterone synthase deficiency has historically been divided into “CMO I” and “CMO II” deficiency depending on whether levels of 18-hydroxycorticosterone are low or elevated. Although individuals with CMO I deficiency tend to be homozygous for null mutations ( 78 , 90 ), this genotype: phenotype correlation is not very consistent, and the distinction is not useful clinically. Because both CYP11B genes encode active proteins, neither gene normally carries deleterious mutations as does the CYP21A1P pseudogene. Therefore, gene conversions cannot transfer such mutations into either gene, helping to explain the rarity of 11OHD and aldosterone synthase deficiency, compared to 21OHD. On the other hand, unequal crossing over during meiosis can generate alleles for 3 different diseases. Unequal crossing over generates daughter chromosomes; one carries a net deletion of 40 kb, leaving a single chimeric gene with a 5’ end (and thus, transcriptional regulatory sequences) corresponding to CYP11B2 and a 3’ end (and thus, protein coding sequences) corresponding to CYP11B1. If the crossover is before exon 5, the encoded protein will be unable to synthesize aldosterone, yet it will be expressed only in the zona glomerulosa and will be regulated by angiotensin II and not by ACTH. Thus, this chimeric gene will function as either an 11OHD or aldosterone synthase deficiency allele ( Figure 7 ). The other daughter chromosome carries a duplicated 40 kb segment and thus 3 CYP11B genes: a normal CYP11B2 gene, a CYP11B1/CYP11B2 chimeric gene, and a normal CYP11B1 gene. The chimeric gene has a 5’ end corresponding to CYP11B1 and a 3’ end corresponding to CYP11B2 (i.e., the opposite of the daughter chromosome with the deletion). If the crossover is before exon 5, the encoded protein will function as an aldosterone synthase
