Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


end corresponding to CYP11B2 (i.e., the opposite of the daughter chromosome with the deletion). If the crossover is before exon 5, the encoded protein will function as an aldosterone synthase ( 86 ). However, it will be expressed at high levels in the zona fasciculata and be regulated by ACTH. This causes glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism as discussed above. Figure 7. Top, schematic of CYP11B1 (yellow) and CYP11B2 (blue) genes, showing patterns of expression of each. Bottom, unequal crossing over, generating a chimeric CYP11B1/2 gene that has aldosterone synthase activity but is expressed in the zona fasciculata. This causes glucocorticoid-suppressible hyperaldosteronism. The other cross-over product (not shown) can function as either an 11-hydroxylase deficiency or aldosterone synthase deficiency allele. LIPOID CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA Pathophysiology As previously discussed, the rate limiting step for adrenal (and gonadal) steroidogenesis is importation of cholesterol into mitochondria, regulated by the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR). In the absence of STAR, steroid production is reduced by about 90% but not immediately abolished ( 91 - 95 ). This constitutes the first “hit” of a “two-hit” pathogenetic model for lipoid CAH( 93 , 96 ). The decreased steroidogenesis engendered by the loss of STAR increases ACTH and LH. These stimuli increase the biosynthesis of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors in the adrenals and gonads, respectively, and thus the uptake of LDL cholesterol. In the absence of STAR, intracellular cholesterol cannot be metabolized and accumulates, causing the second hit: mitochondrial and cellular damage from accumulated cholesterol, cholesterol esters, and their autooxidation products, leading to cell death ( 91 - 93 ). The two-hit model of lipoid CAH elegantly explains the varying age of onset of the various signs of the disease. DHEA synthesis is decreased in the fetal adrenal, decreasing feto-placental estriol production; thus, mid-gestation maternal and fetal estriol levels are low. Fetal salt and water balance are normally maintained by the placenta and the fetal adrenal normally secretes very little aldosterone until after birth. Thus newborns with lipoid CAH may not experience a salt-wasting crisis until several weeks of life, when chronic stimulation of the zona glomerulosa by angiotensin II then leads to cellular damage ( 93 ). Fetal testicular Leydig cells normally make large amounts of testosterone, but are destroyed early in gestation, hence an affected 46,XY fetus does not undergo normal virilization and is born with female-typical external genitalia and a blind vaginal pouch. The undamaged Sertoli cells
