Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


destroyed early in gestation, hence an affected 46,XY fetus does not undergo normal virilization and is born with female-typical external genitalia and a blind vaginal pouch. The undamaged Sertoli cells produce Müllerian inhibitory hormone, hence the affected 46,XY fetus has no cervix, uterus, or fallopian tubes. The two-hit model also explains the spontaneous feminization of affected 46,XX females who received glucocorticoid treatment in infancy and thus reach adolescence ( 93 , 97 , 98 ). The fetal ovary does not secrete steroids and remains largely undamaged until it is stimulated by gonadotropins at the onset of puberty, when it produces some estrogen via STAR-independent mechanisms. Gonadotropin stimulation recruits individual follicles but does not promote global ovarian steroidogenesis, hence most follicles remain undamaged and available for future recruitment. Hypothalamic cyclicity remains normal; each cycle recruits a new follicle and produces more estradiol. Although net ovarian steroidogenesis is impaired, enough estrogen is produced to induce breast development, monthly estrogen withdrawal, and cyclic vaginal bleeding ( 93 , 97 ). However, progesterone synthesis later in the cycle is impaired by accumulated cholesterol esters; hence, cycles are anovulatory. Placental steroidogenesis is normally independent of STAR; hence, placental production of progesterone is unimpaired in lipoid CAH, permitting normal term gestation. Clinical Features The severe, classic form of lipoid CAH typically presents with failure to thrive and salt loss in the first weeks of life owing to glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiencies ( 93 ); as noted, the initial presentation of salt loss may be delayed. If untreated, salt-wasting crises, with hyponatremia, hyperkalemia and hypovolemia may lead to vascular collapse and sudden infant death( 95 , 99 ). Both 46,XX and 46,XY infants have female-typical genitalia. As noted, even severely affected 46,XX females typically undergo spontaneous puberty with anovulatory cycles and early secondary amenorrhea, eventually requiring estrogen replacement therapy. Assisted reproductive technologies can sometimes facilitate fertility in these patients( 100 ). The families of severely affected 46,XY newborns with female external genitalia and non-functional testes may consider raising them as females and planning orchiectomy later in life, with sex hormone replacement therapy started at the typical age of puberty. Nonclassic LCAH A nonclassic form of lipoid CAH is caused by mutations that retain ~20-25% of normal activity and is associated with the gradual onset of adrenal insufficiency, often between 2 and 4 years of age. Older children may present with normal serum electrolytes and elevated plasma renin,
