Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


electrons from NADPH to all microsomal P450 enzymes, including CYP17A1 (17-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase), CYP21A2 (21-hydroxylase) and CYP19A1 (aromatase), as well as hepatic drug-metabolizing P450 enzymes ( 115 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION The clinical presentation may include variations in reproductive organ development in either 46,XY or 46,XX individuals. Genetic males are often under-virilized with micropenis and/or hypospadias, whereas genetic females often show virilization at birth. With blocks at 21-hydroxylase and 17-hydroxylase, excess 17OHP is converted to potent androgens via “backdoor” or alternative pathways, avoiding DHEA and androstenedione, the classic pathway intermediates ( 111 , 112 , 116 ). Another noteworthy feature is maternal virilization during pregnancy with a PORD fetus accompanied by low maternal estriol levels ( 117 ). This is due to decreased placental CYP19A1, a critical enzyme for converting testosterone to estradiol, which is also dependent on POR. A final distinguishing phenotypic feature of PORD, occurring in about 80% of cases, is a recessive form of Antley-Bixler syndrome (ABS). This skeletal disorder causes midface hypoplasia, craniosynostosis, arachnodactyly, talipes, radio-humeral synostosis, femoral bowing, fractures, scoliosis, and/or pectus excavatum ( 112 , 113 ); ABS without altered steroidogenesis results from autosomal dominant, gain-of-function mutations in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 ( 113 ). The ABS skeletal phenotype in PORD may be a consequence of reduced activity of lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51A1, a P450 enzyme required for cholesterol biosynthesis), squalene monooxygenase (also called squalene epoxidase, a rate limiting enzyme for sterol biosynthesis), or by abnormal levels of retinoic acid resulting from reduced metabolism by CYP26B1, which degrades retinoic acid ( 118 ). LABORATORY FINDINGS AND DIAGNOSIS Impaired 21-hydroxylase activity may generate high levels of 17a-hydroxyprogesterone, triggering newborn screens for 21OHD ( 112 , 119 ). POR-deficient patients typically have normal electrolytes and mineralocorticoid function, nearly-normal levels of cortisol that respond poorly to stimulation with ACTH, high levels of progesterone and 17OHP that respond variably to ACTH, and low levels of sex steroid precursors ( 112 , 113 ). Clues to fetal PORD include discordant genital appearance and karyotype, skeletal deformities, and maternal virilization with low estriol levels. PORD may be diagnosed postnatally by urinary steroid profiling via gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) or in blood samples by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). The patterns include high levels of pregnenolone, progesterone and 17-OHP, with decreased cortisol and androgen metabolites ( 120 ). PORD patients are seldom identified by newborn screening measuring 17-OHP. POR variants may be genotyped based
