Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


Optic Atrophy (ANOA) syndrome); two reviews summarize 73 cases ( 130 , 131 ). Patients have neurocognitive impairment, as well as mitochondriopathy with vision loss, nystagmus, strabismus, vertical gaze paresis and optic atrophy Older children have ocular findings, neuropathic hearing loss, and variable late-onset ataxia ( 130 , 131 ). These patients may have adrenal insufficiency and disordered sex development ( 132 ), as expected for a disorder affecting electron transfer to steroidogenic P450s ( 129 ). Several patients have died in early childhood; adrenal insufficiency should be sought in any infant with apparent mitochondrial disease, and glucocorticoid replacement therapy initiated when indicated. This may improve survival but is unlikely to reverse the course of disease. Autosomal recessive mutations in FDX1 have been reported in two unrelated families with a clinical profile of CAH resembling 11OHD and vitamin D deficient rickets ( 133 ). OTHER FORMS OF CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA 3β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase Deficiency Fewer than one in a million births are associated with classic 3 β -hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3b-HSD, HSD3B) deficiency. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY There are two isozymes of HSD3B. HSD3B1 is widely expressed in placenta, small intestine, skin, colon and liver. HSD3B2 was previously discussed; it is expressed in the adrenal cortex and gonads. ( 134 ) and is essential for the formation of progesterone, the precursor for aldosterone, 17OHP, the precursor for cortisol, and androstenedione, a key intermediate for the synthesis of testosterone and estrogen in the adrenal cortex and gonads. Therefore, the classic form of 3b-HSD deficiency CAH results in insufficient cortisol synthesis and salt-wasting in the most severe form. DHEA levels are elevated because DHEA cannot be converted to androstenedione. The external genitalia in females may be mildly virilized owing to conversion of DHEA to active androgens such androstenedione by HSD3B1, which is unaffected in 3b-HSD deficiency. In contrast, the genitalia in affected males may be incompletely virilized owing to 3b-HSD deficiency in the gonads, impairing androstenedione and thus testosterone synthesis. Thus, genital ambiguity can be observed in both sexes. CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Insufficient cortisol and aldosterone production may lead to a life-threatening salt-wasting adrenal crisis if the disease is unrecognized and untreated. As noted above, affected 46, XX and 46,XY infants may both have atypical genitalia. However, neither absence of salt-wasting nor lack of overt genital atypia excludes this diagnosis ( 135 ). In 46,XY males, abnormalities typically include hypospadias and frank genital ambiguity, but internal Wolffian structures
