Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


absence of salt-wasting nor lack of overt genital atypia excludes this diagnosis ( 135 ). In 46,XY males, abnormalities typically include hypospadias and frank genital ambiguity, but internal Wolffian structures (e.g., vas deferens) are unaffected. Premature pubarche is a common feature of 3β-HSD deficiency in both males and females. Hirsutism and irregular menses, as seen in polycystic ovarian syndrome, is common in females; it may be associated with mildly elevated ratios of pregnenolone to progesterone or 17-OH pregnenolone to 17OHP, but these mild abnormalities are rarely associated with pathogenic variants in HSD3B2 ( 136 ). A mild non-classic form of 3 β -HSD2 deficiency does exist but is extremely rare ( 137 ). LABORATORY FINDINGS The steroid profile is notable for elevated ratios of pregnenolone, 17- hydroxy pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone [DHEA]) to progesterone, 17-OHP, or androstenedione, respectively, with relatively low levels of steroids dependent on this enzyme, including aldosterone, cortisol, and sex steroids. An extremely elevated ratio of 17-hydroxypregnenolone to cortisol (absolute value >0.4, normal <0.01, >1000 fold higher compared with controls) by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry is best hormonal diagnostic criterion ( 135 ). GENETICS The HSD3B1 and HSD3B2 genes are located in tandem 100 kb apart on chromosome 1p13.1 ( 134 ). There are 5 pseudogenes in this same genetic region. However, unlike CYP21A2 and CYP21A1P , intergenic recombinations do not generate 3β - HSD deficiency alleles. Genotype and phenotype are highly correlated in classic 3β - HSD deficiency ( 138 ). 17α-HYDROXYLASE/17,20 LYASE DEFICIENCY Steroid 17 -hydroxylase/17,20 lyase deficiency accounts for approximately 1% of all CAH cases and affects steroid synthesis in both the adrenals and gonads ( 139 ). Most patients have impaired activities of both 17α-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase, and thus have impaired cortisol synthesis, leading to ACTH over secretion. Although they are deficient in cortisol, adrenal insufficiency does not occur due to ACTH-stimulated excess production of corticosterone, a weaker glucocorticoid receptor agonist. Additionally, excess production of 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC), a moderately potent mineralocorticoid, causes low renin hypertension and sometimes hypokalemia ( 140 ), similar to that seen in 11OHD. A 46,XY infant with 17OHD may present with undescended testes, a blind vaginal pouch, and under-virilized external genitalia. This may be misdiagnosed as the far more common condition, androgen insensitivity syndrome. Affected females are born with normal external genitalia but may be recognized at puberty when they fail to develop secondary sex characteristics or when they have primary
