Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


virilization. Additionally, deficiencies of CYP11B1, HSD3B2, and CYP17A1 may be detected if steroid profiling is employed. Hormonal Diagnosis Confirmatory testing is often performed with the cosyntropin (ACTH 1-24) stimulation test (250 μg cosyntropin intravenously), measuring serum levels of 17OHP and a panel of adrenal steroids at baseline and 60 min. A nomogram ( Figure 8 ) has been developed to describe 21OHD severity ( 160 ). Stimulation testing is also useful in excluding other enzyme deficiencies, especially when coupled with genotyping. Stimulation testing may be performed as early as 48 to 72 hours of life in newborns suspected of classic CAH, and glucocorticoid treatment is often initiated while awaiting results. Beyond the newborn period, the stimulation test is crucial in establishing hormonal diagnosis of non-classic 21OHD, since random 17OHP levels may not be sufficiently elevated to allow accurate diagnosis. Genotyping may be useful where hormonal testing is inconclusive or for purposes of genetic counseling. Figure 8. Schematic nomogram relating baseline to ACTH-stimulated serum concentrations of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17OHP). The scales are logarithmic. Data points cluster into three nonoverlapping groups: classic and non-classic forms of 21-hydroxylase deficiency are readily distinguished from each other and from those that are heterozygotes and unaffected. Distinguishing unaffected individuals from heterozygotes is difficult, except by genotyping. Adapted from ( 160 ). Prenatal Diagnosis of 21OHD For families with a known CAH proband, prenatal counseling is strongly advised. Prior to pregnancy preimplantation genetic screening or testing is feasible in association with IVF ( 161 ). For pregnancies in progress within the first trimester, proof of concept has been demonstrated for non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of CAH. Now standard, fetal sex determination can be done by extracting cell-free fetal DNA from maternal plasma as early as 5-6 weeks gestation. If fetal sex is female (i.e., SRY is absent), CAH-affected status may be determined via targeted massive parallel sequencing. In fourteen at-risk pregnancies, fetal CAH affection status was correctly deduced ( 162 , 163 ). As of this writing, this procedure is not available in the US. As a pregnancy approaches the late first trimester, chorionic villus sampling and genotyping CYP21A2 is the preferred method to diagnose CAH in the fetus. CVS is typically performed between the 10 th - 12 th week of gestation. If these dates have passed, amniocentesis is a reliable alternative method of prenatal diagnosis by hormonal measurements in amniotic fluid, or by genotyping. TREATMENT Hormone Replacement
