Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


th week of gestation. If these dates have passed, amniocentesis is a reliable alternative method of prenatal diagnosis by hormonal measurements in amniotic fluid, or by genotyping. TREATMENT Hormone Replacement 21OHD The dual goals of medical therapy for 21OHD are to replace cortisol and to suppress ACTH overproduction that drives androgen excess. Glucocorticoid treatment ideally accomplishes both these goals preventing ongoing virilization, and if properly monitored, allowing normal growth and development. The usual requirement of hydrocortisone for the treatment of classic 21OHD is about 10-15 mg/m2/day in divided doses. Oral hydrocortisone tablets, or low dose hydrocortisone (granules or specially formulated liquid suspension) for small children, constitute standard care. Longer acting synthetic glucocorticoids (prednis(ol)one or dexamethasone) are not drugs of first choice due to the tendency to induce more adverse side effects, particularly growth suppression in children and weight gain. Glucocorticoid doses are usually lower for symptomatic non-classic 21OHD. Therapy requires maintaining adequate androgen suppression while administering the lowest possible dose in hydrocortisone equivalents. Endocrinologists typically assess adrenal control by measuring consistently timed serum androstenedione and 17OHP, adding testosterone measurements in females and prepubertal males, referenced to not more than 2 SD above upper normal values for age and sex. Salivary measurements ( 164 ) or urinary profiling ( 165 , 166 ) have also been shown to be useful in research studies. Measurement of 11-oxygenated androgens may also be considered to more fully assess contributions from the alternative pathways of steroid synthesis ( 167 ). Guidelines recommend oral mineralocorticoid replacement in classic 21OHD patients ( 17 ). Patients who have elevated renin and/or low serum sodium are treated with fludrocortisone acetate in doses of 0.05 mg to 0.2 mg daily. Infants often require salt supplementation, as sodium chloride, at 1-2 g daily, divided into several feedings. Blood pressure and renin monitoring help assess the efficacy of mineralocorticoid therapy, which may be tapered and discontinued if electrolytes, renin and blood pressure remain within acceptable ranges. In non-life-threatening periods of illness or physiologic stress, the corticosteroid dose should be increased to 2 or 3 times the maintenance dose for the duration of that period. Each family should be given injection kits of hydrocortisone for emergency use (25 mg for infants, 50 mg for children, and 100 mg for adults). For major surgical procedures and critical illness with presumed adrenal crisis, adults should receive parenteral hydrocortisone 100 mg (50 mg/m 2 for children),
