Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


for children, and 100 mg for adults). For major surgical procedures and critical illness with presumed adrenal crisis, adults should receive parenteral hydrocortisone 100 mg (50 mg/m 2 for children), followed by 200 mg/day (or 50-100 mg/m 2 /day for children) over the ensuing 24-48 hours, plus adequate isotonic fluids. As the patient stabilizes, steroid dosing may be tapered over several days to the maintenance dosing schedule ( 168 ) . Dexamethasone should not be administered for stress dosing because of the delayed onset of action. Mineralocorticoids should not be increased for stress, as parenteral isotonic fluids compensate for aldosterone deficiency. Patients with CAH or any form of adrenal insufficiency must carry or wear medical alert identification to alert emergency personnel to administer appropriate therapy. Additionally, all caregivers should be trained in the need for stress dosing, especially in intramuscular administration of hydrocortisone. 11OHD In 11OHD, as in 21OHD, glucocorticoid administration provides cortisol replacement and decreases ACTH. In 11OHD, treatment reduces excess deoxycorticosterone (DOC), a mineralocorticoid receptor agonist, to maintain normal blood pressure ( 121 ). Such treatment also minimizes adrenal sex hormone excess. Serum DOC, 11-deoxycortiol, and renin are useful to monitor therapeutic efficacy. A suppressed renin indicates poor control. Mineralocorticoid treatment is contraindicated in 11OHD patients. Uncontrolled mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension may be ameliorated by adding spironolactone, eplerenone, calcium channel blockers or amiloride. 17OHD 17OHD is the only form of classic CAH with no glucocorticoid deficiency (elevated corticosterone acts as a glucocorticoid agonist) obviating high dose cortisol replacement. Nonetheless, low dose glucocorticoids may be administered to lower corticotropin (ACTH) and DOC production, ameliorating low renin hypertension. Persistent hypertension may be treated with mineralocorticoid antagonists, such as spironolactone or eplerenone. Gender concordant sex hormone replacement is usually needed at puberty, since most androgen and estrogen production is blocked. 3β-HSD DEFICIENCY Patients with 3β-HSD deficiency lack all three classes of adrenal cortical steroids. Hence glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid and sex hormone replacement are needed. Similarly, severe StAR protein deficiency or SCC deficiency manifest pan-adrenal insufficiency, calling for total replacement therapy. PORD Treatment of PORD requires multidisciplinary management of craniosynostosis, orthopedic problems, and differences of sex differentiation. Cortisol deficiency is usually partial, with some baseline cortisol production, but failure to increase the cortisol response in stress ( 169 ). Therefore, some patients may benefit from low-dose glucocorticoid replacement therapy, especially during severe illness; this should be determined individually by assessing the response of cortisol to
