Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


stress ( 169 ). Therefore, some patients may benefit from low-dose glucocorticoid replacement therapy, especially during severe illness; this should be determined individually by assessing the response of cortisol to ACTH. Mild mineralocorticoid excess can be present and may cause hypertension in young adulthood. Genital Surgery Most females born with classic 21OHD have virilized external genitalia including labial fusion, a single opening of a common urogenital sinus, and clitoromegaly. Surgical practice has evolved, and although techniques are now more refined, attempts to “correct” genitalia appearance have become controversial. This is true for 21OHD, and for any congenital conditions resulting in genital atypia. Concerns have been raised by patient advocacy groups and some healthcare professionals regarding early childhood surgery. Since children cannot give informed consent, declare gender identity, or make choices about sexual behavior and reproduction, it has been suggested that only medically necessary surgery should be considered. Subjective reports have found that a majority of patients and caregivers still favor early surgery, yet some express dissatisfaction with outcomes ( 170 , 171 ). Clinical practice guidelines recommended that families be informed about surgical options including avoiding or delaying surgery ( 17 ). Shared decision-making is encouraged including the patient, family, endocrinologist, surgeon and mental health professionals. If performed, surgery should be planned in a center equipped with a multi-specialty team and done by a surgeon with experience in genital reconstruction. Pending more long-term outcomes in patients who have or have not undergone surgery, decisions should be individualized. It should be recognized that the effects of rearing children with atypical genitalia are unknown and may vary in different cultures. Prenatal Treatment In the 1980’s, high dose prenatal dexamethasone therapy was offered to pregnant women with a known risk for carrying a fetus with classic virilizing CAH, aiming to suppress fetal adrenal androgen production thus ameliorating virilization of female external genitalia. Early gestational treatment was initiated before fetal sex or CAH status were known. Current guidelines do not recommend such treatment due to potential maternal and fetal safety issues and a dearth of comprehensive long-term follow up of treated individuals ( 17 , 172 ). Early non-invasive SRY detection and CYP21A2 genotyping could be useful in decisions regarding prenatal treatment with dexamethasone to avoid unnecessary and ethically questionable treatment of male and unaffected female fetuses, respectively. Novel Treatment Strategies Since the mid-twentieth century glucocorticoid replacement has been the mainstay of treatment for
