Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, deficiency, free, pmc free, pmc, article, endocrinol, free article, patients, article pubmed, hydroxylase, congenital, hyperplasia, adrenal hyperplasia


to avoid unnecessary and ethically questionable treatment of male and unaffected female fetuses, respectively. Novel Treatment Strategies Since the mid-twentieth century glucocorticoid replacement has been the mainstay of treatment for CAH with variable efficacy and safety depending on dosing, monitoring, individual metabolism and adherence. Recent developments present several options as alternatives to multiple daily oral glucocorticoid administration. One problem in treating pediatric patients has been access to hydrocortisone tablet in only 10 mg units, an unsuitably large dose for infants and children. Crushing and compounding the medication in small mg doses may produce errors. To fill this need, immediate-release oral hydrocortisone granules have been made available in the US (Alkindi Sprinkle, Eton Pharmaceuticals, Deer Park, IL USA) and Europe (Neurocrine UK, Cardiff, UK) in units of 0.5, 1, 2 and 5 mg, allowing infants and toddler-ready doses. Modified release hydrocortisone (MRHC, Efmody (Chronocort), Diurnal/Neurocrine, UK) has been approved by the European Medical Authority and in the UK for CAH patients 12 and older, although not yet approved in the US as of this writing. Efmody prescribing guidelines suggest 1/3 in the morning and 2/3 of the daily dose at bedtime, to suppress the early morning surge in adrenal androgen. MRHC compared with equivalent doses of prednisolone demonstrated lower total daily dosing, closer simulation of circadian rhythm, and better adrenal control with the former medication despite taking a lower total daily hydrocortisone dose equivalent compared to conventional therapy ( 173 ). An additional variation on the theme of hydrocortisone replacement is continuous subcutaneous hydrocortisone infusion (CSHI), adapted from insulin-dependent diabetes treatment technology. A phase 2 trial in a small number of adults with uncontrolled CAH showed improved androgen control, lean body mass and quality of life, along with modest reductions in total daily hydrocortisone dosing ( 174 ). These newer therapeutic options have not gained wide acceptance as yet, in part due to logistical and cost challenges. Adjunctive treatments targeting hypothalamic and pituitary signaling to the adrenal glands have shown promise. To suppress ACTH production, corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) antagonists have been developed. Of two such drugs, one has advanced past phase 3 pediatric and adult clinical trials and received fast-track approval from the US Food and Drug Administration in late 2024. Crinecerfont (Crinessity, Neurocrine Biosciences, San Diego, CA USA) was tested versus placebo in prospective, randomized trials while study subjects were maintained on standard treatment with glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone or predniso(lo)ne) and
