NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aloe, aloe vera, vera, liver, herbal, injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver injury, hepatitis, review, cases, weeks, acute


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Aloe Vera. [Updated 2022 May 24]. Bookshelf URL: Aloe Vera Updated: May 24, 2022. OVERVIEW Introduction Aloe vera is a cactus-like plant belonging to the Lily family, extracts of which are used topically for skin care and orally as a component of many herbal mixtures claimed to have medicinal benefits. Oral forms of aloe vera have been linked to rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury. Background Aloe vera (“true, shining bitter substance”) is derived from a cactus-like plant, a member of the Lily family that grows best in arid climates. Aloe vera has been used for centuries for its purported healing properties. Aloe vera products are derived from the leaf (either the gel or leaf rind latex) and contain over 75 identified substances including anthraquinones (phenolic compounds with laxative actions), vitamins (A, C, E), enzymes (aliiase, alkaline phosphatase, amylase, bradykinase, carboxypeptidase, catalase, cellulose, lipase, and peroxidase), minerals, sugars, fatty acids, amino acids, salicylic acid and hormones (auxins and gibberellins suspected to have antiinflammatory activity). Aloe creams are found in hundreds of skin products used for cosmetic purposes and wound healing. Extracts and powdered extracts from leaf rind latex of aloe vera are used in small amounts as a food flavoring and in larger amounts in dietary supplements. In addition, aloe vera is claimed to have beneficia l effects on arthritis, asthma, chronic fatigue, dyspepsia, constipation and various skin ailments. Recently, it has also been claimed to be helpful in weight loss. The bases of these claims have not been substantiated, but in vitro and animal studies suggest that components of aloe vera have antiproliferative, antiinflammatory, and hepato- protective properties. Aloe vera is generally tolerated without adverse events; minor side effects may include diarrhea, abdominal discomfort and nausea. Chronic use for constipation can lead to discoloration of the colon (pseudo-melanosis coli). Rare instances of hypersensitivity reactions, skin rash and allergic dermatitis have been described. Hepatotoxicity Liver injury attributable to oral preparations of aloe vera was first reported in 2005 and at least a dozen cases of clinically apparent liver injury have been published or mentioned in the literature. The injury typically arises between 3 and 24 weeks after starting oral aloe vera, usually provided in high doses to treat constipation, dyspepsia, aging, weight loss or to improve wellness. The typical pattern of injury is
