NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aloe, aloe vera, vera, liver, herbal, injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver injury, hepatitis, review, cases, weeks, acute


and 24 weeks after starting oral aloe vera, usually provided in high doses to treat constipation, dyspepsia, aging, weight loss or to improve wellness. The typical pattern of injury is hepatocellular and the clinical course resembles acute viral hepatitis (Case 1). Immunoallergic and autoimmune features are rare. Liver biopsy shows changes typical of hepatitis with spotty cell injury and lobular and portal inflammation. The injury is rarely severe and fatal cases have not been reported. Likelihood score: B (likely but rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury Aloe vera leaf extracts have many components, but none of them has been shown to be particularly hepatotoxic. The rare cases of liver injury reported with aloe vera use have had idiosyncratic features. Outcome and Management Hepatotoxicity from aloe vera is rare and cases have been self-limiting upon stopping the herbal. While some reported cases have been severe or prolonged, there have been no instances leading to fatalities, liver transplantation, chronic hepatitis, or vanishing bile duct syndrome. Rechallenge has led to recurrence of injury in at least one published case report (Case 2) and should be avoided. Drug Class: Herbal and Dietary Supplements CASE REPORTS Case 1. Acute hepatitis due to aloe vera extract.(1) A 57 year old German woman developed jaundice, itching and right upper quadrant pain 3 to 4 weeks a fter starting aloe vera tablets (500 mg daily), which she was taking for aging. She also was taking vitamin C and zinc, but no other prescription medications. She denied a history of liver disease, alcohol use or risk factors for viral hepatitis. On examination, she was jaundiced and had right upper quadrant tenderness, but no rash, fever or signs of chronic liver disease. Laboratory testing showed increased bilirubin values (8.9 mg/dL) and marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels (ALT 1480 U/L, AST 711 U/L), with minimal increase in alkaline phosphatase (265 U/L) (Table). Tests for acute hepatitis A, B, C and E were negative. Serum antinuclear antibody was borderline positive (titer 1:40). Abdominal ultrasound showed no evidence of biliary obstruction. A liver biopsy showed an acute hepatitis, with portal and parenchymal infiltrates including plasma cells and eosinophils and bridging necrosis with cholestasis. The aloe vera was stopped and her symptoms rapidly resolved. Th e biochemical abnormalities resolved more slowly; serum enzymes were still elevated 5 months later but were near normal at one year. Key
