NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aloe, aloe vera, vera, liver, herbal, injury, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver injury, hepatitis, review, cases, weeks, acute


was stopped and her symptoms rapidly resolved. Th e biochemical abnormalities resolved more slowly; serum enzymes were still elevated 5 months later but were near normal at one year. Key Points Medication: Aloe vera (500 mg daily) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=39) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 4 weeks Recovery: 6 months Other medications: Vitamin C, zinc Laboratory Values Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) Aloe vera tablets 500 mg daily for 4 weeks 4 weeks 0 1480 265 8.9 Admission, liver biopsy 6 weeks 2 weeks 226 Discharge 6 months 5 months 180 Normal Asymptomatic 1 year 12 months 40 Normal Aloe Vera 3 Table continued from previous page. Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) Normal Values <22 <160 <1.2 Comment This was the first published report of hepatitis from aloe vera. An elderly woman with no exposures to viral hepatitis or other reasons to have liver disease developed an acute hepatitis-like syndrome after taking an oral aloe vera extract for a month. Most other causes of acute hepatitis were adequately excluded. A liver biopsy showed an acute hepatitis with cholestasis and eosinophils suggestive of a drug induced liver injury. Biochemical recovery was somewhat prolonged. While there did not appear to be other possible causes for liver injury in this case, the issue of possible contamination is always present and the aloe vera product being used had been purchased outside of Germany. Case 2. Recurrent acute hepatitis due to aloe vera.(2) A 62 year old Korean woman developed fatigue followed by jaundice 3 months after starting an aloe vera powder (420 mg daily). There was no history of liver disease or alcoholism. Laboratory test results showed a serum total bilirubin of 14.6 mg/dL with marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels (ALT 1564 U/L, AST 1477 U/L), but minimal increases in alkaline phosphatase (211 U/L) (Table). Tests for hepatitis A, B, C and E were negative. Abdominal ultrasound showed no evidence of biliary obstruction. A liver biopsy showed changes of acute hepatitis with lobular and portal infiltrates and cholestasis. The aloe vera was stopped and after a week she began to improve. Six weeks after stopping the herbal, liver tests were close to normal. During subsequent follow up, however, she restarted an aloe vera extract and a month later serum ALT values were again elevated (785
