Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


Emerging tick-borne diseases in mainland China over the past decade: a systematic review and mapping analysis Ya-Fei Wu,a,b,c,f Ming-Zhu Zhang,d,f Xiao-Ling Su,bYi-Fei Wang,dLi-Feng Du,eXiao-Ming Cui,b,cWenqiang Shi,bDai-Yun Zhu,bLin Zhao,d Luo-Yuan Xia,bNa Jia,b,cJia-Fu Jiang,b,cLi-Li Ren,a,gand Wu-Chun Caob,c,d,g,∗ bState Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing, China cResearch Unit of Discovery and Tracing of Natural Focus Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China Summary The Lancet Regional Background Emerging tick-borne infectious diseases have become increasingly prevalent worldwide. In a previous Health - Western Pacific 2025;59: review, we summarized tick-borne infections in mainland China from 1980 to May, 2015. Here we conducted systematic review and mapping analysis of emerging tick-borne diseases over the past decade. Published Online xxx Methods We searched multiple sources for publications regarding tick-borne diseases in mainland China from June, 1016/j.lanwpc.2025. 2015 to January, 2025. Subsequently, we collected data on tick infections of related pathogens from secondary 101599 kind of tick-borne diseases were summarized. The thematic maps showing geographical distribution of emerging tick-borne diseases and related tick infections were produced by ArcGIS. Findings Over the past decade, 28 emerging tick-borne diseases have been identified in mainland China, including 11 viral diseases, ten rickettsiosis, one anaplasmosis, one ehrlichiosis, two spirochetal diseases, and three protozoan diseases. These emerged diseases, caused by diverse pathogens, exhibit distinct geographic distribution patterns. Clinically, they are primarily characterized by febrile and non-specific symptoms, underscoring the importance of pathogen-specific diagnostic methods for accurate diagnosis. The tick-borne pathogens responsible for these emerging diseases were identified in 40 tick species and more widely distributed across China, implying cases of the emerging tick-borne diseases underdiagnosed. Interpretation Emerging tick-borne diseases have become an unprecedented public health threat in mainland China. Increased awareness and enhanced surveillance are required to understand the burden of tick-borne diseases in China and countries where tick vectors are present. Funding National Key Research and Development Program of China. Copyright© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( Keywords:Emerging tick-borne diseases;Geographic distribution;Ticks; Public health threat;China Introduction and rapid response strategies.1 In recent years, The global COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the emerging tick-borne diseases are continuously being emerging infectious diseases and highlighted the crit- morbidity and mortality, and their threat to public *Corresponding author. State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, 20 Dong-Da Street, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100071, China.
