Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


morbidity and mortality, and their threat to public *Corresponding author. State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, 20 Dong-Da Street, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100071, China. E-mail address: (W.-C. Cao). fJoint first authors. gJoint senior authors. Translation: For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section. This translation in Chinese was submitted by the authors and we reproduce it as supplied. It has not been peer reviewed. Our editorial processes have only been applied to the original abstract in English, which should serve as reference for this manuscript (in the Supplementary). www.thelancet.comVol 59 June, 2025 1 Articles Research in context Evidence before this study spirochetal diseases, and three protozoan diseases. Emerging tick-borne infectious diseases have increasingly Furthermore, our findings highlight the presence of these gained attention worldwide due to their expanding pathogens in a wide range of tick species, indicating a we summarized tick-borne infections in mainland China from diseases manifest as febrile illnesses with non-specific 1980 to May 2015. However, more and more emerging tick- symptoms, underscoring the critical need for pathogen- borne diseases have been reported since then over the past specific diagnostic methods. decade. We systematically searched publications with no Implications of all the available evidence language restriction regarding human tick-borne diseases in Our findings emphasize that emerging tick-borne diseases mainland China from June 1, 2015 to January 31, 2025. The pose a growing and unprecedented public health threat in search terms used was: “Tick” AND (“patient” OR “human mainland China. Given the increasing number of emerging infection” OR “case”) AND “China”. Additionally, we collected tick-borne diseases and their widespread geographical data on ticks positive for related pathogens from secondary distribution, enhanced awareness, and surveillance are literature, GenBank, and our field surveys, without time urgently needed to determine the true burden of these constraints. infections. In addition, further prospective studies are Added value of this study required to elucidate the pathogenesis and improve To our knowledge, this is an up-to-date systematic review diagnostic tools. Strengthening national and international and mapping analysis of emerging tick-borne diseases in collaboration is crucial for early detection, prevention, and mainland China. Our study identifies 28 emerging tick-borne control of tick-borne diseases, especially in regions where diseases over the past decade, including 11 viral diseases, ten ticks are prevalent. rickettsiosis, one anaplasmosis, one ehrlichiosis, two known as the arthropods capable of transmitting a China over the past
