Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


analyses in ticks have revealed an even broader diversity “China”. of tick-associated microbiota, including potentially Two authors (Y-FW and M-ZZ) independently zoonotic bacteria and viruses.12,13 screened all studies for inclusion, and any uncertainties However, it is unclear how many emerging tick- were assessed by another author (W-CC). The included borne diseases have been newly reported in mainland studies focused on tick-borne pathogens confirmed 2 www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 Articles through molecular detection or successful isolation pathogen. The geographic locations of infected ticks followed by microscopic examination, as well as the were extracted at the county or prefecture level, and associated human diseases. We excluded studies on thematic maps showing the geographic distribution of previously identified pathogens, infections in vector pathogen-positive ticks were generated using ArcGIS. ticks or host animals, molecular mechanisms, experi- mental transmission, and review articles. Additionally, Role of the funding source studies that identified infections solely through sero- The funders of the study had no role in study design, logical tests were also excluded. For each confirmed data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or tick-borne pathogen of human, we conducted separate writing of the paper. literature searches combining the terms “tick” AND “China” to ensure comprehensive coverage. We also searched the GenBank database for tick species car- Results rying these pathogens and their geographical distribu- In this study, 2491 relevant articles were initially tion. Furthermore, we incorporated data from our retrieved. After deduplication, 1788 articles were team’s field investigations on tick infections with the included for subsequent screening of their titles and aforementioned pathogens into the analysis. abstracts, of which 371 proceeded to the full-text eval- uation stage. As a result, 50 articles covering 28 Data analysis emerging tick-borne pathogens were included for data Data extraction was independently conducted by two extraction. Additionally, we obtained 92 related articles authors (Y-FW and M-ZZ) and finalized through dis- from the secondary search, and retrieved 175 records of cussion to reach a consensus. The extracted data pri- ticks infected with these 28 pathogens from the Gen- marily included information on the geographical Bank database, and incorporated 108 records of tick distribution of emerging tick-borne disease cases, their geographic locations from our field investigations. the corresponding pathogens. pathogen-positive ticks and their corresponding Geographical distribution data were collected using geographic locations were included, encompassing 7 three different strategies. For studies that included pa- tick genera and 40 species (Fig. 1). tient maps,
