Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


corresponding Geographical distribution data were collected using geographic locations were included, encompassing 7 three different strategies. For studies that included pa- tick genera and 40 species (Fig. 1). tient maps, we matched pixel points from the maps Over the past decade, 28 emerging tick-borne dis- with known geographic reference points (for example, eases have been reported in mainland China (Table 1). provincial boundary) to extract the latitude and longi- The associated pathogens include 11 viruses, ten rick- tude coordinates of infected patients, minimizing ettsiae, one Anaplasma, one Ehrlichia, two spirochetes, geographic bias as much as possible. Image processing and three protozoa. These 11 viruses belong to four techniques were implemented using Python (version families. Xue-Cheng virus (XCV), Wetland virus 3⋅8⋅8), with the OpenCV and NumPy libraries (WELV), Orthonairovirus yezoense (YEZV), Orthonair- employed for pixel extraction15 and coordinate trans- ovirus songlingense (SGLV), Beiji nairovirus (BJNV), and formation.16 For studies without patient maps, we Orthonairovirus tachengense (TcTV-1) belong to the extracted the smallest available administrative unit family Nairoviridae; Bole tick virus 4 (BLTV4), Along- (such as a county or district) based on the reported shan virus (ALSV), and Jingmen tick virus (JMTV) patient origin and used the centroid of that region as belong to the family Flaviviridae; Uukuvirus tachengense the representative sample point. Additionally, for (TcTV-2) belongs to the family Phenuiviridae, while the studies that only provided hospital-based case infor- classification of Deer tick Mononegavirales-like virus mation, we directly used the latitude and longitude of (DTMV) remains unclassified. the hospital as the geographic coordinates for the pa- The 28 emerging tick-borne pathogens can be clas- tient. The geographical distribution of emerging tick- sified into three categories (Table 1; Appendix 2 pp borne disease cases was visualized using thematic 5–6). The first category, including 11 pathogens, were maps created in ArcGIS (version 10⋅7; ESRI, Redlands, first identified in patients in China, and simultaneously CA, USA). detected in ticks. These pathogens include XCV, SGLV, manifestations, and laboratory findings for all patients. Rickettsia xinyangensis, Rickettsia sp. XY99, Candidatus In cases where multiple studies reported on the same Ehrlichia erythraense, Babesia crassa-like, Babesia sp. pathogen, we calculated the proportion of patients XXB/HangZhou, and Colpodella spp. (Appendix 2 pp of positive cases by the total cases reported. The com- cludes seven pathogens, which were initially detected in mon clinical characteristics of infected patients were ticks or host animals (regardless of whether in China or visualized using R
