Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


50) Babesiosis Babesia crassa–like 31 I 12 Babesiosis Babesia sp. XXB/HangZhou 1 I 13 Human infection with Colpodella Colpodella spp. 1 I 14 aI. First reported in China, directly detected in patients with confirmed tick-borne transmission. II. Initially detected in ticks or host animals (regardless of whether in China or other countries), later reported for the first time in China as capable of infecting humans. III. Having been reported abroad, subsequently detected in patients in China over the past decade.bThe publications included in this study (including the initially reported literature and subsequent investigations) are listed in Appendix 2 pp 5–6. Table 1: Emerging tick-borne diseases in humans reported in China from July 1, 2015 to January 31, 2025. Based on the geographical distribution of emerging areas as tick-borne viral infections. Additionally, a series tick-borne diseases (Fig. 2), 11 emerging tick-borne of cases caused by Candidatus Ehrlichia erythraense has viral diseases are primarily reported north of 42◦N been reported in the Dabie Mountains, at the border of latitude, particularly in northeastern and northwestern Anhui and Hubei provinces. Cases of relapsing fever China. The ten emerging tick-borne diseases caused by due to B. miyamotoi and babesiosis caused by B. crassa- rickettsial pathogens are primarily distributed central- like are primarily concentrated in northeastern China, eastern China between 25◦N−35◦N latitude and 105◦E overlapping with the distribution of tick-borne viral −120◦E longitude, forming three major clusters. The infections. Other emerging tick-borne diseases exhibit a first cluster is in Yichang, Hubei Province, where all more sporadic distribution. Regarding the temporal reported cases were caused by R. japonica. The second distribution, between 2016 and 2025, the number of cluster is located in the mountainous region of reported species and cases of these 28 emerging tick- Xinyang, Henan Province, where two-thirds of the borne diseases has fluctuated significantly from year cases were caused by R. japonica, while the remaining to year. The highest number of emerging tick-borne infections were attributed to R sp. XY99 and Candidatus diseases and cases was recorded in 2021 and 2024 Rickettsia xinyangensis. The third cluster is in the (Appendix 2 p 7). R. japonica. In northwestern China, infections caused tick-borne diseases (Fig. 3). Patients with emerging by three Rickettsia species (R. conorii sp. caspia, tick-borne diseases almost universally presented with R. slovaca, and R. aeschlimannii) are found in the same fever as the initial symptom, often accompanied by www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025
