Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


caspia, tick-borne diseases almost universally presented with R. slovaca, and R. aeschlimannii) are found in the same fever as the initial symptom, often accompanied by www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 5 Articles Fig. 2: Geographical distribution of emerging tick-borne disease cases in mainland China. fatigue, and myalgia. Physical examinations frequently progressing to coma. While eschars were reported in revealed rash and lymphadenopathy, while eschars one patient infected with BLTV4, most other viral in- were primarily observed in patients infected with rick- fections were associated with rash or purpura. For ettsial pathogens. Laboratory findings commonly Rickettsia infections (Appendix 2 p 10), most cases showed abnormalities in transaminases levels and occurred in middle-aged and elderly males, with a C-reactive protein levels. Among patients diagnosed median age of 42–83 years. Nearly all patients pre- with tick-borne viral infections (Appendix 2 pp 8–9), the sented with fever, and eschars at the tick bite site. majority were middle-aged, with a median age of 41–56 Additionally, neck stiffness was observed in patients years, and 99% had a confirmed history of tick bites. infected with R. conorii sp. indica, R. monacensis, and common in males. Apart from infections caused by were relatively limited, but their epidemiological char- BLTV4, DTMV, TcTV-1, TcTV-2, and JMTV, other viral acteristics resembled those of the aforementioned in- infections exhibited various neurological symptoms, fections, with most cases occurring in middle-aged 6 www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 Articles Fig. 3: Clinical manifestations of patients with emerging tick-borne diseases. The circular hierarchical structure is used to display the pathogens. Babesia sp. XXB/HZ = Babesia sp. XXB/HangZhou. males (Appendix 2 p 11). Notably, all patients infected ticks. Followed by A. bovis (in 16 species of five genera), with Candidatus Ehrlichia erythraense developed a B. miyamotoi (in 13 species of four genera), BJNV rash, while splenomegaly was reported in cases of (12 species of five genera), BLTV4 (in 12 species of five B. miyamotoi and Babesia sp. XXB/Hangzhou in- genera). R. conorii sp. indica is transmitted solely by fections. Furthermore, neck stiffness was observed in Rhipicephalus turanicus, R. honei only by Dermacentor patients infected with A. bovis and Colpodella spp. nuttalli, and Candidatus Ehrlichia erythraense only by Among the 28 pathogens associated with emerging Haemaphysalis longicornis. Moreover, there is substan- tick-borne diseases, 24 have been detected respectively tial variation in the number and types of pathogens in 40 tick species (Fig. 4a). JMTV has been identified in
