Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


there is substan- tick-borne diseases, 24 have been detected respectively tial variation in the number and types of pathogens in 40 tick species (Fig. 4a). JMTV has been identified in associated with different tick species, reflecting their most tick vectors involving 25 species of six genera ecological niches, feeding behaviors, and geographic www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 7 Articles a b Fig. 4: Tick species positive for emerging tick-borne pathogens and their geographical distribution in mainland China. a. Matrix of emerging tick-borne pathogens and their vector tick species, with rows representing pathogens and columns representing tick species. b. Geographical distribution of tick species positive for emerging tick-borne pathogens. 8 www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 Articles 16 pathogens, Ixodes persulcatus with 15, and Hae all four viral pathogens detected in ticks have not yet longicornis with 13. Both Dermacentor silvarum and Hae been linked to any reported cases in the region. Addi- concinna are associated with 12 pathogens, R. microplus tionally, while JMTV has been detected across all seven with 11, while Argas persicus has only been linked to regions, patients have only been reported in the BLTV4. northeast. Similarly, TcTV-1 and TcTV-2 have been The 28 emerging tick-borne pathogens are widely detected in ticks from northwestern, northeastern, and land China (Fig. 4b; Appendix 2 pp 12–14), with notable ported only in the northwest. differences in the species of ticks involved and the distribution of pathogens across the seven geographical regions.29 JMTV and BJNV are present in 26 and 11 Discussion provinces, respectively, across all seven regions. ALSV Our previous review summarized the situation of and B. miyamotoi are found in eight and seven prov- emerging tick-borne infectious diseases from 1980 to inces, respectively, within six regions. A. bovis, SGLV, May 2015, reporting 15 emerging tick-borne diseases.6 YEZV, BLTV4, and R. japonica are distributed across The present systematic review reveals 28 emerging five regions, involving 12, seven, seven, seven, and nine tick-borne diseases reported in mainland China in the provinces, respectively. The northeastern region has 18 last decade (since July 1, 2015, to the present), nearly tick-borne pathogens, involving 11 tick species double that reported in the previous study. Notably, (Appendix 2 p 15). Among these, 11 viral pathogens among the 15 emerging tick-borne infectious diseases have been detected in ticks of the regions, along with reported between 1980 and May 2015, only one was two rickettsiae, one Anaplasma, two spirochetes,
