Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


15 emerging tick-borne infectious diseases have been detected in ticks of the regions, along with reported between 1980 and May 2015, only one was two rickettsiae, one Anaplasma, two spirochetes, and caused by a virus (SFTSV), while in the past ten years, two protozoa. In the northern region, 11 pathogens over one-third (11/28) emerging tick-borne diseases have been detected, involving 13 tick species (Appendix have been caused by viruses. These case reports on 2 p 16). Nine viral pathogens are found, with the emerging tick-borne diseases are mainly concentrated exception of XCV and DTMV. Additionally, in Northeast, East, and Northwest China, but the R. aeschlimannii and B. miyamotoi have been identified. infected tick species are distributed nationwide, indi- In the northwest region, 17 pathogens have been found, cating that the reported cases are only the tip of the affecting as many as 24 tick species (Appendix 2 p 17). iceberg, and surveillance of tick-borne infectious dis- Eight viruses and five rickettsiae have been detected in eases should be enhanced in human population. The rochetes, and one protozoan. In central China, ticks eases range from asymptomatic infections to fatal ones. (Appendix 2 p 18), including four viruses, three rick- cases remain undiagnosed, making pathogen-specific ettsiae, one Anaplasma, one Ehrlichia, and one spiro- diagnostic differentiation extremely important. chete. Eastern China encompasses all the pathogens, The discovery of so many emerging tick-borne in- including three viruses, two rickettsiae, one Anaplasma, fectious diseases is undoubtedly attributed to the rapid one Ehrlichia, one spirochete, and one protozoan, development and application of NGS technology in spread across ten tick species (Appendix 2 p 19). In China. Among the 28 emerging tick-borne diseases, southwestern China, ten pathogens have been detected more than half were diagnosed using NGS from patient ruses, two rickettsiae, one Anaplasma, and one spiro- eases and four kinds of spotted fever group rickettsiosis chete. The southern region has a relatively low diversity caused by R. honei, R. japonica, R. slovaca, R. conorii sp. of pathogens, with only four viruses (ALSV, BJNV, indica [publications no. 27, 30, 33–46, 48]. The appli- JMTV, and SGLV) detected in eight tick species cation of NGS has greatly facilitated the timely identi- (Appendix 2 p 21). fication and early diagnosis of emerging tick-borne By analyzing the distribution of pathogens in both diseases. However, global climate change, ecological where cases have been reported, the corresponding all contribute to the emergence
