Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


diagnosis of emerging tick-borne By analyzing the distribution of pathogens in both diseases. However, global climate change, ecological where cases have been reported, the corresponding all contribute to the emergence of tick-borne diseases. pathogen-carrying tick species are almost always Global warming can alter environmental conditions, detected. However, in some areas where ticks have accelerating the proliferation of tick vectors. Addition- cases have been reported yet (Appendix 2 pp 22–23). and populations have increased. The prolonged sum- Although multiple pathogen-related infections have mer season extends the period during which ticks feed, been reported in northeastern China, several patho- significantly raising the likelihood of ticks acquiring gens, such as TcTV-1, TcTV-2, R. japonica, and transmitting pathogens from animal hosts.6 In R. monacensis, A. bovis, and B. bavariensis, have not yet mainland China, the successful implementation of www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 9 Articles major ecological conservation projects, such as return- in ticks in China, were later confirmed to infect ing farmland to forests and grasslands, has led to humans. The discovery of these emerging tick-borne ongoing improvements in the ecological environment.30 pathogens also results from active investigation of As a result, the number and diversity of ticks and their febrile patients with a history of tick exposure at animal hosts have increased in many regions, creating sentinel hospitals.9,11 On one hand, this demonstrates favorable conditions for the tick-host pathogen cycle that active surveillance of neglected tick-borne dis- and raising the risk of emerging tick-borne pathogen eases is an effective method for discovering emerging spillover. With economic development, more urban tick-borne pathogens. On the other hand, it un- populations are interacting with nature, leading to large derscores the presence of these pathogens in tick numbers of people visiting forests, grasslands, and populations in regions where active surveillance in the other ecologically rich areas for tourism or camping, human population has not yet been conducted, sug- significantly increasing exposure to ticks and wildlife. gesting many undiagnosed infection cases. Local This inevitably raises the risk of exposure to tick-borne health authorities and healthcare workers must be pathogens.31 The variation in pathogen associations is aware of the existence of these newly emerging tick- influenced by several factors, including tick phenology, borne diseases and cannot overlook the possibility of host preference, and environmental drivers such as tick-borne infections during diagnosis and treatment. of which shape the spatial and temporal distribution of disease cases range from asymptomatic infections
