Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


possibility of host preference, and environmental drivers such as tick-borne infections during diagnosis and treatment. of which shape the spatial and temporal distribution of disease cases range from asymptomatic infections to tick populations and thus their capacity to maintain and death, but they generally present with non-specific transmit pathogens. Given the combined effects of symptoms, predominantly fever. Many clinicians have these factors, it is expected that more tick-borne infec- limited experience in identifying and diagnosing tick- threat of emerging tick-borne diseases should not be tion about these diseases remains insufficient. This monitoring, prevention and control of ticks and tick- increasing the risk of misdiagnosis or delayed treat- borne diseases. ment, and the reported number of infection cases may There are significant differences in both the be severely underestimated. Although China has made geographical distribution and the types of emerging significant progress in research on the detection of tick-borne pathogens in China. The northeastern, emerging tick-borne pathogens in recent years,10,11 most northwestern, central, and eastern regions of China healthcare institutions still lack effective detection are “hotspots” for emerging tick-borne diseases, where methods for tick-borne pathogens. As mentioned there is the high frequency of reported human cases above, 15 out of 28 emerging tick-borne pathogens have and detection of diverse tick-borne pathogens in vec- been detected using NGS technique. However, this tors. These areas are often characterized by ecological technology is not yet widely used in most hospitals, environments favorable for tick survival and pathogen especially in rural hospitals with high tick density, due maintenance, such as rural regions with abundant to its high cost, time consumption, and need for woodlands, grasslands, or farmlands, where advanced technical expertise. We expect ongoing tech- human-tick interactions are more common. The nological advancements to make NGS increasingly northeastern region exhibits the highest diversity of affordable and accessible. Given its high sensitivity and tick-borne diseases, predominantly viral infections. broad-spectrum capability, NGS should be further The central and eastern regions primarily report promoted as a key tool for the discovery and charac- emerging rickettsial infections, while the north- terization of emerging tick-borne pathogens. More- western region has reported two emerging viral in- over, to support its application at scale, attention fections and three rickettsial infections. Differences in should also be given to the challenges of data storage, the life cycle, feeding behavior, and habitat prefer- ethical management of genomic information, and the ences of tick vectors may
