Articles
KEYWORDS: tick-borne, diseases, emerging, pathogens, china, tick, emerging tick-borne, tick-borne diseases, reported, ticks, species, cases, infections, human, distribution


should also be given to the challenges of data storage, the life cycle, feeding behavior, and habitat prefer- ethical management of genomic information, and the ences of tick vectors may result in varying composi- development of standardized, efficient bioinformatics tions of tick-borne microorganisms across regions. workflows. However, the urgent priority should These ecological variations may help explain the develop rapid, simple, and practical point-of-care regional distribution patterns of tick-borne diseases in testing technologies and multiplex detection reagents, China.5 In addition, the distribution of pathogen in- and enhance training for healthcare workers, espe- fections in the human population aligns with the dis- cially in rural areas. Collaboration between the gov- tribution of ticks transmitting these pathogens (Fig. 4), ernment, research institutions, and the private sector highlighting the importance of screening for potential will be crucial to advancing these technologies and emerging pathogens in ticks. Such screening can making them more widely available in high-risk areas. provide early warnings about the risk of emerging tick- These efforts will help strengthen diagnostic capacity borne diseases in the population.12,13 For example, and ensure more timely detection of emerging tick- TcTV-1, TcTV-2, BLTV4, and JMTV, initially identified borne diseases. 10 www.thelancet.com Vol 59 June, 2025 Articles In addition to the 28 emerging tick-borne diseases, Contributors early-recognized tick-borne diseases should not be W-C C contributed to the conception and design of the study. W-C C, Y-F Wu, and M-Z Z developed the search strategy. Y-F Wu, M-Z Z, X-L overlooked. These include severe fever with thrombo- S, X-M C, D-Y Z, L Z, L-Y X, and N J conducted the literature search and cytopenia syndrome, tick-borne encephalitis, Crimean- data extraction. Y-F Wu, M-Z Z, W S, Y-F Wang, L-F D, J-F J, and L-L R Congo hemorrhagic fever, north-Asia tick-borne contributed to the analysis and interpretation of the results. Y-F Wu, spotted fever, Lyme disease, and Q fever, all of which M-Z Z, and L-L R drafted the initial version of the manuscript. Y-F Wu, accuracy. W-C C was responsible for the decision to submit the epidemiological trends of these diseases still require manuscript. All authors reviewed the results and approved the final ongoing attention. version of the manuscript. This study has some limitations. First, the geographic information for some tick-borne disease Data sharing statement All data supporting the findings of this study are available in the Article patients is based on the location of the
