NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Anthelmintic Agents. [Updated 2026 Apr
KEYWORDS: united states, united, agents, anthelmintic, states, liver, infections, fenbendazole, gastrointestinal, trematodes, parasitic, therapy, nematodes, anthelmintics, disease


duration of anthelmintic therapy varies considerably based upon the indication. For gastrointestinal infestations, a single dose of a poorly absorbed anthelmintic is usually effective, but dosing may have to be repeated once or twice or given for 1 to 3 days particularly for trichuriasis. For systemic infections, multiple or a more prolonged course may be necessary, which can vary from 1 or 2 doses to daily doses for several months or years. Uncommonly, continuous therapy is needed for suppression. Anthelmintics associated with hepatotoxicity include the benzimidazoles such as thiabendazole (now withdrawn), mebendazole and albendazole which have been linked to rare instances of hepatocellular or mixed liver injury, but which can be severe and prolonged. The other anthelmintics appear to have little hepatotoxic Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Branch, NIDDK, NIH. 2 LiverTox potential. In most instances, these agents are given for a short period only and many are not absorbed to a major extent. With one exception, only the major anthelmintics approved and available in the United States are discussed in this website. The exception is fenbendazole, a benzimidazole that is approved in the United States only as a veterinary drug for parasitic worm infestations in livestock and in domestic cats and dogs. Fenbendazole has been claimed to have antineoplastic activity in vitro and is promoted by social media on the internet as an alternative therapy for cancer. Several instances of benzimidazole liver injury have been reported in patients taking fenbendazole on their own to treat advanced or metastatic cancer, often in combination with conventional antineoplastic agents. The following anthelmintic agents are discussed individually in LiverTox: • Albendazole • Ivermectin • Fenbendazole • Mebendazole • Nitazoxanide • Pentamidine • Praziquantel • Pyrantel • Thiabendazole • Triclabendazole
