Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


2 D is the major ligand for the vitamin D receptor (VDR), a nuclear transcription factor found in most if not all cells of the body and known to regulate thousands of genes in a cell specific manner. Although numerous physiologic functions have been attributed to vitamin D and its metabolites, clinically its major action is to control the availability of calcium and phosphate from the diet for the proper mineralization of the skeleton. Thus, disorders in vitamin D availability, metabolism, and action manifest first and foremost in the skeleton that when severe result in rickets in growing children and osteomalacia in adults in whom the growth plates have closed. After a brief review of vitamin D metabolism and molecular mechanisms of action this chapter will describe the pathologic changes in bone when the supply of mineral to bone is inadequate due to disorders in vitamin D action whether from dietary deficiency, metabolism, or mechanism of action. We will then look in depth at the causes of vitamin D deficiency including mutations resulting in altered metabolism, then discuss the range of effects different mutations in the VDR have on its function including the example of alopecia, which is best known function of VDR that is independent of its ligand 1,25(OH) 2 D. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Vitamin D derived from endogenous production in the skin or absorbed from the gut is transformed into its active form by two successive steps: hydroxylation in the liver to 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] primarily by the enzyme CYP2R1 followed by 1a-hydroxylation in the renal proximal tubule to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH) 2 D-calcitriol) by the enzyme CYP27B. Other cells exhibit 1α-hydroxylase activity including placental decidual cells, epithelial cells including keratinocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells, parathyroid cells, and some tumor cells. The role of the extrarenal production of 1,25(OH) 2 D is thought to play a paracrine and/or autocrine function and under normal conditions does not significantly contribute to the circulating levels of the hormone. Hydroxylation at carbon 24 to produce 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [24,25(OH) 2 D] or 1,24,25-trihydroxyvitamin D by the enzyme CYP24A1 is performed in a wide range of normal tissues and is believed to be important in the removal of vitamin D metabolites. CYP27B1 and CYP24A1 are mitochondrial mixed function oxidase containing cytochrome P450 with ferredoxin and heme-binding domains whereas CYP2R1 is
