Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


as a ligand-modulated transcription factor that belongs to the steroid, thyroid, and retinoic acid receptors gene family ( 12 - 15 ). VDR is found in most if not all tissues, leading to the increased recognition of multiple target organs and actions of the hormone. However, the degree to which vitamin D impacts physiologic processes outside the musculoskeletal system remains a subject of substantial investigation and controversy. 1,25(OH) 2 D is the most powerful physiological agent that stimulates active transport of calcium, and to a lesser degree phosphorus and magnesium, across the small intestine ( 16 , 17 ). Thus, disorders in vitamin D action will lead to a decrease in the net flux of mineral to the extracellular compartment causing hypocalcemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Hypophosphatemia will also ensue, as a result of both increased renal phosphate clearance due to secondary hyperparathyroidism and reduced absorption of phosphorus due to deficient 1,25(OH) 2 D action on the gut. Low concentrations of calcium and phosphorus in the extracellular fluid will lead to defective mineralization of organic bone matrix. Defective bone matrix mineralization of the newly formed bone and growth plate cartilage will produce the characteristic morphological and clinical signs of rickets, while at sites of bone remodeling, it will cause osteomalacia. Disorders in vitamin D action may impair the differentiation of osteoblasts and thus their functional capacity to mineralize bone matrix; this may be an additional mechanism of minor importance that contributes to rickets and osteomalacia ( 18 , 19 ). Continuous bone remodeling takes place in the growing skeleton, thus children with rickets will have osteomalacia as well. The clinical term used in this chapter to describe defective bone matrix mineralization in general will be rickets and/or osteomalacia. Mineralization of the newly formed organic matrix of bone is a complex and highly ordered process. The essential components for normal mineralization include appropriate extracellular concentrations of calcium, phosphorous and normal functions of the bone forming cells. Disturbances in any of these components will lead to a stereotypic response of disturbed mineralization. The histological, radiological and most of the clinical features characteristic of rickets and/or osteomalacia will be the same regardless of the primary disorder. Thus, defective bone matrix mineralization can be caused by: a) calcium deficiency ( 20 ) (e.g. a rare nutritional deficiency of the element seen primarily in children or the more common form of calcium deficiency secondary to disorders
