Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


by: a) calcium deficiency ( 20 ) (e.g. a rare nutritional deficiency of the element seen primarily in children or the more common form of calcium deficiency secondary to disorders of vitamin D metabolism); b) phosphorous deficiency (e.g. increased renal phosphate clearance as in X-linked hypophosphatemia (for detailed discussion see Endotext chapter entitled Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism); c) primary defects in local bone processes (e.g. hypophosphatasia). Serum concentrations of calcium, phosphorous, PTH, 25(OH)D, biochemical markers of bone turnover and 24 hour urinary calcium excretion will differentiate among the different primary disturbances leading to defective bone matrix mineralization ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Biochemical Parameters of Mineral and Bone Metabolism in Patients with Rickets and/or Osteomalacia, by Etiology View in own window Serum levels 24h urinary calcium excretion Etiology Calcium Phosphorous iPTH Bone specific alk.phos* Hypocalcemic e.g., vitamin D deficiency Low to low normal Low Elevated Elevated Low Hypophosphatemic e.g., X-linked hypophosphatemia Normal Low Normal to low normal Elevated Low to elevated Primary defects in bone e.g., hypophosphatasia Normal Normal Normal Low Normal * Alk. phos. alkaline phosphatase activity This chapter will deal with hypocalcemic rickets and/or osteomalacia. A primary calcium deficiency state due to extremely low calcium intake was reported in growing children ( 20 ) but is very uncommon. Thus, the discussion will concentrate on calcium deficiency secondary to disorders in vitamin D action. Such disorders can be due to disturbances along the cascade of 1,25(OH) 2 D synthesis leading to a deficiency of the hormonal form of the vitamin (vitamin D deficiency states) or defects in the interaction of 1,25(OH) 2 D and its target tissues (resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D). As all disorders in vitamin D action will lead to the same clinical, radiological, histological, and most of the biochemical aberrations, those common features will be discussed first. CLINICAL AND RADIOLOGICAL FEATURES OF RICKETS AND OSTEOMALACIA The clinical features of rickets due to disorders in vitamin D action are weakness, bone pain, bone deformity, and fracture. The most rapidly growing bones show the most striking abnormalities. Thus, the localization and severity of the clinical features will depend on the age of onset. In children with acquired disorders in vitamin D action, signs and symptoms of rickets will vary with the age in which the deficiency is being manifested. Children with hereditary disorders of vitamin D action will appear normal at birth as calcium and phosphorous
