Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


rickets will vary with the age in which the deficiency is being manifested. Children with hereditary disorders of vitamin D action will appear normal at birth as calcium and phosphorous levels in fetal plasma are sustained by placental transport from maternal plasma that is not regulated by the fetal vitamin D system. These children usually develop the characteristic features of rickets within the first 2 years of life. Defects in bone mineralization are particularly evident in regions of rapid bone growth, including, during the first year of life, the cranium, wrist, and ribs. Rickets at this time will lead to widened cranial sutures, frontal bossing, posterior flattening of the skull (craniotabes), widening of the wrists, bulging of costochondral junction (rachitic rosary), and indentation of the ribs at the diaphragmatic insertion (Harrison’s groove). The rib cage may be so deformed that it contributes to respiratory failure. Dental eruption is delayed, and teeth show enamel hypoplasia. Muscle weakness and hypotonia are severe and result in a protuberant abdomen, that may contribute to respiratory failure, and may result in the inability to walk without support. After the first year of life with the acquisition of erect posture and rapid linear growth, the deformities are most severe in the legs. Bow legs (genu varum) or knock-knee (genu valgum) deformities of various severity develop as well as widening of the end of long bones. If not treated, rickets may cause severe lasting deformities, compromise adult height, and increase susceptibility to pathological fractures ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Teenage male with rickets. Note deformities of legs (bow legs) and compromised height. The specific radiographic features of rickets reflect the failure of cartilage calcification and endochondral ossification and therefore are best seen in the metaphysis of rapidly growing bones ( Figures 2 and 3 ). The metaphyses are widened, uneven, concave, or cupped and because of the delay in or absence of calcification, the metaphyses could become partially or totally invisible on x-ray. In more severe forms or in patients untreated for prolonged periods, rarefaction and thinning of the cortex of the entire shaft, sparse bone trabecularization, and bone deformities will become evident. Greenstick fractures may appear as well. Figure 2. Radiograph of distal femur and proximal tibia and fibula of a patient with rickets. Note widening of epiphysis, resorption of provisional zone of calcification, flaring of metaphysis and bone deformity. Figure 3. Radiograph of the
