Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


proximal tibia and fibula of a patient with rickets. Note widening of epiphysis, resorption of provisional zone of calcification, flaring of metaphysis and bone deformity. Figure 3. Radiograph of the wrist and hand of a patient with rickets. Note scalloping, widening and irregularity of metaphyseal end of the ulna; apparent widening of the joint space as a result of absence of epiphyseal provisional calcification. The clinical features of osteomalacia in adults are subtle and could be manifested as bone pain or low back pain of varying severity in some cases. Severe muscle weakness and hypotonia may be a prominent feature in adults with vitamin D deficiency. Improvement of myopathy occurs after low doses of vitamin D. The first clinical presentation could be an acute fracture of the long bones, pubic ramii, ribs, or spine. The radiographic manifestations could be mild, e.g., generalized, nonspecific osteopenia or more specific, such as pseudofractures, commonly seen at the medial edges of the shafts of long bones ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Young male with osteomalacia. Note a pseudofracture in the medial edge of the upper femoral shaft (arrow). In hypocalcemic rickets and/or osteomalacia, as is the case in disorders in vitamin D action, there may exist radiographic features of secondary hyperparathyroidism such as subperiosteal resorption and cysts of the long bones. HISTOLOGICAL FEATURES OF RICKETS AND OSTEOMALACIA The characteristic histological feature of rickets and osteomalacia is deficiency or lack of mineralization of the organic matrix of bone. Osteomalacia is defined as excess osteoid (hyperosteoidosis) and a quantitative dynamic proof of defective bone matrix mineralization obtained by analysis of time-spaced tetracycline labeling ( 21 , 22 ). Bone Biopsy and Bone Histomorphometry GENERAL Transiliac bone biopsy is taken at a standard location: 2cm behind the antero-superior iliac spine and just below the crest, with a terpine 7.5mm inner diameter or 5mm for children. The biopsy should contain the inner and outer cortex and intact trabecular bone in between. Double tetracycline labeling is performed by giving the drug: e.g., dimethyl-chlortetracycline 1g/day in two divided doses, for 2 days, followed by a second administration typically of a different tetracycline with different fluorescent color after 10 to 14 days of drug free interval. The bone biopsy is performed 5 to 7 days following the last dose of tetracycline. The biopsy is sectioned undecalcified and is evaluated unstained or with different stains and techniques to obtain qualitative and
