Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


performed 5 to 7 days following the last dose of tetracycline. The biopsy is sectioned undecalcified and is evaluated unstained or with different stains and techniques to obtain qualitative and quantitative histomorphometric parameters ( Figure 5 ). The following are the commonly used quantitative histomorphometric parameters ( 22 ): trabecular bone volume (BV/TV), osteoid volume (OV/BV), osteoid surface (OS/BS), osteoid thickness (O. Th), osteoblast surface (Ob.s/BS), osteoclast surface (Oc.S/BS), osteoclast number (N.Oc/TA), double labeled surface (dLS/BS), single labeled surface (sLS/BS), mineral appositional rate (MAR), bone formation rate (BFR/BS), and mineralization lag time (MLT). Figure 5. Photomicrographs of transilial bone biopsies of patients with rickets and osteomalacia (A, C and E) and siblings without bone disease (B, D and F) (Courtesy of Drs. D. Gazit and I.A. Bab). A and B: Modified Mason stain; magnification x130. Note in A: broad osteoid seams (arrow), osteoid trabeculae (heavy arrow) and irregular mineralization front (rectangular arrow).C and D: Polarized light; Von Kossa toluidine blue stain; magnification x360. Note in C: increased number of osteoid lamellae (arrows). E and F: Fluorescent photomicrograph, unstained; magnification x200. Note in E wide fluorescent bands (arrows), no double or single tetracycline labels and ground glass appearance. OSTEOMALACIA Histologically patients with osteomalacia with or without rickets will represent an abundance of unmineralized matrix, sometimes to the extent that whole trabeculae appear to be composed of only osteoid ( Figure 5A ). This will be depicted by quantitative histomorphometry as increases in osteoid volume, surface and thickness (OV/BV, OS/BS and O.TH). However, hyperosteoidosis could be observed in a number of bone diseases with a high turnover. The osteomalacic nature of the hyperosteoidosis is being demonstrated by defective mineralization; irregularity of mineralization fronts ( Figure 5A ); high number of osteoid lamellae ( Figure 5C ); broad single tetracycline fluorescent labels ( Figure 5E ) or no label at all, in contrast to the normal double tetracycline fluorescent labels ( Figure5F ). These qualitative observations have to be supported by the unequivocal changes in quantitative histomorphometry, i.e., decreases in a double and single tetracycline labeled surface (dLS/BS and sLS/BS) and in mineral apposition rate (MAR) as well as prolongation of mineralization lag time (MLT). BIOCHEMICAL FEATURES OF RICKETS AND OSTEOMALACIA The biochemical parameters characterizing disorders in vitamin D action can be divided into those associated with vitamin D status, the primary disturbance in mineral homeostasis and the respective compensatory mechanisms, and changes
