Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


parameters characterizing disorders in vitamin D action can be divided into those associated with vitamin D status, the primary disturbance in mineral homeostasis and the respective compensatory mechanisms, and changes in bone metabolism. Changes in mineral and bone metabolism will be similar in all states of disorders in vitamin D action, while serum levels of vitamin D metabolites will characterize each of the classes delineated in the introduction ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Serum Levels of Vitamin D Metabolites in Patients with Disorders in Vitamin D Action, by Etiology View in own window Serum levels *Etiology 25(OH)D 1,25(OH) 2 D Vitamin D deficiency Low Low to normal 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency Normal to elevated Very low Resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D Normal to elevated Markedly elevated * See section on Definitions and Terminology As previously discussed, disorders in vitamin D action will lead to hypocalcemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Thus, the characteristic biochemical features are low to low-normal concentrations of serum calcium (depending on compensatory parathyroid activity), low urinary calcium excretion, hypophosphatemia, increased serum immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (iPTH) levels, increased urinary cyclic AMP excretion, and decreased tubular reabsorption of phosphate (the last two measures reflecting the biological activity of elevated iPTH). Biochemical markers associated with increased osteoid production as bone specific alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin will be elevated in states of rickets and osteomalacia ( 23 ). DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY Terminology applied to disorders in vitamin D action has led to much confusion. This is principally because the terms were coined prior to our detailed understanding of vitamin D metabolism and mechanism of action. The following will define and clarify the terms deficiency and resistant and point to the limitations and ambiguity of these terms as being currently used as well as additional widely used terms such as pseudodeficiency and dependency. Deficiency States It is important to specify the localization of a defect as precisely as possible. The description of a deficiency state should indicate the most proximal metabolite in the vitamin D biosynthetic pathway that is deficient, emphasizing, if possible, that the concentrations of the immediate precursor of the metabolite specified are normal. For example, low serum levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D could be the end result of vitamin D deficiency or defects in the activity of the renal tubular enzyme 25 (OH)D1α-hydroxylase. Only in the latter case will it be appropriate to define it as calcitriol deficiency. Based
