Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


D deficiency or defects in the activity of the renal tubular enzyme 25 (OH)D1α-hydroxylase. Only in the latter case will it be appropriate to define it as calcitriol deficiency. Based on our current understanding of vitamin D biosynthesis, three states of deficiency could be envisioned involving the major metabolites: vitamin D, 25 (OH) D, and 1,25(OH) 2 D. As mentioned, before it is difficult to measure vitamin D in blood. Thus, in clinical practice the diagnosis of vitamin D deficiency states is usually established by measurements of serum 25(OH)D levels. 25(OH)D measurements as a marker of vitamin D status is due to relatively long half-life of 25(OH)D and levels in the blood relative to vitamin D plus a conversion of vitamin D to 25(OH)D that has been regarded as not tightly regulated. That said, recent findings indicate that CYP2R1, the major hepatic 25-hydroxylase, is influenced by disorders in metabolism ( 10 ) such as the negative impact of obesity induced by a diet high in fat on CYP2R1 expression. ( 24 ). Moreover, mutations in CYP2R1 have also been described leading to osteomalacia accompanied by low 25(OH)D but generally normal 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 25 ). Based on the commonly available measurement of only two vitamin D metabolites, two deficiency states could be defined in clinical practice: low serum 25(OH) levels implying vitamin D and/or 25(OH)D deficiency, but referred mainly to define a vitamin D deficiency with the limitations mentioned above; and calcitriol deficiency, based on low 1,25(OH) 2 D and normal or high 25(OH)D serum levels ( Table 2 ). In theory, the pathogenic mechanism leading to deficiency of any of these metabolites could be categorized to either defective synthesis or increased clearance, with the exception of the parent vitamin D in which the additional possibility of deficient intake has to be taken into account. Each category: deficient synthesis or increased clearance could have a hereditary or acquired etiology and each subcategory could be further divided into simple (implying that the defect is localized only to vitamin D metabolism) or complex (implying that the defect is a part of a more generalized disturbance affecting other metabolic pathways). To demonstrate the practical use and usefulness of the terminology, the following are some examples. Calcitriol deficiency could be caused by hereditary or acquired defects of the renal tubular enzyme 25(OH)D 1α-hydroxylase. If a hereditary defect involves only the vitamin D metabolic
