Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


are some examples. Calcitriol deficiency could be caused by hereditary or acquired defects of the renal tubular enzyme 25(OH)D 1α-hydroxylase. If a hereditary defect involves only the vitamin D metabolic pathway it will be termed simple hereditary calcitriol deficiency. If the defect is a part of a more generalized hereditary disturbance, involving other metabolic pathways as well, e.g., Fanconi syndrome, renal tubular acidosis, X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, or all states of increased FGF-23 secretion, the disorder will be defined as a complex hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency. Decreased calcitriol synthesis could be caused by acquired diseases that usually affect additional metabolic pathways, e.g., chronic renal failure, hypoparathyroidism, tumor induced osteomalacia, thus the appropriate term will be complex acquired 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency due to defective synthesis. Some drugs as barbiturates and the antiepileptic-hydantoin may affect the liver cytochrome P450 enzyme system and increase vitamin D catabolism. It may accelerate vitamin D deficiency usually in patients that have vitamin D insufficiency. Such disturbances will be termed complex acquired vitamin D deficiency due to increased clearance. Intestinal malabsorption either hereditary or acquired interferes with the absorption and enterohepatic recirculation of vitamin D and its metabolites and thus may lead to complex hereditary or acquired vitamin D deficiency due to decreased input. In the skin the substrate for vitamin D, 7-dehydrocholesterol, (7-DHC), is on the Kandutsch-Russell pathway of cholesterol synthesis with the last step of conversion of 7-DHC to cholesterol being performed by 7-DHC reductase (DHCR7). Mutations of this enzyme including polymorphisms as well a number metabolites including vitamin D and cholesterol regulate this enzyme thus also providing for complex hereditary of acquired alterations in vitamin D availability due to changes in its precursor 7-DHC ( 25 ). Resistant States Resistance to a factor may be defined as a state where normal levels of the factor are associated with subnormal bioeffects. This definition has two important determinants, the factor and the bioeffect. In the case of the vitamin D system, the factor can be the parent vitamin D, the 25-hydroxylated metabolite, or calcitriol. Based on vitamin D metabolism and mechanism of action, the term resistance should only be used with the most distal metabolite or the active hormonal form of vitamin D, i.e., 1,25(OH) 2 D. For example, patients with a renal defect in calcitriol synthesis are resistant to vitamin D or 25(OH)D caused by defective calcitriol production, but have a completely normal response
