Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


2 D. For example, patients with a renal defect in calcitriol synthesis are resistant to vitamin D or 25(OH)D caused by defective calcitriol production, but have a completely normal response to physiological replacement doses of 1a-hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites. Several bioeffects in vivo have potential relevance in evaluating states of resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D. These include the effects on bone matrix mineralization and the effect on calcium transport through the small intestine. However, as discussed before, rickets and/or osteomalacia are stereotypic responses of the mineralizing bone matrix to a variety of perturbations not all of which are correlated to disturbances in 1,25(OH) 2 D action. Two clinical examples are presented to clarify this point: a. X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH) was and still is termed vitamin D resistant rickets. However, the unresponsiveness to vitamin D of the bone disease in XLH is due to the fact that the defective mineralization is caused mainly by phosphorus deficiency though there is some suppression of calcitriol synthesis caused by increased FGF-23 secretion; b. Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria is a disease characterized by defective bone matrix mineralization, low serum phosphorus and elevated serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels, taken together, it may look as a resistance to the hormone. However, these patients have increased intestinal absorption of calcium and hypercalciuria. The primary defect in this disease is an isolated defect in a renal phosphate transporter leading to increased renal phosphate clearance, hypophosphatemia, increased 1,25(OH) 2 D production and the appropriate physiological response i.e., increased intestinal calcium absorption. The rickets and/or osteomalacia are the result of phosphorus deficiency rather than unresponsiveness to calcitriol (for details see Endotext chapter Primary Disorders of Phosphate Metabolism). There is no doubt about the pivotal role of calcitriol on net calcium transport across the intestinal epithelium. Thus, intestinal calcium absorption measured directly or assessed by secondary changes in serum and urine calcium and iPTH levels can be utilized as a bioeffect in evaluating states of resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D. When the defect in bone matrix mineralization is caused by calcium deficiency, rickets and/or osteomalacia could be used as an additional bioeffect to define calcitriol resistance. Resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D is defined here as a state in which normal or high levels of the hormone are associated with hypo-or normocalcemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism, rickets and/or osteomalacia caused by calcium deficiency. Pseudovitamin D Deficiency and Vitamin D Dependency The term pseudovitamin
