Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


or high levels of the hormone are associated with hypo-or normocalcemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism, rickets and/or osteomalacia caused by calcium deficiency. Pseudovitamin D Deficiency and Vitamin D Dependency The term pseudovitamin D deficiency refers to a state with biochemical and tissue features of vitamin D deficiency (calcium deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism, impaired bone matrix mineralization) with no history of vitamin D or calcium deficiency or low serum levels of 25(OH)D. This is an ambiguous term as it includes two different diseases:1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency and resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D, the so-called pseudovitamin D deficiency type I and II respectively, and does not include the known etiology and pathogenesis of these disturbances. The term vitamin D dependency has been used interchangeably with pseudovitamin D deficiency. It meant to describe patients capable or responding to, and thus dependent on, supraphysiological doses of vitamin D. This is the situation in patients with simple hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency due to defects in the renal enzyme 25(OH)vitamin D 1α-hydroxylase. Patients with this disease have a complete clinical remission on physiological replacement doses of calcitriol. The term vitamin D dependency type II was applied to describe patients with simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D due to mutations in the vitamin D receptor (VDR), the majority of whom are unresponsive to any dose of vitamin D or its active metabolites, and therefore are not dependent on vitamin D. DISORDERS IN VITAMIN D ACTION Three disorders in vitamin D action will be discussed in this chapter: vitamin D deficiency, mainly simple acquired vitamin D deficiency (i.e., involving only the vitamin D metabolic pathway); simple hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency resulting from defects in calcitriol biosynthesis; simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D caused by defects in calcitriol receptor-effector system. While acquired vitamin D deficiency is the most common disorder, the other two rare inborn errors in vitamin D metabolism will be discussed because of its immense contribution to the understanding of vitamin D metabolism and mode of action in human beings. Vitamin D Deficiency PATHOGENESIS Vitamin D deficiency can be caused by decreased input or increased clearance. Decreased input of vitamin D may be the end result of: a) defective intake due to dietary (nutritional) deficiency or intestinal malabsorption; b) deficient photosynthesis of vitamin D in the skin. Increased vitamin D clearance could result from increased catabolism, mainly in the liver, or increased loss via the kidneys
