Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


intestinal malabsorption; b) deficient photosynthesis of vitamin D in the skin. Increased vitamin D clearance could result from increased catabolism, mainly in the liver, or increased loss via the kidneys or intestine. As discussed, each of these disturbances could be, at least in theory, hereditary or acquired, and further subcategorized as simple (involving only the vitamin D metabolic pathway) or complex (implying a more generalized disturbance). Thus, whenever the diagnosis of vitamin D deficiency is established, there is a need to define the etiology and pathophysiology of the disorder and categorize it accordingly. Vitamin D deficiency due to increased clearance is relatively uncommon in clinical practice and usually is part of more general diseases (i.e., complex disturbances) e.g., protein losing nephropathy, intestinal malabsorption, and increased liver catabolism sometimes caused by certain drugs (e.g., barbiturates, antiepileptics). The rest of this section will deal with vitamin D deficiency caused by decreased input. Vitamin D content of various unfortified food substances is very low with the exception of fatty fish such as herring, mackerel, or cod liver oil. It is estimated that under normal unfortified food consumption, less than 20% of the total circulating 25(OH)D is contributed by nutritional vitamin D. In some countries the dietary content of vitamin D is higher due to vitamin D supplementation of some food products. In the United States, milk is being fortified by 400IU per quart. Increased vitamin D intake could result from habitual use of multivitamins that usually contain 400IU of vitamin D per tablet, or some calcium salt preparations that contain vitamin D as well. These supplements will of course increase the relative contribution of dietary vitamin D intake to the total body vitamin D pool in general, and when cutaneous production of vitamin D is limited, in particular. Gastrointestinal malabsorption will interfere with vitamin D input from the gut and it may affect the enterohepatic recirculation of vitamin D metabolites as well. Thus, intestinal malabsorption may contribute to vitamin D deficiency by decreasing the input and increasing the clearance of the vitamin and its metabolites. Vitamin D deficiency and its clinical and biochemical consequences may be the first sign of occult-malabsorption due, for example, to non-tropical sprue. Vitamin D synthesis in the skin is produced from 7-DHC under the influence of UV light with a maximal effective wave length between 290-310 nm. Thus, levels of 7-DHC regulated by DHCR7 influences the amount of
