Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


is produced from 7-DHC under the influence of UV light with a maximal effective wave length between 290-310 nm. Thus, levels of 7-DHC regulated by DHCR7 influences the amount of vitamin D that can be produced. Cutaneous vitamin D production is also affected by the intensity of the UV light that reaches the body, the surface area of the skin exposed and intrinsic properties of the epidermis. In northern latitudes, during the winter, almost no UV reaches the ground. In the northern parts of the United States, Canada and Northwestern Europe, between October to March, very little or practically no vitamin D is produced in exposed skin. Clothing affected by religious or cultural habits, glass, plastic and sunscreens that are widely used due to concerns of skin cancer effectively block UV radiation and prevent cutaneous vitamin D synthesis. Vitamin D production is much less effective in dark skin, melanin absorbs UV radiation, and in elderly relative to young people. However, even in the elderly, dermal vitamin D production remains very effective. It has been estimated that in summer, a 10-minute exposure, three times a week of the unprotected skin of the head and arms is adequate to prevent vitamin D deficiency in the elderly (for detailed discussion see Endotext chapter Vitamin D: Production, Metabolism, and Mechanisms of Actionand references ( 26 - 28 ). DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of vitamin D deficiency is established by low serum concentrations of 25(OH)D. As discussed, circulating levels of 25(OH)D are a good and reliable measure of vitamin D status in most clinically relevant situations although as mentioned obesity and diabetes mellitus can alter the conversion from vitamin D to 25(OH)D. All additional biochemical parameters as well as clinical signs and symptoms reflect the primary and secondary perturbations in mineral and bone metabolism caused by vitamin D deficiency and are common to all disorders in vitamin D action and calcium deficiency ( Tables 1 , 2 ). Those parameters include low to low normal serum calcium levels, hypocalciuria, secondary hyperparathyroidism, hypophosphatemia, increased levels of biochemical markers of bone turnover, rickets and/or osteomalacia. Therefore, all these measures can be used to support but not to establish the diagnosis, and mainly to assess the relative severity of the vitamin D deficiency and the response to treatment. It is important to note that in vitamin D deficiency, circulating levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D could vary from low to
