Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


the vitamin D deficiency and the response to treatment. It is important to note that in vitamin D deficiency, circulating levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D could vary from low to elevated ( Table 2 ) and thus are useless for the diagnosis. 25(OH)D serum levels are currently being determined in clinical practice by methods that have become more accurate and reproducible, though still with some variability. Reference values of serum 25(OH)D that were population based introduce uncertainty. These reference values differed according to geography, season, dress habits, bed or housebound situations, and age, all of which may affect sunshine exposure and thus vitamin D synthesis, as well as eating habits, local regulation on food fortification, and customs of vitamin supplementation, all of which will affect vitamin D intake. An alternative approach to obtain clinically meaningful reference values was to define health-based parameters, i.e., values of serum 25(OH)D levels below which adverse health outcome may occur. In actuality it is an intervention threshold reference value, below which therapy may prevent adverse effects on the musculoskeletal system ( 29 ). This approach is based on the current notion that though severe vitamin D deficiency will lead to rickets and/or osteomalacia, milder vitamin D deficiency states will not affect bone matrix mineralization, but via its effect on mineral homeostasis will cause secondary hyperparathyroidism, increased bone turnover and bone loss. These aberrations in mineral and bone metabolism will contribute to the development and acceleration of osteoporosis and together with the non-skeletal effects of vitamin D on physical function, will increase the risk of low impact skeletal fractures ( 28 , 30 ). The relationship between serum concentrations of 25(OH) D and iPTH in various vitamin D states was analyzed in multiple studies ( 28 , 31 - 33 ). The aim was to define serum 25(OH)D concentrations below which serum iPTH levels started to increase, or base line 25(OH)D levels above which vitamin D supplementation caused a significant decrease of iPTH serum concentrations. Both approaches yielded similar functional thresholds of serum 25(OH)D levels that affect circulating iPTH concentrations, although the relationship between 25(OH)D and PTH levels is substantially affected by calcium intake. Based on these studies, a diagnostic staging of vitamin D deficiency states, based on serum 25(OH)D levels and secondary perturbation in mineral and bone metabolism has been proposed ( 28 ). Mild vitamin D deficiency (or vitamin D insufficiency) is diagnosed when
