Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


based on serum 25(OH)D levels and secondary perturbation in mineral and bone metabolism has been proposed ( 28 ). Mild vitamin D deficiency (or vitamin D insufficiency) is diagnosed when serum 25(OH)D levels are below 50 nmol/liter (20 ng/ml). This is associated with mild elevations of serum iPTH and biochemical markers of bone turnover. Moderate vitamin D deficiency is defined when serum 25(OH)D levels are below 25 nmol/liter (10 ng/ml). Serum iPTH concentration is moderately increased with high bone turnover. Severe vitamin D deficiency occurs when serum 25(OH)D levels are lower than 12.5 nmol/liter (5 ng/ml), iPTH circulating concentration may be markedly increased and rickets and/or osteomalacia may occur. It is obvious that according to this scheme, vitamin D sufficiency is defined as serum 25(OH)D levels above 50 nmol/liter (20 ng/ml). That said these cut off values remain controversial. A somewhat similar definition was suggested recently by an expert panel for the Institute of Medicine (IOM) (current name National Academy of Medicine (NAM)) recommending that a level of 50 nmol/liter (20 ng/ml) of 25(OH)D was sufficient for 97.5% of the adult USA population, although up to 125 nmol/liter (50 ng/ml) was considered safe ( 34 ). At the same time, another group of experts, from the Endocrine Society, suggested that the most advantageous value of 25(OH)D for musculoskeletal health is 75 nmol/liter (30 ng/ml) ( 35 ). PREVALENCE Serum 25(OH)D levels vary widely among different populations. On average serum 25(OH)D concentration are lower in European countries than in the USA and even lower in some countries in the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. A multinational study (with the exception of North America), in post-menopausal women treated for osteoporosis, revealed that 30-90% (depending on location and season), had serum levels of 25(OH)D below 75 nmol/liter (30 ng/ml), (the highest frequency of women below this level was observed in the Middle East and Asia (two countries in each region)). If the threshold is taken as 50 nmol/liter (20 ng/ml), 31% of the women fell below that threshold. Based on more than 40 studies from Europe, North America, the Middle East and the Asian-Pacific regions ( 28 ), it seems that a gradual decline in mean serum 25(OH)D levels is apparent starting from healthy adults to independent elderly, institutionalized elderly, and the lowest value in patients with hip fracture. Several studies of patients hospitalized for non-traumatic fractures, revealed that few (about 5%)
