Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


from healthy adults to independent elderly, institutionalized elderly, and the lowest value in patients with hip fracture. Several studies of patients hospitalized for non-traumatic fractures, revealed that few (about 5%) of these subjects had serum 25(OH)D levels above 50 nmol/liter (20 ng/ml); the majority of them had vitamin D deficiency of various severity. As discussed, vitamin D status will be determined by cutaneous photosynthesis and intake. The populations at risk to develop vitamin D deficiency are those who have limited sunshine exposure and no vitamin D supplementation. Thus, vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency will be more prevalent in populations that are not exposed to sunshine due to geography-latitude, cultural, religious, and life-style habits, or are less efficient in cutaneous vitamin D synthesis due to age or pigmentation. The most vulnerable populations are those who are unable to move freely, bedridden or their mobility is severely diminished. This is more common at the beginning or the end of the life cycle, i.e., infants and the elderly, but of course it can happen at any age when free movement is limited due to physical or mental handicap. The prevalence of osteomalacia is much lower and will depend on the criteria used for diagnosis, i.e., clinical, biochemical, bone histology or quantitative bone histomorphometry. In a review by Lips ( 28 ) of 19 publications describing bone histomorphometry of the femoral head or iliac crest biopsy in a total of about 1400 patients with hip fracture, the frequency of osteomalacia ranged from none to more than 30%. This difference may reflect different populations but also the histological criteria used to define osteomalacia. The very high incidence of vitamin D deficiency recorded in patients with hip fractures supports the notion that increased fracture risk is not just the outcome of frank osteomalacia but may result from secondary hyperparathyroidism, increased bone turnover, bone loss, and increased risk of low impact fractures caused by vitamin D deficiency. This is further supported by the positive relationship observed between serum 25(OH)D levels (below a certain threshold) and hip BMD ( 28 , 36 , 37 ), and the negative relationship observed between hip BMD and serum iPTH ( 28 , 36 - 38 ). Moreover, a daily dose of 700-800 IU and above of vitamin D and calcium supplementation caused a significant reduction in the incidence of hip and other nonvertebral fractures in women with post-menopausal osteoporosis, including nursing
