Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


700-800 IU and above of vitamin D and calcium supplementation caused a significant reduction in the incidence of hip and other nonvertebral fractures in women with post-menopausal osteoporosis, including nursing home residents ( 29 , 30 , 39 ). TREATMENT Adequate intake of vitamin D was defined recently in the USA by two working groups (NAM and the Endocrine Society) as discussed above. Both reports agree on the recommended dose for infants (400 IU/day) and children (600 IU/day). There is a difference in the recommendations for adults (600 IU/day) until the age of 70 (including pregnant and lactating women) and 800 IU/day above this age (NAM report), while the Endocrine Society recommendations are 1,500-2,000 IU/day for all of the adult population ( 34 , 35 ). In Europe, vitamin D intake recommendations are similar or somewhat lower than the NAM. The upper tolerable daily doses of vitamin D were suggested to be 4,000 IU, 10,000 IU, and 2,000 IU by the NAM, the Endocrine Society guidelines and the European Commission, respectively. There is an unresolved debate on the equipotency of vitamin D 2 versus D 3 , but as vitamin D 3 is widely available, all recommendations are actually for vitamin D 3 . These recommended intakes of vitamin D are usually unachievable if widely consumed food substances are not fortified with vitamin D. Thus, the population at large and the elderly population in particular are dependent on adequate cutaneous vitamin D synthesis, i.e., sunshine exposure, or vitamin D supplementation. In the United States and a few additional countries, milk is fortified with vitamin D, 400 IU per quart or liter, and the consumption of multivitamins containing vitamin D as well is relatively common, but not uniform or mandatory. Thus, in most countries and even in the USA, the elderly and especially the immobile, housebound elderly are prone to develop vitamin D deficiency. Treatment has to be targeted towards the population with the highest risk to develop vitamin D deficiency. For a long period, vitamin D supplementation for infants up to 1 year of age, is mandatory in many countries and the daily dose recommendations was increased from 200 IU/day to 400 IU/day ( 34 , 35 ). Unfortunately, this has not yet become common practice for the elderly population. As discussed, nursing home residents, institutionalized and hospitalized elderly, and patients with hip and other non-traumatic fractures and neurological disorders
