Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


has not yet become common practice for the elderly population. As discussed, nursing home residents, institutionalized and hospitalized elderly, and patients with hip and other non-traumatic fractures and neurological disorders are among the ones with the highest risk of having and developing vitamin D deficiency. Treatment with the recommended doses of vitamin D and calcium (see below) can be initiated even before biochemical screening of 25(OH)D serum levels and indices of mineral and bone metabolism is obtained. This is based on the very high incidence of vitamin D deficiency in this population of patients and on the fact that with the recommended vitamin D doses and the tight physiological control of 1.25(OH) 2 D production, no toxicity is likely to occur at doses of up to 4,000 IU/day for a limited period. It is important to remember that in concordance with vitamin D treatment, the recommended daily calcium allowance must be achieved as well, usually by calcium salt supplementation (see Endotext chapter Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment). The usual recommended oral doses of vitamin D as discussed above are 600 to 1,500 IU daily. In severe vitamin D deficiency, doses of 4,000 IU- to 6,000 IU per day (or the equivalent weekly or twice weekly dose) could be given for the first 4-6 weeks, followed by dose adjustment in accordance with the biochemical response, with the final aim to achieve the recommended maintenance dose. Because vitamin D is stored in fat and released slowly and the half-life of 25(OH)D is 2-3 weeks, the vitamin can be given orally once a week. Studies with administration of vitamin D in megadoses at intervals greater than monthly have shown increased risk of falls and should be avoided ( 28 , 40 - 43 ). The response to treatment with vitamin D will depend on the degree and severity of vitamin D deficiency and the secondary changes in mineral and bone metabolism. In severe vitamin D deficiency with osteomalacia, a dramatic response in the signs, symptoms, and laboratory parameters will be observed. Bone pain and muscle weakness will improve quickly, pseudofractures will show signs of healing on x-ray, and serum calcium, iPTH and biochemical markers of bone turnover will return towards the normal range. In moderate or mild vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency, the response to treatment is more subtle. Muscle weakness and bone pain may improve, serum 25(OH)D levels will increase towards the normal,
