Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


moderate or mild vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency, the response to treatment is more subtle. Muscle weakness and bone pain may improve, serum 25(OH)D levels will increase towards the normal, serum iPTH and biochemical markers of bone turnover will return towards normal (this will be a function of the severity of the initial vitamin D deficiency). In the long run, bone mineral density may increase somewhat and the incidence of fractures may decrease. These results are based on responses of groups of patients in clinical trials and not individuals ( 28 ). 1,25 Dihydroxyvitamin D Deficiency As discussed, 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency is defined as low circulating levels of this metabolite with normal or elevated (depending on preceding vitamin D therapy) serum concentrations of 25(OH)D. In theory, it could be the end result of decreased production or increased clearance. Increased clearance of 1,25(OH) 2 D is uncommon and usually a part of increased clearance of additional vitamin D metabolites such as 25(OH)D, thus it would fit the definition of vitamin D deficiency. Decreased production of 1,25(OH) 2 D could be hereditary or acquired and each one can be subcategorized as simple or complex. Acquired 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency due to defective synthesis is usually part of a more general disease (i.e., complex) as chronic renal failure, acquired Fanconi syndrome, hypoparathyroidism, or tumor induced osteomalacia, that will affect mineral and bone metabolism in a multiple and complex ways that is beyond the scope of this chapter. Thus, the entity to be discussed here will be simple hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency caused by defective synthesis of calcitriol. Prader et al. ( 44 ) were the first to describe two young children who showed all the usual clinical features of vitamin D deficiency despite adequate intake of the vitamin, thus coining the name “pseudovitamin D deficiency.” Complete remission was dependent on continuous therapy with high doses of vitamin D, thus the term “vitamin D-dependent rickets.” However, remission of the disease could be achieved by continuous therapy with physiological (microgram) doses of 1a-hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites ( 45 , 46 ). Family studies have revealed it to be an autosomal recessive disease. Linkage analysis in a subset of French-Canadian families assigned the gene responsible for the disease to chromosome 12q13 ( 47 , 48 ). The gene encoding the 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase (CYP27B1) of mouse kidney, human keratinocytes, and peripheral mononuclear cells was localized on
