Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


- 61 ). No 1α-hydroxylase activity was detected when the mutant enzyme was expressed in various cells. Taken together, these observations support the notion that the etiology of this hereditary disease is a defect in CYP27B1. The beneficial therapeutic effect of high serum concentrations of 25(OH)D in patients treated with massive doses of vitamin D, while 1,25(OH) 2 D levels remain low, may have several possible explanations. First, high levels of 25(OH)D may activate the VDR whose affinity for this metabolite is approximately two orders of magnitude lower than for 1,25(OH) 2 D. Second, a metabolite of 25(OH)D may act directly on target tissue, and finally, high levels of 25(OH)D may drive the production of 1,25(OH) 2 D if the mutated enzyme has some residual function. The differential diagnosis of simple hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency from other hereditary or acquired forms of hypocalcemic rickets and/or osteomalacia especially the one associated with defects in the vitamin D receptor-effector system is based on serum concentrations of calcitriol and the response to treatment with 1-alpha hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites ( Table 2 ). A similar syndrome has been described and studied in a mutant strain of pigs where the mode of inheritance as well as the clinical and biochemical features are similar to the human disease ( 62 , 63 ). Piglets affected by the disease have rickets, elevated 25(OH)D with low or undetectable 1,25(OH) 2 D serum concentrations, normal specific tissue binding sites for tritiated 1,25(OH) 2 D, and no detectable activity of 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase in renal cortical homogenates. Thus, there is strong evidence that the disease state in the pig is caused solely by an inherited defect in the porcine CYP27B1. An animal model in which the gene encoding 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase was knocked out by homologous recombination reproduced all the clinical and biochemical features of this disease including undetectable serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels ( 64 ). Simple Hereditary Resistance to 1,25 Dihydroxy-Vitamin D This is a rare disorder and only about 60 patients have been reported ( 65 ) Brooks et al. ( 66 ) described an adult patient with hypocalcemic osteomalacia and elevated serum concentration of 1,25(OH) 2 D. Treatment with vitamin D, causing a further increase in serum calcitriol levels, cured the patient. The term vitamin D-dependent rickets type II was suggested to describe this disorder. However, reports on additional patients, about half of whom did not respond to
