Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


levels, cured the patient. The term vitamin D-dependent rickets type II was suggested to describe this disorder. However, reports on additional patients, about half of whom did not respond to vitamin D therapy, as well as in vivo and in vitro studies to be discussed below, seem to prove that vitamin D dependency is a misnomer. The term hereditary vitamin D resistant rickets (HVDRR) is the current most widely used name of this disorder. CLINICAL AND BIOCHEMICAL FEATURES General Features The clinical, radiological, histological, and biochemical features (except serum levels of vitamin D metabolites) are typical of hypocalcemic rickets and/or osteomalacia as previously discussed with one exception. Many of these patients develop alopecia in early childhood, not seen in even severe cases of vitamin D deficiency. In these patients there is no history of vitamin D deficiency and no clinical or biochemical response to physiological doses of vitamin D or its 1a-hydroxylated active metabolites. Serum levels of 25(OH)D are normal or elevated (depending on preceding vitamin D therapy); 1,25(OH) 2 D concentrations are markedly elevated before or during therapy with vitamin D preparations ( Table 2 ). The disease manifests itself as an active metabolic bone disease in early childhood. However, late onset at adolescence and adulthood was documented in several sporadic cases including the first report by Brooks et al. ( 66 , 67 ). These patients represented the mildest form of the disease and had a complete remission when treated with vitamin D or its active metabolites. It is unclear if the adult-onset patients belong to the same hereditary entity, as no further studies on their VDR status have been published. Ectodermal Anomalies A peculiar clinical feature of the patients, appearing in more than half of the subjects, is total alopecia or sparse hair ( Figure 6 ). Alopecia usually appears during the first year of life and in one patient, at least, has been associated with additional ectodermal anomalies ( 68 ) ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Patient with mutation in VDR demonstrating both alopecia and changes in dentition. It seems that alopecia is a marker of a more severe form of the disease as judged by the earlier onset, the severity of the clinical features, the proportion of patients who do not respond to treatment with high doses of vitamin D or its active metabolites, and the extremely elevated levels of serum 1,25(OH) 2 D
