Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


the proportion of patients who do not respond to treatment with high doses of vitamin D or its active metabolites, and the extremely elevated levels of serum 1,25(OH) 2 D recorded during therapy ( 69 , 70 ). Though some patients with alopecia could achieve clinical and biochemical remission of their bone disease, none have shown hair growth. The notion that total alopecia is probably a consequence of a defective vitamin D receptor-effector system is supported by the following: alopecia has only been associated with hereditary defects in the VDR system, i.e., with end-organ resistance to the action of the hormone, and has not been recorded with hereditary deficiency in 1,25(OH) 2 D synthesis, i.e., low circulating levels of the hormone ( 71 ); alopecia is present in kindreds with different defects in the VDRs; high-affinity uptake of tritiated 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 in the nucleus of the outer root sheath of the hair follicle of rodents has been demonstrated by autoradiography ( 72 ). Of interest is that mutations in Hairless likewise cause alopecia with histologic features similar to those seen with VDR mutations. Hairless and VDR interact in the keratinocyte suggesting their codependence for regulation of hair follicle cycling ( 73 ). High dietary or infusions of calcium can reverse the skeletal changes but do not reverse the alopecia ( 74 ). Finally, alopecia developed in homozygote VDR knockout mice ( 75 - 77 ). Taken together, it could be hypothesized that an intact VDR-effector system is important for the differentiation of the hair follicle in the fetus, which is unrelated to mineral homeostasis. VITAMIN D METABOLISM Serum concentrations of 1,25(OH) 2 D range from upper normal values to markedly elevated before therapy, but on vitamin D treatment may reach the highest levels found in any living system (100 times and more than the upper normal range) ( 70 ). These values may represent the end results of four different mechanisms acting synergistically to stimulate strongly the renal 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase. Three of the mechanisms are hypocalcemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and hypophosphatemia. The fourth mechanism may be a failure of the negative feedback loop by which the hormone inhibits the renal enzyme activity caused by the basic defect in the VDR-effector system. This was demonstrated in a patient in remission (normal serum levels of calcium, phosphorus and PTH) in whom a load of 25(OH)D3 had caused a marked increase in serum
