Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


system. This was demonstrated in a patient in remission (normal serum levels of calcium, phosphorus and PTH) in whom a load of 25(OH)D3 had caused a marked increase in serum 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 concentration ( 69 , 78 ). It was reported that the 1α-hydroxylase gene expression was not suppressed by 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 in renal tubular cells from VDR knock out mice while it was suppressed in cells with normal VDR or heterozygote for the null mutation ( 6 , 79 ). MODE OF INHERITANCE In approximately half of the reported kindreds, parental consanguinity and multiple siblings with the same defect suggest autosomal recessive mode of inheritance ( 69 ). Parents or siblings of patients who are expected to be obligate heterozygotes have been reported to be normal, i.e., no bone disease or alopecia and normal blood biochemistry. However, studies on cells (cultured dermal fibroblasts, Epstein-Barr transformed lymphoblasts, and mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes) obtained from parents or siblings of affected children revealed decreased bioresponses, decreased normal VDR protein and its mRNA, and a heterozygote genotype exhibiting both normal and mutant DNA alleles ( 80 - 83 ). There is a striking clustering of patients around the Mediterranean, including patients reported from Europe and America who originated from the same area. A notable exception is a cluster of some kindreds from Japan ( 67 , 84 - 89 ). CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR DEFECTS Methods The near ubiquity of a similar if not identical VDR-effector system among various cell types including cells originating from tissues easily accessible for sampling made feasible studies on the nature of the intracellular and molecular defects in patients with simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D. The cells used were mainly fibroblasts derived from skin biopsies ( 69 , 78 , 80 - 82 , 87 , 90 - 104 ) and peripheral blood mononuclear (PBM) cells. PBM cells contain high-affinity receptors for 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 that are expressed constitutively in monocytes and are induced in mitogen-stimulated T-lymphocytes and Epstein-Barr (EB) transformed lymphoblasts. All cells have been used to assess most of the steps in 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 action from cellular and subcellular uptake of the hormone to bioresponse as well as to elucidate the molecular aberrations in the VDR protein, RNA, and DNA. The hormone-receptor interaction has been analyzed by several methods including binding characteristics of 3H 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 to intact
