Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


, 102 , 116 , 117 ). DNA from these affected subjects exhibited a single base mutation that was different in each kindred resulting in a premature stop codon. The truncated VDRs produced lacked hormone binding or both hormone and DNA binding domains ( Figure 7 ) ( 113 - 115 , 117 ). The recreated mutant VDR cDNA was expressed in mammalian cells, and the resulting mutant VDR was demonstrated to be the truncated protein that exhibited no specific hormone binding. In cells cultured from parents of some patients, expected to be obligate heterozygotes, binding of 3H 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 , VDR protein, and mRNA content of cells ranged from the lower limit of normal to about half the normal level. Figure 7. Schematic presentation of homozygous mutation in the VDR protein in simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH)2D. The asterisks depict sites of amino acid substitutions due to point mutation and codon changes, using the numbering system of Baker et ( 13 ); fs-frame shift. In one patient representing a kindred with no hormone binding, a missense mutation resulted in the substitution of the hydrophobic basic arginine 274 by the hydrophilic nonpolar leucine in the hormone binding region ( 116 ) ( Figure 7 ). In this patient, normal transcription could be elicited by 1000-fold higher concentrations of calcitriol than needed for the wild-type receptor. However, no in vivo or in vitro stimulation of 25(OH)D-24-hydroxylase could be obtained by high concentrations of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 (see below). Two siblings without alopecia and no response to any dose of 1,25(OH)2D in vivo and in vitro ( 118 ) had a missense mutation that caused a substitution of tryptophan by arginine at amino acid 286 of the VDR ( 102 ). This substitution in a normal size VDR abolished completely the binding of 1,25(OH) 2 D to its receptor. The tryptophan in this position is critical for the positioning of calcitriol in the VDR as was unveiled by the three-dimensional arrangement of the VDR and its ligand based on its crystal structure. ii. Defective Hormone Binding Capacity. In a patient representing one kindred, the number of binding sites in nuclei and soluble cell extracts was 10% of control, with an apparent normal affinity ( 78 , 105 , 112 ). Recently, a boy with total alopecia, severe rickets and growth retardation was found to have two heterozygote different molecular
