Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


kindreds, in cells cultured from a bone biopsy of one patient ( 94 ), and in EB-transformed lymphoblasts of one patient ( 121 ). Occupied VDR obtained from fibroblast extracts of two kindreds demonstrated normal binding to nonspecific DNA cellulose ( 80 ). Immuno-cytological studies in fibroblasts of a patient with this defect showed that immediately after 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 treatment, VDR accumulated along the nuclear membrane with no nuclear translocation ( 123 ). Patients with this defect included a kindred with normal hair and several kindreds with total alopecia. Finally, almost all patients responded with a complete clinical remission to high doses of vitamin D and its active 1a-hydroxylated metabolites. Attempts to characterize the molecular defect were carried in six kindreds. In three of them, no mutation in the coding region of the VDR gene was observed ( 121 ). Studies in three kindreds, revealed a normal molecular mass and quantitative expression of the VDR ( 122 ). Complete sequencing of the VDR coding region revealed a different single nucleotide mutation in each kindred in a region that is considered to play a role in heterodimerization of VDR with RXR ( Figure 7 ) ( 115 , 122 ). Thus, it has been suggested that these patients’ receptors have defects that compromise RXR heterodimerization, which is essential for nuclear localization and probably for recognition of the vitamin D responsive element as well. The fact that no mutation in the VDR coding region was observed in three additional kindreds with the same phenotypical defect may suggest that the genetic defect affects another component of the receptor effector system that is essential for the VDR function as a nuclear transcription factor. It has been shown that coactivation complexes are essential for the ligand induced transactivation of VDR ( 124 ). Deficient coactivators of the calcitriol-VDR complex. A patient with simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D without alopecia was described ( 104 ). Sequencing of the VDR-DNA revealed a missense mutation in the ligand binding domain that caused a substitution of glutamic acid to lysine at amino acid 120. This receptor exhibits many normal properties including calcitriol binding, dimerization and binding to vitamin D response elements in the DNA, but a marked impairment in binding coactivators that are essential for the transactivation of the hormone receptor complex and the initiation of the physiological response ( 104 ). Defects in the
