Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


, 116 , 121 ). Treating normal transfected cells with 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 caused a concentration-dependent induction of transcription. No induction of transcription was observed in cells originating from patients with defects characterized as no hormone binding ( 130 , 131 )( 116 ) or deficient binding to DNA ( 88 , 89 , 109 , 110 ). Moreover, in a cotransfection assay, the addition of a normal human VDR cDNA expression vector to the transfected plasmid that directed synthesis of a normal VDR, restored hormone responsiveness of resistant cells. Finally, in a patient characterized as deficient nuclear uptake defect, no mutation was identified within the coding region of the VDR gene; no induction of 25(OH)D-24-hydroxylase activity by up to 10 -6 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 was observed in cultured skin fibroblasts, but there was normal transactivation by 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 in the transcriptional activation assay ( 121 ). CELLULAR DEFECTS AND CLINICAL FEATURES Normal hair was described with most phenotypes of the cellular defects, the exception being patients with deficient hormone binding capacity and affinity, but this could be due to the fact that only one or two kindreds were described per subgroup. Normal hair is usually associated with a milder form of the disease, as judged by the age of onset, severity of the clinical features, and usually the complete clinical and biochemical remission on high doses of vitamin D or its metabolites. Notable exceptions are 3 kindreds (4 patients), two of them without alopecia that displayed resistance both in vivo (no clinical remission on circulating calcitriol level up to 100 times the mean normal adult values) and in vitro (no induction of 25(OH)D-24-hydroxylase activity in dermal fibroblasts by up to 10 -8 M 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 ) ( 99 , 102 , 104 ). Only approximately half of the patients with alopecia have shown satisfactory clinical and biochemical remission to high doses of vitamin D or its active 1a-hydroxylated metabolites, but the dose requirement is ~10-fold higher than in patients with normal hair ( 70 ). It seems that patients’ defects characterized as deficient hormone binding affinity and deficient nuclear uptake achieve complete clinical and biochemical remission on high doses of vitamin D or its active 1a-hydroxylated metabolites. Most of the patients with other types of defects could not be cured with high doses of vitamin D or its metabolites. However, it should be
