Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


its active 1a-hydroxylated metabolites. Most of the patients with other types of defects could not be cured with high doses of vitamin D or its metabolites. However, it should be emphasized that not all of the patients received treatment for a long enough period of time and with sufficiently high doses (see Treatment, below). DIAGNOSIS Clinical features of early onset rickets with no history of vitamin D deficiency, total alopecia, parental consanguinity, additional siblings with the same disease, serum biochemistry of hypocalcemic rickets, elevated circulating levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D, and normal to high levels of 25(OH)D ( Table 2 ) support the diagnosis of simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D. The issue becomes more complicated when the clinical features are atypical, i.e., late onset of the disease, sporadic cases, and normal hair. Failure of a therapeutic trial with calcium and/or physiological replacement doses of vitamin D or its metabolites may support the diagnosis but the final direct proof requires the demonstration of a cellular, molecular, and functional defect in the VDR-effector system. Based on the clinical and biochemical features, the following additional disease states should be considered: ( 1 ) extreme calcium deficiency: a seemingly rare situation described in a group of children from a rural community in South Africa, who consumed an exceptionally low calcium diet of 125 mg/day ( 20 ). All had severe bone disease with histologically proven osteomalacia, biochemical features of hypocalcemic rickets with elevated serum levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D, and sufficient vitamin D. Calcium repletion caused complete clinical and biochemical remission. Nutritional history and the response to calcium supplementation support this diagnosis. ( 2 ) Severe vitamin D deficiency: during initial stages of vitamin D therapy in children with severe vitamin D-deficient rickets, the biochemical picture may resemble 1,25(OH) 2 D resistance, i.e., hypocalcemic rickets with elevated serum calcitriol levels. This may represent a “hungry bone syndrome,” i.e., high calcium demands of the abundant osteoid tissue becoming mineralized. This is a transient condition that may be differentiated from simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D by a history of vitamin D deficiency and the final therapeutic response to replacement doses of vitamin D. TREATMENT In about half of the kindreds with simple hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D, the bioeffects of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 were measured in vitro (see above). An invariable correlation (with one exception) was documented between the in
