Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D, the bioeffects of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 were measured in vitro (see above). An invariable correlation (with one exception) was documented between the in vitro effect and the therapeutic response in vivo; i.e., patients with no calcemic response to high levels of serum calcitriol showed no effects of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 on their cells in vitro (either induction of 25(OH))D-24-hydroxylase or inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation) and vice versa. If the predictive therapeutic value of the in vitro cellular response to 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 could be substantiated convincingly, it may eliminate the need for time consuming and expensive therapeutic trials with massive doses of vitamin D or its active metabolites. In the meantime, it is mandatory to treat every patient with this disease irrespective of the type of receptor defect. An adequate therapeutic trial must include vitamin D at a dose that is sufficient to maintain high serum concentrations of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 as the patients can produce high hormone levels if supplied with enough substrate. If high serum calcitriol levels are not achieved, it is advisable to treat with 1a-hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites in daily doses of up to 6 mg/kg weight or a total of 30-60 mg and calcium supplementation of up to 3 g of elemental calcium daily; therapy must be maintained for a period sufficient to mineralize the abundant osteoid (usually 3-5 months). Therapy may be considered a failure if no change in the clinical, radiological, or biochemical parameters occurs during continuous and frequent follow up while serum 1,25(OH) 2 D concentrations are maintained at ~100 times the mean normal range. In some patients with no response to adequate therapeutic trials with vitamin D or its metabolites, a remarkable clinical and biochemical remission of their bone disease, including catch-up growth, was obtained by treatment with large amounts of calcium as noted previously. This was achieved by long-term (months) intracaval infusions of up to 1000 mg of calcium daily ( 102 , 128 , 132 - 134 ). Another way to increase calcium input into the extra cellular compartment is to increase net gut absorption, independent of vitamin D, by increasing calcium intake ( 135 ). This approach is limited by dose and patient tolerability and was actually used successfully in only a few patients. Several patients have shown unexplained fluctuations in response to therapy or in presentation of
