Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


limited by dose and patient tolerability and was actually used successfully in only a few patients. Several patients have shown unexplained fluctuations in response to therapy or in presentation of the disease. One patient after a prolonged remission became completely unresponsive to much higher doses of active 1a-hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites ( 78 ), and another patient seemed to show amelioration of resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 after a brief therapeutic trial with 24,25(OH) 2 D ( 68 ). In several patients, spontaneous healing occurred in their teens ( 106 ) or rickets did not recur for 14 years after cessation of therapy ( 87 ). ANIMAL MODELS Some New World primates (marmoset and tamarins) that develop osteomalacia in captivity are known to have high nutritional requirements for vitamin D and maintain high serum levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D, thus exhibiting a form of end-organ resistance to 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 136 - 139 ). Cultured dermal fibroblasts and EB-virus transformed lymphoblast have shown deficient hormone binding capacity and affinity ( 136 , 137 ). It has been observed that marmoset lymphoblasts contain a soluble protein of 50-60 kDa that binds 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 with a low affinity but high capacity and thus may serve as a sink that interferes with the hormone binding and its cognate receptor ( 140 ). The same group described another protein present in the nuclear extract of these cells capable of inhibiting normal VDR-RXR binding to the vitamin D response element ( 141 ). It is of interest that these New World primates also exhibit a compensated hereditary end-organ resistance to the true steroid hormones including glucocorticoids, estrogens, and progestins ( 142 ). This of course raises the interesting possibility that the defect in the hormone-receptor-effector system involves an element shared by all the members of this superfamily of ligand modulated transcription factors. Subsequent studies have identified the proteins involved as members of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family ( 143 - 145 ). VDR knock out mice have been created by targeted ablation of the first or second zinc finger ( 75 , 76 ). Only the homozygote mice were affected. Though phenotypically normal at birth, after weaning however, they become hypocalcemic, develop secondary hyperparathyroidism, rickets, osteomalacia and progressive alopecia. The female mice with ablation of the first zinc finger are infertile and show uterine hypoplasia and impaired folliculogenesis. Otherwise, both VDR
