Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


develop secondary hyperparathyroidism, rickets, osteomalacia and progressive alopecia. The female mice with ablation of the first zinc finger are infertile and show uterine hypoplasia and impaired folliculogenesis. Otherwise, both VDR cell mutant mice show clinical, radiological, histological and biochemical features that are identical to the human disease. Supplementation with a calcium enriched diet can prevent or treat most of the disturbances in mineral and bone metabolism in these animal models except alopecia ( 77 ). It is of interest that targeting expression of the human VDR to keratinocytes of VDR null mice prevented alopecia without correcting the mineral disorder ( 146 ). Further evidence that the role of VDR in hair follicle cycling is ligand independent comes from the observation that mice in which Cyp27b1, the enzyme solely responsible for producing 1,25(OH) 2 D, has been deleted do not lose hair ( 147 ) CONCLUDING REMARKS Acquired vitamin D deficiency, especially moderate or mild (sometimes referred to as vitamin D insufficiency), is much more common than previously appreciated. It may affect more than 50% of populations with limited sunshine exposure and no vitamin D supplementation. In the less severe forms of vitamin D deficiency, there is no defective bone matrix mineralization, but an increased bone loss secondary to the perturbations in calcium homeostasis and secondary hyperparathyroidism, which accelerates the development of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women, the elderly population at large in general, and some subgroups in particular such as those on drugs that contribute to bone loss or deficient in calcium intake. Osteomalacia, which marks severe vitamin D deficiency, may affect some of these patients as well. Based on these observations, it is highly recommended for anyone taking care of the elderly, especially the house or bed bound, institutionalized or patients with physical or mental deficiencies that limit their free movement, to consider and evaluate their vitamin D status. It seems to be good clinical practice and cost effective to recommend vitamin D supplementation for populations at risk, as a measure to prevent the deleterious effects of vitamin D deficiency on the musculoskeletal system. Hereditary deficiencies in vitamin D action are rare disorders. The importance of studying these diseases stems from the fact that they represent a naturally occurring experimental model that helps to elucidate the function and importance of vitamin D and the VDR-effector system in human beings in vivo. VDRs are abundant and widely distributed among most tissues
