Disorders in the Action of Vitamin D
KEYWORDS: vitamin, pubmed, deficiency, rickets, bone, clinical, patients, normal, hereditary, levels, serum, calcium, journal, cells, vdr


model that helps to elucidate the function and importance of vitamin D and the VDR-effector system in human beings in vivo. VDRs are abundant and widely distributed among most tissues studied and multiple effects of calcitriol are observed on various cell functions in vitro. Yet, the clinical and biochemical features in patients with simple hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency and resistance seems to demonstrate that the most important disturbances of clinical relevance are perturbations in mineral and bone metabolism. This emphasizes the pivotal role of 1,25(OH) 2 D in transepithelial net calcium fluxes. Moreover, the fact that in patients with extreme end-organ resistance to calcitriol, calcium infusions correct the disturbances in mineral homeostasis and cure the bone disease may support the notion that defective bone matrix mineralization is secondary to disturbances in mineral homeostasis. That said, the widespread distribution of the VDR and the enzymes metabolizing vitamin D to its active metabolites have led to numerous studies into its non-skeletal actions with the hope that vitamin D may play a role in the treatment of diseases such as cancer, heart disease, respiratory illness, inflammatory diseases, and diabetes. Characterization of the molecular, cellular, and functional defects of the different natural mutants of the human VDR in simple hereditary 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency and resistance, demonstrates the essentiality of the VDR as the mediator of calcitriol action and the importance and function of its different domains, i.e., binding of the hormone, an RXR isoform, and binding to a specifically defined DNA region, as well as coactivators and corepressor complexes. Thus, studies in patients with hereditary deficiencies in vitamin D action are the essential link between molecular defects and physiological relevant effects in human beings. REFERENCES 1. Ohyama Y, Noshiro M, Eggertsen G, Gotoh O, Kato Y, Bjoerkhem I, Okuda K. Structural characterization of the gene encoding rat 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 24-hydroxylase. Biochemistry. 1993; 32 (1):76–82. [ PubMed : 8418863 ] 2. Akeno N, Saikatsu S, Kawane T, Horiuchi N. Mouse Vitamin D-24-Hydroxylase: Molecular Cloning, Tissue Distribution, and Transcriptional Regulation by 1α,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3*. Endocrinology. 1997; 138 (6):2233–2240. [ PubMed : 9165006 ] 3. Fu GK, Portale AA, Miller WL. Complete Structure of the Human Gene for the Vitamin D 1α-Hydroxylase, P450c1α. DNA and Cell Biology. 1997; 16 (12):1499–1507. [ PubMed : 9428799 ] 4. Monkawa T, Yoshida T, Wakino S, Shinki T, Anazawa H, Deluca HF, Suda T, Hayashi M, Saruta T. Molecular Cloning
