Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


Chapter 5 Coronary artery disease Background Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of mortality in the developed world. It results from the collision of ancient genes with modern lifestyles: a hunter–gatherer lifestyle – with high daily energy expenditure and rare kills – favors a tendency to eat large quantities of high-calorie food when it is available. Such predispositions sit uneasily in a modern world with motorized transport and fatty snacks on every corner. Despite this, so-called "hardening of the arteries" was first described only in the 1700s, and it was not until the 1900s that a good description of myocardial infarction (MI) was forthcoming. The term "coronary artery disease" encompasses a range of diseases that result from atheromatous change in coronary vessels. In the past, CAD was thought to be a simple, inexorable process of artery narrowing, eventually resulting in complete vessel blockage (and MI). However, in recent years the explanatory paradigm has changed because it was realized that a whole spectrum of coronary plaques exists – from stable (lipid-poor, thick fibrous cap) to unstable (lipid-rich, thin fibrous cap) (see Figure 1). When an unstable plaque ruptures – and the more unstable it is, the more likely it is to rupture – the subsequent release of prothrombotic and vasoconstrictive factors increases the likelihood of complete occlusion of the artery. It is the balance between the body's prothrombotic and thrombolytic pathways at the rupture site that determines the clinical outcome. Transient occlusion leads to ischemia and pain; permanent occlusion leads to transmural MI (see Table 1). Figure 1 An atherosclerotic plaque consists of a core of dead foam cells (lipid-engorged macrophages and smooth muscle cells) covered by a fibrous cap (a region of the intimal layer that has become thickened as a result of medial smooth muscle cells depositing (more...) Table 1 Subgroups of coronary artery disease presentations. MI: myocardial infarction. Thrombosis in Myocardial Infarction The hypothesis that thrombosis plays a central role in myocardial infarction was first proposed by James Herrick in JAMA in 1912. This paper was the first to suggest that clots, rather than a slow accretion of plaque, are responsible for the complete occlusion that would often result in death. Importantly, he was the first to link symptoms in living patients with coronary artery disease, and to suggest that patients can survive complete blockage. These ideas were radical and new and (not surprisingly) no
