Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


first to link symptoms in living patients with coronary artery disease, and to suggest that patients can survive complete blockage. These ideas were radical and new and (not surprisingly) no one believed him. The establishment of these pathophysiological origins of CAD, together with the identification of improved clinical markers for ischemia and necrosis, has led to the proposal of a new (somewhat controversial) definition for acute MI: a rise and fall in troponin or the creatine kinase 1/19 myocardial band fraction (CK-MB) (see "Markers of myocardial damage" section), plus at least one of the following: ischemic symptoms development of pathological Q waves on the electrocardiogram (ECG) ST-segment elevation or depression on the ECG coronary artery intervention (eg, angioplasty) Angina Pectoris William Heberden defined angina pectoris in 1768 and provided a clear description of the familiar pain. However, it was Edward Jenner and Caleb Parry who linked this "disorder of the breast" with the "hardening" of the arteries that had been described by Giovanni Morgagni 7 years earlier. Assessment History and examination History-taking is the most valuable technique for differentiating between the many causes of chest discomfort. The classic symptoms of angina are well known: a sensation of a constriction of the chest with variable levels of radiation to the neck, jaw, both arms, and occasionally to the epigastrium or through to the back. The pain is worse with exertion, especially in cold air; improved by rest and nitrates; and often follows a meal. Retrosternal pain in particular (often described by patients as "pressure") suggests that angina is the cause. Pains that are localized elsewhere, described as sharp or stabbing, or reproduced by palpation are much less likely to be cardiac in origin. The term "unstable angina" encompasses a number of presentations, including pain that: occurs at rest lasts longer than 30 minutes is not relieved by several doses of sublingual nitrate is elicited over days or weeks by gradually smaller amounts of exertion (crescendo angina) Examination of the cardiovascular system is mandatory in any patient reporting chest pain. Sweating, nausea, and vomiting are suggestive of MI, while complications of MI – such as heart failure (third heart sound and basal crackles) ventricular septal defect (VSD), harsh systolic murmur, or papillary muscle rupture – should be excluded. Atypical chest pain A common presentation in general practice is chest pain accompanied by an atypical history. In such cases, it is essential that
