Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


coronary artery disease. HDL: high-density lipoprotein; LDL: low- a density lipoprotein; Lp(a): lipoprotein little a. These are classified as major by some bodies. Table 3 European Society of Cardiology table of lifestyles and characteristics associated with an increased risk of a future coronary heart disease (CHD) event. HDL: high-density lipoprotein; LDL: low-density lipoprotein. Smoking There are a wealth of products aimed at smoking cessation. Older products such as nicotine chewing gum have been replaced by nicotine patches and nicotine inhalers, and many products have been shown to have clear benefits in helping people to stop smoking. However, if someone is to succeed at giving up smoking, it is important that certain vital support mechanisms are in place before they attempt it: it is essential that the patients' families and partners are supportive patients should allocate a particular date and time to stop smoking. This should be a few weeks subsequent to the decision to stop, to allow time for planning and reflection 3/19 patients should identify (and write down) the "at-risk" times when they envisage that temptation and craving will be greatest, for example with coffee or in a bar. They can then focus, in advance, on these situations and devise a way to avoid giving in on the allotted date, patients should remove all cigarettes and smoking materials from the house patients should keep diaries of their progress and report regularly to their doctor Most people can stop smoking using these techniques. In cases where it is not successful, pharmacological help in the form of bupropion (Zyban) may be indicated. Helping patients to stop smoking is an extremely worthwhile endeavor. The risk tables (see Figures 2 and 3) show just how much there is to be gained by changing smoking status. Figure 2 Coronary heart disease risk tables for men and women. Reproduced with permission from the European Society of Cardiology (Prevention of coronary heart disease in clinical practice. Recommendations of the Second Joint Task Force of European and other Societies (more...) Figure 3 Coronary heart disease risk tables for men and women with diabetes. Reproduced with permission from the European Society of Cardiology (Prevention of coronary heart disease in clinical practice. Recommendations of the Second Joint Task Force of European (more...) Basic science Exercise training exerts many beneficial changes at the cellular and molecular level. An exercise-induced increase in blood flow may exert its beneficial effects on vascular
