Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


of European (more...) Basic science Exercise training exerts many beneficial changes at the cellular and molecular level. An exercise-induced increase in blood flow may exert its beneficial effects on vascular reactivity and structure through an increase in the elaboration of several endothelium- derived substances, such as nitric oxide, prostacyclin, and superoxide dismutase. Although prostacyclin may exert its antiatherogenic effects by inhibiting the uptake of cholesterol esters into macrophages or into smooth muscle cells, nitric oxide contributes strongly to the inhibition of monocyte adhesion, and inhibits platelet aggregation at much lower concentrations than those needed to inhibit adhesion, thereby allowing platelets to participate in the repair of the vessel wall, while at the same time preventing or limiting thrombus formation. Flow also modulates the expression of numerous paracrine substances, including endothelial growth factors, matrix modulators, chemokines, and regulators of blood fluidity, all of which may participate in the beneficial effects of exercise-induced vascular remodeling and reactivity. Finally, exercise-induced changes in flow also have other antiatherogenic effects. Endothelial cells exposed to shear stress elaborate less superoxide anion; this may in part be due to increased transcription of superoxide dismutase. There are also shear stress responsive elements in the promoter region of several adhesion molecules (eg, intercellular adhesion molecule) that may reduce their gene expression. 4/19 Diet The central components of a healthy diet are well known: low in fat; low in salt; low in cholesterol; low in calories. In detail, patients should consume a diet high in fiber (>20 g/day), and low in fat (<10% of total amount of calories) and cholesterol (<300 mg/day). However, helping patients to achieve this is another matter. Dieticians and specialist nurses can give patients the advice and support they need to improve their diet. Physical activity It is very important that an increase in physical activity accompanies an improved diet and giving up smoking. Exercise can be an enjoyable undertaking for patients. It can help them to: improve their mood feel more energetic be less restricted in what they eat relax more sleep better take a break from their normal routine With these benefits, it is surprising that anyone needs to be persuaded to exercise. Major bodies, led by the American College of Sports Medicine, recommend that patients exercise for 30 minutes on at least 3 days per week at a submaximal exercise intensity. However, exercise does not have to comprise formal exercise; it can include
