Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


made up of cholesterol, triglycerides, phospholipids, and protein. The major classes of lipoproteins (which vary in density, size, and triglyceride/cholesterol ratio) are: chylomicrons (the largest and least dense) very low-density lipoproteins (VLDLs) low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) HDLs Lipids originate from two sources: endogenous lipids, synthesized in the liver, and exogenous lipids, ingested and processed in the intestine (see Figure 4). Figure 4 Lipid transport and pharmacotherapeutic agents in hyperlipidemia (see "Lipid-lowering agents" text). BA: bile acid; Chol: cholesterol; Chylo: chylomicron; Chylo rem: chylomicron remnant; FA: fatty acid; HDL: high-density lipoprotein; HMG-CoA: hydroxymethylglutaryl (more...) Dietary cholesterol and triglycerides are packaged into chylomicrons in the intestine, before passing into the bloodstream via lymphatics. Chylomicrons are broken down by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in the capillaries of muscle and adipose tissue to fatty acids, which then enter the cells. The chylomicron remnants, which have lost much of their triglyceride content, are taken up by the liver for disposal. The liver synthesizes triglycerides and cholesterol, and packages them as VLDLs before releasing them into the blood. When VLDLs (which consist mainly of triglyceride) reach muscle and adipose blood vessels, their triglycerides are hydrolyzed by LPL to fatty acids. The fatty acids that are released are taken up by the surrounding muscle and adipose cells. During this process, the VLDLs become progressively more dense and turn into LDLs. While most of the resulting LDLs are taken up by the liver for disposal, some circulate and distribute cholesterol to the rest of the body tissues. HDLs, which are also secreted from the liver and intestine, have the task of preventing lipid accumulation. They remove surplus cholesterol from tissues and transfer it to LDLs that return it to the liver. To regulate cholesterol uptake, cells vary the expression of their LDL receptors. Elevated concentrations of lipid (hyperlipidemia) can lead to the development of atherosclerosis and CAD. VLDLs and LDLs are atherogenic lipoproteins, whereas HDL concentrations are inversely related to the incidence of CAD. Hence, treatments for hyperlipidemia aim to reduce LDL levels and raise HDL levels. Pharmacotherapeutic options in hyperlipidemia include: statins, which inhibit hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA), the rate- limiting enzyme of cholesterol synthesis in the liver. A reduction in cholesterol synthesis causes the liver to increase the number of LDL receptors, reducing circulating concentrations of both cholesterol and triglyceride cholestyramine, which is a lipid-lowering drug that acts by sequestering bile acids in the gut, thus increasing
