Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


usually carried out on a treadmill, but bicycle exercise can also be used. The patient exercises according to a set protocol from rest to maximum exertion, which should be reached in 8–12 minutes. The protocol most commonly used was originally described by Robert Bruce and bears his name (see Figure 5). There are, however, good reasons to consider a protocol that is individualized for each patient. Diagnostic exercise tests focus predominantly on the ST segment, which must fall more than 1 mm from rest and be horizontal or downsloping to be significant. ST depression does not localize ischemia so it cannot reveal anything about a suspected coronary lesion, but it does enable a classification of mild, intermediate, or severe CAD to be made. Figure 5 (a) The Bruce exercise protocol. The patient starts exercising at a speed of 2.7 km/h on a gradient of 10%. The workload is intensified every 3 minutes by increasing the speed and the incline of the treadmill, until the endpoint is achieved. (b) The modified (more...) The exercise test is also useful for recording other variables, ie, work capacity; maximum heart rate and chronotropic incompetence; blood pressure rise and recovery; and heart rate recovery. 8/19 Work capacity (presumably reflecting left ventricular [LV] function) and heart rate recovery are very strong prognostic indicators for CAD. Contraindications to exercise testing and reasons for stopping an exercise test are outlined in Table 4. Table 4 Contraindications to and reasons for stopping an exercise test. HCM: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; LBBB: left bundle branch block. It is important to appreciate where the value of the exercise test lies: exercise ECG on its own has low sensitivity (<50%) but high specificity (>90%) – ie, it is very good at ruling disease in, but not good at ruling it out the meaning of the test results is significantly affected by the pretest probability of disease (see Table 5). For example, exercise-induced ST depression in a young woman with no risk factors is likely to be a false positive incorporating clinical and demographic information into the basic test result by calculating diagnostic "scores" can increase the sensitivity and specificity to >90% (see Figure 6) patients without a clear diagnosis from the exercise tolerance test should have another noninvasive test Table 5 Pretest likelihood of coronary artery disease (CAD) in symptomatic patients according to age and sex – each value represents the percentage of patients
