Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


should have another noninvasive test Table 5 Pretest likelihood of coronary artery disease (CAD) in symptomatic patients according to age and sex – each value represents the percentage of patients found to have significant CAD on catheterization. Reproduced with permission from Lippincott (more...) Figure 6 The Duke score, which is the most commonly used risk score, can be used for diagnosis as well as prognosis. To use this nomogram: determine (i) the maximum amount of downsloping or planar ST depression, and (ii) the type of angina during exercise. Connect (more...) A diagnostic algorithm for CAD is outlined in Figure 7. Most guidelines suggest the use of an alternative test if the preprobability is low. If the preprobability is high, exercise testing adds little in the way of diagnosis, but is useful for risk stratification. The primary role of exercise testing is where preprobability is intermediate. Figure 7 Diagnostic algorithm for coronary artery disease. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. Nuclear cardiology Isotopes such as thallium-201 or technetium (Tc)-99m can be used to provide information on cardiac function. Perfusion imaging is used to assess regional blood flow by comparing the relative distribution of isotope at rest and under conditions of stress. Stress is provided either by exercise or by 9/19 pharmacological tools such as inotropes (eg, dobutamine) or vasodilators (eg, adenosine or dipyridamole). The isotope is injected at the peak of exercise and the image captured with a gamma camera. Rest images are usually achieved several hours later. The "exercise" and "rest" images are compared to identify perfusion defects that are either "fixed" (eg, the scar of an old MI) or "reversible" (ischemic disease). Thallium-201 has been the isotope of choice for many years, but more recently centers have been using Tc-99m-labeled compounds, such as sestamibi, which achieve a higher resolution from a lower dose of radiation. Single photon emission CT (SPECT) is a technique that employs a gamma camera head that rotates around the patient to provide three-dimensional images. Isotopes are also used in ventriculography. Estimates of LV function arrived at using this imaging technique are more accurate and reproducible than those resulting from echo. Consequently, ventriculography is indicated in: cardiomyopathy assessment pretransplant work-up any situation where accurate risk assessment is critical Two types of protocol are used: equilibrium and first-pass. The former, which is more common, uses a sample of the patient's blood labeled with Tc-99m. Information is gathered from each
