Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


Two types of protocol are used: equilibrium and first-pass. The former, which is more common, uses a sample of the patient's blood labeled with Tc-99m. Information is gathered from each heartbeat over the time of equilibration (a few minutes) then averaged to give the final reading. In the first-pass technique, a bolus of radionuclide is injected and information is gathered over a much shorter time with a fast gamma camera. Stress echocardiography Stress echo is gaining in popularity because it has: a higher predictive value than exercise ECG a lower cost and better safety profile than perfusion scintigraphy Ultrasound is used to detect the difference in wall movement between ischemic and nonischemic myocardium (nonischemic myocardium moves less). Furthermore, the location of the wall- motion abnormalities enables the coronary disease pattern to be predicted – this is not possible from ST-segment depression on an exercise ECG. Stress echo is thus indicated when: LBBB is present on the resting ECG the exercise ECG is inconclusive for other reasons immobility or lung disease precludes the practical use of exercise as a cardiac stress (pharmacological stress echo only) Stress echo can also provide information on stunned or hibernating myocardium. The former is myocardium that after a period of acute ischemia and reperfusion remains, for a time, hypokinetic at rest. Hibernating myocardium is a more chronic situation in which the blood flow of a segment is not adequate for function, yet is sufficient for it to remain viable. During periods of stress, these areas of myocardium "recover" and their viability can be detected as improvements (compared with at rest) in segmental contraction on exposure to low-dose pharmacological stress. Stress echo is a useful technique in the hands of an experienced operator in a patient with a good echo window. Views can also be greatly improved by the use of a supine bicycle. Electron beam computed tomography 10/19 This is a new technique that relies on imaging calcium in coronary lesions. It can quantify the "atherosclerotic burden" in the form of a calcium score to give an estimate of risk or to monitor the effect of, for example, lipid-lowering therapy. However, there is some doubt over how much information this measure adds to standard risk factors. Furthermore, vulnerable plaque often does not contain much calcium. The "holy grail" is a test that can locate and quantify "vulnerable" plaque, but this has not yet been found. Magnetic
