Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


Furthermore, vulnerable plaque often does not contain much calcium. The "holy grail" is a test that can locate and quantify "vulnerable" plaque, but this has not yet been found. Magnetic resonance imaging Most cardiologists agree that the future of noninvasive imaging of the heart lies with MRI. This technology can fulfill many of the functions of traditional tests and in most cases improve on them: cardiac anatomy and morphology can be assessed with a high degree of spatial resolution using "black-blood" imaging in cine mode (like two-dimensional echo), resolutions can be achieved that are significantly greater than those obtained with ultrasound and good views can be imaged and processed in under 30 seconds LV function – including under exercise/pharmacological stress – can be achieved with a single breath-hold and the circumferential shortening calculated wall-motion abnormalities can be assessed using tagging techniques perfusion imaging can be carried out with a single breath-hold and two R–R intervals In fact, the only technique that is still some way from routine clinical application is magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the coronary vessels (larger vessel MRA has been possible for some time). However, as new technology moves the field forward, this is likely to become more attainable, and with it the tempting prospect of cross-sectional imaging and plaque characterization. Stable angina: treatment Cardiac catheterization Since cardiac MRI is still only available in the bigger centers, coronary artery catheterization remains the diagnostic gold standard in CAD. As the conduit for coronary intervention, its position is also safe from advances in imaging technology. Catheterization can also be used in a variety of settings aside from CAD, such as ventricular dysfunction, valve disease, detection and quantification of shunts, and other congenital and acquired structural abnormalities. The basic procedure of PTCA involves cannulation of the femoral artery, with manipulation of a catheter over a guide wire to the site of stenosis. Dye is injected into each coronary artery in turn to assess flow. Flow is graded using a system first put forward by the TIMI (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction) investigators (see Table 6). In balloon angioplasty a balloon is inflated (using the image-enhancing contrast dye) to compress the atheroma and dilate the artery (see Figure 8). Until recently, this was the intervention of choice. However, balloon angioplasty has a restenosis rate of 30% over 6 months and a high rate of coronary artery dissection. Consequently, the use of coronary
