Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


was the intervention of choice. However, balloon angioplasty has a restenosis rate of 30% over 6 months and a high rate of coronary artery dissection. Consequently, the use of coronary artery stents (see Figure 8), which have lower rates of restenosis and artery dissection, has become common practice. These are deployed using a balloon. Most recent work has focussed on drug-eluting stents (which elute anti-inflammatory or anti-proliferative agents), which seem dramatically to reduce the incidence of restenosis. Table 6 11/19 System (devised by the TIMI [Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction] investigators) used to grade the flow of contrast dye that has been injected into coronary arteries during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Figure 8 Balloon angioplasty is used to compress atherosclerotic narrowing and dilate the artery. A balloon is directed over a guidewire to the site of stenosis where it is inflated (by contrast medium) to push open the narrowing or deploy the stent. Pioneers In 1929, Werner Forssmann – a German cardiologist – went against the express advice of his boss and, with the help of a nurse, inserted a catheter through an arm vein into his own heart. This was the first time a human heart had ever been catheterized. He saw the successful catheterization images on a fluoroscope screen – only by using a mirror. A pioneer of cardiology, he published his paper in Klinische Wochenschrift in 1929 and, although he catheterized only one patient's heart, he went on to catheterize his own heart another eight times. Other, less common percutaneous techniques include radioactive stents and atherectomy (where the atheroma is physically removed from the artery). Insertion of a metal object into an artery is a prothrombotic event. Hence, stenting is carried out in conjunction with antithrombotic therapy. Infusional antithrombotic agents (eg, abciximab – see below) are used as an adjunct during angioplasty while oral antiplatelet agents, such as ticlopidine and clopidogrel, are used for 1 month post stent. (However, ticlopidine has been plagued by problems of bone marrow suppression.) 1 Abciximab – a chimeric murine–human Fab fragment monoclonal antibody – and the small molecule inhibitors tirofiban and eptifibatide are members of a new class of antithrombotics. These agents function by inhibiting glycoprotein (GP)IIb/IIIa, a receptor abundant on platelets. When platelets are activated, this receptor binds fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor, leading to platelet aggregation. The benefit from these agents almost certainly relates to microembolization since: there is good
