Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


When platelets are activated, this receptor binds fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor, leading to platelet aggregation. The benefit from these agents almost certainly relates to microembolization since: there is good evidence from autopsy studies that, following spontaneous or instrumented coronary plaque disruption, small aggregates of platelets, cholesterol, or other plaque material can be found in distal microvessels it has been demonstrated, using filter devices and contrast echo, that microembolization is common following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and is almost certainly the basis of "no reflow" – when perfusion is limited following PCI despite adequate restoration of flow in the infarct-related artery troponin levels, which are thought to be a sensitive marker for this type of damage, are elevated following approximately 40% of procedures. (Note that, in unstable angina, the benefit of GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors is not limited to those with elevated troponin levels.) Overall, complications from cardiac catheterization are relatively rare (totaling ~5%). They include: 12/19 contrast allergy response (very rare due to modern dyes) local hemorrhage from puncture sites with subsequent thrombosis false aneurysm or arteriovenous (AV) malformation vasovagal reactions coronary dissection aortic dissection or ventricular perforation air or atheroma embolism, which can occur in either the coronary or other arterial circulations with consequent ischemia or stroke ventricular dysrhythmias, which are seen and may even cause death in the setting of left main stem disease The First Human Coronary Angiogram The first human coronary angiogram was, in fact, carried out by mistake by Mason Sones of the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, USA, in 1958. Carrying out a standard LV angiogram, he paused – leaving the catheter in the aorta – to have a midprocedure smoke with his second operator. He returned, and relying on a pressure reading rather than direct visualization to determine the position of the catheter, he injected the RCA instead of the left ventricle. Realizing the mistake immediately from the outline of the RCA on the fluoroscope screen, he rapidly removed the catheter – just as his patient arrested. Hesitating, with scalpel in hand prepared for open chest defibrillation, he noticed the rhythm was asystole and not ventricular fibrillation. Thinking he might be able to help clear the dye without resorting to direct application of the paddles onto the myocardium, he pounded his patient's chest shouting "Cough! Cough!" Perhaps it was a cough, or maybe the precordial thump, or a perhaps even its repeated application that restarted
