Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


onto the myocardium, he pounded his patient's chest shouting "Cough! Cough!" Perhaps it was a cough, or maybe the precordial thump, or a perhaps even its repeated application that restarted the patient's heart, but certainly the fact that the patient recovered was the spark that ignited a revolution in diagnostic medicine. a ( Presaging CPR – a technique not practiced for several years subsequently.) Overall mortality rates are quoted at less than one in 1,000 cases, but this increases to one in 100 for higher risk cases. Coronary artery bypass grafting Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is the technique of choice for three-vessel disease with depressed LV function and left main stem coronary disease. However, since coronary interventions have become much more sophisticated some studies have shown equal benefit from percutaneous treatment as compared with surgical treatment in patients with three-vessel disease. During surgery, the patient undergoes sternotomy followed by heart–lung bypass and cardiac arrest. A portion of the saphenous vein is dissected from the leg, reversed (to orientate the venous valves in the appropriate direction), and attached proximally to the aortic root and distally to the coronary artery (see Figure 9). The LIMA, which originates from the left subclavian artery, can also be used as a conduit. It is disconnected at its distal end only and the cut end is connected to the LAD. In the same way, the right internal mammary artery (RIMA) can be connected to the RCA. A clear benefit of LIMA/RIMA CABG is improved graft patency, both perioperatively and in the long term (10 years). Other arteries that can be used include the radial and the gastroepiploic. 13/19 Figure 9 Sites of heart bypass grafting: a saphenous vein graft and a left internal mammary artery graft are shown. Due to the risks of heart–lung bypass – such as postbypass cognitive deficit – some centers now practice beating heart surgery. In this procedure the heart is not arrested: the section of the heart that is to be operated on is stabilized locally by the "suckers" (vacuum-operated suction clamps) of a device known as an octopus. Another technique is minimally invasive bypass, which uses small incisions and LIMA grafts. Evidence base With these rapid advances in both surgical and percutaneous techniques, much of the evidence base is out of date. For example, there are no definitive data indicating that angioplasty saves lives in stable CAD. Previous trials
