Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


surgical and percutaneous techniques, much of the evidence base is out of date. For example, there are no definitive data indicating that angioplasty saves lives in stable CAD. Previous trials have shown that CABG can benefit outcome in: symptomatic, significant left main stem disease; symptomatic proximal three-vessel disease; and two-vessel disease including the proximal LAD. Patients with moderately impaired LV function benefit more from CABG than those with poor LV function, who have greater operative mortality (overall mortality is around 2.8%, but rises to 3.7%–12% for an emergency procedure). Most cardiologists believe that new trials will demonstrate a mortality benefit for coronary stenting, possibly for three-vessel disease and perhaps even over and above that of bypass. Acute coronary syndromes: assessment Risk assessment is the key to in-hospital management of acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Patients with ST elevation need to be considered immediately for thrombolysis or acute intervention. Other patients should be closely monitored (preferably in a coronary care unit) if they have risk factors, previous infarction, poor ventricular function, and changing ST segments. In this situation, the key investigation is the measurement of cardiac enzymes. Markers of myocardial damage A number of markers for not only infarction, but also noninfarct ischemia, are now available. The transaminases aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) no longer offer any advantage over the other markers and in fact often cause false-positive results. Timescales of the variation in levels of the most commonly used markers for myocardial damage are outlined in Table 7 and Figure 10. Of the markers in Table 7, troponin I or T are the most specific and sensitive markers to rule acute MI out or in. Table 7 Timescales for the variation in levels of markers for myocardial damage. CK-MB: creatine kinase myocardial a band fraction; LDH1: lactate dehydrogenase 1. Creatine kinase has three isoenzymes, of which CK-MB is the most cardiac specific. However, other (more...) Figure 10 Appearance of cardiac markers in the blood after onset of symptoms. CK: creatine kinase; CK-MB: creatine kinase myocardial band fraction; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase. Acute coronary syndromes: treatment 14/19 Pharmacological agents The first-line treatment of any ACS is oxygen, aspirin, heparin, and β-blockade. Clopidogrel is an alternative to aspirin and diltiazem is an alternative to β-blockade. Low molecular-weight heparins have advantages over heparin, such as: simple administration better bioavailability no requirement for monitoring enhanced antifactor Xa activity lower rates of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)
