Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


alternative to β-blockade. Low molecular-weight heparins have advantages over heparin, such as: simple administration better bioavailability no requirement for monitoring enhanced antifactor Xa activity lower rates of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) Nitrates can be given intravenously for closer control of pain, unless there is hypotension or suspicion of a posterior infarction that needs higher filling pressures. Tolerance to nitrates occurs very quickly (24–36 hours) so the quicker the infusion can be weaned, the better. Opiate analgesia is also used for pain. In both cases, there may be benefit from GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors (see above). Patients with positive troponin levels should undergo immediate catheterization. Otherwise, patients should rest until they are pain-free. After 48 hours without pain, patients should undergo cardiac catheterization. Myocardial infarction If MI is confirmed by history and ST elevation (1 mm in limb leads, 2 mm in chest leads, or new LBBB) or elevated troponin plus either of these, the patient must quickly be taken to the catheterization laboratory. If this facility is not available, the doctor should immediately: (1) rule out contraindications to thrombolysis (see "Thrombolysis" section) and (2) arrange for analgesia and thrombolysis to be set up, before (3) completing the history and examination. Primary PTCA Recently – primarily due to improvements in devices, adjunctive therapy (GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors), and user experience – in cases of acute MI, the superiority of PTCA over thrombolysis alone has become clear. Most lesions (80%) are suitable for PTCA, particularly if they are discrete, proximal, uncalcified, subtotally occluded, without thrombus, and away from the side branches or divisions of a vessel. As such, primary PTCA is the procedure of choice for patients within 12 hours of the onset of MI symptoms. Current evidence suggests that patients of less than 75 years with cardiogenic shock (occurring within 36 hours of MI) benefit most from primary PTCA (within 18 hours of onset of shock) in an appropriate center with experienced personnel. In cases of poor LV function, intra-aortic balloon pumping (see Chapter 7, Heart failure) is useful in the setting of proximal LAD or mainstem stenting. Thrombolysis Thrombolysis is given as an infusion of (typically) streptokinase or tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) over 30 minutes to 1 hour, depending on the protocol. Aspirin and (intravenous) β-blocker should also be given acutely. Thrombolysis is beneficial up to 12 hours after the onset of pain, but may be given up to 24 hours afterwards in the context
