Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


β-blocker should also be given acutely. Thrombolysis is beneficial up to 12 hours after the onset of pain, but may be given up to 24 hours afterwards in the context of continuing pain or a deteriorating condition. The choice of thrombolytic agent is controversial. tPA and similar recombinant agents are still from 5- to 7-times more expensive than streptokinase and thus only tend to be used in the following situations: where streptokinase has been administered previously 15/19 where recent proven streptococcal throat infections have occurred in cases of hypotension However, even with large anterior MI in younger patients presenting within 4 hours (a situation where tPA is often recommended first-line), the absolute added mortality benefit is only 1% above streptokinase. Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) can be an important complication of thrombolysis. Since heparin is associated with an increased risk of ICH (streptokinase treatment has a lower rate of ICH when it is administered without heparin), there is particular concern with respect to the administration of tPA (as it is usually given with heparin) to hypertensive patients above 65 years of age who are less than 70 kg in weight. Partly as a result of these concerns, several centers have explored the use of low-dose thrombolytic treatment in combination with GPIIb/IIIa inhibition. The results of these trials have been encouraging. Recanalization is achieved following thrombolysis in approximately 70% of cases (compared with 15% of cases without thrombolysis). As this leaves a significant minority needing further attention, all patients should be reviewed 2 hours following thrombolysis. Rethrombolysis or coronary intervention should be considered if there is no resolution in the ST segment. There are few absolute contraindications to thrombolysis and risks must be weighed against benefits in each individual case, particularly in the face of a large anterior infarct in a patient where access to primary PTCA is unavailable. However, there are some absolute contraindications and some notable relative contraindications. Absolute contraindications are: suspected aortic dissection (demands urgent CT, which is the gold standard, MRI, or transesophageal echo) active internal bleeding or uncontrollable external bleeding (excluding menses) recent head trauma (<2 weeks) intracranial neoplasms history of proven hemorrhagic stroke or cerebral infarction within 12 months untreated diabetic hemorrhagic/proliferative retinopathy BP >180/110 mm Hg uncontrolled (reduce with nitrates, β-blockade, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitors) Relative contraindications are: pregnancy traumatic prolonged CPR anticoagulation or INR >1.8 bleeding disorders recent surgery (within 3 weeks) probable intracardiac thrombus
