Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


uncontrolled (reduce with nitrates, β-blockade, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitors) Relative contraindications are: pregnancy traumatic prolonged CPR anticoagulation or INR >1.8 bleeding disorders recent surgery (within 3 weeks) probable intracardiac thrombus (eg, atrial fibrillation with mitral stenosis) active peptic ulcer Basic science 16/19 Atherosclerosis is initiated by a combination of circulating factors, such as cholesterol, and hemodynamic forces (common sites for atherosclerosis are areas where arteries branch). LDL and circulating leukocytes penetrate the arterial wall at regions of high shear stress (turbulent flow). In its atherogenic oxidized form, LDL enters macrophages, converting them to foam cells in the process. Oxidized LDL also enhances the growth factor-mediated migration of monocytes and smooth muscle cells to the intima, where the latter differentiate to form the fibrous cap of the mature atherosclerotic plaque. Figure 11 shows the layers of a vessel wall. As a result of our understanding of these processes, there is much experimental interest in factors that contribute to the attraction and adhesion of leukocytes (chemokines and adhesion molecules), the receptors that modulate LDL uptake (scavenger receptors), enzymes that degrade the cap (matrix metalloproteinases), and protective species (such as nitric oxide). With inflammation a central component of our current appreciation of atherosclerosis, there is much interest in circulating markers (such as C-reactive protein) and pharmaceutical interventions that decrease inflammation (aspirin and statins). Figure 11 The walls of normal blood vessels are composed of distinct layers: the intima is the innermost layer. It consists of a single layer of endothelial cells lining the vessel, supported by a layer of connective tissue. The media is composed of smooth muscle (more...) Arrhythmia Reperfusion arrhythmias are common in the first 2 hours following thrombolysis. In addition to ensuring that plasma potassium is above 4.5, intravenous amiodarone and therapeutic-dose magnesium are indicated for sustained ventricular tachycardia or in ventricular fibrillation as adjuncts to defibrillation. Amiodarone is usually given via a central line, but can also be administered via a large antecubital cannula, although the latter has a slightly higher risk of local necrosis. Arrhythmias occurring more than 48 hours after an acute MI are associated with a worse prognosis and should be investigated further by coronary angiography to rule out hemodynamically relevant coronary stenoses, and electrophysiological studies to rule out scar- tissue substrate. Other therapy Glycemic control should be optimized in all diabetic patients, preferably with the use of sliding- scale insulin. Oral inotropes should be avoided
