Coronary artery disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: coronary, exercise, patients, disease, artery, heart, risk, cardiac, pain, used, cholesterol, patient, angina, coronary artery, figure


to rule out scar- tissue substrate. Other therapy Glycemic control should be optimized in all diabetic patients, preferably with the use of sliding- scale insulin. Oral inotropes should be avoided since almost all randomized trials have shown an increased mortality over placebo. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and β-blockers are given within the first 24 hours post-MI (in the absence of hypotension or other specific contraindications). However, although there is clear evidence for the benefit of each agent individually, there are few data on their effect when used in combination. Until further data are available, both should be given together. Short-acting calcium-channel blockers of the dihydropyridine type are contraindicated in acute MI. The longer-acting dihydropyridines may reduce reinfarction in patients with a first non-Q- wave infarction or inferior infarction in the absence of LV dysfunction and pulmonary edema. However, their benefit over aspirin and β-blockade in the context of MI is unclear. 17/19 Although warfarin provides no general benefit, in those patients with mural LV thrombus following a large acute anterior MI, it can reduce the overall rate of cerebrovascular complications (2%–3%) by more than half. Thus, it is recommended for up to 6 months following infarction, or longer if the thrombus is still nonlaminar on echo. Refer with confidence Practices vary enormously from center to center, but it is still common for hospital generalists to manage non-ST elevation, low-risk ACS, and even MI where no facilities for intervention are available. In these situations, the most common scenarios for referral to cardiology would be: recurrent pain following proven MI unstable pain that refuses to settle recurrent episodes of atypical pain with no ECG change or enzyme rise Cardiac rehabilitation Although the general phenomenon of MI has been recognized for about 100 years, for the first 70 years our approach to its treatment was diametrically opposite to that which we now propose. Complete immobilization for anything from 4 to 8 weeks – even to the point where patients were fed, washed, and shaved – was thought to help the heart to form a firm scar. Exercise was thought to increase the risk of ventricular aneurysm, cardiac rupture, congestive heart failure, and sudden death. How bold then were the early pioneers, such as Terry Kavanagh at the Toronto Rehab center, who in 1973 entered seven post-MI patients for the Boston Marathon (all seven finished). Not long after that, as the medical profession gained confidence
