Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


ABSTRACT X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is a rare inherited neurodegenerative disorder, involving mainly the white matter and axons of the central nervous system and the adrenal cortex and is a frequent but under-recognized cause of primary adrenocortical insufficiency. X-ALD is caused by a defect in the gene ABCD1 that maps to Xq 28 locus. The primary biochemical disorder is the accumulation of saturated very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) secondary to peroxisomal dysfunction. The incidence in males is estimated to be 1:14,700 live births, without any difference among different ethnicities. X-ALD presents with a variable clinical spectrum that includes primary adrenal insufficiency, myelopathy, and cerebral ALD; however, there is no correlation between X-ALD phenotype and specific mutations in the ABCD1 gene. When suspected, the diagnosis is established biochemically with the gold standard for diagnosis being genetic testing (ABCD1 analysis). Currently, there is no satisfying treatment to prevent the onset or modify the progression of the neurologic or endocrine components of the disease. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation is the treatment of choice for individuals with early stages of the cerebral form of the disease. An alternative option for patients without HLA-matched donors is autologous HSC-gene therapy with lentivirally corrected cells. Once adrenal insufficiency is present, hormonal replacement therapy is identical to that of autoimmune Addison’s disease. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Leukodystrophies are inherited neurodegenerative disorders, primarily affecting the brain myelin. X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD; OMIM:300100) is the most common leukodystrophy usually presenting as chronic myelopathy and peripheral neuropathy, a clinical entity called adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), frequently accompanied by adrenocortical insufficiency ( 1 ). The pattern of inheritance is X- linked and the disease is clinically evident in almost all male patients and in more than 80% of female carriers older than 60 years, though with milder clinical presentation. Occasionally, male patients and very rarely female carriers may develop a rapidly progressive, devastating cerebral form of the disease known as Cerebral Adrenoleukodystrophy (CALD). The pathophysiological basis of the disease is peroxisome dysfunction and accumulation of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) due to impaired VLCFA degradation ( 2 ). In the early 20th century, patients with signs and symptoms belonging to the Leukodystrophies spectrum were grouped under the name “Addison–Schilder disease”. It was not until the 1960s that Blaw introduced the term “adrenoleukodystrophy” as a distinct disease entity with
