Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


belonging to the Leukodystrophies spectrum were grouped under the name “Addison–Schilder disease”. It was not until the 1960s that Blaw introduced the term “adrenoleukodystrophy” as a distinct disease entity with X-linked inheritance ( 3 ). In 1976 it was shown that the principal biochemical disorder in X-ALD was the accumulation of VLCFA ( 4 ). In 1993, the gene responsible for the disease was identified at the Xq28 locus and it was subsequently shown to be the ABCD1 gene, which encodes the Adrenoleukodystrophy Protein (ALDP) ( 5 ). This chapter summarizes the latest data in the literature regarding the progress made in elucidating the pathogenesis of the disease, the strategies for early diagnosis, and the results of established as well as newer experimental therapies. GENETICS & PATHOPHYSIOLOGY ALD is a rare progressive neurodegenerative disorder with an annual incidence of 1:14,700 live births (considering both hemizygous males and heterozygous females), and no marked difference between males and females ( 6 ). X-ALD is caused by mutations in the ABCD1 gene located on the X chromosome (Xq28), which covers 19.9 kb and contains 10 exons ( 7 ) with approximately 900 different mutations reported ( 8 ). Mutations in the ABCD1 gene include missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice-site variants ( 9 ). However, identical variants can result in highly diverse clinical phenotypes, suggesting the presence of unknown additional factors that have an impact on the expression of the disease ( 2 ). Thus, there is a lack of a genotype-phenotype correlation in ALD ( 10 , 11 ). The ABCD1 gene encodes a peroxisomal trans-membrane protein of 745 amino acids, ALDP, a member of the ATP binding cassette (ABC) transport protein family, which helps to form the channel through which VLCFAs move into the peroxisome as VLCFA-CoA ( 12 ). ALDP deficiency leads to an impaired peroxisomal β-‑oxidation of saturated straight-chain very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA) ( 13 ) resulting in the accumulation of VLCFAs in plasma and tissues, including the white matter of the brain, spinal cord, and adrenal cortex ( 14 ). Chronic accumulation of cholesterol with saturated VLCFA in the zona fasciculata and reticularis of the adrenal cortex is believed to result in cytotoxic effects, apoptosis and ultimately atrophy of the adrenal cortex and with loss of cortisol production ( 15 , 16 ). The pathogenesis of X-ALD is summarized in Figure 1 . Figure 1. The pathogenesis of
