Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


of the adrenal cortex and with loss of cortisol production ( 15 , 16 ). The pathogenesis of X-ALD is summarized in Figure 1 . Figure 1. The pathogenesis of ALD. Adapted with permission from www.adrenoleukodystrophy.info . The mode of inheritance of X-ALD is X-linked recessive ( figure 2 ), thus the possibility of a son of a female carrier developing X-ALD is 50%, whilst 50% of female offsprings will also be heterozygous carriers. All female offsprings of an affected male will be carriers but none of his male offsprings will be affected. Since X-ALD is an X-linked inherited disorder, males are more severely affected than females. Some heterozygous X-ALD females can exhibit symptoms due to skewed X-chromosome inactivation or other genetic factors. Females who carry the defective gene used to be referred to as “carriers” because it was thought that only a small percentage of them will develop clinical symptoms. However, it has been recently shown that 80% of female patients will eventually develop symptoms although milder in severity than males. The most likely explanation for this clinical manifestation is the presence of a normal copy of the ABCD1 gene on their other X-chromosome that protects women with ALD from developing the brain variant (cerebral ALD) or other still unexplored genetic factors. Figure 2. Adapted with permission from www.adrenoleukodystrophy.info . Significant intra-familiar phenotype variability has been observed as different clinical phenotypes can occur even among monozygotic twins ( 17 ). Fifty percent of ABCD1 mutations lead to a truncated ALDP, whereas many missense mutations result in the formation of an unstable protein ( 18 ). The complete absence of a functional ALDP does not necessarily lead to the severe form of X-ALD, implicating the existence of additional factors that could modify the disease’s clinical expression. Factors, such as moderate head trauma, have been shown to trigger the progression of the disease to the severe central nervous system (CNS) form ( 19 ), but other unknown genetic and environmental factors are likely required for the development of CALD. In contrast, mutations with residual transporter activity or over-expression of ALDP-related protein (ALDRP, ABCD2), the closest homolog of ALDP, might prevent this progression ( 20 ). Variations in methionine metabolism have also been associated with the wide phenotypic spectrum of X-ALD ( 21 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF X-ALD The range of clinical expression of X-ALD varies widely. The main phenotypes of X-ALD
