Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


been associated with the wide phenotypic spectrum of X-ALD ( 21 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF X-ALD The range of clinical expression of X-ALD varies widely. The main phenotypes of X-ALD are primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison’s disease), myelopathy, and cerebral ALD (CALD), either alone or in any combination. The most devastating form of ALD is CALD which presents early in life between 4-12 years of age, affecting 1/3 of boys with X-ALD and is rare after 15 years of age ( 22 ). It is characterized by inflammatory demyelination mainly of the supratentorial and infratentorial white matter and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings usually precede clinical symptomatology ( 23 ). The onset of CALD is insidious, with symptoms at school age such as learning, behavioral, and cognitive disabilities often being attributed to Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder that delay the diagnosis. As the disease progresses, overt neurologic deficits become apparent, including cortical blindness, central deafness, hemiplegia, and quadriparesis. Progression of the disease is often rapid, leading to death within 5 – 10 years following diagnosis ( 24 ). Most men who do not develop CALD during childhood develop myelopathy in adult life. Myelopathy manifests later in life, typically presents in adult males between 20 and 40 years of age, with a median age at onset of 28 years ( 25 ). The primary clinical presentation is spinal cord and peripheral nerve dysfunction, leading to progressive spastic paraparesis, abnormal sphincter control, sensory ataxia, and sexual dysfunction. Symptoms are progressive over years or decades, with most patients losing unassisted functionality by the 5 th – 6 th decade of life. Brain MRI is usually normal but spinal cord atrophy can be detected by conventional T2-weighted MRI sequences. Although myelopathy is a milder form of ALD, cerebral involvement can occur in 27% to 63% of patients ( 26 ). Cerebral involvement leads to rapid neurologic deterioration with disabilities and early death in 10% to 20% of adult males ( 26 ). Adrenal insufficiency is often present at the time of myelopathy diagnosis, a clinical entity called adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN). Incidence Of Primary Adrenal Deficiency In X-ALD The natural history of adrenal insufficiency in ALD is largely unknown because large prospective natural history studies are lacking. However, the loss of adrenal function evolves gradually and initially starts with elevated plasma corticotropin hormone (ACTH) levels before overt adrenal insufficiency with an abnormal cortisol response after cosyntropin stimulation and
