Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


the loss of adrenal function evolves gradually and initially starts with elevated plasma corticotropin hormone (ACTH) levels before overt adrenal insufficiency with an abnormal cortisol response after cosyntropin stimulation and endocrine symptoms become apparent ( 10 , 27 ). The average time to adrenal insufficiency or time from initial plasma ACTH elevation to the onset of endocrine symptoms is unknown ( 27 , 28 ). The estimated lifetime prevalence of adrenal insufficiency in ALD is considered to be approximately 80% ( 27 , 29 , 30 ). Addison’s disease is reported to be the initial clinical manifestation of ALD in 38% of cases, representing the most common presenting symptom of ALD in childhood ( 10 , 29 ). ALD has been reported to account for 4% to 35% of cases of idiopathic primary adrenal insufficiency with no detectable steroid-21-hydroxylase antibodies or other obvious cause ( 31 , 32 , 33 ). Therefore, all boys must be tested for ALD upon diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency if the cause is otherwise not clear. The risk for adrenal insufficiency varies throughout the lifetime and peaks during the first decade of life between 3 and 10 years of age ( 27 , 29 ). The youngest patients suffering from adrenal insufficiency and ALD have been reported to be as young as 3, 5 and 7 months of age ( 27 , 29 , 34 ). it has therefore been recommended to start adrenal testing in the first six months of life ( 29 ). In a large natural history study of adrenal insufficiency in ALD ( 29 ) the cumulative probability of adrenal insufficiency was highest until the age of 10 years, remained prominent until 40 years of age, and decreased substantially thereafter. A timeframe for adrenal testing has been suggested as follows: Besides on-demand testing if endocrine symptoms are present, screening for adrenal insufficiency should be initiated in the first 6 months of life, then routine adrenal testing should be performed every 3 to 6 months until 10 years of age, annual testing thereafter until 40 years of age, and solely on-demand testing in case of endocrine symptoms from age 41 years onward ( 29 ). In this context, International Recommendations for the Diagnosis and Management of Patients with Adrenoleukodystrophy have been recently issued emphasizing the need for early and regular adrenal testing ( 35 , figure 3 ). Figure 3. Screening and
