Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


Diagnosis and Management of Patients with Adrenoleukodystrophy have been recently issued emphasizing the need for early and regular adrenal testing ( 35 , figure 3 ). Figure 3. Screening and management overview in ALD. Adapted with permission from: International Recommendations for the Diagnosis and Management of Patients with Adrenoleukodystrophy. Neurology 2022. The most recent Endocrine Society and Pediatric Endocrine Society clinical practice recommendations for the evaluation of adrenal insufficiency are used as guides for establishing cutoff values for ACTH and cortisol ( 36 ). An ACTH value of > 100 pg/mL and a cortisol value of < 10 mcg/dL is suggestive of adrenal insufficiency. Children with normal ACTH and cortisol levels (<100 pg/mL and ≥5 mcg/dL respectively) do not require immediate treatment and should be retested in 3 to 4 months. Children with clearly abnormal ACTH (> 300 pg/mL) and inappropriately low cortisol levels should begin daily and stress-dose glucocorticoid replacement. ACTH and cortisol values of 100 - 299 pg/mL and < 10 mcg/dL respectively should prompt high-dose ACTH (cosyntropin) stimulation testing ( 34 ). The median time to transition from stress to maintenance dose has been reported as short as 1.46 years ( 30 ). The recommended hormonal workup is depicted in figure 4 . Figure 4. Suggested hormonal work up for glucocorticoid deficiency in ALD. Of note, the mineralocorticoid function often remains intact, reflecting the relative sparing of the zona glomerulosa in the adrenal cortex ( 10 ). Mineralocorticoid deficiency, leading to salt wasting, is not typically described in patients with ALD, consistent with the preservation of aldosterone production and the lack of VLCFA accumulation ( 37 , 38 ). As VLCFAs mainly accumulate in the zona fasciculata and reticularis, the relative preservation of the zona glomerulosa aligns with the observation that mineralocorticoid function remains functional in approximately 50% of the patients ( 29 ). Therefore, mineralocorticoid replacement therapy should not be initiated unless abnormal signs/plasma renin activity and electrolyte levels become evident. Once the diagnosis of glucocorticoid deficiency has been made, further evaluation of aldosterone production should be considered in case of symptoms, such as salt craving and hypotension. Because symptoms are difficult to assess in infancy, it is recommended that serum plasma renin activity and electrolytes be tested every 6 months ( 34 ). Fludrocortisone should be started when there is evidence of mineralocorticoid deficiency. Infants would also require additional salt supplementation. Mineralocorticoid deficiency is reported
