Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


be tested every 6 months ( 34 ). Fludrocortisone should be started when there is evidence of mineralocorticoid deficiency. Infants would also require additional salt supplementation. Mineralocorticoid deficiency is reported to be present in 40% of patients with ALD with the vast majority presenting in adulthood ( 30 ). Given that mineralocorticoid deficiency is less common and generally follows glucocorticoid deficiency, evaluation with plasma renin activity and electrolytes is recommended every 6 months starting after diagnosis of glucocorticoid deficiency ( 34 ). The median time until mineralocorticoid replacement therapy has been reported to be 56 years of age in contrast to a much shorter time for glucocorticoid replacement therapy which was 16 years of age ( 29 ). Female Patients As ALD is an X-linked disease, women were previously considered to be asymptomatic carriers. It is now known that even though adrenal insufficiency and cerebral disease are rare in women, more than 80% eventually develop progressive spinal cord disease ( 39 , 40 ); however, the progression rate of myeloneuropathy remains slow ( 29 ). Female patients with ALD typically remain asymptomatic in childhood and adolescence, while, myeloneuropathy symptoms usually arise in adulthood. Fewer than 1% of female patients are reported to develop adrenal insufficiency ( 30 , 35 , 39 , 41 ). Therefore, routine monitoring for adrenal insufficiency and MRI of the brain in women are not recommended ( 34 ). Only a few females have been reported to develop CALD and this has been attributed to skewed inactivation of the X-chromosome carrying the mutated ABCD1 gene ( 42 ). Primary Hypogonadism Gonadal function can also be affected in ALD. Abnormal hormone levels indicating gonadal insufficiency have been described in boys and men with ALD ( 35 , 43 , 44 ). Levels of testosterone in men with ALD are usually in the low-normal range with elevation of luteinizing hormone in some patients ( 45 ). These findings indicate primary hypogonadism, possibly due to the toxicity of VLCFA in Leydig cells, but tissue androgen receptor resistance has also been suggested as an alternative hypothesis to explain this finding ( 46 ). To date, no trials have been performed to test the outcome of testosterone supplementation in men with ALD. In most men with ALD, fertility seems to be normal ( 29 , 47 ). No data exists on fertility in women with ALD. Tables 1 and 2 summarize
