Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


ALD. In most men with ALD, fertility seems to be normal ( 29 , 47 ). No data exists on fertility in women with ALD. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the clinical phenotypes in male and female patients. Table 1. X-ALD Phenotypes in Males View in own window Phenotype Description Estimated Relative Frequency Adrenocortical Insufficiency Childhood cerebral Onset 3-10 years. 31-35% 79% Progressive behavioral, cognitive, neurologic deficits. Total disability often within 3 years. Adolescent cerebral Like childhood cerebral; somewhat slower progression 4-7% 62% Adult cerebral Dementia, behavioral disturbances, focal neurologic deficits without preceding adrenomyeloneuropathy 2-3% >50% Adrenomyeloneuropathy Onset 28 ± 9 years. 40-46% 50-70% Slowly progressive paraparesis, sphincter disturbances Addison only Primary adrenal insufficiency without neurologic involvement. Varies with age. Up to 50% in childhood 100% Most common onset 5-7 years. Most eventually develop AMN or cerebral forms Asymptomatic No demonstrable neurologic or adrenal involvement Common before 4 years. Diminishes with age. 50% plus with testing Table 2. Phenotypes In Female X-ALD Carriers View in own window Phenotype Description Estimated relative frequency Asymptomatic No neurologic or adrenal involvement Diminishes with age Mild myeloneuropathy Increased deep tendon reflexes and sensory changes in lower extremities Increases with age. ~ 50% at age >40 years. Moderate to severe myeloneuropathy Resembles AMN, but milder and later onset Increases with age >15% at age >40. Clinically evident Addison’s disease Rare at any age <1% DIAGNOSIS OF X-ALD In patients highly suspected of having ALD, measurement of very long chain fatty acids (VCLFA) in the blood is diagnostic, with high specificity and sensitivity ( 48 ). VLCFA levels are already increased on the day of birth and in untreated patients remain stable throughout life. Testing typically includes three VLCFA parameters: the level of hexacosanoic acid (C26:0) and tetracosanoic acid (C24:0), and the ratio of these two compounds to docosanoic acid (normal values of C24:0/C22:0 ratio <1.0 and C26:0/C22:0 ratio <0.02). Hexacosanoic acid is the one most consistently elevated and is therefore considered to be diagnostic of the disease. Of note, VLCFA levels are also elevated in other peroxisomal disorders whereas they can be falsely elevated in patients with liver insufficiency or on ketogenic diets ( 49 ). False negative results may occur in approximately 20% of female patients, thus, any woman with symptoms of myelopathy with or without a family history of ALD should undergo further genetic testing ( 48 ). Plasma C26:0/C22:0 and C24:0/C22:0 ratios,
