Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


female patients, thus, any woman with symptoms of myelopathy with or without a family history of ALD should undergo further genetic testing ( 48 ). Plasma C26:0/C22:0 and C24:0/C22:0 ratios, although diagnostic for ALD, are not associated with the (age-dependent) risk of developing adrenal insufficiency, spinal cord disease, or cerebral disease ( 50 , 51 ). However, genetic testing (ABCD1 analysis) is the gold standard for diagnosis. The diagnosis of X-ALD should be sought ( 35 ): 1. In boys and men with confluent white matter abnormalities on brain MRI in a pattern suggestive of ALD with or without cognitive and neurologic symptoms; 2. In adult men and women with symptoms and signs of chronic myelopathy with a normal MRI; 3. In boys and men with primary adrenal insufficiency with no detectable steroid-21-hydroxylase antibodies or other organ-specific antibodies; 4. In all at-risk patients with a relative diagnosed with ALD. Genetic Testing To date, more than 800 ABCD1 mutations have been described in the X-ALD database ( 52 ). Mutations include missense mutations (49%), large deletions (3%), frameshifts (24%), amino acid insertions/ deletions (6%), and nonsense mutations (12%), leading to decreased or absent ABCD1 protein expression. De novo mutation rate is reported to range from 5% to 19% ( 53 ). Importantly all clinical phenotypes of X-ALD can occur within the same nuclear family and there is no correlation between ABCD1 mutation and clinical phenotype except for rare cases such as all reported cases of translation initiation mutations in ABCD1 have presented with an AMN-only phenotype ( 54 , 55 ). Newborn Screening Newborn screening (NBS) is justified for a disorder, provided that therapy is available, and that early diagnosis allows timely implementation. This is particularly relevant for X-ALD as early diagnosis at birth would allow for the early detection of adrenal insufficiency for timely initiation of adrenal steroid replacement therapy and early detection of cerebral ALD would permit hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) before severe neurologic impairment is established. Important improvements towards this target were the development of mass spectrometry methods to assess the presence of VLCFA in dried-blood spots as well as a combined liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) high-throughput assay that could measure VLCFA enriched lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC), thus providing the technical background for NBS ( 56 ). New York State (NYS) in 2013 was the first authority to include screening for X-ALD in the NBS program and since
