Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


providing the technical background for NBS ( 56 ). New York State (NYS) in 2013 was the first authority to include screening for X-ALD in the NBS program and since February 2016, X-ALD has been added to the United States Recommended Uniform Screening Panel (RUSP) ( 57 ). NYS NBS for X-ALD is used by most states in the United States (US) and is based on a 3-tier algorithm: the first tier is tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) of C26:0-lysophosphatidylcholine (LPS); the second tier is a confirmatory HPLC-MS/MS; and the third tier is Sanger DNA sequencing of the ABCD1 gene (58). If ABCD1 mutation analysis is negative, then other peroxisomal disorders which are also C26:0-HLPC positive should be sought, such as Zellweger Spectrum Disorders, ACOX1, HSD1B4, ACBD5 deficiency, and CADDS (Contiguous ABCD1 DXS1357/BCAP31 Deletion Syndrome) ( 57 ). As of January 2023 thirty-five US states have successfully added ALD to the conditions screened via NBS with plans to expand to all states ( 59 , 60 , 61 , 62 , 63 , 64 , 65 , 66 ). Globally, the Netherlands is the only other country that is actively screening for ALD through the Screening for ALD in the Netherlands (SCAN) pilot study, a sex-specific newborn screen for boys ( 67 ). Since the implementation of Newborn screening for ALD, data show a rise in the diagnosis of ALD up to ~1 in 10,500 births as well as an earlier diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency ( 30 ). Genetic Counseling As soon as an index case is detected either as a consequence of symptoms or as a result of NBS, genetic counseling should be offered to the family. If the index case is male, testing should be offered to his mother and female offspring. If the mother is confirmed to be a carrier for an ABCD1 mutation, testing should also include all the male siblings of the index case. If the index case is female, initial testing should include both parents. Regarding mutation testing of minor females of an affected family, there is no consensus on whether it should be performed on a routine base. ( 57 ). Imaging All individuals with confirmed ALD/AMN complex should undergo neuroimaging to determine if cerebral involvement is present. Brain MRI abnormalities precede symptoms in patients with the cerebral forms of X-ALD ( 23 ). Findings are always abnormal in symptomatic patients, demonstrating cerebral white
