Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


cerebral involvement is present. Brain MRI abnormalities precede symptoms in patients with the cerebral forms of X-ALD ( 23 ). Findings are always abnormal in symptomatic patients, demonstrating cerebral white matter demyelination ( Figure 5 ). The lesions typically begin in the splenium of the corpus callosum before gradually expanding to the occipito-parietal region and they are usually bilateral but occasionally can be limited to only one side, particularly if previous head trauma has triggered CALD ( 19 ). The presence of contrast enhancement just behind the outermost edge of the lesions as seen in T1-weighted images (WI), heralds the progression to inflammatory devastating form of CALD ( 68 ). A grading system to assess the degree of MRI abnormalities in X-ALD has been proposed by Loes et al. ( 69 ). This is a 32-point scale score (0: normal, 32: most severe) that assesses the degree and extent of hyperintense lesions on FLAIR or T2W images as well as the degree of regional atrophy and has proven to have predictive value for the response to allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( 70 ). Regarding AMN, MRI of the spinal cord is unremarkable on standard sequences, it can however show atrophy in advanced cases ( 71 ). Contrast enhancement is not observed in AMN, since inflammation is not a feature of extra-cerebral lesions. Brain F18 fludeoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (PET) may reveal hypometabolic regions particularly in the cerebellum and temporal lobe areas, before lesions emerge in MRI ( 72 ). In contrast, hypermetabolism may be evident in the frontal lobes, related to the clinical severity of the disease ( 73 ). Figure 5. MRI of a patient with cerebral ALD, showing reduced volume and increased signal intensity of the white matter localized mainly at the parieto-occipital regions. The anterior white matter is spared. ( http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Adrenoleukodystrophy&oldid=506277486 ). THERAPY Dietary Treatment Τherapeutic options include dietary therapies with restriction of fat intake and particularly of VLCFAs and saturated fats to avoid their accumulation. In order to achieve this, total fat intake is restricted to 15% of the total calorie supply and a maximum of 5-10 mg of C26:0 is allowed on a daily basis ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Dietary Restrictions In X-ALD. Adopted Form Ref. 2 View in own window Foods rich in VLCFAs Foods rich in saturated fat Vegetable oils Fatty fish and meat Plant cover and cuticle Fruit peel
