Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


X-ALD. Adopted Form Ref. 2 View in own window Foods rich in VLCFAs Foods rich in saturated fat Vegetable oils Fatty fish and meat Plant cover and cuticle Fruit peel and seeds Grains and nuts Vegetable oils Fatty fish and meat Milk and milk products Egg yolk Industrial pastry However, since the majority of VLCFA are of endogenous origin ( 74 ), this approach is not sufficient. A mixture of oleic acid [C18:1] and erucic acid [C22:1], also referred to as Lorenzo's Oil (LO), has also been applied ( 75 ). LO has been shown to halt the elongation of VLCFA by inhibiting ELOVL1, the primary enzyme responsible for VLCFA synthesis. LO in combination with a low-fat diet nearly normalizes plasma VLCFA levels within four weeks and in a study involving asymptomatic X-ALD patients with normal brain MRI, dietary treatment with LO resulted in a two-fold or greater reduction in the risk of developing the childhood cerebral form of X-ALD ( 76 ). However, in patients who are already symptomatic, controlled clinical trials failed to show improved neurological or endocrine function, nor did it arrest the progression of the disease ( 35 , 77 , 78 ). Treatment with LO may be continued for an indefinite time until disease progression and/or severe side effects occur. It is not recommended in children under one year of age, as it causes a decrease in the levels of other fatty acids, particularly docosahexaenoic acid, which is essential for neurocognitive development. Allogenic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) Allogeneic HSCT is the treatment of choice for individuals with early stages of cerebral involvement of X-ALD, which may increase disease-specific survival and can lead to long-term stabilization and improvement of neurological status ( 77 , 79 , 80 ). Stem cells can be harvested from peripheral blood, bone marrow, and umbilical cord blood of immune-compatible donors. Although the mechanism of this effect is still unclear, bone marrow cells do express the ABCD1 gene and plasma VLCFA levels are reduced after bone marrow transplantation, offering a useful biomarker for the assessment of engraftment, graft failure, or rejection ( 81 ). It has been shown that bone marrow-derived cells do enter the brain-blood barrier and that a portion of perivascular microglia is gradually replaced by donor-derived cells ( 82 ). Allogeneic HSCT has been shown to increase 5-year survival compared to no transplant (95% versus 54%) and arrest
