Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


of perivascular microglia is gradually replaced by donor-derived cells ( 82 ). Allogeneic HSCT has been shown to increase 5-year survival compared to no transplant (95% versus 54%) and arrest the progression of the neurologic disease when undertaken early in the course of cerebral disease ( 44 ). In contrast, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is not effective in patients with advanced cerebral ALD, therefore the general criteria for eligibility are a genetically and/or clinically confirmed diagnosis of ALD and the presence of cerebral disease that is not advanced, based on neurological symptoms and brain MRI findings ( 83 ). Eligibility of a patient for transplantation can be assessed using the ALD-specific Neurologic Function Scale (NFS) and the Loes MRI severity score ( 54 ). The NFS scale is a 25-point, ALD-specific tool that assesses the severity of neurological disability according to the severity of symptoms, but no score absolutely determines the decision for HSCT. HSCT affects not only survival, but also the long-term functional status of patients. Studies have shown that post-transplant survival and major functional disability (MFD)-free survival are superior in patients with lower NFS and Loes score ( 84 , 85 ). A recent multi-center analysis showed that in early-stage transplanted patients the overall survival at 5 years from CALD diagnosis was 94% and the MFD -free survival was 91%, whereas in patients with advanced disease the overall survival and the MFD-free survival were 90% and 10% respectively ( 83 ). Allogeneic HSCT has its limitations. Transplantation is not effective in patients with advanced disease. Neurologic findings present at the time of HSCT do not reverse and symptoms can progress after HSCT as cerebral disease stabilization is not achieved before 3 to 24 months after stem cell infusion ( 54 ). Furthermore, the identification of an acceptable donor for HSCT could be very challenging. Significant risks associated with HSCT include acute mortality (10% at day 100 from transplant), failure of donor cell engraftment (5% risk), and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (10-40% risk of acute GVHD and 20% risk of chronic GVHD) ( 85 ). HSCT has not been tested systematically in AMN because of concerns that the risk-benefit ratio may not be favorable: up to 50% of AMN patients will never develop cerebral involvement, whereas it is highly unlikely that HSCT will affect the non- i nflammatory distal axonopathy which is the main pathological feature in AMN ( 86
