Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


will never develop cerebral involvement, whereas it is highly unlikely that HSCT will affect the non- i nflammatory distal axonopathy which is the main pathological feature in AMN ( 86 ). Moreover, in retrospective series of patients who successfully underwent HSCT for CALD in childhood, it was shown that it could not prevent the onset of AMN in adulthood ( 87 ). Although data are limited, HSCT is unlikely to affect adrenal insufficiency ( 35 ). The proposed underlying mechanism is that VLCFAs accumulation in the adrenal cortex has already reached a critical point that is irreversible by the time of transplant, whereas cerebral ALD has a considerable progressive inflammatory component that is stabilized by the transplant ( 88 ). Gene Therapy In case of patients without HLA-matched donors or adult patients with CALD (given the higher mortality risk of allogeneic HSCT compared to children), an alternative option is autologous HSC-gene therapy with lentivirally corrected cells ( 89 ). In this procedure, CD34+ cells from X-ALD patients are transfected ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding the wild-type ABCD1 cDNA. As a result of this therapy, 7-14% of granulocytes, monocytes, T and B lymphocytes express the lentivirally encoded ALDP. In a recent phase 2-3 study including 17 boys, short-term clinical outcomes were reported to be comparable to that of allogeneic HSCT ( 90 ). The procedure called Lenti-D gene therapy resulted in clinical disease and imaging stabilization according to neurological symptoms and brain MRI findings in the vast majority of enrolled patients. An ongoing study recruiting for a phase III trial that has been recently opened across the US and Europe ( NCT03852498 ) will further evaluate the efficacy and safety of Lenti-D gene therapy in participants with CALD. Nevertheless, concerns regarding long-term efficacy, biosafety of lentiviral vectors, as well as the high cost of this therapy need to be taken into account ( 91 , 92 ). An alternative approach is performing allogeneic HSCT from healthy siblings conceived after preimplantation HLA matching which offers the possibility of selecting unaffected embryos that are HLA compatible with the sick child ( 93 ). Regarding adrenal function, similarly to HSCT, there is no evidence for the reversal of adrenal failure after autologous HSC gene therapy ( 88 ). Advances in gene therapy could offer new treatment options for ALD. Potential therapies include a) antisense oligonucleotides which target specific mutations to exclude pathogenic
