Adrenal Insufficiency Due to X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenoleukodystrophy, x-linked, adrenal, patients, x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, x-ald, ald, disease, cerebral, free, insufficiency, article pubmed, article, clinical


HSC gene therapy ( 88 ). Advances in gene therapy could offer new treatment options for ALD. Potential therapies include a) antisense oligonucleotides which target specific mutations to exclude pathogenic variants or to establish a normal reading frame shift, b) gene editing through the use of endonucleases that allows permanent modifications to specific DNA segments and c) targeted viral vector therapy that could deliver a normal copy of the ABCD1 gene to steroidogenic and to microglial cells to prevent adrenal disease and neurological dysfunction respectively ( 54 ). Treatment Of Adrenal Insufficiency and Hypogonadism For those patients with X-ALD who have impaired adrenal function, glucocorticoid replacement therapy is mandatory. Glucocorticoid replacement requirements are generally the same as in other forms of PAI, whereas most patients may not require mineralocorticoid replacement. Male patients who present clinical manifestations of hypogonadism and confirmed low serum testosterone levels, should be treated with testosterone. Nevertheless, careful evaluation should be warranted, since impotence, in most instances may imply spinal cord involvement or neuropathy, rather than testosterone deficiency. Experimental Therapies Experimental treatment options include a) agents that bypass the defective ALDP by inducing alternative pathways for VLCFA degradation, b) combinations of antioxidants that diminish oxidative stress, c) agents that halt VLCFA elongation and d) the use of neurotrophic factors. Apart from ALDP, three additional closely related ABC half-transporters exist: ALDRP, PMP70, and PMP69, which are located on the membrane of peroxisomes. ALDP must dimerize with one of these half-transporters to form a functional full transporter ( 94 ). Over-expression of ABCD2, the gene producing ALDRP has been shown to compensate for ABCD1 deficiency and ameliorate VLCFA production from X-ALD cell series ( 95 ). Valproic acid (VPA), a widely used anti-epileptic drug, 4-phenylbutyrate, and other histone deacetylase inhibitors, are known inducers of the expression of ALDRP. In a 6-month pilot trial of VPA in X-ALD patients marked correction of the protein oxidative damage was observed ( 96 ). Other agents known to evoke induction of the ABCD2 gene are ligands to several nuclear receptors: fibrates for PPAR alpha, thyroid hormones and thyromimetics, retinoids, and lately LXR antagonists, which are being tested in vitro and in vivo for the treatment of X-ALD ( 97 , 98 , 99 ). Lately, it has been shown that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPKα1) is reduced in X-ALD, raising the question if metformin, a well-known AMPKα1inducer, may have a therapeutic role for X-ALD
