HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, iga, patients, diagnosis, manuscript author, symptoms, gfd, practice, testing, serology, biopsy, biopsies, disease


is increased public concern about the effects of gluten on health and the trend of gluten sensitivity at large; and on the other side, an increasing awareness of the multifaceted symptomatology and systemic effects of CD. CD is strongly genetically dependent and particularly related to the presence of HLA-DQ2/DQ81. Furthermore, it is increasingly recognized as a common disease with a prevalence in a number of adult and childhood populations close to 1%1, 2. The scope of this paper is to give a comprehensive update as to the options and uncertainties related to diagnosis and follow-up of CD. As CD may occur at all ages, a considerable portion of disease-compatible characteristics are universally applicable; whereas other aspects are specifically related to age groups. The diagnosis of CD is variably defined by four components: symptoms, the presence of HLA-DQ2/DQ8, celiac antibodies in serum, and duodenal histology. A crucial question 3 is whether the diagnostic cornerstone, the duodenal biopsy with histological analysis, may be omitted in a proportion Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of patients who fulfill other diagnostic criteria for CD. Two recent papers in Gastroenterology present evidence on this issue in children4, 5 . The Role of Symptoms/Signs Symptoms and signs are an important component of every diagnostic effort, as they bring the patient to the doctor’s office and aid in preliminary problem sorting, even if symptoms are diffuse and multifaceted; as may be the case in CD. Symptoms of CD may be gastrointestinal (e.g., diarrhea or constipation) or extra-intestinal (e.g. dermatitis herpetiformis). The aim is to increase the prevalence of celiac disease in the tested population from 1%, which is the population prevalence, to 5–10% or above, where serologic testing and histologic analysis have an increased positive predictive value6. Do all symptoms seen with CD carry similar sensitivity and specificity for the disease? Probably not. Data with reporting of different symptoms in a recent pediatric prospective study suggests that malabsorption symptoms (including failure-to-thrive) increase the accuracy of antibody testing from 98–100%5 . The co-existence of other diseases that are well known risk factors for CD further supports the likelihood of suspected diagnosis. These include: autoimmune diseases as type 1 diabetes, autoimmune thyroid disease, autoimmune liver disease; and chromosome abnormalities such as Downs’ and Turner syndrome. Such co- occurrence is of diagnostic value; as CD is present in 5–10%
