HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, iga, patients, diagnosis, manuscript author, symptoms, gfd, practice, testing, serology, biopsy, biopsies, disease


1 diabetes, autoimmune thyroid disease, autoimmune liver disease; and chromosome abnormalities such as Downs’ and Turner syndrome. Such co- occurrence is of diagnostic value; as CD is present in 5–10% of children with type 1 diabetes7. Familial occurrence is common, as asymptomatic first degree relatives of celiac patients in a recent meta-analysis had a 7. 5 % risk of CD8. Serology The discovery of transglutaminase-2 as the major autoantigen in CD8 led to the development of assays for IgA transglutaminase antibodies (TG2-IgA). Serological testing for TG2-IgA has become important in the diagnosis of CD based on increasing quality and convenience of assays such as ELISA, which are well-suited for automation and high-throughput testing. The IgA endomysial antibody test (EMA) based on fluorescence-testing on primate esophagus or human umbilical cord is based on antibody reactivity to tissue-bound TG-2. EMA is more labor-intensive and depends on personal judgement and experience. Assays for deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP), antibodies have been shown to have reasonably high accuracy8, although inferior to TG2-IgA A multitude of commercial assays for TG2-IgA have been developed and standardized with laboratories encouraged to participate in quality control measures on a national or international basis. TG2-IgA has been employed as a screening test in multiple studies and in populations with a low incidence of CD8. EMA is well suited for second-line confirmatory testing, as EMA has a high specificity9. Point-of- care (POC) tests have been advocated for screening purposes and results comparable to conventional testing have been obtained10. However, POC tests may present difficulties with quality control when in the hands of inexperienced users and the advantage of rapid results is rarely decisive in the diagnosis of CD. Who should then be tested for CD and with what tests? A pretest probability of 5–10% seems advantageous to obtain significant accuracy6 which may be obtained by selecting patients with signs/symptoms consistent with CD or asymptomatic patients in the proper risk groups (e.g. type 1 diabetes or first degree Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript relatives). Population screening data suggests that even in the general population TG2-IgA assays may give reasonable results11. Significance of HLA-DQ2 and – DQ8 CD is strongly influenced by genetic factors as shown in twin studies1, with most of the genetic dependence residing in HLA-DQ2 and – DQ812. A gene dose effect is present as the subtype HLA-DQ2.5
