HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, iga, patients, diagnosis, manuscript author, symptoms, gfd, practice, testing, serology, biopsy, biopsies, disease


by genetic factors as shown in twin studies1, with most of the genetic dependence residing in HLA-DQ2 and – DQ812. A gene dose effect is present as the subtype HLA-DQ2.5 in a homozygous pattern, makes CD likely; whereas heterozygous HLA-DQ2.2, at the other side of the spectrum, makes CD unlikely. The absence of HLA- DQ2/DQ8 has primarily been used to exclude the disease with a high negative predictive is of no additional diagnostic value in cases with a high level of serum TG2-IgA antibodies5, 13. In conclusion, determination of HLA-DQ2/DQ8 may be reserved for second-line evaluation of patients where the diagnosis is doubtful (e.g. due to inconclusive celiac antibodies, histology, or prior GFD). Biopsy and Histopathological Analysis The analysis of duodenal biopsy specimens forms the classical diagnosis of CD, and represented an immense leap forward when it was introduced as the diagnostic criterion for CD in the 1950’s. Today biopsies should be taken at EGD which allows the possibility of multiple biopsies from different parts of the duodenum. Biopsies from the bulb should be included, taking into account Brunner glands and other variants which may disturb the histologic interpretation14, 15. The duodenal biopsy has been regarded as the reference standard for the diagnosis of CD, but lack of sampling quality has been suggested in several comparative studies15, 16. Additionally, criticism has been raised as to the quality of duodenal biopsy interpretation17, particularly from non-specialized pathology departments. The process of placing the biopsy, the subsequent cutting and formalin fixation demands time and expertise - which is not always available or followed15 . In practical terms, 5% of biopsies may lead to diagnostic uncertainty5. Description of the biopsies including positioning, Marsh classification,villus-crypt (VCr)-ratio and counting of lymphocytes (above 25 per HPF) to define lymphocytosis is recommended. CD3 staining for T-cells may be included18. Gamma/delta T-cell markers19 as well as IgA transglutaminase antibody deposits20 may be supportive in the analysis. Algorithms: Can diagnostic biopsy be avoided in selected cases? The classical algorithm for the diagnosis of CD in children and adults is to perform a EGD with duodenal biopsies on the background of symptoms attributable to malabsorption or to conditions associated with CD. The development of reliable antibody tests has led to a combination strategy. In adults all guidelines including the ACG guidelines21 recommend screening with celiac antibody testing and, if positive, performing a biopsy in populations with a low-prevalence (<5%) of CD.
