HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, iga, patients, diagnosis, manuscript author, symptoms, gfd, practice, testing, serology, biopsy, biopsies, disease


combination strategy. In adults all guidelines including the ACG guidelines21 recommend screening with celiac antibody testing and, if positive, performing a biopsy in populations with a low-prevalence (<5%) of CD. The North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology Hepatology and Nutrition (NASPGHAN) guidelines from 200522 Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript recommend performing a biopsy in all cases of suspected CD in children whereas the European Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology Hepatology and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) guidelines from 201223 recommend using quantitative determination of TG2-IgA for first line screening. If the antibody titer is above x 10 ULN in a symptomatic patient, the guidelines give the option to perform further tests (TG2-IgA, EMA and HLA-DQ2/DQ8) in a second blood sample. If they all are confirmative, the child may be diagnosed with CD provided symptoms subside after the institution of a GFD. In practice, this strategy may reduce the need of EGD by 30–50%5. In unclear cases histological analysis is important, and even an approach with gluten challenge may be warranted. When patients have already started on a GFD prior to diagnosis we suggest that the patient goes back on a normal diet with three slices of wheat bread daily for 1–3 months followed by TG2-IgA determination, although even a shorter period of time has been advocated. Management and Follow-up The management and follow-up of patients with celiac disease (CD) is preferentially performed with a team-based approach in which the dietician has an important role in the practical advice on life-style and choice of foods24. The majority of the patients will comply satisfactorily with a gluten-free diet (GFD) and experience relief of their symptoms, as well as decreasing celiac antibody levels. A reasonable follow-up schedule will be every 12 months. An open access or online service, perhaps aided with short message services (SMS), may improve adherence25. In children and adolescents, a satisfactory increase in weight and height is an essential marker of the success of the GFD; whereas the adult patients may experience more subtle improvement. Lack of compliance in a GFD may lead to deterioration of quality of life26. Long-term side effects of a GFD may be related to lack of vitamins and fiber in the diet. Lack of adherence to GFD may result in symptoms and complications of CD such as ongoing and worsening of malabsorption, anemia, and osteoporosis. In practice,
