HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, iga, patients, diagnosis, manuscript author, symptoms, gfd, practice, testing, serology, biopsy, biopsies, disease


and fiber in the diet. Lack of adherence to GFD may result in symptoms and complications of CD such as ongoing and worsening of malabsorption, anemia, and osteoporosis. In practice, the majority of adult patients are not followed up, as shown in a study from Olmsted County where 35% of patients were adherent to follow up four years after diagnosis27. Societal circumstances may affect this percentage, with national differences. Concordantly, the frequency of therapy-resistant CD occurs in a significant proportion of adults (20%)28. Maybe not surprising, teenagers are less satisfied with the impact of CD on their lives and even less adherent to a GFD. Whether the diagnosis of CD is based on symptoms or objective screening tests seemingly does not influence long-term adherence to GFD29. Notably, children who are lost to follow up are more frequently non-adherent to GFD and are antibody-positive30. As to malnutrition and growth, routine testing for vitamin and mineral deficiencies seems unnecessary in the large majority of children who attend registered follow-up and grow and develop normally without any symptoms31 . A key issue in the follow-up is the usefulness of serology; whether a decline in antibody levels is sufficient evidence for proper management. The usefulness of serology has been reported for children, best for EMA, and with a median time for mucosal healing of 2.2 Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript years32. In a recent meta-analysis, the positive predictive value and sensitivity of persistently positive TG2-IgA determination was fairly low; with a sensitivity at 0.38 for adults, higher (0.70) for children. The negative predictive value of serology in adult patients on a GFD for 1 year or more was higher, with a specificity of 0.80 for adults, and 0.87 for children33. It may be concluded that the usefulness of serology at follow-up is limited for adults and better for children. A refinement of the TG2-IgA determination utilizing the detectable levels below the upper normal limit may add in the identification of CD patients with mucosal healing34. The intestinal biopsies from an EGD are an important tool in the follow-up of CD. Histological evaluation is in essence an evaluation of mucosal healing. If damage equating to at least Marsh 2 changes are still present, another biopsy is required, after 12 months. However, the correlation between symptoms, mucosal healing, and later outcome of CD is
