HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author manuscript, author, iga, patients, diagnosis, manuscript author, symptoms, gfd, practice, testing, serology, biopsy, biopsies, disease


equating to at least Marsh 2 changes are still present, another biopsy is required, after 12 months. However, the correlation between symptoms, mucosal healing, and later outcome of CD is not clear. In one study in adults factors predicting incomplete recovery were malabsorption (55% vs. 41%, P = 0.003), high EMA (46% vs. 25%, P < 0.001), and severe mucosal damage (total atrophy 32% vs. 19%, P < 0.001) at diagnosis35. Symptoms did not reliably predict lack of mucosal healing and the majority of patients with lack of healing were without symptoms36. However, in large studies the majority of adult patients did achieve complete mucosal healing37. Irreparable damage in the mucosa may lead to the rare but serious appearance of refractory CD type 1 and type 2 with the latter having a considerable mortality after five years38. While failure to heal the intestine was associated with an increased lymphoma risk, it was not associated with excess mortality. However, adequate studies where all patients have had follow up biopsies are inadequately powered to address long term risk of rare events28. Even though data is conflicting for adults with lack of which may lead to further complications. Concluding Remarks Significant changes have occurred in the diagnosis of CD in the last decade with serology gaining greater clinical importance based on better assay performance. The diagnosis of CD relies on a combination of symptom recognition, serology and histological analysis of duodenal biopsies. In children and adolescents, repeated serological testing with high TG2- IgA levels may render a gastroscopy with biopsy unnecessary. Cases with IgA-deficiency deserve special recognition. Treatment consists foremost of a GFD. It is important not to initiate a GFD before measurement of antibodies and biopsy. Follow-up secures the avoidance of long-term side effects of the GFD and aids the adherence to the GFD. The utility of serology vs. histology in follow-up has not been definitively settled. Acknowledgments Disclosures: Steffen Husby has received payment for lectures from Thermo-Fisher© and participated on an advisory board for and Broad Medical Research Program at CCFA; serves on the advisory board of Celimmune, LLC, Intrexon®, Dr. Schar, GlaxoSmithKline© (GSK), Genentech©, Takeda©, and Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd.©; serves as a consultant to Boehringer Ingelheim©; has a patent with Evelo©; and has equity options in Torax®. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Grant Support: During the preparation of
