doi:
KEYWORDS: tumors, small, tumor, carcinoid, intestine, cases, small intestine, showed, dbe, lesions, endoscopy, detected, mueli, carcinoid tumors, octreotide


doi: InternMed58:655-659,2019 【 CASE REPORT 】 Usefulness of Capsule Endoscopy and Double-balloon Enteroscopy for the Diagnosis of Multiple Carcinoid Tumors in the Small Intestine: Case Reports and a Literature Review Kentaro Tominaga, Kenya Kamimura, JunjiYokoyama and Shuji Terai Abstract: The incidence of carcinoid tumor in the small intestine is increasing; however, its preoperative diagnosis is difficult. We recently experienced three cases of multiple carcinoid tumors in the small intestine successfully detected using capsule endoscopy (CE), followed by a pathological diagnosis using double-balloon en- teroscopy (DBE). To diagnose multiple carcinoid in the small intestine appropriately, we reviewed the infor- mation of five cases reported to date along with our three recent cases. The literature review demonstrated that CE and DBE are useful for detecting and diagnosing small intestinal carcinoids and tumor multiplicity, which aids in determining the appropriate resection range. Key words: carcinoid tumors, capsule endoscopy, double-balloon enteroscopy, octreotide scan (Intern Med 58: 655-659, 2019) (DOI: ) cinoid tumors is its multiplicity, showing a diffuse distribu- Introduction tion or overlapping tumors in 20-30% of patients (1, 3). The endoscopic findings include submucosal tumor-like lesions, Tumors in the small intestine are rare, accounting for less depressive lesions on top of the tumor, capillary vascular than 5% of all gastrointestinal neoplasms (1). However, the dilatation, and villous atrophy, reflecting the fact that carci- incidence of small intestinal malignancies is increasing con- noid tumors originate from epithelial tissue. However, be- siderably, due mainly to the increased incidence of carcinoid cause of the lack of specific signs, symptoms, and definitive tumors (1). Currently, carcinoid tumors account for 20% to preoperative diagnostic tests, the preoperative diagnosis of 30% of tumors and are the second-most frequently diag- carcinoid tumors is difficult. Indeed, the accurate preopera- nosed cancer in the small bowel (1). They are frequently di- tive diagnosis rate is approximately 5%, and carcinoids of agnosed in the ileum, with a 20-40% incidence rate among the small intestine are often diagnosed incidentally upon re- tumors in the small intestine (1, 2). While carcinoid tumor is section of the small intestine for obstruction or during ex- found frequently in the small intestine in the US (20-30% of ploration of the small intestine to find a primary lesion of cases), it is find there in approximately 5% of cases in Ja- metastatic tumors. pan, indicating a difference in frequency of this disease Given that the increased incidence of small
