doi:
KEYWORDS: tumors, small, tumor, carcinoid, intestine, cases, small intestine, showed, dbe, lesions, endoscopy, detected, mueli, carcinoid tumors, octreotide


cases), it is find there in approximately 5% of cases in Ja- metastatic tumors. pan, indicating a difference in frequency of this disease Given that the increased incidence of small bowel tumors among countries (1). Based on the World Health Organiza- is predominantly due to the increased incidence of carcinoid tion (WHO) classification, carcinoid tumors have been clas- tumors and because surgical resection is the standard proce- sified into neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) G1, NET G2, and dure for the treatment (1), the development of an effective neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs) according to their malig- method for detecting and diagnosing carcinoid tumors is es- nant potential and histological analyses (WHO classification sential. To this end, we explored the efficacy of capsule en- 2010). doscopy (CE) and double-balloon enteroscopy (DBE) in One of the major clinical characteristics of intestinal car- terms of their sensitivity compared with an octreotide scan DivisionofGastroenterologyandHepatology,GraduateSchoolofMedicalandDentalSciences,NiigataUniversity,Japan CorrespondencetoDr.KenyaKamimura, Intern Med 58: 655-659, 2019 DOI: by evaluating the course of recent cases of multiple small underwent partial small bowel resection. Three other tumors intestinal carcinoid tumor and summarizing the information were discovered in the ileum by intraoperative endoscopy, on the cases reported to date in which CE and DBE were and the resected specimen showed tumors of 4-18 mm along applied (Table). with lymph node metastases. During the six-year follow-up period, the patient showed no recurrence or metastasis. Case Reports Case 3 The details of the courses of our three recently experi- A 76-year-old man underwent CT for screening, and 2 enced cases (Cases 1 to 3) have been summarized below, slightly enhanced nodules in the small bowel were sus- while the details of the five previously reported cases (Cases pected. CE showed eight tumors, and transanal DBE showed 4 to 8) are summarized in Table. three SMT-like lesions in the ileum. Biopsies taken from these lesions showed carcinoid tumor. No tumors were dis- Case 1 covered in the rest of the intestine by intraoperative endo- symptoms of melena and anemia. She showed mild anemia eum with 15 tumors with a diameter of 2-15 mm as well as with a hemoglobin level of 9.6 mg/dL, and neither tumor 2 lymph node metastases. As of eight years after the sur- markers nor gastrointestinal hormones were elevated. Com- gery, the patient remains disease-free. puted tomography (CT) showed no significant findings. CE (PillCam SB; GIVEN, Yokneam, Israel) showed multiple Discussion submucosal tumor (SMT)-like lesions
