doi:
KEYWORDS: tumors, small, tumor, carcinoid, intestine, cases, small intestine, showed, dbe, lesions, endoscopy, detected, mueli, carcinoid tumors, octreotide


gastrointestinal hormones were elevated. Com- gery, the patient remains disease-free. puted tomography (CT) showed no significant findings. CE (PillCam SB; GIVEN, Yokneam, Israel) showed multiple Discussion submucosal tumor (SMT)-like lesions in the ileum. To deter- mine the distribution of the tumors and to diagnose the me- Carcinoid is a common malignancy in the small intestine tastatic lesions, an octreotide scan was performed (Fig. 1a). and accounts for approximately one-third of all small intesti- The scan detected only one major tumor in the intestine nal lesions (4). In addition, the incidence of these tumors in (Fig. 1b-g) and potential lymph node metastases around the the small intestine is increasing (1), and most are located in tumor. Therefore, DBE was performed both transorally and the terminal part of the ileum. They often involve metastases transanally; as a result, 13 tumors, approximately 5 mm in to regional lymph nodes and then to other organs, such as size, were detected, showing SMT-like lesions with a de- the liver. (5). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and CT pressive pattern in the tumors, including those detected us- are useful for diagnosing the location of these tumors (6). ing the octreotide scan (Fig. 1b). However, small intestinal carcinoid tumors have been re- A tissue biopsy showed the following: chromogranin A ported to show multiplicity in 20-30% of patients (3), and (Fig. 1c), synaptophysin (Fig. 1d), and CD56 (Fig. 1e) posi- Bellutti et al. suggested that, in such cases, intraoperative tively stained tumor cells, with <1% of tumor cells staining endoscopy is a potential gold-standard diagnostic for multi- positive for Ki-67 (Fig. 1f), leading to a diagnosis of carci- ple tumors (7). To determine the appropriate surgical proce- noid tumor. In addition, DBE revealed multiple tumors in dure, a preoperative diagnosis of tumor multiplicity is essen- the intestine initially detected by CE (Fig. 2a) that had been tial; therefore, the development of a method for diagnosing unable to be diagnosed with the octreotide scan (Fig. 2b, c). multiplicity and locations of tumors is essential. Octreotide Based on site mapping of tumor localization, partial re- scanning has been used to screen for potential metastatic le- section of the intestine confirmed by endoscopy during sur- sions and multiplicity; however, as the signal is dependent gery and lymphadenectomy were performed. Ultimately, 15 on the expression of the receptor protein, its sensitivity and tumors in the small intestine were diagnosed in the resected
