doi:
KEYWORDS: tumors, small, tumor, carcinoid, intestine, cases, small intestine, showed, dbe, lesions, endoscopy, detected, mueli, carcinoid tumors, octreotide


signal is dependent gery and lymphadenectomy were performed. Ultimately, 15 on the expression of the receptor protein, its sensitivity and tumors in the small intestine were diagnosed in the resected specificity for detecting even the primary lesion is unsatis- tissues histologically, including 2 small tumors undetectable factory (8). Therefore, combination of imaging modalities by preoperative examinations using an octreotide scan, CE, with endoscopic procedures for pathological diagnosis is and DBE. The lymph node metastases were successfully re- necessary (8). moved, and as of one year after the surgery, the patient re- Recent developments in CE have increased the rate of tu- mains disease-free. mor detection in the small intestine, and subsequent DBE has been used to detect, diagnose, and perform biopsies of Case 2 lesions in the small intestine (4, 9). This has achieved a pre- A 71-year-old man with bloody stool underwent operative diagnostic rate of 80% in patients (5, 7, 9, 10). esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy, and since no Our literature review revealed that, although multiple small bleeding point was detected, we performed CE and detected intestinal carcinoid tumors have been reported, only five an ulcerative lesion in the proximal ileum. DBE was carried cases were directly diagnosed by DBE. Therefore, we care- out transanally and reconfirmed the presence of two tumors fully reviewed these cases and summarized their findings in in the ileum. Biopsies taken from these lesions showed a Table, including the findings of our three recently encoun- low-grade neuroendocrine tumor with characteristics consis- tered cases. The average age of the total patients was 67.4 tent with a carcinoid tumor. The patient showed no metasta- years (range 48-77), and the ratio of men to women was 5: ses in a series of imaging examinations and subsequently 3. Seven out of the eight patients presented with melena, Intern Med 58: 655-659, 2019 DOI: .detropeR sesaC fo yrammuS .elbaT sisatsateM detceteD sromuT dionicraC fo rebmuN -elbuoD tnatsiD hpmyL e d c o n ir e e r p ru e c e e r R f tnemtaerT lacigolotsiH evitarepoartnI yp n o o c o so ll r a e b tne eluspaC editoertcO y d h e p t a u r p g m om oC ot m )m u m m ( i x e a z M is noitazilacoL smotpmyS redneG ) e s g r A y( ecnerefeR e )o sa N C (
