doi:
KEYWORDS: tumors, small, tumor, carcinoid, intestine, cases, small intestine, showed, dbe, lesions, endoscopy, detected, mueli, carcinoid tumors, octreotide


m )m u m m ( i x e a z M is noitazilacoL smotpmyS redneG ) e s g r A y( ecnerefeR e )o sa N C ( sedon sisongaid sisongaid ypocsodne nacs ;larosnart ,O( )lanasnart ,A - + raey fo noitceser laitrap A/N )A dna O( 31 .p.n mueli anelem elameF esac ruO ,enitsetni eht ymotcenedahpmyl - + sraey fo noitceser laitrap )A( A/N ni ssenkciht llaw mueli anelem elaM esac ruO ,enitsetni eht mueli ymotcenedahpmyl - + sraey fo noitceser laitrap elpitlum )A( A/N yhtaponedahpmyl mueli enon elaM esac ruO ,enitsetni eht ymotcenedahpmyl - + shtnom fo noitceser laitrap )A( A/N A/N .p.n mueli ,anelem elaM )3( ,enitsetni eht aimena ymotcenedahpmyl - + sraey fo noitceser laitrap elpitlum )A dna O( 3 A/N A/N .p.n mueli anelem elameF )11( ,enitsetni eht ymotcenedahpmyl nwonknu nwonknu A/N fo noitceser laitrap nwonknu )A dna O( 2 A/N mueli anelem elaM )7( enitsetni eht - nwonknu A/N fo noitceser laitrap nwonknu A/N )A( elpitlum elpitlum .p.n A/N & munujej ,anelem elaM )21( enitsetni eht mueli aimena - - sraey 5.1 fo noitceser laitrap A/N )A dna O( 3 A/N A/N .p.n & munujej ,anelem elameF )31( ,enitsetni eht mueli aimena ymotcenedahpmyl sgnidnif ralucitrap on :.p.n ,elbaliava ton atad :A/N Intern Med 58: 655-659, 2019 DOI: Figure 1. Carcinoid tumor detected with octreotide scan. a: Image of the octreotide scan. The white arrow indicates the suspected tumor. b: The tumor confirmed with double-balloon endoscopy. The white arrow indicates the tumor. c-f: Immunohistochemical staining of the tumor. c: Chromogranin A staining, d: Synaptophysin staining, e: CD56 staining, f: Ki-67 staining. Black arrows indicate positively stained cells. g: Hematoxylin and Eosin staining of the tumor. Figure 2. Carcinoid tumor detected with capsule endoscopy (CE). a: Image obtained on capsule endoscopy. b: The tumor confirmed with double-balloon endoscopy (DBE). The white arrow indi- cates the tumor. c: Hematoxylin and Eosin staining of the tumor. Intern Med 58: 655-659, 2019 DOI: and four presented with anemia. While carcinoid syndrome reportedly occurs in approximately 20% of patients with The authors state that they have no Conflict ofInterest(COI). small bowel carcinoid (5), none of the cases summarized in Table showed carcinoid syndrome. Tumors were detected in
