Suzukietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:677
KEYWORDS: pulmonis, infection, vancomycin, bloodstream, hydrochloride, infections, clabsi, count, cell, cefozopran, positive, reported, tsukamurella, piccs, case


1 Clindamycin ≥2 positivity forhumanimmunodeficiencyvirus(HIV)anti- gen/antibody, a CD4 positive lymphocyte count of 84 Cefepime ≤1 Vancomycin 2 cells/μL, and an HIV-1 RNA viral load of 180,000 cop- Imipenem ≤1 Levofloxacin ≤0.25 ies/mL. Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging Meropenem 0.5 of the head showed three mass lesions in the brain, and the specimen biopsy from these lesions revealed diffuse large B cell lymphoma. He was diagnosed with AIDS- patients had severe immunodeficiency combined with associated primary brain malignant lymphoma. The pa- bone marrow transplantation, IgA nephropathy, or tient was administered emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil metastatic breast cancer as the underlying disease . combination therapy and raltegravir as the antiretroviral Another three cases had hematological malignancy. One therapy. Atovaquone and azithromycin were also used patient had an intracerebral hemorrhage and CLABSI for prophylaxis of pneumocystis pneumonia and nontu- . CVCs or Hickman-catheters were implanted in all berculous mycobacterial infections. of these cases. Therefore, a relationship between CVCs A PICC was implanted, and he received five courses of or Hickman-catheters and the presence of T. pulmonis R-CHOP chemotherapy (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, bacteremia exists; however, the risk of T. pulmonis doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, and prednisone). bacteremiahasnotbeenreportedwith PICCs. Five days after the last R-CHOP chemotherapy course, However, a recent systematic review and meta-analysis he suddenly developed a fever with shivering chills. His showed that the reduced risk of CLABSI with PICCs in white blood cell count was 4300/μL, and his neutrophil comparisontoCVCswasgreatestforoutpatients(RR,0.22; count was 4200/μL. The CD4-positive lymphocyte cell 95% CI, 0.18–0.27) than for hospitalized patients (RR 0.73; count was 228 cells/μL, and the HIV-1 RNA viral load 95% CI, 0.54–0.98) and PICC-associated CLABSI occurred was 20 copies/mL. We administered 2 g cefozopran as frequently as CVC-associated CLABSI in hospitalized hydrochloride, which is a fourth generation cephalo- patients(incidence rate ratio 0.91; 95% CI, 0.46–1.79) . sporin, and vancomycin on day 1 (every 12 h) and on Thus, PICCs may also be a risk factor for CLABSI due to day 3, respectively, and the PICC was removed. The pa- T.pulmonisbacteremia. tient’s condition improved and become afebrile within The appropriate treatment for T. pulmonis bacteremia 48 h after the initiation of cefozopran hydrochloride. remains unknown because standard susceptibility Cultures obtained from blood and revealed gram- methods for this organism have not been established. positive rods, which were identified asT. pulmonis using There have been a few reports describing various treat- 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing. The colony count ments based on
