Suzukietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:677
KEYWORDS: pulmonis, infection, vancomycin, bloodstream, hydrochloride, infections, clabsi, count, cell, cefozopran, positive, reported, tsukamurella, piccs, case


been established. positive rods, which were identified asT. pulmonis using There have been a few reports describing various treat- 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing. The colony count ments based on susceptibility methods (Table 2), includ- of T. pulmonis grown from PICC culture was 103 ing the E-test using Mueller-Hinton agar plates and colony-forming units. Thus, he was diagnosed with T. the disk diffusion technique . In the present case, pulmonis bacteremia resulting from a PICC-related minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) results using bloodstream infection. Because of the results of the sus- the broth dilution method showed susceptibility to ceptibility test (Table 1), we continued cefozopran vancomycin and cefozopran hydrochloride (Table 1). We hydrochloride for 16 days. Follow up blood culture on continued cefozopran hydrochloride only because of the 5 days after treatment was negative and clinical relapse relatively high MIC for vancomycin. Although further was not observed. He remains in complete remission as studies are needed to confirm the standard susceptibility ofthisreport. methods and optimal susceptibility interpretations, fourth generation cephalosporins including cefozopran Discussion and conclusions hydrochloride and cefepime may be effective against T. Although T. pulmonis generally causes CLABSI from pulmonis and may represent appropriate treatment for CVCsandHickmancatheters,we reportacaseofPICC- T.pulmonisbacteremia. related bloodstream infection due to this microorganism The relation between AIDS and the incidence of T. pul- andreview therelatedliterature. monisbacteremiaisunknown.T.pulmonisbacteremiahas Table2summarizesthesevenreportedcasesofT.pul- not been previously reported in AIDS patients, although monis bacteremia in the literature [2, 7, 11–14]. Three an advanced-stage AIDS patient with Tsukamurella spp. Suzukietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:677 Page3of4 Table2SummaryofcasereportsofTsukamurellapulmonisbacteremia Age Sex Diseases Catheter Transplantation Antibiotics Outcome Reference (years) 1.5 M SCID Hickman + Amikacin,clarithromycin,ceftriaxone, Survived vancomycin 3 F ALL CVC – Cefixime,ertapenem,ciprofloxacin,amikacin Survived oralclarithromycin 38 F High-gradeBurkitt-like Hickman + Teicoplanin Survived lymphoma 39 M ALL Hickman Nodata Vancomycin,meropenem,amphotericinB Nodata 48 F IgAnephropathy CVC – Ciprofloxacin,gentamicin,vancomycin Nodata 48 M Intracerebralhemorrhage CVC – Ceftazidime,vancomycin Survived 67 F Metastaticbreastcancer CVC – Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim Nodata SCIDseverecombinedimmunedeficiency,ALLacutelymphocyticleukemia,CVCcentralvenouscatheter pneumonia was reported by Alcaide et al. . When the Received:12March2017Accepted:4October2017 CD4-positive lymphocyte cell count is over 200 cells/μL, the defect in cell mediated immunity is mild to moderate, not severe, and it is not clear if this defect is sufficient to
