Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome in which the heart is not able to meet the metabolic demands of the body due to a structural and or functional cardiac abnormality, leading to low cardiac output, elevated ventricular filling pressure, or both. Acute heart failure includes both new-onset heart failure and acute decompensated heart failure (an exacerbation of chronic heart failure). In both, there are progressive signs or symptoms of cardiac congestion, low output, or both.. Timely medical intervention, directed at reducing symptoms and managing the cause, is necessary. (See also Overview of Heart Failure.) Acute heart failure refers not only to the timing of clinical presentation within the overall disease course, but the importance of timely medical intervention (1). It may include new-onset (de novo) heart failure or acute decompensation of previously diagnosed heart failure. Acute heart failure is classified phenotypically and further risk-stratified based on the overall severity of illness, alteration in perfusion ("warm" versus "cold"), the presence of congestion ("dry" versus "wet"), and other details of clinical presentation (2, 3). Symptoms and Signs of Acute Heart Failure Manifestations of heart failure differ depending on the extent to which the left ventricle (LV) and right ventricle (RV) are initially affected. Acute RV failure is discussed separately. History In LV failure, the most common symptoms are dyspnea and fatigue due to increased pulmonary venous pressures with or without pulmonary edema, and low cardiac output (at rest or inability to augment cardiac output during exertion). Dyspnea may be exertional or occur with rest, depending on the severity of disease. Cardiogenic shock, if present, may cause abnormalities in mental status and organ system function. Examination General examination may detect signs of systemic or cardiac disorders that cause or aggravate heart failure (eg, anemia, hyperthyroidism, alcohol use disorder, hemochromatosis, atrial fibrillation with rapid rate, mitral regurgitation). In LV failure, tachycardia and tachypnea may occur. Heart rate is generally increased as a compensatory mechanism, but bradycardia may occur during decompensation or if there is an underlying bradyarrhythmia. Blood pressure may be high, normal, or low, depending on the changes in cardiac output, volume status, systemic vascular resistance due to the underlying disease, and the compensatory response. Patients with severe LV failure may appear visibly dyspneic or cyanotic, hypotensive, and confused or agitated because of hypoxia and poor cerebral perfusion. Some of these less specific symptoms (eg, confusion) are more common in older patients.
