Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


visibly dyspneic or cyanotic, hypotensive, and confused or agitated because of hypoxia and poor cerebral perfusion. Some of these less specific symptoms (eg, confusion) are more common in older patients. Central cyanosis (affecting all of the body, including warm areas such as the tongue and mucous membranes) reflects severe hypoxemia. Peripheral cyanosis of the lips, fingers, and toes reflects low blood flow with increased oxygen extraction. If vigorous massage improves nail bed color, cyanosis may be peripheral; increasing local blood flow does not improve color if cyanosis is central. Cardiac findings in acute heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) include: Diffuse, sustained, and laterally displaced apical impulse Audible and occasionally palpable third (S3) and fourth (S4) heart sounds Accentuated pulmonic component (P2) of the second heart sound (S2) These abnormal heart sounds also can occur in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) or heart failure with minimally reduced ejection fraction (HRmrEF). A pansystolic murmur of mitral regurgitation at the apex may occur, particularly if the LV is significantly dilated. Jugular venous distention indicates elevated right atrial pressure. Pulsus alternans (an pulse alternating between strong 2/11 and weak beats) may accompany severely reduced LV systolic function and has historically been considered a poor prognostic sign (1, 2). Pulmonary findings include early inspiratory basilar crackles that do not clear with coughing and, if pleural effusion is present, dullness to percussion and diminished breath sounds at the lung base(s). Wheezing or stridor may be present due to inflammation of smaller airways as a result of pulmonary edema, or due to compression of larger airways by enlarged cardiac structures (ie, the left atrium or great vessels). Diagnosis of Acute Heart Failure History and physical examination Chest radiograph Echocardiography Laboratory evaluation, including neurohormonal biomarkers such as brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal-pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP) levels Sometimes ECG, cardiac radionuclide scan, cardiac MRI, cardiac catheterization, and other tests for etiology and to assess effect on end-organ function Clinical findings (eg, exertional dyspnea or fatigue, orthopnea, edema, tachycardia, pulmonary crackles, S3, jugular venous distention) suggest heart failure but are usually not apparent early. Some similar symptoms may result from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or recurrent pneumonia or may be erroneously attributed to obesity or old age. Suspicion for heart failure should be high in patients with a history of myocardial infarction, hypertension, valvular disorders, or murmurs and should be moderate in any patient who
