Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


old age. Suspicion for heart failure should be high in patients with a history of myocardial infarction, hypertension, valvular disorders, or murmurs and should be moderate in any patient who is older or has diabetes. Chest radiograph, ECG, and an objective test of cardiac function, typically echocardiography, should be done (see figure Diagnosis of Heart Failure of Acute Onset). Blood tests, except for BNP levels, are not used for diagnosis but are useful for identifying cause and systemic effects (1, 2). Similarly, blood tests, including lactic acid, electrolytes, renal function, and hepatic function, may identify effects on tissue and organ perfusion. 3/11 Diagnosis of Acute Heart Failure Data from McDonagh TA, Metra M, Adamo M, et al: 2021 ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure: Developed by the Task Force for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) with the special contribution of the Heart Failure Association (HFA) of the ESC. Eur Heart J 42(36):3599-3726, 2021. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehab368. ECG = electrocardiography; EF = ejection fraction; NT-pro-BNP = N-terminal-pro-BNP; BNP = Brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide; HFmrEF = heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction; HFpEF = heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; HFrEF = heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. 4/11 Chest radiograph Chest radiograph findings suggesting heart failure include an enlarged cardiac silhouette, pleural effusion, fluid in the major fissure, and horizontal lines in the periphery of lower posterior lung fields (Kerley B lines). These findings reflect chronic elevation of left atrial pressure and chronic thickening of the intralobular septa due to edema. Upper lobe pulmonary venous congestion and interstitial or alveolar edema may also be present. Careful examination of the cardiac silhouette on a lateral projection can identify specific ventricular and atrial chamber enlargement. The radiograph may also suggest alternative diagnoses (eg, COPD, pneumonia, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, lung cancer). 5/11 ECG ECG findings are not diagnostic, but an abnormal ECG, especially one showing previous myocardial infarction, left ventricular hypertrophy, left bundle branch block, or tachyarrhythmia (eg, rapid atrial fibrillation), increases suspicion for heart failure and may help identify the cause. Left or right atrial enlargement may be present. Left ventricular hypertrophy may reflect LV dilation, or voltages may be reduced in the case of severe LV systolic dysfunction. Other cardiac imaging Echocardiography can help evaluate chamber dimensions, valve function, LVEF, wall motion abnormalities,
