Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


LV dilation, or voltages may be reduced in the case of severe LV systolic dysfunction. Other cardiac imaging Echocardiography can help evaluate chamber dimensions, valve function, LVEF, wall motion abnormalities, LV hypertrophy, diastolic function, pulmonary artery pressure, LV and RV filling pressures, RV function, and pericardial effusion. Intracardiac thrombi, tumors, and calcifications within the heart valves, mitral annulus, and aortic wall abnormalities can be detected. Localized or segmental wall motion abnormalities strongly suggest underlying coronary artery disease but can also be present with patchy myocarditis. Doppler or color Doppler echocardiography accurately detects valvular disorders and shunts. The combination of Doppler evaluation of mitral inflow with tissue Doppler imaging of the mitral annulus can help identify and quantify LV diastolic dysfunction and LV filling pressures. Measuring LVEF can distinguish between predominant HFpEF (EF ≥ 50%) and HFrEF (EF ≤ 40%). It is important to re-emphasize that heart failure can occur with a normal LVEF. Speckle-tracking echocardiography, a measure of strain, is useful in detecting subclinical systolic dysfunction and specific patterns of myocardial dysfunction and may provide useful information regarding the pattern of myocardial involvement of cardiomyopathy, and therefore information about the cause. Radionuclide imaging also can help assess systolic and diastolic function, previous myocardial infarction, and inducible ischemia or myocardial hibernation. It is used most commonly to assess the presence and/or severity of ischemic heart disease and can also be used to quantify left ventricular ejection fraction. Cardiac MRI using late gadolinium enhancement imaging (LGE, also called fibrosis or scar imaging) is useful to evaluate the cause of myocardial disease and to detect focal and diffuse myocardial fibrosis. Cardiac amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, hemachromatosis, and myocarditis are causes of HF that can be detected with or suspected based on cardiac MRI findings. Patients with acute heart failure must be stabilized in order to undergo cardiac MRI, because the test requires a prolonged duration in a supine position and coordinated breath holding (or, in some cases, general anesthesia with ventilatory support). Blood tests Serum BNP levels are often high in heart failure; this finding may help when clinical findings are unclear or other diagnoses (eg, COPD) need to be excluded. It may be particularly useful for patients with a history of both pulmonary and cardiac disorders. NT-pro-BNP, an inactive moiety created when 6/11 pro-BNP is cleaved, can be used similarly to BNP. However, a normal BNP level does not exclude the diagnosis of heart
