Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


cardiac disorders. NT-pro-BNP, an inactive moiety created when 6/11 pro-BNP is cleaved, can be used similarly to BNP. However, a normal BNP level does not exclude the diagnosis of heart failure, particularly in patients with HFpEF and/or obesity. In HFpEF, BNP levels tend to be approximately 50% of those associated with HFrEF (at similar degrees of symptoms), and up to 30% of patients with acute HFpEF have a BNP level below the commonly used threshold of 100 pg/mL (100 ng/L). Obesity, a common comorbidity in HF, is associated with reduced BNP production and increased BNP clearance, resulting in lower levels. Besides BNP, recommended blood tests include complete blood count, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), electrolytes (including magnesium and calcium), glucose, albumin, ferritin, and liver tests. Thyroid function tests are recommended for patients with atrial fibrillation and for selected, especially older, patients. Other tests Thoracic ultrasound is a noninvasive method of detecting pulmonary congestion in patients with heart failure. Sonographic "comet tail artifact" on thoracic ultrasound corresponds to the radiographic finding of Kerley B lines. Coronary angiography or CT coronary angiography is indicated when coronary artery disease is suspected or the etiology of HF is uncertain. Cardiac catheterization with intracardiac pressure measurements (invasive hemodynamic assessment) may be helpful in the diagnosis of restrictive cardiomyopathies and constrictive pericarditis. Invasive hemodynamic measurements are also very helpful when the diagnosis of HF is equivocal, particularly in patients with HFpEF. In addition, perturbing the cardiovascular system (eg, exercise testing, volume challenge, medication challenges [eg, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside]) can be very helpful during invasive hemodynamic testing to help diagnose HF. Endomyocardial biopsy is sometimes done when an infiltrative cardiomyopathy or acute giant cell myocarditis is strongly suspected but cannot be confirmed with noninvasive imaging (eg, cardiac MRI). Treatment of Acute Heart Failure Pharmacotherapy 7/11 Respiratory and other organ system support as necessary Identification and treatment of cause Sometimes device therapy (eg, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, cardiac resynchronization therapy, mechanical circulatory support) Sometimes cardiac transplantation Multidisciplinary care Immediate inpatient treatment is required for patients with acute or worsening heart failure (HF) due to certain disorders (eg, acute myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation with a very rapid ventricular rate, severe hypertension, acute valvular regurgitation), as well as for patients with pulmonary edema, severe symptoms, new-onset HF, or HF unresponsive to outpatient treatment. Patients with mild exacerbations of previously diagnosed HF can be treated at home. The primary goal is to diagnose and
