Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


severe symptoms, new-onset HF, or HF unresponsive to outpatient treatment. Patients with mild exacerbations of previously diagnosed HF can be treated at home. The primary goal is to diagnose and to correct or treat the disorder that led to heart failure. Acute treatment goals include relieving symptoms and improving hemodynamics (optimizing preload, balancing ventricular function with myocardial oxygen demand, and appropriately reducing afterload); avoiding hypokalemia, renal dysfunction, and symptomatic hypotension; and correcting neurohumoral activation. The mainstay of the pharmacologic management of acute heart failure is decongestive therapy with diuretics, namely loop diuretics (eg, furosemide, torsemide, bumetanide) in either oral or intravenous form. (See Pulmonary Edema for a more detailed discussion.) Loop diuretics may be augmented by adding other diuretic classes such as thiazides (eg, metolazone). Afterload reduction using both oral and intravenous arterial vasodilators (eg, nitroprusside) can also be used to improve acute heart failure. Pulmonary vasodilators (eg, nitrate therapies) may also be used to reduce symptoms of congestion acutely. Low output heart failure, particularly in the setting of cardiogenic shock, often requires acute treatment with intravenous inotropic agents (eg, milrinone, dobutamine). Management of the cause of heart failure may also be indicated acutely, particularly for certain causes such as acute ischemia or arrhythmia. For heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HRrEF) in the acute setting, guideline-directed medical therapy with a sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, beta-blocker, angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor, and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist should be initiated once the patient is stabilized (1, 2). Medication doses are increased rapidly to target doses during the hospitalization and the first 6 weeks of follow-up to reduce the risk of both mortality and re-admission. See Chronic Heart Failure and Medications for Heart Failure for more detailed information on these medications. Other medications, such as nesiritide (a brain natriuretic peptide), levosimendan (a calcium-sensitizing inotrope), vesnarinone (an inotrope with multiple mechanisms), and ibopamine (a dopaminergic and adrenergic receptor agonist), may provide short-term symptomatic or hemodynamic improvement but do not improve, and in some cases may worsen, long-term outcomes compared to standard therapy (in randomized trials mortality was higher with vesnarinone and ibopamine and similar with nesiritide (3, 4, 5,6). Serelaxin (a recombinant form of the human pregnancy hormone relaxin-2) has been studied, but 8/11 benefits were not shown in a large international randomized study (7). Omecamtiv mecarbil (an oral cardiac myosin activator) reduced a composite endpoint of heart failure event or death but did not
