Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


were not shown in a large international randomized study (7). Omecamtiv mecarbil (an oral cardiac myosin activator) reduced a composite endpoint of heart failure event or death but did not reduce overall cardiovascular mortality in a large randomized trial. (8). See Medications for Heart Failure for more detailed information on specific medication classes. Positive airway pressure via high flow nasal cannula, continuous positive airway pressure, or bi-level positive airway pressure, or endotracheal intubation generally reduce left ventricular afterload by increasing intrathoracic pressure and reducing transmural LV pressure. Arrhythmia treatment Because arrhythmias can worsen heart failure, it is important to identify and treat the cause of any arrhythmia. Electrolytes are normalized. Atrial and ventricular rates are controlled. Sometimes antiarrhythmic medications are given. Sinus tachycardia, a common compensatory change in heart failure, usually subsides when HF treatment is effective. If it does not, associated causes (eg, hyperthyroidism, pulmonary emboli, fever, anemia, pain) should be sought. If sinus tachycardia persists despite correction of causes, a beta- blocker, given in gradually increasing doses, may help selected patients. However, lowering heart rate with a beta-blocker can be detrimental to patients with advanced HFpEF (eg, restrictive cardiomyopathy), in whom stroke volume is fixed because of severe diastolic dysfunction. In these patients, cardiac output is heart rate–dependent, and lowering heart rate can thus lower cardiac output at rest with exertion, or both. Atrial fibrillation with an uncontrolled ventricular rate must be treated; the target resting ventricular rate is typically < 80 beats/minute. Beta-blockers are the treatment of choice, although rate-limiting calcium channel blockers may be used cautiously if systolic function is preserved. Adding digoxin, low-dose amiodarone, or other rhythm and/or rate controlling medications may help some patients. Routine conversion to and maintenance of sinus rhythm has not been shown to be superior to rate control alone in randomized trials (9). However, it is best to make this determination on a case-by-case basis because some patients improve significantly with restoration of normal sinus rhythm. If rapid atrial fibrillation does not respond to medication, permanent pacemaker insertion with complete or partial ablation of the atrioventricular node, or other atrial fibrillation ablation procedures, may be considered to restore a sinus or regular rhythm in selected patients. Isolated ventricular premature beats, which are common in HF, do not require specific treatment, although rarely very frequent ventricular premature beats (> 15,000/day) have been shown to precipitate heart failure (that reverses with suppression).
