Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


which are common in HF, do not require specific treatment, although rarely very frequent ventricular premature beats (> 15,000/day) have been shown to precipitate heart failure (that reverses with suppression). However, optimization of HF treatments and correction of electrolyte abnormalities (especially of potassium and magnesium) reduce the risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 9/11 Sustained ventricular tachycardia that persists despite correction of cause (eg, low potassium or magnesium, ischemia) and optimal medical treatment of HF may require an antiarrhythmic medication. Amiodarone, beta-blockers, and dofetilide are the medications of choice because other antiarrhythmics have adverse proarrhythmic effects when LV systolic dysfunction is present. Because amiodarone increases digoxin and warfarin levels, digoxin and warfarin doses should be decreased by half or stopped. Serum digoxin level and INR (international normalized ratio) level should be routinely monitored. However, medication toxicity can occur even at therapeutic levels. Because long-term use of amiodarone can cause adverse effects, a low dose is used when possible; blood tests for liver function and thyroid-stimulating hormone are done every 6 months. If the chest radiograph is abnormal or dyspnea worsens significantly, chest radiographs and pulmonary function tests are done yearly to check for pulmonary fibrosis. For sustained ventricular arrhythmias, amiodarone may be required; to reduce risk of sudden death, an oral loading dose is given twice a day for 1 to 3 weeks until rhythm control is adequate, then dose is decreased over 1 month to a once daily maintenance dose. Device therapy and mechanical circulatory support Device therapy, including implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) and cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT), is primarily used for chronic heart failure. However, CRT may provide acute setting for select patients, when refractory arrhythmia is causing or exacerbating the heart failure. Ultrafiltration (venovenous filtration) can be useful in selected hospitalized patients with severe cardiorenal syndrome and volume overload refractory to diuretics. However, ultrafiltration should not be used routinely because evidence does not clearly show long-term clinical benefit (10). An intra-aortic counterpulsation balloon pump (IABP) is helpful in selected patients with acute HF who have a good chance of recovery (eg, acute HF following myocardial infarction) or in those who need a bridge to a more permanent solution such as cardiac surgery (eg, to fix severe valvular disease or to revascularize multivessel coronary artery disease), an LV assist device, or heart transplantation. Other forms of temporary mechanical circulatory support for patients with acute HF and cardiogenic shock include surgically placed
