Acute Heart Failure
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, cardiac, acute, patients, ventricular, treatment, pulmonary, function, acute heart, bnp, myocardial, cause, used


revascularize multivessel coronary artery disease), an LV assist device, or heart transplantation. Other forms of temporary mechanical circulatory support for patients with acute HF and cardiogenic shock include surgically placed devices such as extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO, typically with venoarterial cannulation in patient's with heart failure) and centrifugal flow ventricular assist devices that can support either the LV, the RV, or both and can also be combined with an oxygenator to provide full cardiopulmonary support. Percutaneously placed devices such as intravascular microaxial ventricular assist devices are available for both LV and RV support. Selection of temporary mechanical circulatory support devices is based mainly on availability and local medical center experience. Please see device therapy for chronic heart failure for more information. Treatment references Prognosis for Acute Heart Failure 10/11 Generally, patients hospitalized for acute heart failure have a poor prognosis unless the cause is correctable. Overall combined 5-year survival is estimated at 34%, and 10-year survival at 17%, for patients with after an initial hospitalization for all types of heart failure (1). Key Points Consider acute heart failure in patients with worsening or new onset of exertional dyspnea or fatigue, orthopnea, and/or edema, particularly in those with a history of myocardial infarction, hypertension, or valvular disorders or murmurs. Perform chest radiograph, ECG, brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide levels, echocardiography, and additional testing as necessary. Treat with guideline-directed medical therapy appropriate to heart failure type prior to hospital discharge. Treatment includes control of underlying disorders, medications, sometimes implantable devices (cardiac resynchronization therapy, implantable cardioverter- defibrillators), education and lifestyle changes.
