Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


Open Access Protocol Can we Save the rectum by watchful waiting or TransAnal microsurgery following (chemo) Radiotherapy versus Total mesorectal excision for early REctal Cancer (STAR-TREC study)?: protocol for a multicentre, randomised feasibility study Anouk J M Rombouts,1 Issam Al-Najami,2 Natalie L Abbott,3 Ane Appelt,4,5 Gunnar Baatrup,2 Simon Bach,6 Aneel Bhangu,6 Karen-Lise Garm Spindler,7,8 Richard Gray,9 Kelly Handley,10 Manjinder Kaur,11 Ellen Kerkhof,12 Camilla Jensenius Kronborg,13 Laura Magill,11 Corrie A M Marijnen,12 Iris D Nagtegaal,14 Lars Nyvang,15 Femke P Peters,12 Per Pfeiffer,16 Cornelis Punt,17 Philip Quirke,18 David Sebag-Montefiore,19 Mark Teo,19,20 Nick West,18 Johannes H W de Wilt,1 for STAR-TREC Collaborative Group To cite: STAR-TREC AbstrACt strengths and limitations of this study Collaborative Group. Can Introduction Total mesorectal excision (TME) is the we Save the rectum by highly effective standard treatment for rectal cancer watchful waiting or TransAnal ► This phase II study is the first study to randomise but is associated with significant morbidity and may be microsurgery following between the standard of care in early rectal cancer overtreatment for low-risk cancers. This study is designed (chemo) Radiotherapy versus (ie, total mesorectal excision surgery) and two to determine the feasibility of international recruitment Total mesorectal excision for organ-saving strategies using (chemo)radiotherapy early REctal Cancer (STAR- in a study comparing organ-saving approaches versus followed by selective transanal microsurgery. TREC study)?: protocol for standard TME surgery. ► STAR-TREC study will show whether it is feasible a multicentre, randomised Methods and analysis STAR-TREC trial is a multicentre to recruit enough patients for a consecutive feasibility study. BMJ Open international randomised, three-arm parallel, phase II international large, multicentre randomised phase 2017;7:e019474. doi:10.1136/ feasibility study in patients with III trial. bmjopen-2017-019474 biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma of the rectum. The trial ► The study design incorporates several adjustments ► Prepublication history for is coordinated from Birmingham, UK with national hubs in standard (chemo)radiation therapy protocols this paper is available online. in Radboudumc (the Netherlands) and Odense University intended to reduce treatment-related side effects associated with organ-saving therapy. the journal online ( x. doi. cancer, staged by CT and MRI as ≤cT3b (up to 5 mm of ► Clinical nodal staging of rectal cancer is rather org/ 10. 1136/ bmjopen- 2017- extramural spread) N0 M0 can be included. Patients will unreliable and patients with false-negative nodal 019474). be randomised to either standard TME surgery (control), disease will be included in the study. organ-saving treatment using long-course concurrent Received 25 September
