Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


unreliable and patients with false-negative nodal 019474). be randomised to either standard TME surgery (control), disease will be included in the study. organ-saving treatment using long-course concurrent Received 25 September 2017 ► Experience with clinical judgement of a complete chemoradiation or organ-saving treatment using Accepted 20 October 2017 response is difficult and needs to be monitored short-course radiotherapy. For patients treated with carefully with central reviewing during the study. radiotherapy determines the next treatment step. An active surveillance regime will be performed in the case of a defined as randomisation of at least four cases per month using an optimised platform such as transanal endoscopic Ethics and dissemination The medical ethical microsurgery or other transanal techniques (eg, transanal committees of all the participating countries have For numbered affiliations see endoscopic operation or transanal minimally invasive approved the study protocol. Results of the primary and end of article. surgery). The primary endpoint of this phase II study is secondary endpoints will be submitted for publication in to demonstrate sufficient international recruitment in peer-reviewed journals. Correspondence to star- trec@ radboudumc. nl failure as the primary endpoint. Success in phase II is 2016. NCT02945566; Pre-results, October 2016. Rombouts AJM, et al. BMJ Open 2017;7:e019474. doi: 1 Open Access IntroduCtIon be locally excised through the anus with low morbidity The introduction of bowel cancer screening is associ- and mortality using transanal endoscopic microsurgery ated with a significant increase in the incidence of early- (TEM), allowing rectal-saving treatment.30 31 Morbidity stage rectal cancer.1 2 Total mesorectal excision (TME) and mortality after local excision are much lower than surgery is an effective oncological treatment for early- after major resection. Morbidity associated with TEM stage rectal cancer, only 2% and 12% of patients expe- includes bowel perforation, (transitory) incontinence, rience local or distant failure, respectively.3–5 However, wound infection and local pain.32–34 In a study of 5305 standard surgery for rectal cancer requires permanent patients with early-stage rectal cancer, 30-day mortality stoma formation in 10%–20% of cases and temporary after local excision was found to be 0.5% compared with stoma formation in 60%–70%.6 7 Many temporary stomas 2.4% in patients undergoing major resection (P=0.008). are not reversed.8 9 Furthermore, TME surgery is associ- Morbidity within 30 days of surgery was 4.4% in the local ated with major morbidity and mortality in a significant excision group versus 12.7% in the major resection group number of patients. Over 50% of
