Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


local excision.40 No further treatment was predominantly T3 rectal cancer treated with chemoradi- offered for good responders, whereas immediate TME ation therapy (CRT), 71 patients (27%) had a complete surgery was recommended for all other patients. Good clinical response (cCR).23 24 These patients did not have responders had a 2-year local recurrence rate of 10%. Of surgery and after a mean follow-up of 57 months (range: the poor responders, eight patients had a TME and none 18–156), only two patients developed local recurrence, of this group had a recurrence, however, 18 declined or one of which was successfully salvaged. A Dutch group then were unfit for TME, and this group had a 2-year local prospectively selected patients with cCR for a watchful recurrence rate of 37%. This underlines that in high-risk waiting strategy (n=21).25 After a mean follow-up 25 or poor responding patients, neoadjuvant radiotherapy months (±19 months), one patient had developed a local followed by local excision is inadequate treatment. recurrence which was salvaged by surgery and all other A study investigating chemoradiation therapy for rectal patients were alive without disease. In 2015, the effect of cancer in the distal rectum followed by organ-sparing tran- a radiation boost after CRT was evaluated in a prospective sanal endoscopic microsurgery (CARTS) was a non-ran- observational Danish study. A watch and wait policy was domised phase II study that evaluated CRT followed by possible in 40 out of 51 included patients.26 At 1 year, local TEM in 55 patients with stage T1–3N0 rectal cancer.41 recurrence occurred in 16% of 40 patients who initially Clinical response was assessed 6–8 weeks after comple- showed a cCR. Rectal bleeding was relatively frequent in tion of CRT and TEM was performed. Organ saving was this study during follow-up perhaps relating to the higher achieved in more than half of patients and 21 had ypT0 radiotherapy doses that were used. However, these results disease. Radiotherapy consisted of 50 Gy in 25 fractions which combine high cCR rates and low local recurrence and capecitabine 825 mg/m2 two times per day was given rates have not been consistently replicated.27 28 Further- for the same period 7 days per week. However, 42% of more, CRT is associated with treatment-related morbidity patients developed at least grade 3 toxicity and there and a mortality rate of 0.5%–1% should be considered.29 were two toxicity-related deaths. A multicentre cohort Another organ-saving treatment strategy is
