Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


patients developed at least grade 3 toxicity and there and a mortality rate of 0.5%–1% should be considered.29 were two toxicity-related deaths. A multicentre cohort Another organ-saving treatment strategy is local exci- study from the UK that employed SCRT with TEM after sion instead of radical surgery. Early rectal tumours may 10 weeks demonstrated that 43/62 cases had either no or 2 Rombouts AJM, et al. BMJ Open 2017;7:e019474. doi: Open Access minimal residual disease following radiotherapy.42 None >50% at 12 months (following randomisation) in the of these patients experienced short-term pelvic relapse experimental arms? and treatment-related toxicity was low. The ACOSOG Additional outcome measures pertinent to a future Z6041 study, a single-arm phase II study, evaluated an phase III study examining the safety and efficacy oxaliplatin and capecitabine concurrent chemotherapy of organ saving versus standard surgery will also be schedule combined with 54 Gy of pelvic radiotherapy collected. followed by TEM for T2N0 rectal cancer.43 Both radio- therapy and chemotherapy schedules required reduction Safety during the study due to acute toxicity. Only 3 out of 79 ► accuracy of MRI in predicting STAR-TREC eligibility; evaluable patients experienced local failure as first event. ► 30-day and 6-month mortality; TREC is a phase II UK study evaluating the feasibility of ► surgical morbidity; randomising patients to receive either organ-saving treat- ► rate of tumour recurrence or regrowth within the ment with SCRT and TEM versus standard TME surgery. bowel wall (experimental arm); This study is due to report in 2017 having completed ► rate of tumour recurrence within the mesorectum minimum 2-year follow-up. (experimental arm); In conclusion, several strategies can be followed to ► rate of distant metastases; improve the quality of life of patients with rectal cancer ► pelvic failure rate: expressed as a sum of the following: by aiming for organ preservation. However, all data so far (1) unresectable pelvic tumour, (2) cases requiring are derived from small phase II studies and many ques- beyond TME surgery or (3) tumour recurrence or tions regarding the optimal radiotherapy schedule and regrowth ≤1 mm from the circumferential surgical the optimal timing of evaluation remain. In addition, margin after TME surgery. This outcome measure prospective comparative data with radical surgery are will be pivotal in challenging current clinical practice not available. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a and it is our intention that it becomes the primary randomised phase III
