Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


be pivotal in challenging current clinical practice not available. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a and it is our intention that it becomes the primary randomised phase III trial to establish the risks, compli- endpoint in phase III; cation rates and benefits of organ saving compared with ► bowel, bladder and sexual dysfunction (baseline and standard radical surgery for early-stage rectal cancer. 12, 24 months postrandomisation). The aim of STAR-TREC study is to assess the feasibility of successfully recruiting to a large, multicentre randomised Efficacy trial comparing radical surgery versus organ saving treat- ► proportion of patients with/without a stoma at 30 days ment using (chemo)radiotherapy followed by selective and 1 year; transanal microsurgery. ► histopathological assessment of tumour down- staging following radiotherapy according to depth of tumour invasion and the incidence of other high-risk MEthods And AnAlysIs features in comparison to non-irradiated (control) design group; STAR-TREC trial is a multicentre international ► proportion of patients identified by clinical and MRI randomised, three-arm parallel study in patients with assessment as suitable for active monitoring; biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma of the rectum. The trial is ► conversion rates from organ saving to radical surgery; coordinated from Birmingham, UK with national hubs in ► disease-free survival; Hospital Svendborg UMC (Denmark). Participants are postrandomisation); currently being recruited and enrolled; the first patient ► overall survival. was enrolled in July 2017. The primary endpoints of STAR-TREC study (phase II) study population are defined as: This is a hospital-based study. Centre eligibility depends 1. Year 1: Randomise at least four cases per month inter- on a Radiotherapy Trials Quality Assurance which is a nationally (n=48). mixture of an approved departmental standard operating 2. Year 2: Randomise at least six cases per month inter- procedure and successful contouring of a case using the nationally (n=72). new principles of mesorectal irradiation. Candidates will The secondary endpoints of this phase II trial are: generally be identified in the endoscopy suite following 1. Year 1: Can one international partner procure inde- referral for: (1) the investigation of new bowel symptoms, pendent funding in year 1? Successful internation- (2) as part of a personal bowel surveillance programme al collaboration will be necessary to deliver a future or (3) through national bowel screening. Subjects will phase III study. then be referred on to either a colorectal surgeon or the 2. Year 1: Can one international partner open the study colorectal cancer
