Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


bowel screening. Subjects will phase III study. then be referred on to either a colorectal surgeon or the 2. Year 1: Can one international partner open the study colorectal cancer multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting. to recruit in year 1? Eligibility will be confirmed at the MDT meeting. The 3. Efficacy of organ-preserving treatment arms on com- main inclusion and exclusion criteria for the trial are pletion of phase II study: Is the organ-saving rate summarised in table 1. Rombouts AJM, et al. BMJ Open 2017;7:e019474. doi: 3 Open Access Table 1 Inclusion and exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria 1. Age >16 years (UK), age >18 years (Netherlands and Denmark) 1. MRI node positive* 2. Biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma of the rectum 2. MRI extramural invasion present* 3. MRI T1–3b N0 M0 rectal tumour 3. MRI-defined mucinous tumour 4. Multidisciplinary team meeting determines that the following 4. Mesorectal fascia threatened by tumour (≤1 mm on treatment options are all reasonable and feasible: MRI) a. TME surgery, b. Chemoradiation therapy, c. Short-course chemoradiation therapy d. TEM 5. Estimated creatinine clearance >50 mL/min 5. Maximum tumour diameter >40 mm; measured from everted edges on sagittal MRI 6. Anterior tumour location above the peritoneal reflection on MRI or endoscopic rectal ultrasound 7. No residual luminal tumour following endoscopic mucosal resection 8. Prior pelvic radiotherapy 9. Regional or distant metastases *Defined by protocol guidelines. TEM, transanal endoscopic microsurgery; TME, total mesorectal excision. study arms 2. cCR assessed at 16–20 weeks means that the bowel Patients will be randomised to either standard TME wall has reverted to normal and patients are treated surgery (control), organ-saving treatment using long- by watchful waiting. course concurrent CRT or organ-saving treatment using 3. Clinically satisfactory, yet incomplete tumour response SCRT (figure 1). Patients allocated to TME surgery will at 16–20 weeks, meaning a 50% or more reduction of have a minimum of one abdominal CT scan and regular tumour size and the presence of any residual mucosal clinical follow-up will be made according to national or bowel wall abnormality suggestive of persisting tu- guidelines. In the two organ-saving arms, response assess- mour, will prompt local excision by TEM. ment will take place at 11–13 weeks from the start of treatment regimen for organ-saving strategies (chemo)radiotherapy and again at 16–20 weeks from Long-course CRT consists of capecitabine and is adminis- start. Initial assessment at 11–13 weeks (MRI and endos- tered at a
