Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


for organ-saving strategies (chemo)radiotherapy and again at 16–20 weeks from Long-course CRT consists of capecitabine and is adminis- start. Initial assessment at 11–13 weeks (MRI and endos- tered at a dose of 825 mg/m2 two times per day on radio- copy) will identify a small proportion of cases where therapy days only. A total dose of 50 Gy will be applied to radiotherapy has had little or no impact on tumour the primary tumour and surrounding mesorectum, in 25 dimensions. Non-responding patients will be advised fractions of 2 Gy, 5 days per week. to convert to standard TME surgery. Individuals whose SCRT consists of a total dose of 25 Gy, applied to the tumours demonstrate a satisfactory response at this primary tumour and surrounding mesorectum in five time point will be examined once again at 16–20 weeks fractions of 5 Gy, preferably on five consecutive days. (endoscopy) to determine if a cCR has occurred. It is Radiotherapy for organ preservation is primarily aimed anticipated that this interval between assessments will at tumour downstaging and can therefore be restricted to allow for additional tumour regression and resolution the peritumoral area including the primary tumour and of acute radiotherapy reactions, facilitating more precise the mesorectum resulting in a significant reduction in the diagnosis of cCR. An active surveillance regime will be irradiated target volume. performed in the case of a cCR. In the case of incomplete see figure 1. Representative endoscopic images will be Patients will be randomised on a 1:1:1 basis between stan- centrally reviewed during this feasibility stage to develop dard surgical treatment and organ-saving treatments. a consistent approach to interpretation of the clinical Randomisation will be provided by a computer-generated assessment. program at the University of Birmingham Clinical Trials All patients must be assigned to one of the three treat- Units. The randomisation program will use a minimisa- ment groups by week 20: tion procedure for the following variables: 1. Poor response assessed at 11–13 weeks—patient rec- 1. MRI tumour staging (≤T3a N0 V0 and T3b N0 V0) ommended to convert to radical TME surgery. (T3a: tumour extends <1 mm beyond muscularis 4 Rombouts AJM, et al. BMJ Open 2017;7:e019474. doi: Open Access Figure 1 Flow chart of the inclusion, randomisation and management of the study subjects in STAR-TREC trial. APE, anterior perianal excision; CRT, chemoradiation therapy; LAR, low anterior resection; SCRT, short-course radiation therapy; TEM, transanal endoscopic microsurgery;
