Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


inclusion, randomisation and management of the study subjects in STAR-TREC trial. APE, anterior perianal excision; CRT, chemoradiation therapy; LAR, low anterior resection; SCRT, short-course radiation therapy; TEM, transanal endoscopic microsurgery; TME, total mesorectal excision. propria; T3b: tumour extends 1–5 mm beyond mus- present trial is to include four to six patients per month cularis propria) in order to have a high enough randomisation rate to 2. country (UK, the Netherlands, Denmark). perform a phase III trial. For a phase III trial, the primary Stratification and minimisation will be by T-stage to outcome would be 3-year pelvic failure. The null hypoth- ensure that the more advanced tumours are equally repre- esis is that the increase in the rate of pelvic failure at 3 sented across treatments; stratification and by country years with organ preservation compared with standard will be done to account for any bias arising from any surgery is less than 7% absolute difference. Prior data possible differences in pretreatment MRI-based staging indicate that the pelvic recurrence rate in the radical assessment. TME group is 2%. If the true recurrence rate for patients To avoid any possibility of the treatment allocation in an experimental arm is 9% then, using 90% power and becoming too predictable, a random factor will be alpha=0.025 (to account for two treatment comparisons) included within the algorithm whereby for a propor- would require 117 patients per treatment arm. Antici- tion of the allocations true randomisation will be imple- pating a 10% dropout rate, we would aim to randomise mented rather than by using the minimisation allocation. 400 participants. The final decision for a phase III sample sample size size will be taken from information gained during the No power calculation is provided as the primary objec- feasibility study. Data of the phase II trial will be used for tive is to show feasibility of recruitment. The aim of the the phase III trial. Rombouts AJM, et al. BMJ Open 2017;7:e019474. doi: 5 Open Access data management II data from TREC and CARTS justifies a randomised Case report forms (CRFs) can be entered online at http:// comparison of standard radical surgery versus organ- www. bctu. bham. ac. uk/ STAR- TREC. Authorised staff at saving treatment using either SCRT or CRT with selective sites will require an individual secure login username and use of transanal microsurgery based on a radiotherapy password to access this online data entry system.
