Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


SCRT or CRT with selective sites will require an individual secure login username and use of transanal microsurgery based on a radiotherapy password to access this online data entry system. Paper response assessment. Organ preservation is not standard CRFs must be completed, signed/dated and returned treatment and testing the feasibility is important to deter- to the National STAR-TREC Trial Office by the investi- mine the scale of randomised trial that can be performed. gator or an authorised member of the site research team. The phase II STAR-TREC study will evaluate the feasibility Data reported on each CRF should be consistent with the of accelerating recruitment to an international three-arm source data or the discrepancies should be explained. randomised trial. If information is not known, this must be clearly indi- The published literature supports use of (chemo)radio- cated on the CRF. All missing and ambiguous data will be therapy and transanal microsurgery as an alternative to queried. All sections are to be completed. major surgery for curative treatment of early rectal cancer. done after the patients have completed a series of ques- motivated to organ-preserving treatment. Broader patient tionnaires. The questionnaires European Organisation populations are yet to be evaluated using these organ- for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of life saving treatments. In addition, the long-term impact of questionnaires for colorectal cancer quality of life ques- organ-saving treatment after neoadjuvant treatment, tionnaire C30 and CR29 (EORTC QLQL), standardised on quality of life and, more importantly, oncological (EQ-5D), Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) strategies should ideally be compared with radical TME score and Patient-completed questionnaire for evaluating surgery which represents the current standard of care for male/female lower urinary tract symptoms and impact on patients with rectal cancer. A randomised trial comparing quality of life (ICIQ-MLUTS/ICIQ FLUTS) will be done organ-saving treatment with major surgery might be prac- at three time points, at baseline prior to treatment and at tice changing for the treatment of patients with early follow-up 12 and 24 months after the start of treatment. rectal cancer. All trial records must be archived and securely retained In addition, while it seems probable that a strategy for at least 25 years. No documents will be destroyed without of organ saving may produce substantial benefits over prior approval from the Sponsor, via the central STAR- conventional radical surgery, the optimum organ-saving TREC trial office. On-site monitoring will be carried out
