Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


saving may produce substantial benefits over prior approval from the Sponsor, via the central STAR- conventional radical surgery, the optimum organ-saving TREC trial office. On-site monitoring will be carried out as treatment schedule remains unclear. Phase II studies required following a risk assessment and as documented suggest that SCRT may have the lowest acute toxicity while in the monitoring plan for each participating country. Any CRT may achieve the highest cCR rates. Randomisation monitoring activities will be reported to the central STAR- between these two strategies with the interval calculated TREC office and any issues noted will be followed up to from the start of (chemo)radiotherapy will give insight in resolution. STAR-TREC will also be centrally monitored; the possible difference in efficacy in these early cancers. however, additional on-site monitoring may occur if trig- STAR-TREC is, therefore, an international, multicentre, gered. Further information regarding data management is randomised, phase II feasibility study comprising a 1:1:1 provided in the study protocol. randomisation for eligible subjects with early clinically localised rectal cancer. Ethics and dissemination While published data supports further evaluation of The trial will be performed in accordance with the recom- organ saving in patients with early-stage rectal cancer mendations guiding physicians in biomedical research using either SCRT or CRT followed by transanal microsur- involving human subjects, adopted by the 18th World gery, it has also become clear that not all patients require Medical Association General Assembly, Helsinki, Finland surgery. Watchful waiting after complete response is being and stated in the respective participating countries laws investigated in patients already in need of CRT.24 26 37 The medical ethical committees of all the participating treatment regimen in order to facilitate organ preserva- countries have approved the study protocol. tion. Current techniques use either SCRT (five fractions A meeting will be held after the end of the study to of 5 Gy)40 42 or concurrent fluoropyridine-based CRT (25 allow discussion of the main results among the collabo- fractions of 1.8 or 2 Gy).38–40 42 Radiotherapy is routinely rators prior to publication. Results of the primary and followed by TEM, to remove the portion of bowel wall secondary endpoints will be submitted for publication in affected by cancer. However, in a significant proportion of peer-reviewed journals. patients, there are no signs of residual tumour following radiotherapy. This is termed a cCR. These patients are likely overtreated by routine transanal microsurgery and dIsCussIon therefore possibly
