Open Access Protocol
KEYWORDS: patients, study, surgery, cancer, treatment, phase, tme, rectal, radiotherapy, trial, tumour, rectal cancer, local, star-trec, organ-saving


peer-reviewed journals. patients, there are no signs of residual tumour following radiotherapy. This is termed a cCR. These patients are likely overtreated by routine transanal microsurgery and dIsCussIon therefore possibly subjected to unnecessary surgery-re- The TREC and CARTS groups have combined with lated morbidity. Therefore, patients with a cCR might be colleagues in Denmark to design STAR-TREC study. Phase better served by a watchful waiting approach.44 6 Rombouts AJM, et al. BMJ Open 2017;7:e019474. doi: Open Access STAR-TREC study design incorporates several devel- quality assurance. The ultimate goal of this phase II feasi- opmental steps, each intended to further reduce treat- bility study is to accelerate to a phase III study comparing ment-related side effects associated with organ-preserving TME surgery with two organ-saving treatment regimens. therapy: 1. Modification in the capecitabine dose from 825 mg/ Author affiliations CARTS to 825 mg/m2 two times per day for 5 days per Netherlands week. 3Radiotheraphy Trials Quality Assurance Group, Velindre Cancer Centre, Cardiff, UK 3. Use of a two-step clinical response assessment tool following (chemo)radiation so that (1) poor respond- more time to determine if they reach cCR and may Birmingham, UK avoid transanal microsurgery. 4. Selective use of transanal microsurgery/TEM for re- Netherlands 5. Objective comparison of the efficacy of CRT versus Netherlands SCRT with similar intervals between start of radiother- apy and evaluation. To date, no significant differences are considered for Netherlands of Leeds, Leeds, UK tumour, the mesorectal fat, presacral and internal iliac cally node negative, the necessity of irradiating presacral and iliac nodes is questionable. Even in the case of unex- Contributors All collaborators made substantial contributions to the design of the pected nodal involvement, the majority of involved lymph study and/or were involved in drafting the manuscript. All collaborators read and nodes will be peritumoral in the mesorectum, as demon- approved the final manuscript. strated in a series of 121 patients with locally advanced Funding STAR-TREC is an international study, separately funded in each rectal cancer who underwent CRT.46 The radiotherapy participating country. In the UK, this work was supported by Cancer Research UK (C41557/A19393), in the Netherlands by the Dutch Cancer Society (KWF KUN volume has therefore been reduced to the mesorectal 2014-7448) and in Denmark by the Danish Cancer Society (R100-A6747). Contact protocol. 0121 415 9104; email: STAR- TREC@ trials. bham. ac. uk. STAR-TREC is designed to achieve a recruitment rate Competing interests None declared. that
