Byun et al. Radiat Oncol (2020) 15:239
KEYWORDS: bladder, volume, dose, fraction, rectal, rectum, sbrt, displacement, bladder volume, treatment, sim-ct, prostate, mean, organ, patients


of genitourinary and bowel toxicities Sim-CT. Treating physicians visually assessed the ade- to IMRT have been reported in preliminary trials and quacy of bladder filling and rectal volumes on the CBCTs multi-institutional experiences [1, 4–6, 13]. Recently, a compared to initial Sim-CT prior to treatment delivery. Phase III non-inferiority clinical trial comparing conven- Using the Eclipse® Treatment Planning System (Varian tional prostate EBRT to a seven-fraction prostate SBRT Medical Systems; Palo Alto, CA), CBCTs were registered regimen (4270 cGy) revealed a comparable acute end-of- and blended with the Sim-CT for each patient. A sin- treatment urinary and bowel toxicity outcomes, as well as gle reviewer determined anatomical delineations of the at 5-year follow-up . CTV (prostate and seminal vesicles), bladder wall, blad- We hypothesize that variations in bladder and rectum der trigone, and rectum on the baseline Sim-CT, as well filling during the course of prostate SBRT could result as the 5 blended CBCTs, for each patient (n 510 total in unexpected doses being delivered to critical normal = images). For each scan, the rectum was contoured from tissues and possibly affect the rate of treatment-related the rectosigmoid flexure superiorly to the ischial tuber- toxicity. To our knowledge, an evaluation of anatomic osity inferiorly. Consistency of rectal length was main- variations in the bladder and rectal filling in an SBRT tained through all 6 sets of CT images for each patient. prostate cancer cohort has yet to be conducted. To this Bladder trigone was defined as the triangular posteroin- end, we sought to determine the amount of interfrac- ferior region of the bladder wall extending from the ure- tional pelvic organ volume changes and displacement teral orifices superiorly to the internal urethral sphincter during prostate SBRT, as well as the potential dosimetric inferiorly. and clinical impact on these organs at risk (OARs) in a cohort of patients who were placed on a strict pre-treat- ment bladder filling and rectal emptying pre-treatment Volume, position, and dosimetric evaluation regimen. Target and OAR volumes were obtained from the treat- ment planning system. Interfractional organ displace- Methods ments were quantified by calculating the organ center of Patient population, simulation procedures and target mass (COM) differences on the individual pre-treatment volumes CBCTs aligned to CTV and intraprostatic fiducial mark- Following Institutional Review Board approval, data were ers in relation to the baseline Sim-CTs. To account for obtained from medical records of 85 consecutive patients the
