Byun et al. Radiat Oncol (2020) 15:239
KEYWORDS: bladder, volume, dose, fraction, rectal, rectum, sbrt, displacement, bladder volume, treatment, sim-ct, prostate, mean, organ, patients


and intraprostatic fiducial mark- Following Institutional Review Board approval, data were ers in relation to the baseline Sim-CTs. To account for obtained from medical records of 85 consecutive patients the reproducibility of the pelvic organ delineation by treated with 5-fraction SBRT to the prostate from Sep- the reviewer, 10 randomly selected CBCTs were re-con- tember 2014 to August 2015 at our institution. Each toured at the end of data collection. Intraclass correlation patient underwent a 2–3 mm slice thickness simulation coefficient (ICC) was used to evaluate the level of repro- computed tomography (Sim-CT) in the supine posi- ducibility in the organ center of mass displacements and tion with thermoplast immobilization (Aquaplast; Qfix, organ volumes, where a coefficient of 1 implies perfect Avondale, PA). To maintain an adequately filled bladder reproducibility and 0 implies no consistency in delinea- for simulation and treatment, patients were instructed tion by the single reviewer . to drink 2 cups of water 1 h prior to each session. Strict CBCTs were fused to Sim-CT and fractional doses for rectal protocol of fiber supplementation, simeticone, and the newly delineated CBCT structures were recalculated rectal enemas 3 h prior to simulation and each treat- based on the original treatment plan. To account for any ment was advised. During the course of this study, rec- variation in dose prescriptions and OAR dimensional tal spacers were not used in this patient cohort. Based on variations at the level of the CTV, fractional mean OAR the simulation CT and fusion of available pre-treatment doses and fractional maximum doses to 2 cc of OAR as prostate gland plus proximal 1 cm of the seminal dose at simulation. ≥ Statistical analysis at fraction #1, 236.6 145.0 mL at #2, 234.3 128.1 mL ± ± A two-tailed Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used to eval- at #3, 220.0 127.6 mL at #4, and 204.3 106.9 mL at ± ± uate differences between volume, displacement, mean #5 (Fig. 1). The average bladder volume reduction per doses, and D2cc of pelvic organs at Sim-CT compared patient from Sim-CT to fraction #5 (V Bladder) sig- 5-Sim to subsequent fractionations. Absolute inter-fraction nificantly decreased by 86.9 mL or 19.0% (Wilcoxon volume change was defined as the volume at fraction #5 signed-rank test: P < 0.01). In 10 patients, exact blad- subtracted from the volume at Sim-CT (denoted V ). der volume could not be delineated due to limitations in
