Byun et al. Radiat Oncol (2020) 15:239
KEYWORDS: bladder, volume, dose, fraction, rectal, rectum, sbrt, displacement, bladder volume, treatment, sim-ct, prostate, mean, organ, patients


0.2 1.1 1.8 4.8 1.5 3.3 0.96 1.87 − ± ± − ± ± ΔDose denotes percentage or absolute mean dose change from simulation CT to fraction #5. Fraction #1–5 mean doses were significantly different from simulation dose in all OARs (all P < 0.01) Table 3 Acute and late genitourinary and gastrointestinal Several past evaluations of patients treated with con- toxicity events in single modality prostate SBRT cases ventionally fractionated EBRT with full bladder protocols (N 71) = have reported similar results . For instance, a Genitourinary toxicities Gastrointestinal toxicities prospective study by Nakamura et al. showed a sig- nificant decline of 38% in bladder volume from fraction < Grade 2 Grade 2 (%) < Grade 2 Grade 2 (%) (%) (%) #1 to #30. To develop a feedback mechanism for con- sistent inter-fraction bladder volumes, Stam et al. Acute 12 (16.9) 9 (12.7) 2 (2.8) 0 (0.0) used daily bladder scans to provide patients with verbal (< 30 days) feedback on fluid consumption to improve bladder fill- Late 16 (22.5) 25 (35.2) 11 (15.5) 3 (4.3) ( 30 days) ing. While there was a moderate improvement in volume ≥ reduction in the bladder scan group (19% decline) com- therefore represent a surrogate for changes in the surface pared to the control group (31%), the authors concluded area of the posterior bladder wall. While previous stud- that the difference was not sufficient to deem their tech- ies regarding bladder filling emphasized the importance nique clinically applicable. In a series of 41 patients of reproducibility of a full bladder to reduce urinary tox- undergoing conventionally fractionated EBRT, O’Doherty icity, the bladder volume reduction observed here and et al. found that using written instructions resulted increased mean bladder dose may minimally contribute in more consistent bladder filling throughout treatment, to toxicity if the D2cc remains unchanged and the trig- with an association between patient’s subjective bladder one is simultaneously spared potentially deleterious dose fullness and actual bladder volume. Thus, written instruc- exposure . Clearly further exploration of the opti- tions may help patients maintain a moderately consistent mal bladder filling for simulation and treatment in the bladder volume for prostate SBRT as well. setting of a highly precise treatment, such as prostate Our results, however, call into question the need for SBRT, is needed. such strict bladder filling instructions when using mod- Although not as substantial as bladder volume reduc- ern
