Byun et al. Radiat Oncol (2020) 15:239
KEYWORDS: bladder, volume, dose, fraction, rectal, rectum, sbrt, displacement, bladder volume, treatment, sim-ct, prostate, mean, organ, patients


prostate Our results, however, call into question the need for SBRT, is needed. such strict bladder filling instructions when using mod- Although not as substantial as bladder volume reduc- ern radiotherapy techniques that employ more accurate tions, rectal volume also showed a decreasing trend over MRI-based target delineation and smaller PTVs facili- the course of the 5 fraction SBRT, with a significant but tated by advanced inter- and intra-fraction image guid- small increase in mean dose exposure to the rectal wall ance. While significant, it is uncertain if our observation but decrease in D2cc. These findings are corroborated of increased mean dose exposure to the bladder with a by studies in conventionally fractionated EBRT involving decline in bladder filling would ultimately translate to full bladder protocols, in which rectal volume reductions clinically significant GU sequelae in a prospective setting. were observed through the course of therapy . Our retrospective assessment of the available acute and It is also possible that the strict adherence to and cumu- late GI and GU toxicities data certainly did not reveal a lative effect of daily rectal emptying instructions involv- clear correlation to bladder volume and displacement ing fiber supplementation, simethicone, and enemas variations. may partially explain the decreasing rectal volume over To date, there have been relatively few defined dose- the treatment course. In addition, acute rectal symptoms volume relationships for prostate SBRT that have pre- with progression of treatment, namely tenesmus, may dicted greater significant GU toxicity. Repka et al. further propagate the rectal volume reduction observed found bladder wall D15.5% > 32.6 Gy to be significantly . While the literature concerning rectal displacement associated with acute urinary toxicity. Therefore, the vol- in SBRT patients is limited, a recent dosimetric study ume of the bladder receiving high doses might be more suggested that rectum volume receiving 75% of the pre- relevant than the mean dose. In the current study, blad- scribed dose can increase significantly during SBRT due der D2cc did not change significantly over the course of to interfraction organ displacement . As in bladder treatment, suggesting that the area of bladder exposed to dose volume studies, prior studies of rectal displacement high doses was similar to what we expected based on the in relation to dose exposure involved conventionally frac- DVHs generated during treatment planning. Addition- tionated EBRT employing more generous PTV margins ally, anatomical sub-sites of the bladder or urethra
