Byun et al. Radiat Oncol (2020) 15:239
KEYWORDS: bladder, volume, dose, fraction, rectal, rectum, sbrt, displacement, bladder volume, treatment, sim-ct, prostate, mean, organ, patients


the in relation to dose exposure involved conventionally frac- DVHs generated during treatment planning. Addition- tionated EBRT employing more generous PTV margins ally, anatomical sub-sites of the bladder or urethra (i.e., and substantially greater number of fractions over sev- bladder trigone/neck or membranous urethra) could be eral weeks and therefore may not be applicable to more relatively more important to avoid with high doses of precise ultra-hypofractionated treatments, especially radiation . Analysis of the bladder trigone was of considering the increased use of rectal spacers to miti- specific interest given our previously published analy- gate rectal dose. Furthermore, while there are specific ses of patients treated with conventionally fractionated dose constraint guidelines for the rectum in conventional EBRT and low-dose rate brachytherapy, which revealed EBRT and brachytherapy, prospectively validated dose a strong association between urinary toxicity and expo- constraint guidelines for ultra-hypofractionated SBRT sure to the bladder neck region . Overall bladder have yet to be established . volume reduction over the course of SBRT observed in Based on an evaluation of rectal tolerance in a Phase I/ the current study was accompanied by a displacement II trial, Kim et al. suggested that limiting 35% rec- of the trigone anteriorly and away from areas of highest tal circumference exposure to less than 39 Gy over 5 dose exposure. This phenomenon may be explained by fractions may reduce the risk for delayed rectal toxicity. collapsing of the overextended bladder walls in the axial Therefore, while studies have reported acceptable lev- plane with a reduction in urine volume between frac- els of rectal toxicity with prostate SBRT and our current tions, as illustrated by the inferior shift in the center of assessment yielded nonexistent-to-exceedingly low rates mass of the bladder from simulation to the end of treat- of GI toxicities, ongoing prospective trials with long- ment. Anterior displacement of the bladder trigone may term follow up must be evaluated before we can fully understand the dose-volume relationships and the poten- translated to center of mass displacement of the bladder tial impact of interfractional organ displacement [1, 5, 13, trigone anteriorly and were associated with changes to 35–38]. OAR dosimetry. While statistically significant, the rela- The key strengths of this study include its use of an tively small changes in OAR dose and displacement did objectively verified and consistent process of organ not correlate with any detrimental clinical outcomes on delineation, as well
