Byun et al. Radiat Oncol (2020) 15:239
KEYWORDS: bladder, volume, dose, fraction, rectal, rectum, sbrt, displacement, bladder volume, treatment, sim-ct, prostate, mean, organ, patients


use of an tively small changes in OAR dose and displacement did objectively verified and consistent process of organ not correlate with any detrimental clinical outcomes on delineation, as well as its analysis of a large number of our preliminary analyses. This study suggests that future CT images. A limitation of this study was the inferior prospective evaluation of the optimal bladder/rectal fill- image quality produced by the CBCTs, which might have ing during prostate SBRT is necessary and perhaps less resulted in errors in organ delineation. Similarly, other strict bladder filling and rectal emptying protocols may artifacts due to motion and metal may have also resulted be required for treatment. in contouring errors. As a single, trained reviewer per- Acknowledgements formed the organ delineations with a high degree of con- Not applicable. sistency, any major errors were likely mitigated. Another Authors’ contributions limitation is the retrospective nature of the study and the DB, DG, LJ, LH, PP, XP, and MZ made substantial contributions to the concep- absence of detailed toxicity outcomes to analyze in the tion of the study, data acquisition, statistical interpretation, and drafting of the context of our organ displacement and dosimetric data. article. SB and ZZ made substantial contribution to statistical interpretation. All authors made contribution towards drafting of the manuscript, and read Future prospective evaluation with long term follow up and approved the final manuscript prior to submission. All authors read and of toxicities as well as assessment of intrafractional volu- approved the final manuscript. metric consequences would certainly be needed to vali- Funding date our hypothesis-generating observation of minimal There are no sources of research funding to disclose. clinical impact from strict bladder/rectal filling protocols. In terms of measuring organ displacement, an indirect Availability of data and materials The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from measurement of center of mass changes to contoured the corresponding author on reasonable request. volumes had to be employed due to limitations in geo- metric data generated on the treatment planning system. Ethics approval and consent to participate The Institutional Research Board at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Lastly, even with consistent organ delineation by a sin- approved this study. gle reviewer and a large number of CT images analyzed, the post hoc nature of using clinical CBCTs invariably Consent for publication Not applicable. represents an additional limitation. Namely, the field of view (FOV)
