Restrictive Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, restrictive, restrictive cardiomyopathy, myocardial, cardiac, amyloidosis, disorders, fibrosis, disease, cause, heart, left, ventricular, amyloid, infiltration


Restrictive cardiomyopathy is characterized by noncompliant ventricular walls that resist diastolic filling; one (most commonly the left) or both ventricles may be affected. Symptoms include fatigue and exertional dyspnea. Diagnosis is by echocardiography and cardiac catheterization. Treatment is often unsatisfactory and is best directed at the cause. Surgery is sometimes useful. A cardiomyopathy is a primary disorder of the heart muscle (see also Overview of Cardiomyopathies). Restrictive cardiomyopathy is the least prevalent form of cardiomyopathy. Restrictive cardiomyopathy can affect one or both ventricles. Either type may be diffuse or nondiffuse (when the disorder affects only one ventricle or part of one ventricle unevenly). Restrictive cardiomyopathies can be classified into 4 etiologic categories: Infiltrative (eg, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis) Non-infiltrative (eg, idiopathic, systemic sclerosis) Storage diseases (eg, Fabry disease, hemochromatosis) Endomyocardial disorders (eg, endomyocardial fibrosis, hypereosinophilic syndrome, carcinoid syndrome, metastatic cancer, drugs [hydroxychloroquine, ergotamine, methysergide]) Primary restrictive cardiomyopathies include idiopathic restrictive cardiomyopathy and endomyocardial fibrosis while the others are considered secondary forms. Some of these are inherited, and others are acquired (1). In patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome and extensive endocardial fibrosis, thrombus can form in the apices and inflow tracts ventricles compromising the size of the ventricular cavities. This type of restrictive cardiomyopathy is termed obliterative. Etiology of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy Restrictive cardiomyopathy is not always a primary cardiac disorder. Although the cause is usually unknown, it may arise as the consequence of systemic or genetic disorders; identified causes are listed in the table Causes of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy. Some disorders that cause restrictive cardiomyopathy also affect other tissues (eg, amyloidosis, hemochromatosis). Some myocardial infiltrative disorders also affect other cardiac tissue. Rarely, amyloidosis affects coronary arteries. Sarcoidosis and Fabry disease may also affect nodal conduction tissue. Löffler syndrome (a subcategory of hypereosinophilic syndrome with primary cardiac involvement), which occurs in the tropics, begins as an acute arteritis with eosinophilia, followed by thrombus formation on the endocardium, chordae, and atrioventricular (AV) valves, progressing to fibrosis. Endocardial fibroelastosis (EFE), which occurs in infants and children, affects only the left ventricle. Endomyocardial fibrosis (EMF) occurs commonly in tropical regions and affects both the left and right ventricles. TABLE Some Causes of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy Cause Examples Carcinoid tumors Endocardial fibroelastosis Endomyocardial fibrosis (EMF) Hypereosinophilic Endomyocardial syndrome (including disorders Löffler syndrome) Metastatic cancer Medications (eg, hydroxychloroquine, ergotamine, methysergide) Radiation Infiltrative disorders Amyloidosis 2/6 Cause Examples Sarcoidosis Idiopathic restrictive cardiomyopathy Non-infiltrative Pseudoxanthoma disorders elasticum Systemic sclerosis Fabry disease Glycogen storage Storage
