Restrictive Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, restrictive, restrictive cardiomyopathy, myocardial, cardiac, amyloidosis, disorders, fibrosis, disease, cause, heart, left, ventricular, amyloid, infiltration


syndrome) Metastatic cancer Medications (eg, hydroxychloroquine, ergotamine, methysergide) Radiation Infiltrative disorders Amyloidosis 2/6 Cause Examples Sarcoidosis Idiopathic restrictive cardiomyopathy Non-infiltrative Pseudoxanthoma disorders elasticum Systemic sclerosis Fabry disease Glycogen storage Storage diseases diseases Hemochromatosis Data from Gowda SN, Ali HJ, Hussain I. Overview of Restrictive Cardiomyopathies. Methodist Debakey Cardiovasc J 2022;18(2):4-16. Published 2022 Mar 14. doi:10.14797/mdcvj.1078 Pathophysiology of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy Endocardial thickening or myocardial infiltration (sometimes with death of myocytes, papillary muscle infiltration, compensatory myocardial hypertrophy, and fibrosis) may occur in one, typically the left, or both ventricles. As a result, the mitral or tricuspid valves may malfunction, leading to regurgitation. If nodal and conduction tissues are affected, the sinoatrial (SA) and atrioventricular node malfunction, sometimes causing various grades of SA block and AV block. The main hemodynamic consequence is diastolic dysfunction with a rigid, noncompliant ventricle, impaired diastolic filling, and high filling pressure, leading to pulmonary venous hypertension. Systolic function may deteriorate if compensatory hypertrophy of infiltrated or fibrosed ventricles is inadequate. Mural thrombi can form, resulting in systemic emboli. Symptoms and Signs of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy Symptoms of restrictive cardiomyopathy are exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and peripheral edema. Fatigue results from a fixed cardiac output due to resistance to ventricular filling. Atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and AV block are common; angina and syncope are uncommon. Symptoms and signs closely mimic those of constrictive pericarditis. 3/6 Physical examination detects a quiet precordium, a low-volume and rapid carotid pulse, pulmonary crackles, and pronounced neck vein distention with a rapid y descent (see figure Normal Jugular Vein Waves). A third heart sound (S3) and/or a fourth heart sound (S4) may occur and must be differentiated from the precordial knock of constrictive pericarditis. In some cases, a murmur of functional mitral or tricuspid regurgitation results because myocardial or endocardial infiltration or fibrosis changes chordae or ventricular geometry. Pulsus paradoxus does not occur. Diagnosis of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy ECG, chest x-ray, and echocardiography MRI Sometimes left and right heart catheterization, including cardiac biopsy Laboratory tests and biopsy of other organ systems as needed Restrictive cardiomyopathy should be considered in patients with heart failure and preserved ejection fraction, particularly when a systemic disorder known to lead to restrictive cardiomyopathy has already been diagnosed. However, the underlying disorder may not be obvious on presentation. ECG, chest x-ray, and echocardiography are required. The ECG is usually nonspecifically abnormal, showing ST-segment and T-wave abnormalities and sometimes low voltage.
