Restrictive Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, restrictive, restrictive cardiomyopathy, myocardial, cardiac, amyloidosis, disorders, fibrosis, disease, cause, heart, left, ventricular, amyloid, infiltration


myocardial infiltration by iron, myocardial infiltration by amyloid, chronic myocardial fibrosis, or in the case of Fabry disease, inclusions in vascular endothelial cytoplasm. Coronary angiography is normal, except when amyloidosis affects epicardial coronary arteries. Laboratory tests and biopsies of other organ systems for the most common causes of restrictive cardiomyopathy (eg, fat pad biopsy for amyloidosis, iron tests or liver biopsy for hemochromatosis) should be done. Treatment of Restrictive Cardiomyopathy Cause treated Diuretics considered If the diagnosis is made at an early stage, specific treatment of some underlying causes, such as amyloidosis, hemochromatosis, sarcoidosis, and Löffler syndrome, may help. Diuretics may be used for patients with edema or pulmonary vascular congestion but must be given cautiously because they can lower preload; the noncompliant ventricles depend on preload to maintain cardiac output. Digoxin does little to alter hemodynamic abnormalities and may cause serious arrhythmias in cardiomyopathy due to amyloidosis, in which extreme digitalis sensitivity is common. If heart rate is elevated, beta-blockers or rate-limiting calcium channel blockers may be used cautiously in low doses. Afterload reducers (eg, nitrates) may cause profound hypotension and usually are not useful. Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) and transplantation are sometimes recommended (1). Prognosis for Restrictive Cardiomyopathy Prognosis is poor (see table Diagnosis and Treatment of Cardiomyopathies) because the diagnosis is often made at a late stage. No treatment is available for most patients; symptomatic, supportive care can be provided. Standard therapies that are used in dilated cardiomyopathy (eg, angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, digoxin, beta-blockers) are poorly tolerated in restrictive cardiomyopathy. Patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy may also have autonomic dysfunction (especially in amyloid heart disease) or low systemic blood pressure. There is a high rate of conduction system disease, heart block, and sudden death. Key Points In restrictive cardiomyopathy, endocardial thickening or myocardial infiltration leads to a rigid, noncompliant ventricle and thus diastolic dysfunction; systolic function is normal until late in the disease. Sometimes, valvular tissue or the conduction system is involved, causing valvular regurgitation or heart block and arrhythmias. Etiology is usually unknown, but some cases are caused by potentially treatable disorders, including amyloidosis, hemochromatosis, or sarcoidosis. Diagnosis is by echocardiography plus testing for cause. Treatment is often unsatisfactory unless the cause can be addressed; diuretics may benefit patients with edema or pulmonary vascular congestion but must be used cautiously to avoid lowering preload. Standard treatments for dilated cardiomyopathy (eg, ACE inhibitors, digoxin, beta- blockers)
