Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


ABSTRACT Anaerobic bacteria are present as part of the normal microbial flora in the human body. These bacteria turn virulent whenever the host defense mechanisms are compromised. Diabetes and glucocorticoid abuse are the two common endocrine conditions that predisposes individuals to anaerobic infections. Anaerobic infections are common in tropical countries and can affect any tissue or gland resulting in severe organ dysfunction. Microbial endocrinology deals with the bidirectional interaction between the hormones and the microbes. The interaction is influenced by the virulence factors released from the microbes, inflammatory mediators, and the hormonal dysfunction. In this chapter, we shall discuss the various anaerobic bacterial infections relevant in endocrinology practices. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The term “anaerobic” broadly denotes intolerance to oxygen. Anaerobic bacteria are the commonest bacteria in the bacterial flora present on the skin and mucous membranes ( 1 ). They are broadly divided into three types based on their relation to oxygen and growth potential as shown in figure 1 . Figure 1. Types of anaerobic bacteria Virtually all anaerobic infections are derived from the normal bacterial flora of the body. The virulence characteristics of the organisms are kept in check by the defense mechanisms and a breach in the same may lead to infection. The risk of anaerobic infection is determined by the balance between the inoculum, virulence characteristics, and the host defenses. Previously, anaerobic infections were considered to be less prevalent due to the lack of identification techniques and the fastidious nature of the bacteria ( 2 ). Increased awareness, antibiotic misuse resulting in changing microbiome, ease of culture and diagnostic techniques helped in demonstrating that anaerobic infections also are frequent in clinical practice. Microbial endocrinology is a term coined in 1992, to describe the bi-directional interplay between microbes and endocrine hormones ( 3 ). Endocrine glands are located deep in the human body with the exception of the thyroid gland. Most of the endocrine glands have a thick capsule protecting them from the contagious spread of infection. The endocrine glandular tissue is highly vascular, thereby not conducive for the growth of anaerobic bacteria. However, anaerobes can overcome the host defenses resulting in infection and breaks in the anatomic barrier can occur due to surgery, trauma, or the disease process itself from within. The predisposing factors for anaerobic infections include diabetes, immunosuppression, malignancy,
