Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


infection and breaks in the anatomic barrier can occur due to surgery, trauma, or the disease process itself from within. The predisposing factors for anaerobic infections include diabetes, immunosuppression, malignancy, neutropenia, and decreased redox potential in the tissues. INTERPLAY BETWEEN ANAEROBIC BACTERIA AND HORMONES The taxonomy of anaerobes has changed recently due to the improvement in diagnostic techniques. The development of advanced culture methods, next generation sequencing technology, and metagenomics has improved the understanding of anaerobic bacteria ( 4 ). Previously, the antibiotic susceptibility pattern of most of the anaerobes was not clear due to the difficulties in culture methods. Advanced diagnostic techniques like DNA hybridization, mass spectrometry, multiplex PCR, and oligonucleotide array technologies helped in improving the classification as well as the understanding of antibiotic susceptibility patterns of these bacteria. A simple taxonomical classification of anaerobic bacteria useful in clinical practice is shown in figure 2 . Figure 2. Types of anaerobic bacteria Estrogen and Vaginal Flora The healthy vaginal flora consists of Lactobacillus species and estrogen plays an important role in maintaining this flora ( 5 ). Estrogen increases vaginal epithelial activity resulting in a thickened layer of epithelium with glycogen deposition. The Lactobacilli breaks the glycogen into lactic acid and hydrogen peroxide locally, resulting in the vaginal pH being maintained in acidic range (< 4.5) to prevent the growth of anaerobic bacteria. Bacterial vaginosis is a common infection in women due to a shift of the vaginal microbiome from Lactobacillus flora to a mixture of facultative and obligatory anaerobic bacteria. The typical microorganisms include Gardnerella vaginalis, Mycoplasma hominis, and Atopobium vaginae. Postmenopausal females have a higher risk of bacterial vaginosis due to the precipitous decline in the concentration of estradiol. Evidence shows that topical estrogen therapy in these women normalize the vaginal flora and reduce the risk of anaerobic infections ( 6 ). Adrenal Hormone and Anaerobes Exposure to any form of stress elevates sympathetic nervous system activity and releases adrenaline and noradrenaline from the adrenal medulla. Prolonged stress induces a shift in immunity from Th1 linked cellular immunity to Th2 linked humoral immunity. In addition to many host tissues, microbes also respond to the catecholamines and increase their virulent characteristics ( 7 ). The hormonal communication between bacteria and humans involves the presence of interkingdom signaling receptors. Bacterial cell membrane bound histidine kinases (QseC and QseE) act as adrenergic sensors to detect the local hormone concentrations.
