Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


between bacteria and humans involves the presence of interkingdom signaling receptors. Bacterial cell membrane bound histidine kinases (QseC and QseE) act as adrenergic sensors to detect the local hormone concentrations. QseC also modulate the expression of many genes that increase the virulence and inflammation. This is one of the mechanisms that interlink the immune-endocrine interactive pathway mediated by stress hormones. Stress induced alterations in the anaerobes of the gingival flora led to the observation that noradrenaline and adrenaline act as environmental cues for bacteria ( 8 ). The spectrum of biological effects of the stress hormones on gingival flora could range from halitosis to atherosclerotic plaque rupture leading to acute coronary syndrome. These hormones affect the growth of Fusobacterium, Propionibacterium, and Prevotella and the hormonal effects are mostly species or strain specific. The biological adverse effects are mediated by changes in biofilms, bacterial adaptation techniques, bacterial adherence, and release of the cytotoxic enzymes. DIABETES AND ANAEROBIC INFECTIONS Diabetes mellitus (DM) is the most common metabolic and endocrine disorder that predisposes an individual to the development of infections. The defective immune responses seen in patients with DM could exacerbate the risk of anaerobic infections. Though many superficial and deep infections are common in patients with DM, few amongst them are unique in their description. The unique anaerobic infections seen in patients with DM include emphysematous cholecystitis and emphysematous pyelonephritis. Malignant otitis externa is also unique to DM but is mostly polymicrobial in origin. Diabetic Foot Disease Diabetic foot disease is the commonest cause of lower limb amputation in clinical practice. The lifetime risk for a diabetic foot disease is about 25% in certain patients with diabetes. The infections are usually polymicrobial in nature and lead to considerable morbidity and occasional mortality. Anaerobic infections are more common in wounds that are deep seated and are often resistant to the antibiotics and conservative measures ( 9 ). Peptostreptococcus and Bacteroides species are the two common anaerobic bacteria of the diabetic foot. Anaerobic bacteria could be either primary or secondary colonizers in the etiology of diabetic foot ulcers. The ischemic and necrotic wounds have a higher rate of anaerobic infection due to the associated low blood supply and low redox potential that facilitate the growth of these bacteria. There is an ethnic variation in the bacterial etiology of diabetic foot infections. Anaerobic osteomyelitis is typically seen associated with diabetic foot ulcers and presents with
