Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


growth of these bacteria. There is an ethnic variation in the bacterial etiology of diabetic foot infections. Anaerobic osteomyelitis is typically seen associated with diabetic foot ulcers and presents with a chronic non-healing ulcer of the leg. Early surgical debridement, antibiotic therapy with a spectrum against anaerobes, foot revascularization along with proper foot care are the guiding principles in the management of diabetic foot disease. Fournier’s Gangrene Fournier’s gangrene (FG), first described in 1883, is a rare necrotizing infection of the perineal and genital skin due to both aerobic and anaerobic organisms ( 10 ). There is a male preponderance and the disease is mostly described in middle age and elderly patients. The predisposing factors for FG include diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression, and alcoholism. Recently SGLT2 inhibitors have been linked with an increased risk of FG. The condition leads to microthrombi of the small subcutaneous vessels leading to local necrosis and gangrene which is a fertile nidus for anaerobic bacteria to spread rapidly in the subcutaneous tissues. Initially, the patient presents with cellulitis of the scrotal skin and progression of symptoms may lead to severe sepsis and death. The reported mortality rates with FG are about 25 – 30% and the management includes extensive surgical debridement along with broad spectrum antibiotics and hemodynamic supportive measures. Necrotizing Fasciitis Necrotizing fasciitis (NF) is a life-threatening soft tissue infection that causes local tissue destruction, necrosis, and severe sepsis ( 11 ). FG is also a form of NF restricted to the genital area. NF is divided into four types based on the etiological organisms. Type 1 NF is polymicrobial in origin including anaerobes, whereas, type 2 NF is due to either Streptococcus or Staphylococcus. Type 3 and 4 are less common and are due to Vibrio species and fungi respectively. The predisposing factors include DM, malignancy, immunosuppression, alcohol abuse, and systemic chronic debilitating disease. Initial presentation mimics that of cellulitis and early clues to the NF are pain and systemic features out of proportion to the local swelling and the presence of hemorrhagic bullae. Patients with diabetes and NF tend to have polymicrobial infections, severe renal impairment, delayed diagnosis. and multiple co-morbid ailments in comparison to NF patients without diabetes ( 12 ). Management principles are similar to FG and include surgical debridement, broad spectrum antibiotics, and supportive measures. Periodontitis Infection of the tissues surrounding the teeth are known as periodontitis and is usually
