Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


principles are similar to FG and include surgical debridement, broad spectrum antibiotics, and supportive measures. Periodontitis Infection of the tissues surrounding the teeth are known as periodontitis and is usually caused by the anaerobic gram-negative bacteria. This is more common in patients with type 2 DM and this complication is often known as the “Sixth” complication of diabetes. The links between diabetes and periodontitis are mediated by oxidative stress, advanced glycation end products leading to immune dysfunction, inflammatory marker release, and increased tissue destruction ( 13 ). Periodontitis also exacerbates insulin resistance due to the release of cytokines and chemokines. DM is characterized by periapical bone destruction, poor wound healing, and also has a direct effect on the dental pulp integrity. Periodontitis is an independent marker of mortality in patients with T2DM and it is essential to treat these two conditions simultaneously for better outcomes. ORGAN SPECIFIC ANAEROBIC INFECTIONS Endocrine glands are usually resistant to localized infections due to their location, high vascularity, and in some glands the presence of a protective capsule preventing the local spread of infection. However, these natural barriers are broken in certain conditions leading to the development of infections. Thyroid Gland The thyroid gland is resistant to bacterial infection due to the high iodine content, blood supply, and thick capsule. Acute suppurative thyroiditis (AST) is a complication due to the anaerobic bacterial infection of the thyroid gland ( 14 ). Porphyromonas, Propionibacterium and Streptococcus are the common bacteria that have been reported to lead to AST. Many of these bacteria live as commensals in the gingival epithelium. These patients usually present with a tender neck mass and systemic features of inflammation, similar to the presentation of subacute thyroiditis (SAT). It is essential to differentiate between AST and SAT, as glucocorticoids worsen the former and are indicated in the later condition. The majority of the AST patients are euthyroid, whereas, the SAT presents with features of thyrotoxicosis. AST is seen involving the left side of thyroid gland, whereas, SAT involves both sides similarly. Ultrasonography and aspiration cytology aid in the confirmation of the diagnosis. Therapy consists of appropriate antimicrobial drugs and surgical drainage of an abscess if present. Pituitary Gland The intrasellar location and the high rate of blood flow per gram makes the pituitary gland resistant to the development of local infections. However, a few case reports have described anaerobic abscesses in the sella that
