Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


rate of blood flow per gram makes the pituitary gland resistant to the development of local infections. However, a few case reports have described anaerobic abscesses in the sella that could be due to blood stream infection ( 15 ). The patients present with features of a pituitary mass including local compression and hormonal dysfunction. Surgical drainage of the abscess along with prolonged anti-anaerobic therapy is essential for recovery. There may be residual hormonal dysfunction in patients necessitating long-term hormonal replacement. Adrenal Gland Adrenal gland infections are very rare in clinical practice and are usually predisposed by the presence of a blood collection in the gland. The presenting features include fever with chills, abdominal pain, and occasionally features of adrenal deficiency. The infection is mostly due to the aerobic bacilli, but polymicrobial infections are not uncommon. Recent reports suggest the beneficial role of metagenomic next generation sequencing (mNGS) that helps in the early identification of the anaerobic infection ( 16 ). mNGS technology helps in identification of multiple anaerobic bacteria simultaneously and the results are available in less than 48 hr, unlike conventional culture which takes more than a week. Management is similar to any other organ involvement with pus drainage and prolonged antibiotics. INFERTILITY AND ANAEROBIC INFECTIONS Infertility affects about 10 – 15% of couples and infections constitute one of the major contributory factors for infertility ( 17 ). Female and male factors account for about 40% of etiologies exclusively, whereas, both partners along with an idiopathic etiology account for the remaining 20%. Anaerobic infections constitute one of the common infectious causes of infertility, albeit, predominantly in females. Female Infertility Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is the commonest cause leading to female infertility due to tubal adhesions, mucosal damage, and tubal occlusion. PID is caused by multiple organisms which include Chlamydia, Neisseria, and anaerobes. Bacterial vaginosis is a major contributory factor in the pathogenesis of PID as evidenced by the identification of the similar microbial flora ( 18 ). Bacteria ascend the genital tract via the endocervical and endometrial epithelia including the lymphatics. Lower abdominal pain and vaginal discharge are the two common symptoms of PID. Early identification of PID, prompt antibiotic therapy, and surgical drainage of the pus result in the cure without residual tubal complications. Patients with recurrent abortions have also been shown to have vaginal colonization with Gardnerella vaginalis and facultative anaerobes ( 18 ). This indicates
