Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


in the cure without residual tubal complications. Patients with recurrent abortions have also been shown to have vaginal colonization with Gardnerella vaginalis and facultative anaerobes ( 18 ). This indicates an association between the altered vaginal microflora, local and systemic inflammation, change in the immune mediators, chemokines and cytokines, impaired implantation, placentation, and blood vessel transformation culminating into the recurrent abortions. Male Infertility Anaerobic infections affect semen quality and the total sperm concentration leading to male infertility. The semen samples from sub-fertile men are characterized by the presence of a large number of pus cells and multiple bacteria ( 19 ). Anaerobic bacteria affect the ability of the sperm to penetrate the cervical mucosa by the release of microbial toxins. Anaerobic infections are not routinely identified with the standard methods of culture and should be ruled out in all patients with unexplained oligoasthenospermia along with the presence of pus cells in the semen. Positive microbial cultures, however do not convey the exact location of the infection as the semen consists of secretions from the multiple glands including the prostate. A classic four specimen technique could be helpful in the localization of the infection and these patients require long term antibiotic therapy. GUT ANAEROBES AND METABOLIC DISORDERS Gut microbes are essential for the host immune system and help in digestion and maintenance of local tissue integrity. The intestinal bacteria mediate their beneficial effects by breaking dietary constituents into various short chain fatty acids which act as beneficial signals in metabolism and immunomodulation ( 21 ). Though it’s very difficult to characterize the entire gut microbiome, parameters such as alpha species diversity, ratio between the beneficial (Akkermansia, Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus etc.) and the harmful (Enterococcus, Bacteroides, Lachnospiraceae etc.) bacteria are used in laboratory evaluation. Recent reports have emerged that the gut microbiome plays an important role in the etiopathogenesis of metabolic disorders including type 2 DM and obesity. Diet and environmental factors play an important role in shaping the gut microbiome. The diversity in the gut microbiota could also be a contributory factor in the prevalence of the metabolic disorders between different ethnic populations ( 22 ). Increasing use of the antibiotics, environmental pollution, and consumption of refined products have led to alterations in the microbial flora with a shift from a healthy flora to an unhealthy one. Proinflammatory molecules secreted from intestinal bacteria translocate to the blood stream triggering metabolic endotoxemia, which
