Anaerobic Infections and Endocrinology
KEYWORDS: anaerobic, infections, bacteria, pubmed, anaerobic infections, patients, infection, anaerobes, bacterial, anaerobic bacteria, flora, endocrine, diabetes, gut, common


in the microbial flora with a shift from a healthy flora to an unhealthy one. Proinflammatory molecules secreted from intestinal bacteria translocate to the blood stream triggering metabolic endotoxemia, which is described as the leaky gut syndrome. The gut-blood barrier is often broken with the colonization of the anaerobic bacteria in the gut replacing the normal flora. The microflora in individuals is a key determinant in directing the response to antibiotics and probiotics. The fecal samples of Japanese patients with T2DM showed lower bacterial counts of obligatory anaerobes and higher content of facultative anaerobes in comparison to the control population. There is also a higher percentage of gut bacteria in the circulation, thereby confirming the leaky-gut hypothesis ( 23 ). Apart from metabolic disorders, the gut dysbiosis has not been shown to affect other endocrine disorders. ENDOCRINE ISSUES WITH THE ANTIMICROBIALS USED AGAINST ANAEROBES Antimicrobials are the cornerstone of therapy against the anaerobic infections. In a few cases, the antibiotic therapy is supplemented with the surgical drainage of the pus. The therapy is often prolonged due to the slow growth rate of the anaerobes, polymicrobial nature of the infection, and the development of antibiotic resistance ( 24 ). The commonly used antimicrobials against anaerobic infections include metronidazole, carbapenems, quinolones, beta-lactams, chloramphenicol, tigecycline, and clindamycin. Many of these drugs have no significant endocrine side-effects except for the dysglycemia with the use of quinolones. Other endocrine effects due to the protracted use of these drugs are summarized in the table 1 . Table 1. Endocrine Side-Effects of Antimicrobials used Against Anaerobic Infection View in own window Drug Endocrine side-effects Metronidazole Altered gut microbiome Anterior pituitary inhibition Quinolones Dysglycemia, Reduced absorption of levothyroxine Seizures in thyrotoxicosis patients Beta-lactams Fractures Tigecycline Hypoglycemia Chloramphenicol Inhibition of thyroid hormones production Clindamycin & Carbapenems Nil CONCLUSION Anaerobic infections are common in clinical practice and diabetes is the most common endocrine condition predisposing for these infections. Anaerobic organisms have hormonal interactions with gonadal and adrenal hormones and the field of microbial endocrinology is expanding rapidly. Organ specific anaerobic infections may lead to endocrine dysfunction in the form of infertility, glandular abscess, and hypofunction of the involved endocrine axis. A high index of clinical suspicion is essential to identify anaerobic infections especially in the tropical countries. The principles of management are prolonged antibiotic therapy along with drainage of the pus. Systemic supportive therapy and extensive debridement is essential in
