Sitosterolemia
KEYWORDS: sitosterolemia, pubmed, sterols, plant, cholesterol, free, article, plasma, free article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, plant sterols, sitosterol, levels


ABSTRACT Sitosterolemia is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of non-cholesterol sterol metabolism, caused by mutations of the ABCG5 or ABCG8 transporter genes. This results in hyperabsorption and decreased biliary excretion of non-cholesterol sterol, especially sitosterol, from the gastrointestinal tract. Affected individuals have excessive accumulation of plant sterols and 5 alpha-saturated stanols in plasma and tissues, resulting in premature cardiovascular disease. The condition is often clinically confused with familial hypercholesterolemia. This article provided overview of this rare condition, including diagnostic evaluation and treatment. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . BACKGROUND Sterols are waxy insoluble substances and are synthesized from acetyl coenzyme A (CoA). Perhaps the most familiar example is cholesterol. In addition to cholesterol, over forty non-cholesterol sterols are also present in the human diet. Non-cholesterol sterols are contained in plants, fungi, and yeast. Instead of converting squalene to cholesterol, non-cholesterol sterols occur when squalene is converted to stigmasterol, sitosterol, campesterol, ergosterol, etc., while shellfish produce fucosterol. In a typical Western diet, plant sterols, or phytosterols, are often consumed in nuts, seeds, legumes, and vegetable oils. They are present in amounts equal to cholesterol and processed by the intestine in a similar manner ( Figure 1 ). While most individuals absorb, on average, 40-50% of dietary cholesterol, less than 5% of dietary plant sterols are absorbed ( 1 - 3 ). Figure 1. Enterocyte Trafficking of Cholesterol and Plant Sterols. From Phytoserolemia by Thomas Daysring, MD in Therapeutic Lipidology, Michael H Davis in, MD, Peter P Toth, MD and Kevin C Maki, PhD, Editors. 2007 Humana Press, Incorp. Totowa, New Jersey. Phytosterols have no role in human metabolism. Therefore, except in inherited disorders of metabolism, there is limited systemic absorption of phytosterols, as their entry into the plasma is highly regulated by the intestine and liver. Concentrations of phystosterols in plasma are normally less than 0.5% that of cholesterol. Stanols, i.e., saturated sterols, also exist in the diet, primarily from plant sources. Stanols are not normally absorbed from the GI tract. Both stanols and sterols interfere with the absorption of cholesterol. Therefore, both have been used as dietary supplements for over 5 decades to help reduce plasma cholesterol levels. Phytosterols and free cholesterol are normally absorbed by the Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1) protein expressed on enterocytes ( Figure 1 ) ( 4 ). Almost all of the absorbed plant phytosterols
