Sitosterolemia
KEYWORDS: sitosterolemia, pubmed, sterols, plant, cholesterol, free, article, plasma, free article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, plant sterols, sitosterol, levels


and free cholesterol are normally absorbed by the Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1) protein expressed on enterocytes ( Figure 1 ) ( 4 ). Almost all of the absorbed plant phytosterols are excreted back into the intestinal lumen by the ABCG5 or ABCG8 transporters. The normal body is thus able to discriminate between cholesterol and non-cholesterol sterols ( 5 ). The function of ABCG5 or ABCG8 transporter genes, found at the STSL locus of human chromosome 2p21, is to limit intestinal absorption and promote biliary excretion ( 6 , 7 ) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Normal Intestinal and Hepatic Transport of Cholesterol and Phytosterols. T. Plösch, A. Kosters, A.K. Groen, F. Kuipers. The ABC of Hepatic and Intestinal Cholesterol Transport. Chapter. Atherosclerosis: Diet and Drugs. Volume 170 of the series Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology pp 465-482. SITOSTEROLEMIA Sitosterolemia (also known as phytosterolemia) is a rare autosomal recessive disease of non-cholesterol sterol metabolism. It is characterized chemically by the accumulation of plant sterols and 5 alpha-saturated stanols in plasma and tissues. The condition occurs when either ABCG5 or ABCG8 are defective, leading to hyperabsorption of sitosterol from the gastrointestinal tract. The problem is compounded by decreased biliary excretion, resulting in accumulation of dietary phytosterols in different tissues ( 8 , 9 ). HISTORY AND ETHNICITY Sitosterolemia was first reported in 1974 when two sisters with extensive tendon xanthomas were found to have normal plasma cholesterol levels and elevated levels of plant sterols ( 10 ). Several hundred cases have since been reported but the condition is thought to be substantially underdiagnosed ( 11 ). The disorder has been found in a wide range of diverse populations, including the Old-Order Amish, Chinese, Finnish, Japanese, Norwegian, Indian and Caucasian South Africans, as well as others. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait ( 12 , 13 ) CLINICAL FEATURES Signs and Symptoms Phenotypically, sitosterolemia is very heterogeneous in its presentation. The disorder is characterized by premature coronary artery disease ( 14 - 18 ) although the degree of atherosclerosis present varies significantly ( 19 - 24 ). Presenting signs and symptoms of sitosterolemia, such as lipid deposition in cutaneous and subcutaneous structures (xanthomas), can occur in the first decade of life, but sitosterolemia has been diagnosed in asymptomatic adults as well. Typical xanthomas occur most prominently in the extensor tendons of the hands and Achilles tendon, but can occur in
