Sitosterolemia
KEYWORDS: sitosterolemia, pubmed, sterols, plant, cholesterol, free, article, plasma, free article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, plant sterols, sitosterol, levels


life, but sitosterolemia has been diagnosed in asymptomatic adults as well. Typical xanthomas occur most prominently in the extensor tendons of the hands and Achilles tendon, but can occur in the knees, elbows and buttocks. Xanthomas have been reported in children as young as one to two years of age ( 25 - 31 ). Spinal xanthomas, causing spinal cord compression, have also been reported ( 32 ) The phenotype of sitosterolemia includes abnormal liver function tests, arthralgia, splenomegaly, and hematologic findings (hemolytic anemia, abnormally shaped erythrocytes and large platelets) ( 33 - 37 ). Occasionally, hematologic findings appear as isolated findings ( 11 , 38 - 41 ), and there is a case report of an infant with cholestatic jaundice who was ultimately diagnosed with sitosterolemia ( 42 ). Aortic stenosis has also been reported ( 21 , 43 ), as have arthralgias and arthritis ( 44 , 45 ). Occasionally, the diagnosis of sitosterolemia is made after an individual with total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol in the range of familial hypercholesterolemia fails to achieve expected reductions with statin therapy ( 46 ). A recent study of 220 hypercholesterolemic children found that 6.4% had elevated and 1.4% had markedly elevated sitosterol levels, with 2 children ultimately diagnosed with genetically confirmed sitosterolemia ( 47 ). This has been demonstrated in other publications as well ( 48 , 49 ). This reaffirms that sitosterolemia is likely underdiagnosed, and high clinical suspicion is warranted. This is particularly important as most genetic testing panels for familial hypercholesterolemia test for pathogenic variants in LDLR , APOB , PCSK9 , and LDLRAP1 ; therefore, individuals with sitosterolemia will frequently have negative genetic testing results. Although sitosterolemia is a recessive disorder, there is some data suggesting that heterozygous carriers of loss of function mutations can have higher sitosterol levels, higher LDL-cholesterol levels, and a 2-fold higher risk of ASCVD ( 50 ). Differential Diagnosis Besides sitosterolemia, other disorders that cause tendon xanthomas in children and adults include: Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) - most commonly caused by a co-dominantly inherited disorder of the LDL-C receptor, presents with high total serum and LDL-cholesterol, normal plasma levels of plant sterols and at least one parent with hypercholesterolemia. Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) - in which hypercholesterolemia is present in both parents of an affected child. In addition, individuals with HoFH have normal rather than enlarged platelets (macrothrombocytopenia). Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) -
