Sitosterolemia
KEYWORDS: sitosterolemia, pubmed, sterols, plant, cholesterol, free, article, plasma, free article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, plant sterols, sitosterol, levels


(HoFH) - in which hypercholesterolemia is present in both parents of an affected child. In addition, individuals with HoFH have normal rather than enlarged platelets (macrothrombocytopenia). Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) - can be distinguished by increased concentrations of plasma cholestanol, protracted diarrhea starting in childhood, and juvenile cataracts. Adults with CTX typically have neurologic involvement (cerebellar ataxia, cognitive decline, and dementia). Alagille Syndrome , is accompanied by a characteristic syndromic facial appearance, high rates of congenital heart disease, and signs of liver cholestasis ( 51 ). Sitosterolemia should be considered in a child or adult with tendon xanthomas and unexplained hemolysis and/or macrothrombocytopenia, as these hematologic abnormalities are not present in FH, CTX or Alagille syndrome. Testing Routine laboratory methods do not always distinguish plant sterols from cholesterol. Detection of plant sterol levels in blood requires gas-liquid chromatography (GLC), gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS), or high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Plant sterols, especially sitosterol, and the 5-alpha derivatives of plant sterols, are dramatically elevated in patients with sitosterolemia. Plasma concentrations of sitosterol above 1 mg/dL (10µg/mL) are considered to be diagnostic, although a recent study suggested a cutoff value of 15µg/mL had higher positive predictive value ( 52 ). Levels typically range from 8-60 mg/dL, 10-25 times higher than normal individuals. Age-dependent reference intervals for phytosterols have also been proposed ( 53 ). Molecular genetic testing of mutations in ABCG5 and ABCG8 can help confirm the diagnosis and direct clinical care ( 54 ). In contrast to the very high levels of plant sterols in adults and adolescents with sitosterolemia, total cholesterol levels are sometimes normal or only moderately elevated ( 34 ). However, at least three cases of breastfed infants with sitosterolemia presenting with very elevated serum cholesterol levels have been reported. The mechanism of exceptionally high cholesterol levels in sitosterolemic children is unclear ( 25 , 26 , 55 ). Increased plasma concentrations of plant sterols (especially sitosterol, campesterol, and stigmasterol) are only observed once foods with plant sterols are included in the diet and accumulate in the body. Care must be taken when evaluating infants, since commercial formula feedings with large amounts of vegetable oil may result in elevated sitosterol levels ( 56 ). Children with parenteral nutrition associated cholestasis may have plasma concentrations of plant sterols as high as those seen in patients with hereditary sitosterolemia (i.e., total plant phytosterols of 1.3-1.8 mmol/L). Intralipid typically contains cholesterol, sitosterol, campesterol,
