Sitosterolemia
KEYWORDS: sitosterolemia, pubmed, sterols, plant, cholesterol, free, article, plasma, free article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, plant sterols, sitosterol, levels


may have plasma concentrations of plant sterols as high as those seen in patients with hereditary sitosterolemia (i.e., total plant phytosterols of 1.3-1.8 mmol/L). Intralipid typically contains cholesterol, sitosterol, campesterol, and stigmasterol, the latter three of which are plant sterols. Adults receiving parenteral nutrition may also have elevated plasma plant sterol levels ( 57 ). MANAGEMENT OF SITOSTEROLEMIA Dietary Treatment Treatment includes dietary restriction of non-cholesterol sterols, limiting intake of shellfish (clams, scallops, oysters), plant foods that contain high fats, such as olives, margarine, nuts, seeds, avocados, and chocolate, and avoidance of vegetable fats and oils ( 10 , 58 - 61 ). Fruits, vegetables and cereal products without germ may be used, however ( 62 ). In homozygotes, plasma sterol levels may not improve significantly despite significant dietary sitosterol restriction ( 63 , 64 ). Margarines and other products containing stanols (e.g., campestanol and sitostanol), which are recommended for use by individuals with hypercholesterolemia, are contraindicated in those with sitosterolemia as they can exacerbate plant stanol accumulation ( 65 ). Medical Treatments Ezetimibe (Zetia ® ), inhibits NPC1L1 and decreases the absorption of sterols. It is the first-line drug therapy, lowering plant sterols by 10 to 50% and may stabilize xanthomas ( 66 - 69 ). Hemolytic anemia and platelet abnormalities have been reported to improve as well ( 66 ). Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine (8-15 g/d), may be considered in those with an incomplete response to ezetimibe( 26 ) Regression of xanthomas has been reported in an 11-year-old after treatment with diet and cholestyramine ( 70 ). A 60-year-old man with compound heterozygous mutations in ABCG5 responded to a combination of ezetimibe and alirocumab ( 71 ). Sitosterolemic patients do not have expected clinical responses to statins, which can help to distinguish these patients with elevated plasma sterols and xanthomas from those with familial hypercholesterolemia ( 64 ). As stated above, sitosterolemia should be suspected in individuals with hypercholesterolemia who fail to respond as expected to a statin treatment. Surgical Treatments Partial ileal bypass surgery (i.e., shortening of the ileum) has been used to increase intestinal bile acid loss. Partial or complete ileal bypass surgery in persons with sitosterolemia has resulted in at least 50% reduction of plasma and cellular sterol and stanol levels ( 72 - 74 ). Surgical treatments for complications of sitosterolemia have been reported. Liver cirrhosis has been observed at least once
