www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, crc, resection, surgery, study, colon, laparoscopic, mis, open, cancer, surgical, survival, rate, stage, underwent


www.nature.com/scientificreports OPEN Applicability of minimally invasive surgery for clinically T4 colorectal cancer Yu‑Tso Liao1,2 & Jin‑Tung Liang3* The role of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) to treat clinically T4 (cT4) colorectal cancer (CRC) remains uncertain and deserves further investigation. A retrospective cohort study was conducted between September 2006 and March 2019 recruiting patients diagnosed as cT4 CRC and undergoing oncological outcomes, and radicality were analyzed. A total of 128 patients were recruited with an average follow‑up period of 33.8 months. The median time to soft diet was 6 days, and the median postoperative hospitalization periods was 11 days. The conversion and complication (Clavien–Dindo classification ≥ II) rates were 7.8% and 27.3%, respectively. The 30‑day mortality was 0.78%. R0 resection rate was 92.2% for cT4M0 and 88.6% for pT4M0 patients. For cT4 CRC patients, the disease‑ free survival and 3‑year overall survival were 86.1% and 86.8% for stage II, 54.1% and 57.9% for stage III, and 10.8% and 17.8% for stage IV. With acceptable conversion, complication and mortality rate, MIS may achieve satisfactory R0 resection rate and thus lead to good oncological outcomes for selected patients with cT4 CRC. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) is characterized by its more minimal physical incisions and faster recovery by utilizing advanced imaging systems and instruments compared with conventional open surgery. Nowadays, MIS, including laparoscopic or robotic surgery, has gained its significance and wide acceptance in surgical fields such as colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment. Laparoscopic colorectal resection is currently the mainstay treatment for the management of CRC. Robust evidence has shown the advantages of quicker postoperative convalescence and equivalent oncological outcomes using laparoscopic surgery compared to the open method1–3. However, controversy remains when attempting to extend the indication of laparoscopic surgery for treating locally advanced CRC such as clinically T4 (cT4) stage tumors. For example, cT4 CRC requires multi-visceral en bloc resection to ensure cancer-free radicality. In this situation, R0 resection remains the key pursuit of cura- tive treatment for CRC. Nonetheless, demanding techniques may compromise the feasibility of laparoscopic surgery to remove the locally advanced cancer. As a result, some surgeons believe the open method to be more suitable than laparoscopic surgery. Second, only limited studies have reported the short-term surgical and long- term oncological results for both laparoscopic and open surgeries4,5. Accordingly, the laparoscopic approach for colectomy is still not recommended for treating locally advanced CRC based on the National Comprehensive Cancer N etwork® (
