www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, crc, resection, surgery, study, colon, laparoscopic, mis, open, cancer, surgical, survival, rate, stage, underwent


for both laparoscopic and open surgeries4,5. Accordingly, the laparoscopic approach for colectomy is still not recommended for treating locally advanced CRC based on the National Comprehensive Cancer N etwork® ( NCCN®) g uidelines6,7. With the maturation of laparoscopic skills and the introduction of robotic surgery, the feasibility of MIS for cT4 CRC should be re-evaluated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety, feasibility, and efficacy of MIS for cT4 CRC in terms of surgical results and long-term oncological outcomes. Materials and methods Patient selection. One hundred and twenty eight patients diagnosed with cT4 CRC and underwent MIS Branch, and Hsinchu Branch, were recruited in this study between September 2006 and March 2019. The Ameri- can Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system 8th edition defines cT4 CRC as follows: (1) the tumor penetrates the visceral peritoneum (cT4a) or (2) the tumor invades the adjacent organ (cT4b). The diagnosis of cT4 CRC was established either preoperatively by imaging, such as a computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), whole body bone scan, or positron emission tomography (PET), or intraoperatively Scientific Reports | (2020) 10:20347 | 1 Vol.:(0123456789) www.nature.com/scientificreports/ based on surgical findings such as grossly visceral serosa involvement or tumor adherence to the adjacent organ. This study recruited patients with cT4 CRC regardless of their nodal status. MIS included laparoscopic and robotic surgery. The procedures of laparoscopic surgery were detailed p reviously8, and the robotic surgery was achieved with da Vinci robotic surgical systems. The settings and surgical procedures of the robotic surgery were reported in our previous articles9. Six laparoscopic surgeries were performed by Dr. YTL, and the remaining 122 surgeries (laparoscopic surgery and robotic surgery) were performed by Dr. JTL. The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of NTUH, which waived the informed consent (201912125RINB). All methods were performed in accordance with the relevant guidelines and regulations. For these 128 patients with cT4 CRC, concomitant cancerous conditions found preoperatively or intraopera- tively included the following: (1) solely cT4 CRC (cT4a) or (2) cT4 CRC with adjacent organ involvement (cT4b) such as to the liver or lung (cM1a or cM1b). We defined surgery for cM1 patients as palliative surgery. For cM0 patients, “intention-to-treat” surgery was performed. In this study, “intention-to-treat” surgery indicated that the surgeons attempted to achieve R0 resection of the primary tumor for cM0 patients. A total of 7 cM1 patients underwent
