www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, crc, resection, surgery, study, colon, laparoscopic, mis, open, cancer, surgical, survival, rate, stage, underwent


was performed. In this study, “intention-to-treat” surgery indicated that the surgeons attempted to achieve R0 resection of the primary tumor for cM0 patients. A total of 7 cM1 patients underwent “intention-to-treat” surgery, indicating that the oligometastasis or localized peritoneal seeding of these patients was removed or ablated during the surgery. However, because of the small number of these patients (N = 7) in our study, we did not further analyze the oncological results of these patients. R0 resection was defined as negative margin involvement on microscopic examination. R1 resection was defined as positive margin involvement on microscopic examination or microscopically < 1 mm of the resected margin. R2 resection was defined as (1) positive resected margin by the naked eye, (2) unresectable peritoneal seeding, or (3) distant metastasis. All patients underwent colonoscopy and were diagnosed with cancer as confirmed by preoperative pathologi- cal examination. The preoperative evaluation of the CRC included historical information, physical examination, laboratory study, and imaging study. The laboratory study included complete blood cell count, differential count, and biochemistry examination such as liver or renal function, electrolytes, coagulation profiles, and carcinoem- bryonic antigen (CEA) levels. The imaging study included chest X-ray and chest/abdomen/pelvic CT scan with or without contrast (if the patients had contraindications to the intravenous contrast injection). Clinical staging was determined by CT scan, MRI, whole body bone scan, or whole PET scan by radiologists or determined by surgeons intraoperatively. The patients’ treatment plan was discussed in a multidisciplinary team in NTUH and its branch. The final diagnosis and staging of cancer were verified by the pathologists. Surveillance. All patients had regular follow-up that consisted of periodic physical examinations and blood chemistry panels (i.e. complete blood cell count and CEA) every 3–6 months. Additionally, they underwent colonoscopy, abdominal ultrasonography and chest/abdomen/pelvic CT scan or MRI every 6–12 months. Diag- noses of local recurrence or distant metastasis were based on colonoscopy or imaging studies. Statistical methods. Descriptive statistics were used to present the data, and for continuous parameters, percentage, frequency, medium, mean, standard deviation, and quartile were utilized, and frequency and per- centage were used for categorized parameters. The disease-free survival (DFS) was measured from the date of the primary colonic surgery to the date of recurrence. The overall survival (OS) time was calculated from the date of surgery to the time of the last visit or death. Follow-up was updated on December 1, 2019. Survival
