www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: patients, crc, resection, surgery, study, colon, laparoscopic, mis, open, cancer, surgical, survival, rate, stage, underwent


1 (0.8%) Clavien–Dindo classification [n (%)] II 18 (14.1%) IIIa/IIIb 5/5 (7.8%) IVa 6 (4.7%) IVb 1 (0.8%) Complicationsa Leakage 10 Ileus 1 Wound infection 2 Urinary tract infection 3 Urinary retention 1 Pulmonary emboli 1 Cerebrovascular accidence 1 SMV bleeding 1 Retroperitoneal abscess 1 Respiratory failure 1 Recto-vesicle fistula 1 Ureter injury 2 Pneumonia 4 Pelvic abscess 3 Recto-vaginal fistula 1 Internal herniation 1 Herpes zoster 1 Myocardial infarction 1 Adjuvant chemotherapy 109 Recurrence 52 Follow-up period (months) [mean (range)] 33.8 (0.2–159.0) Table 5. Surgical outcomes of patients. a A patient may have more than 1 type of complication. Although surgery for cM1 CRC patients is considered a palliative treatment, some studies have made signifi- cant effort to perform “intention-to-treat” treatment for cM1 CRC patients. The “intention-to-treat” principle indicated the removal of all grossly suspicious or evident metastatic lesions with ablation, radiotherapy or sur- gical method. Several previous studies have revealed the oncological benefits of debulking surgery for isolated pulmonary/hepatic metastases or abdominal nodal recurrence22,23. Furthermore, Johnson et al. reported that a curative-intent trimodality approach could provide favorable survival in selected metastatic CRC patients with isolated retroperitoneal or mesenteric nodal recurrence. The curative-intent trimodality approach combined the external beam radiotherapy with chemotherapy, radical surgery and intraoperative r adiotherapy24. In our study, seven pM1 patients underwent the “intention-to-treat” procedure. However, we did not attempt to analyze the DFS and 3-year OS of these patients because of smaller patient numbers. Localized peritoneal carcinomatosis, although categorized as pM1c, is a special situation that required sur- geons’ continuous effort to remove all visible tumors if technically feasible. Hyperthermic intraperitoneal che- moperfusion (HIPEC) has been introduced in recent decades; however, only two patients in our series received HIPEC, which was too small to draw any conclusions. Nevertheless, we believed that pT1c, specifically localized peritoneal carcinomatosis, remains a field worthy of investigation with the purpose to achieve curative intent. Our study has several limitations. First, this was a one-arm study with no comparison group. The lack of an open control group was due to the fact that MIS is the standard surgical procedure for treating CRC in our insti- tute. As a result, we intended to compare our results with those in previous studies to overcome this limitation. Second, this study recruited patients from a 13-year period, and there have been considerable improvements in survival over this period due to the introduction of new therapeutic
