EPIDEMIOLOGY
KEYWORDS: women, men, discharge, pharmacies, symptoms, vaginal, study, trachomatis, reported, pharmacy, partners, urethral, gonorrhoeae, vaginal discharge, stis


Sexually transmitted and reproductive tract infections in symptomatic clients of pharmacies in Lima, Peru P J Garc´ıa, C P Ca´rcamo, M Chiappe, K K Holmes ................................................................................................................................... SexTransmInfect2007;83:142–146.doi: Objective:Todetermineprevalencesandpredictorsofsexuallytransmittedandreproductivetractinfections amongmenandwomenseekingcareatpharmacies. Methods: Men and women with urethral discharge or dysuria and vaginal discharge were enrolled at 12 centraland52smallerpharmaciesinLima,Peru.Allparticipantsansweredaquestionnaire.Menprovided urine for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing for Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis, and for leucocyte esterase testing. Women provided self-obtained vaginal swabs for PCR testing for N Seeendofarticlefor gonorrhoeaeandCtrachomatis,TrichomonasvaginaliscultureandbacterialvaginosisandCandida. authors’affiliations associated with urethral discharge compared with dysuria only (odds ratio (OR) 4.3, p=0.003), positive Correspondenceto: urineleucocyteesterasetesting(OR7.4,p=0.009),lesseducation(OR5.5,p=0.03),andwithsymptomsfor PJGarc´ıa,Epidemiology andSTD/AIDSUnit,School ,5days(OR2.5,p=0.03).Among121symptomaticwomen,39%hadbacterialvaginosisorTvaginalis, ofPublicHealthand and 7.7% had candidiasis. N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis were detected in 12.4% of the women. Administration,Universidad Overall,48.8%hadoneormoreoftheseinfections.Nofactorswereassociatedwithvaginalinfection,and PeruanaCayetanoHeredia, Lima,Peru; only symptoms of vaginal discharge for ,5days were associated with Ngonorrhoeae andC trachomatis (OR4.0,p=0.02).Themainreasonreportedforseekingadviceatpharmaciesbybothmenandwomenwas trustinpharmacyworkers. Accepted14August2006 Conclusions:Amongmenandwomenpresentingtopharmacieswithurethralandvaginalsymptoms,ratesof PublishedOnlineFirst 17August2006 urethral and vaginal infections were comparable to those found in other clinical settings. Pharmacies can ........................ contributetothecareandpreventionofsexuallytransmittedinfectionindevelopingcountries. yndromic treatment for sexually transmitted infections selectedandinvitedtoparticipateas‘‘central’’pharmacies.To S (STIs) in primary healthcare settings requires knowledge increaserecruitment,2–7additionalpharmacieslocatedwithin of local aetiologies, syndromes and the efficacy of 600m of each central pharmacy were included as ‘‘satellite treatments used.1 In developing countries, patients with STIs pharmacies’’, for a total of 52 satellites. The study staff (12 often bypass formal healthcare services and seek care in the midwivesand12pharmacists)wasstationedwithatelephone informal sector, including pharmacies. In some countries, and supplies in each of the central pharmacies for 8-h daily pharmacies are the predominant providers of STI care.2–4 shifts.Thehoursofoperationforeachpharmacyweredivided Severalgroupshaveundertakentrainingofpharmacyworkers into segments. A random sample of these segments was in management of STIs.5–7 In a recent randomised controlled selectedforobservation.Overall,30%ofthehoursofoperation trial of a training programme, we observed marked improve- wereobserved. ment in all aspects of management of STI syndromes in Team members were not permanently stationed at the pharmacies,8 and showed the cost effectiveness of the inter- satellite pharmacies. Instead, the team member assigned to vention.9 However, these studies did not assess the actual thecentralpharmacywascalledbyasatellitepharmacyworker microbial aetiologies of STI syndromes seen at pharmacies, or when a client was seen with symptoms suggesting an STI or characterise the clients of the pharmacies in terms of socio- seeking drugs used to treat STIs. The study staff approached whichcouldhelptoimprovetheinterventions.10 dysuria, or purchasing spectinomycin, and of all women with This study aimed to determine the actual prevalences and vaginal discharge, or purchasing topical intravaginal drugs. predictors of STIs and reproductive tract infections (RTIs) Eligible women were 18–55years old, sexually active, not
