EPIDEMIOLOGY
KEYWORDS: women, men, discharge, pharmacies, symptoms, vaginal, study, trachomatis, reported, pharmacy, partners, urethral, gonorrhoeae, vaginal discharge, stis


aimed to determine the actual prevalences and vaginal discharge, or purchasing topical intravaginal drugs. predictors of STIs and reproductive tract infections (RTIs) Eligible women were 18–55years old, sexually active, not among men and women presenting to pharmacies with STI menstruating, not pregnant and not having taken any syndromesinLima,Peru. antibioticduringthepastweek,andcomplainingof,30days ofabnormalvaginaldischarge(definedasincreasedamountof METHODS discharge or colour different from usual). Eligible men were Study design 18–55years old, sexually active and not having taken any Weconductedthisstudybetween2002and2003inLima.We antibiotics in the past week, with symptoms of urethral undertook rapid-assessment visits to evaluate the pharmacies’ discharge or burning sensation when urinating. From all willingness to participate, the presence within each pharmacy consenting participants, the staff collected urine from men ofthefacilitiesrequiredforthestudyprocedures,andtoupdate and four self-obtained vaginal swabs from women. A brief estimated numbers of clients seen with symptoms of urethral questionnaire including sociodemographic and behavioural discharge. Of the 468 pharmacies visited, 355 (76%) were questions, as well as reasons for seeking care in pharmacies, willing to participate, and 290 (62%) had a toilet and washbasin required for the study. Twelve pharmacies with Abbreviations: FSW,femalesexworker;PCR,polymerasechainreaction; thehighestestimatednumbersofurethraldischargecaseswere RTI,respiratorytractinfection;STI,sexuallytransmittedinfection www.stijournal.com STIsandRTIsinpharmacies 143 was administered to each participant. Men were also asked often single (p=0.003). Median monthly income was equiva- questions regarding willingness to refer female partners for lent to USD$130 for men (range US$17–571) and US$114 for treatment. Syndromic treatment, counselling and condoms women (range US$14–342). Nearly all participants reported werealsoprovided.Participantsweregivenatelephonenumber havingaregularpartner,butmorethantwiceasmanymenas to obtain laboratory test results. The procedures were womenreportedsexwithcasualpartners.Menmoreoftenthan performed similarly by the study staff at the central and women reported use of condoms with regular and casual satellitepharmacies. partners,butevenformenduringthelastintercourse,suchuse OurresultswerecomparedwithdatafromresidentsofLima, was uncommon. In all, 63% of men reported ever having had aged 15–49years, who participated in the 1996 Peruvian sex with a female sex worker (FSW), 22% within the past NationalDemographicandHealthSurvey. 2weeks;40%ofthemenreportedalwaysusingcondomswith FSWsand43%reportedcondomuseduringtheirlastsexwith Sample collection and laboratory procedures anFSW(table1). Menwereinstructedtocollect10mlofurine,whichwastested with a dipstick test (Combur 10 Test M; Roche Diagnostics, Comparisonofpharmacyclientswithparticipantsofthe presence of leucocyte esterase. All participants with urethral The sociodemographic profile and information on sexual symptoms were treated with ciprofloxacin 500mg and azi- partners of the pharmacy clients were compared with data oftheleucocyteesterasetest.Theurinecupwassealed,stored whichincludeddatafrom4979womenand534menaged15– at 24˚C and sent within 4h to the study laboratory where 49years(table2).Clearly,forbothmenandwomen,thoseseen polymerasechainreaction(PCR)testsforChlamydiatrachomatis atpharmaciesmoreoftenreportedregularsexualpartnersand andNeisseriagonorrhoeaewereprocessedusingtheRocheCOBAS moreoftenreportedcasualpartners. AMPLICORAnalyzer(RocheDiagnostics). Women were instructed on howtocollect self-administered Prevalence of STIs or RTIs in pharmacy clients vaginalswabs.Thefirstvaginalswabwasusedtoinoculatethe Symptomsinmenincludedurethraldischarge,withorwithout culturemediumforTrichomonasvaginalis(InPouchTV;BioMed dysuriain60%,anddysuriaalonein40%.Symptomsinwomen Diagnostics,Singapore).Inoculatedpoucheswerekeptatroom temperaturebeforetransportationwithin2htothelaboratory where they were incubated at 37˚C and examined daily for Table1 Demographicandbehaviouralcharacteristicsand 5days.ThesecondswabwasplacedinPCRmediumandstored symptomhistoryformaleandfemalepharmacyclients at24˚C,thensenttothelaboratorywithin4hforPCRtestsfor NgonorrhoeaeandCtrachomatis.Thethirdswabwasusedforthe FemExam
