Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


revenues to equitably and efficiently pool • Pooling deals with the accumulation and management of • ensuring the purchase of health services in an allocatively revenues so that members ofthe pool share collective health and technically efficient manner. risks, thereby protecting individual pool members from relieves them of uncertainty, and ensures compensation should a loss occur. Pooling coupled with prepayment • national health service (NHS):compulsory universal cover- enables the establishment of insurance and the redistribu- age,national general revenue financing,and national own- tion ofhealth spending between high- and low-risk individ- ership ofhealth sector inputs uals and high- and low-income individuals. • social insurance: compulsory universal coverage under a • Purchasingrefers to the mechanisms used to purchase serv- social security (publicly mandated) system financed by ices from public and private providers. Figure 12.1 illus- employeeandemployercontributionstononprofitinsurance trates these functions and their interactions. fundswithpublicandprivateownershipofsectorinputs • private insurance:employer-based or individual purchase of financing functions translate into the following: sector inputs. • raising sufficient and sustainable revenues in an efficient Although these models provide a general framework for basic package of essential services and financial protection useful from a micropolicy perspective because all health sys- against unpredictable catastrophic financial losses caused by tems embody features of the different models.The key health illness or injury. policy issues are not whether a government uses general 226 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | George Schieber, Cristian Baeza, Daniel Kress, and others cilbuP etavirP Pooling Resource allocation Service and purchasing (RAP) provision Mandates Grants Private providers Loans Private insurance Individuals Communities and households Out of pocket Source: Authors. Figure 12.1 Interactions among Revenue Raising, Risk Pooling, Resource Allocation, and Service Provision revenues or payroll taxes,but the amounts of revenues raised Nations Millennium Project (2005) and the Commission for and the extent to which they are raised in an efficient,equitable, Africa (2005). and sustainable manner.Similarly,nothing is intrinsically good Others have argued,however,that absent resources to fund or bad about public versus private ownership and provision. drug purchases, provide facilities with some discretionary access,equity,and efficiency. the poor will remain low because ofboth poor quality and lack ofdrugs,and the poor will purchase these essential services on the private market.The Bamako Initiative shows that user fees Revenue Collection may be an important revenue source where institutions are Governmentsuseavarietyoffinancialandnonfinancialmech- weak,resources are limited,and the choice is between having anismstocarryouttheirfunctions,includingdirectlyproviding drugs or not having them (World Bank 2003, 76–77). services; financing, regulating, and mandating service provi-
