Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


However,spreading risks through insurance schemes is not income groups. enough to ensure financial protection,because it can result in Finally, in many OECD countries, direct public transfers low-risk, low-income individuals subsidizing high-income, funded through general taxation are made to insurers for sub- population may not be able to afford insurance.For this reason, tion.They are also used in some LMICs,although at a limited through subsidies from high- to low-income individuals. impedes effective risk pooling, while limited revenue-raising Equity subsidies are the result ofsuch redistribution policies. capacity precludes the use ofbroad public subsidies as the main 228 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | George Schieber, Cristian Baeza, Daniel Kress, and others source of finance.Therefore,targeting scarce public subsidies that follows on the need for additional funds from external across different risk pooling schemes is probably the most financingsources. feasible way to finance equity subsidies for the poor and those As also discussed by Hecht and Shah in this book outside formal pooling arrangements. However, this method (chapter 13), external funds—development assistance for has important transaction costs.Because a significant portion health—have become an increasingly importance source of mechanism for ensuring universal financial protection is spending. Specifically, DAH from governments, multilateral limited, particularly in LICs. Even if significant subsidies are and bilateral agencies,and private foundations increased from available from general taxation,the lack ofinsurance portabil- an average ofUS$6.7 billion between 1997 and 1999 to US$9.3 ity restricts its usefulness as a subsidization mechanism among billion in 2002.Sub-Saharan Africa received 36 percent ofDAH risk pools because individuals may lose their coverage when funds in 2002, and in 13 extremely poor countries, DAH they change jobs. LICs and certain MICs will be challenged accounted for more than 30 percent ofhealth spending (WHO both to publicly finance essential public and personal health 2004b). services and to ensure financial protection through equity sub- The relationship between health expenditures and health sidies.Thus,LMICs should strive to achieve the best value for outcomes is not always clear.Higher spending does not neces- publicly financed health services in terms of health outcomes sarily translate to better health outcomes. Although the evi- and equity and should try to facilitate effective risk pooling for dence tenuously demonstrates a positive relationship between effective interventions is one critical aspect of determining far short ofa definitive statement (Bidani and Ravallion 1997; which services to finance publicly. Filmer and Pritchett 1999; Gupta, Verhoeven, and Tiongson DistributingandSourcingHealthExpenditures. Astable12.1 across income groups,with
