Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


to varying degrees but is unlikely to play a countries,andincomelevels,theanalysisprovidesonlyasnap- majorrole.Privatehealthinsurance,ifany,isextremelylimited shot.Figure12.2illustratestransitionsingeneralhealthsystems becauseofpeople’sinabilitytopayandinstitutionalconstraints ascountriesmovefromlow-tomiddle-tohigh-incomestatus. to the industry’s development, including the lack of well- InLICs,almosthalf of healthspendingisprivate,virtually developedfinancialmarketsandregulatoryenvironments. all out of pocket, and usually in the form of payments for As countries’ economies improve, government revenues tend to increase because of the expansion of the more readily taxable formal sector. Other institutions, such as financial Low-income Middle-income High-income markets,legal systems,and regulatory capabilities,are able to countries countries countries develop. Although private spending still accounts for some Private insurance Patient out of pocket share declines as private health insurance markets develop. Patient out of Patient out of The MOH generally continues to provide basic public health pocket NNNaaatttiiiooonnnaaalll hhheeeaaalllttthhh pocket ssseeerrrvvviiiccceee mmmooodddeeelll services and to serve as the insurer oflast resort for the poor or for the entire population for specific chronic conditions as National health Social insurance social health insurance mechanisms develop. Social insurance insurance model Countries move into the high-income group with improved bbbuuudddgggeeettt bbbuuudddgggeeettt insurance model raising capacity and spend a relatively small share on basic pub- financing coverage—or, in some cases, publicly mandated private coverage—becomes the goal. MOHs maintain responsibility Source: Maeda 1998. for public health and surveillance and for the general regulato- Figure 12.2 Health Care Financing System Trends by Country ry environment but generally do not directly provide services. Income Level Risks are pooled either through a NHS, as in Italy and the Financing Health Systems in the 21st Century | 231 United Kingdom, or through single or multiple insurance revenue mobilization efforts,and future recurrent costs.Most mechanisms, as in France and Germany. The Netherlands studies indicate that the macroeconomic saturation point for requires wealthier individuals to be insured through a private aid lies somewhere between 15 and 45 percent ofGDP,depend- system. Private spending declines to 30 percent, and out-of- ing on the country’s policy environment (Clemens, Radelet, pocket spending represents about 20 percent of total health and Bhavnani 2004; Collier and Dollar 1999; Collier and spending.Although health financing systems are highly coun- Hoeffler 2002;Foster 2003). ing and government revenues supports these stylized models. not included in the recipient country’s budget,they can result in corruption. Aid may substitute donors’ priorities for countries’ priorities. A country may have insufficient human ABSORPTION, EFFECTIVENESS, AND resources, physical infrastructure, or managerial capacity to SUSTAINABILITY OF DONOR FUNDS use funds effectively. Resources that may already be in short supply and that are critical
