Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


human ABSORPTION, EFFECTIVENESS, AND resources, physical infrastructure, or managerial capacity to SUSTAINABILITY OF DONOR FUNDS use funds effectively. Resources that may already be in short supply and that are critical for effective service delivery may In recent years, several new dimensions have emerged in the be diverted from other important activities. New resources ness oflarge increases in DAH and the enormous costs ofscal- administrative requirements may impose additional burdens ing up health and other social systems to meet the MDGs.Both on countries. the donor community and recipient countries have raised con- Absorptive capacity problems may also result from cerns pertaining to countries’absorptive capacity,aid effective- demand-side constraints at the individual,household,or com- ness,and sustainability. munity levels, including lack of education, limited informa- tion, travel costs, and income loss (Ensor and Cooper 2004). Conditional cash transfers are among the demand-side innova- Countries’ Absorptive Capacity tions developed to improve the use of essential public health Large increases in DAH channeled to LICs have raised ques- services by the poor that have been receiving increased atten- tions about whether countries can make effective use of these tion.Such programs were initially developed in Latin America new aid flows. As table 12.3 shows, absorptive capacity has as part of social safety-net programs and provide direct cash macroeconomic,budgetary management,and service delivery payments to poor households contingent on certain behavior, dimensions. such as completing a full set of prenatal visits or attending Increased aid has important macroeconomic implications health education classes . Conditional cash given its potential effect on exchange rates, inflation, balance transfers are in effect negative user fees.Even though investiga- of trade, overall competitiveness, aid dependency, domestic tors have found that such programs are quite successful in Table 12.3 Major Constraints to Countries’ Absorption of Additional External Resources Macroeconomic Institutional Physical and human Social, cultural, and political National government Debt sustainability Monetary and fiscal policy Administrative, management, and Stable national political institutions Competitiveness instruments planning skills Power-sharing mechanisms Dutch disease Exchange rate management Training technicians and Social stability sectorspecialists Fiscal instruments and n.a. Public expenditure management: Sector management skills Cultural norms allocative mechanisms Budgetpreparationandexecution Connectivity and communications Weak institutions Accountingandauditing networks Power-sharing mechanisms Service delivery and n.a. Local government institutions Accessibility Cultural norms local governments Private sector capacity Sanitation and water Ethnic, caste, and class relations Roads Geography Local government skills and capacity Source:World Bank 2004a. n.a. (cid:1)not applicable. 232 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries
