Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


capacity Sanitation and water Ethnic, caste, and class relations Roads Geography Local government skills and capacity Source:World Bank 2004a. n.a. (cid:1)not applicable. 232 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | George Schieber, Cristian Baeza, Daniel Kress, and others MICs and have the potential to improve human capital and countries’budgetary and financial management capacity,and health outcomes and reduce poverty with relatively modest fostering a more transparent and predictable implementation administrative costs, their applicability in LICs is still structure (World Bank 2004a). unresolved. The effect ofthe composition ofaid on countries’efforts to Healthsectorsupplyanddemandconstraintscanalsohin- mobilize domestic resources is also critical given the strong dercountries’effectiveemploymentoflargeincreasesinhealth push by heavily indebted countries, several Group of Seven resources. As Mills, Rasheed, and Tollman point out in this (G-7) countries, and the United Nations Millennium Project book(chapter3)andelsewhere,theseconstraintscanoccurat for grant assistance. Gupta and others (2004) find that all levels of service delivery and governances (Oliviera-Cruz, increases in overall aid (net loans plus grants) result in a decline Hanson, and Mills 2003).Additional funding alone does not in total domestic revenues; however,the effects of loans were create sufficient conditions for overcoming structural weak- quite different from those ofgrants.Each 10.0 percent increase nesses,particularlyintheshortrun.Ifaidistargetedtospecif- in loans was associated with a 2.3 percent increase in domestic ic diseases or interventions, effective use of such aid may revenues,whereas a 10.0 percent increase in grants was associ- “consume” different amounts of a country’s administrative ated with a 2.8 percent decrease in domestic revenues. The capacity.Increasedpublicfundsmaysupplantprivatespending same study also finds higher levels of corruption result in notonlybythepoor,butalsobythenonpoor,resultinginlim- reduced domestic revenue-raising efforts. itedmarginaleffectsonthepoor(FilmerandPritchett1999). Fiscal Sustainability Aid Effectiveness Fiscal sustainability is an often used but rarely defined term, Given calls for increases in aid ofanywhere between US$25 bil- though it has generally been defined in terms of self- lion and US$75 billion a year,the question ofaid effectiveness sufficiency. In its broadest context, achieving sustainability has taken on increased importance.2 A protracted debate has means that, over a specific period, the managing entity will generated the following findings concerning aid (Burnside and generate sufficient resources to fund the full costs ofa particu- Dollar 1997;Clemens and Radelet 2003;Clemens,Radelet,and lar program, sector, or economy, including the incremental Bhavnani 2004; Collier and Dollar 1999; Collier and Hoeffler service costs associated with new investments and the servicing 2002; Foster 2003; United Nations Millennium Project 2005; and repayment ofexternal debt. system sustainability as the “capacity of the health system to • Aid has diminishing returns.
