Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


and the servicing 2002; Foster 2003; United Nations Millennium Project 2005; and repayment ofexternal debt. system sustainability as the “capacity of the health system to • Aid has diminishing returns. replace withdrawn donor funds with funds from other,usually • Countries’absorptive capacity is limited. domestic,sources”and sustainability of an individual program • Aid is fungible overall and among sectors. as the “capacity of the grantee to mobilize the resources to • Aid achieves better results in good policy environments.3 fund the recurrent costs of a project once it has terminated.” • Aid requires ownership by countries; for example, donor- However, given the enormous unmet needs in the poorest imposed conditions rarely work. countries,coupled with stagnant economic performance,some • Aid is related to increased investment and growth. donors are now defining sustainability on the basis ofthe man- • Debt repayments have a negative effect on economic aging entity’s commitment of a stable and fixed share of pro- growth. gram costs (Brenzel and Rajkotia 2004; Kaddar, Lydon, and • Aid has high transaction costs for countries. Levine 2003). • Aid makes governments accountable to donors as opposed In light of criticisms leveled at the International Monetary to their citizens. Fund(IMF)regardingitsstructuraladjustmentprogramsand fiscalceilings,IMFhasrecentlypaidincreasedattentiontofiscal to the levels,predictability,variability,fungibility,and sustain- and defining sustainability are not easy matters (Croce and ability of aid flows,and debate continues between those argu- Juan-Ramon 2003; Dunaway and N’Diaye 2004; Hemming, ing for vertical disease–specific program assistance and those Kell, and Schimmelpfennig 2003; Tanzi and Zee 2000).Work supporting broader health system reform changes (WHO isunderwaytodevelopoperationalindicatorsofdebtandfiscal 2001).As Mills,Rasheed,and Tollman show in this book (chap- sustainabilityandtodefinetheconceptoffiscalspace(Dunaway ter 3), evidence on the effectiveness of both approaches is and N’Diaye 2004;Heller 2005).Understanding the details of mixed. Aid unpredictability and uncertainty need to be IMFfiscalprogramsandensuringstableandpredictablelong- addressed by aligning donors’disbursement and commitment termDAHareimportantconditionsforavoidingthemacroeco- cycles with those of recipient countries, strengthening nomicdistortionsdiscussedearlier. Financing Health Systems in the 21st Century | 233 HEALTH FINANCING ISSUES IN LICs Although assessments of global initiatives and alliances are generally positive, some observers have concerns about their This section discusses the severe challenges LICs face in mobi- effects on health systems and prioritization (Travis and others lizing sufficient revenues,both domestically and externally,to 2004). Increasing concerns are being expressed about the meet even the basic health needs oftheir populations. “verticalization” of DAH and the development of separate The Needs Gap activities.This strategy is especially problematic in light ofthe scarce human resources available for health in many LICs Since
