Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


US$74 bil- These global funds have added a major new dynamic to lion by 2015.All the studies indicate that most LICs will face global health policy and a new level of influence over LICs. enormous constraints in raising additional resources through Large grants are approaching the World Bank’s financing levels domestic resource-mobilization efforts and that the interna- tional community must essentially finance most ofthe gap. to specific diseases or interventions, frequently outside the basic broadly based financing instruments required by the New Global Alliances and Funds World Bank and the IMF.This factor raises important issues of Recent years have witnessed a marked increase in the number donor coordination and harmonization ofprocedures and has ofglobal alliances and institutions aimed at alleviating specific implications for IMF fiscal ceilings. tence to resources made available by philanthropic organiza- tions.5 The GAVI Vaccine Fund and the Global Fund to Fight Financing Instruments AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria are perhaps the largest and During the past decade,a new reform instrument known as the der and an implementer,Roll Back Malaria is an example ofan LICs. Concomitantly, the World Bank and the IMF have alliance that is a global partnership without a funding mecha- imposed a series of requirements and instruments to ensure nism.Some entities like the Global Fund are purely financial that external assistance is targeted to the poor through PRSPs. vehicles with little alliance structure. The effect of these new These new policy blueprints and requirements are radically dif- alliances and funds is significant. Since its inception in 2000, ferent from previous DAH mechanisms, which were largely the GAVI Vaccine Fund has raised and spent more than US$1 funded on a bilateral basis through projects. billion for immunization, and the Global Fund has commit- ments of more than US$5 billion and has signed grant SWAps. Startinginthemid-1990s,donorsandrecipientcoun- agreements with more than 70 countries worth in excess of triesestablishedtheSWAptoaddressthelimitationsofproject- 234 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | George Schieber, Cristian Baeza, Daniel Kress, and others reform goals were met, to reduce large transaction costs for • provide a comprehensive coordination framework for the countries,andtoestablishgenuinepartnershipsbetweendonors World Bank,the IMF,and other development partners andcountriesinwhichbothhadrightsandresponsibilities.The • improve public governance and accountability coreelementsofaSWApfollow(McLaughlin2003,2004): • improve priority setting. ThePRSPprocessiscountrydriven,involvesbroadlybased • The government is “in the driver’s seat.” participation,isresultsorientedandfocusedonoutcomesthat • The partnership results in a shared vision and agreed-upon benefitthepoor,iscomprehensiveinrecognizingthemultidi- priorities for the sector. mensionalnatureofpoverty,ispartnershiporiented,andisbased • A comprehensive sector development strategy that reflects onalong-termperspective(IMF2004a;WorldBank2004d). all
