Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


the driver’s seat.” participation,isresultsorientedandfocusedonoutcomesthat • The partnership results in a shared vision and agreed-upon benefitthepoor,iscomprehensiveinrecognizingthemultidi- priorities for the sector. mensionalnatureofpoverty,ispartnershiporiented,andisbased • A comprehensive sector development strategy that reflects onalong-termperspective(IMF2004a;WorldBank2004d). all development activities to identify gaps, overlaps, or The PRSP process has made poverty reduction the priority inconsistencies. issue for development (SHC Development Consulting 2001). • An expenditure framework that clarifies sectoral priorities Because macroeconomic and sectoral strategies need to be for- and guides all sectoral financing and investment. • A partnership across development assistance agencies that included and focus on the poor.As of September 2004,about reduces governments’transaction costs. 42 LICs had developed PRSPs that are serving as the basis for World Bank and IMF financing in those countries. Extensive SWAps explicitly recognize the need to tie health sector evaluations ofPRSPs by the World Bank and the IMF,by bilat- changes to new aid instruments,to macroeconomic and public eral donors,and by other development partners have painted sector management,to poverty reduction,and to achievement the following mixed picture of their success (IMF 2004a;IMF ofthe MDGs .A key aspect ofthis approach is to and World Bank 2002,2003;World Bank 2004d): improve countries’policy-making processes,including budget and public expenditure management,by capturing all funding • PRSPs have the potential to encourage the development of sources and expenditures and by putting resource allocation country-owned,long-term strategies for poverty reduction decisions into a medium-term budget and expenditure frame- and growth, but tensions concerning ownership among work that is based on national priorities .To date, countries,the World Bank and the IMF,and other donors SWAps are in various stages ofdevelopment and implementa- remain.External partners have not adapted their assistance tion, and few conform fully to the specifications listed above programs to PRSP processes in a coordinated manner,and (Institute for Health Sector Development 2003).At this point better frameworks for accountability ofboth countries and in their evolution,SWAps should be viewed as a way ofcoordi- partners are needed. nating development assistance and creating country owner- • Country participation has improved; however, greater ship.They should be judged on how well they do these things inclusiveness is still needed.Moreover,the process has not compared with the previous environment characterized by strengthened domestic institutional policy-making pro- multiple,stand-alone projects. cesses or accountability. • PRSPs are an improvement over previous processes in terms PRSPs. Starting in the mid 1990s,the World Bank and the IMF of results orientation, poverty reduction focus, and long- began to radically change both the focus and the tools for
