Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


PRSPs. Starting in the mid 1990s,the World Bank and the IMF of results orientation, poverty reduction focus, and long- began to radically change both the focus and the tools for pro- term perspective.They have fallen short in terms ofbeing a viding development assistance to poor countries.In response strategic reform road map,especially in relation to under- to criticisms about the ineffectiveness ofprevious development taking structural reforms,boosting economic growth,link- assistance efforts and the high level ofindebtedness in some of ing with medium-term expenditure frameworks and budg- the world’s poorest countries,the two organizations focused on ets,integrating sectoral strategies into the macroeconomic debt forgiveness for heavily indebted poor counties, poverty framework, assessing the social effects of macroeconomic reduction, and improved economic growth. Debt forgiveness strategies, understanding links between macroeconomics required countries to reprogram the bulk of the savings from and microeconomics,integrating strategy components,and forgiven debt into social sectors such as health and education. linking medium- and long-term operational targets. In 1999,the World Bank and the IMF stipulated that all of • Capacity constraints have been serious impediments to their concessionary assistance to 81 eligible poor countries effective implementation,but little attention has focused on would need to be based on a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper capacity building. (IMF and World Bank 2002, 2003). This new approach was • Monitoring and evaluation is still a significant weakness. intended to the following: Evaluations ofthe health sector components ofPRSPs raise • strengthen country ownership many of these issues (DFID Health Systems Resource Centre • enhance the poverty focus ofcountry programs 2003;WHO 2004a).As more and more partners buy into this Financing Health Systems in the 21st Century | 235 process and as increased amounts of development assistance community-based health insurance provides some are funneled through PRSPs,their effectiveness will ultimately financial protection by reducing out-of-pocket spending. depend on country commitment,capacity,and processes;part- There is evidence of moderate strength that such ner flexibility; and funding availability. At this stage, PRSPs schemes improve cost-recovery.There is weak or no evi- stillseem to be a work in progress. dence that schemes have an effect on the quality of care or the efficiency with which care is produced.In absolute Community-Based Health Insurance terms,the effects are small and schemes serve only a lim- As noted earlier,private and out-of-pocket spending accounts ited section ofthe population.The main policy implica- for almost halfoftotal health spending in LICs.Given LIC gov- tion of this review is that these types of community ernments’limited
