Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


most important advantages underlying SSO and portability of benefits (that is, a virtual single pool). innovations include the existence of organizational capacity Colombia and Turkey have opted for the virtual single pool and of pools of funds (or sometimes a single large fund) that reform,whereas Costa Rica has chosen a single risk pool.In the allow newly enrolled individuals and groups to take advantage OECD context,Germany and the Netherlands have virtual sin- of the risk and income cross-subsidization mechanisms and gle pool arrangements,whereas New Zealand and the United purchasing arrangements that are already in place. This Kingdom have single pool arrangements. approach results in an immediate enlargement ofthe risk pool in contrast to creating other pooling organizations as interme- Reforms ofSocial Security. Because SSOs traditionally cover diate steps for the future merging of schemes.However,SSOs salaried formal sector workers from whom payroll contribu- usually cover only a relatively small portion ofthe total popu- tions can be collected, requiring informal sector workers or lation,and their focus on formal sector workers and use ofpay- self-employed workers to join is difficult.The reforms for con- roll contributions as their main revenue collection mechanisms fronting this issue range from voluntary enrollment to various might be an insurmountable obstacle for reaching the informal types ofsubsidization,as detailed intable 12.4. sector and the poor,particularly those in rural areas. Country experiences are also illuminating. For instance, In countries where a SSO is well established and covers a Chile and Mexico have opened SSOs to the informal sector and large population,it might face problems in including informal the self-employed through voluntary affiliation, yet they still sector workers in the absence or even the presence of public Financing Health Systems in the 21st Century | 237 subsidies if the incentive structure is not well designed. For Single Pool versus Virtual Single Pool. Most MICs must also instance,in the case ofMexico,the SSO operates a scheme that decide whether to aggregate all pools into a single organization is partially subsidized by the central government, yet the or to aim for a virtual single pool (Baeza and Packard 2005). scheme still has experienced severe adverse selection and has The implementation of more effective and efficient cross- ing enrollment (World Bank 2004c). risks is facilitated by merging smaller pools into large pools— in some cases,national pools.Indeed,the main preliminary les- Reforms of MOHs and NHSs. MIC reform approaches for sons emerging from Costa Rica, the Republic of Korea,
