Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


smaller pools into large pools— in some cases,national pools.Indeed,the main preliminary les- Reforms of MOHs and NHSs. MIC reform approaches for sons emerging from Costa Rica, the Republic of Korea, and MOHs and NHSs include introducing internal markets, Taiwan (China),all ofwhich have achieved universal coverage, including separating the purchasing function from the provi- suggest that the combination ofa clearly defined benefit pack- sion of health services; using public-private purchasing; age and reforms for enlarging risk pools plays a paramount role reforming provider payment systems; and decentralizing. In in achieving greater inclusion through solidarity in financing theory,efficiency gains in the system could be used to provide and increasing access. access to new enrollees,to increase the number and quality of Yet for most MICs, the reality is that multiple pooling in these areas has been limited (Baeza and Packard 2005). inequitable health financing situation overall.Given that devel- Effective modernization ofpublic sector management and civil oping proper regulations and incentive systems for counterbal- services statutes has to date been missing from most provider ancing such problems is complicated,both institutionally and ble option for these countries. PrivateHealthInsuranceReformsinMICs. Sincethe1980s, MICshaveseentwomainreformsrelatedtoprivateinsurance: Sources of Health System Financing in MICs (a)thefacilitationandpromotionofvoluntaryhealthinsurance, ance,and(b)theintegrationof regulatedprivateinsuranceas sources of financing and revenue collection,including general onecomponentofmandatorysocialsecurityschemesforformal taxation,payroll contributions,risk-rated premiums,and user workers. Many MICs, such as Indonesia, Mexico, and the fees. However, concern is increasing about the use of payroll Philippines,nowrecognizeandregulatevoluntaryprivatehealth contributions as a mechanism for collecting revenue. In a insurance.InChileandColombia,privateinsurersparticipatein recent study on financial protection in Latin America, Baeza theprovisionofmandatoryriskpoolingforsocialsecurity. and Packard (2005) argue that to extend effective risk pooling The literature provides some evidence ofthe potential ben- to the informal and nonsalaried sectors and to achieve univer- efits and problems resulting from the introduction of private sal participation in risk pooling arrangements, policy makers health insurance and competition in the insurance market need to delink health insurance financing and eligibility from (Londoño and Frenk Mora 1997;Sheshinski and López-Calva labor market status or employment sector,by gradually reduc- 1998).However,an ample literature also deals with the equity ing and eventually eliminating payroll contribution financing. tion, including risk selection (insurers seeking to enroll low- delinking might also have a positive effect on labor market risk individuals) and underservice (insurers setting barriers mobility and formalization. This delinking can be achieved providers of expensive interventions or in low-income areas) which is likely preferred on equity and efficiency grounds,or (Arrow 1963; Hsiao 1994, 1995; Laffont 1990; Milgrom and through
