Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


can be achieved providers of expensive interventions or in low-income areas) which is likely preferred on equity and efficiency grounds,or (Arrow 1963; Hsiao 1994, 1995; Laffont 1990; Milgrom and through risk-rating premiums as a transition if fiscal con- Roberts 1992). straints do not permit full fiscal financing. As to whether harnessing private health insurance con- tributes to or damages MICs’chances for achieving universal Donor Disengagement from MICs coverage,the question is whether MICs can take advantage of the benefits of introducing health insurance competition and As demonstrated both by the composition and recipients of tory,and organizational reforms at a level of transaction costs most MICs under the radar. The MDG agenda is predomi- that would not offset the benefits of competition and privati- nantly a LIC agenda,or at least most MICs perceive it as such. Williamson 1985). Is the status quo tantamount to disengagement? If so, the 238 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | George Schieber, Cristian Baeza, Daniel Kress, and others international community is in danger of losing important Global health financing policy makers face the following financing lessons that would most likely be of great use for challenges: LICs.In addition,a more concerted effort is needed to analyze what the MDGs mean for MICs—particularly in light oftheir • The architecture for formulating,coordinating,and imple- that the MDGs do not address—and to invest more in the and country levels needs to be improved. evidence base for MIC-relevant reforms. It is important to • The donor community needs to harmonize procedures, maintain broad goals,but also important to develop new MIC- ensure aid predictability, and guarantee longer-term assis- specific indicators,especially for financial protection,which is tance. at the core ofpoverty alleviation in MICs as well as LICs but is • Donors need to meet their development assistance obliga- not explicitly reflected in the MDGs. tions as well as provide more assistance to help countries The PRSP process also sends a clear signal to the interna- improve their domestic resource mobilization efforts. tional community to focus on the LICs. Unfortunately, few • The IMF needs to improve understanding of its fiscal pro- PRSPs consider the role ofthe health system in ensuring finan- grams and be more flexible in reconciling fiscal constraints cial protection and reforms of risk pooling arrangements, with increased official development assistance and DAH. which are at the core of most LIC and MIC health sector • The global community needs to
