Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, financing, risk, lics, insurance, development, public, sector, private, pooling, systems, pool, financial, poor


reforms of risk pooling arrangements, with increased official development assistance and DAH. which are at the core of most LIC and MIC health sector • The global community needs to improve the knowledge financing strategies. A new approach is needed to support base in terms ofgood (and bad) international practice with health system performance to ensure financial protection.Such capacity constraints on both the demand and the supply approaches are also critical in assisting LICs with their poverty sides must be removed.Better use of existing tools,includ- tools are needed to help poor countries realistically priori- tize their financing and spending options and deal with the CONCLUSIONS tradeoffs between financing essential services and providing financial protection. Globalhealthfinancingpolicyisintransition.Infusionsoflarge • The potential for verticalization as a result ofincreased lev- amounts of grant money from new financing entities have els ofDAH needs to be assessed rigorously and empirically, changed the players involved in shaping global health policy. taking into account the benefits ofsuch assistance as well as DecisionsmadebytheWorldBankandtheIMFin1999requir- its potential distortionary effects on other programs and on ingPRSPsasthebasisforconcessionaryfinancinghavepushed health systems as a whole.By focusing limited resources on LICstodeveloptheirhealthpoliciesinthecontextofanoverall a few targeted areas,countries can achieve impressive results strategyframeworkforpovertyreductionthatconsidersintra- in terms of disease control efforts; however, many disease sectoral,intersectoral,andmacroeconomictradeoffs. eradication efforts have succeeded because such efforts Clearly, neither increased domestic resource mobilization enhanced overall system capacity. nor future economic growth will provide the resources neces- • The existing assistance instruments need to be objectively identified within the framework ofthe MDGs.Increasing offi- to be highlighted and addressed. cial development assistance is thus critical for LICs to make • The issue of financial sustainability needs to be assessed progress in either respect. However, the projected magnitude objectively and apolitically. The international donor com- and speed of scaling up raises serious questions about coun- munityneedstofaceuptotherealitiesofthosepoorcoun- tries’ absorptive capacity, aid effectiveness, predictability, and tries whose economies are not sustainable in the medium stability and about new investments’financial sustainability at term and to consider redistributional policies to assist the country and donor levels.Even though empirical evidence them. is still lacking, concerns have arisen that new sources and • The donor community needs to put MICs on the agenda increased levels of funding for disease-specific programs will both in terms oftheir economic and social development and lead to verticalization and could distort health systems. The in terms of their use as good practice examples for LICs as donor community and countries urgently need
