Demissie et al. BMC Pediatr (2021) 21:413
KEYWORDS: children, acute, respiratory, lower, ethiopia, infections, lrtis, lower respiratory, study, child, kitchen, fuel, under-five, factors, tract


(MDG) 4 by 2013, LRTIs are one of the most piratory rate, fever, breathing difficulty, runny nose, and common causes of under-five children mortality . indrawn chest wall in more severe disease [3–6]. To achieve the sustainable development goal (SDG) 3 of Lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) are the lead- ending preventable deaths of new-borns and under-five ing cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, particu- children by 2030, efforts to reduce deaths due to lower larly in children younger than five years . Globally, respiratory tract infection should remain a top prior- LRTIs cause 704 000 deaths, and the highest under-five ity . Therefore, this study aimed to assess the LRTI mortalities were in sub-Saharan Africa. Even if the magnitude of acute lower respiratory tract infections burden of LRTIs in children under-five years of age has and associated factors among under-five children visiting main cause of death in developing countries [8–10]. Each (WSUTRH), 2019. year, more than 2 million children under-five years of age die due to pneumonia in developing world, and 43 % of Methods global under-five deaths from acute LRTIs occur in India, Nigeria, Democratic Republic Congo and Ethiopia . Study design, area and period In Ethiopia in 2015, 25,970 under-five children died due An institution-based cross-sectional study was con- to LRTIs, and 14,148.3 were caused by pneumonia . ducted from 1st to 30th April 2019, at Wolaita Sodo Different factors were identified for the increased risk University Teaching and Referral Hospital (WSUTRH). income, low parental education level, low birth weight, tal is found in Sodo town, which is located 157 km from malnutrition, lack of breastfeeding, maternal literacy, the regional capital city, Hawassa, and 327 km from the smoking, cow dung use for fuel, low socio-demographic capital city of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa. According to the impaired populations, improved toilet facilities, season, estimated population of Wolaita Zone is approximately and residence . Similarly, the risk of death 2,020,386, of which approximately 983,991 are males and nia, age below two months, diagnosis of Pneumocys- than 3 million people in the catchment area of wolaita tis Carinii, chronic underlying diseases including HIV/ and Dawro, has 350 inpatient beds, and 450–500 patients maternal education, low socioeconomic status, second- hand smoke exposure, and indoor air pollution . Widespread immunization against influenza, measles, Populations bacilli Calmette-Guerin (BCG), and now pneumococcus Source population have been related to the decline of LRTIs in children .
