Demissie et al. BMC Pediatr (2021) 21:413
KEYWORDS: children, acute, respiratory, lower, ethiopia, infections, lrtis, lower respiratory, study, child, kitchen, fuel, under-five, factors, tract


and indoor air pollution . Widespread immunization against influenza, measles, Populations bacilli Calmette-Guerin (BCG), and now pneumococcus Source population have been related to the decline of LRTIs in children . All under-five child/mother or caretaker pairs visiting deaths among under-five children every year. However, curative care service or follow up. Study population Data entry and analysis Randomly selected under-five child/mother or care- The collected data were checked for completeness, con- taker pairs visited WSUTRH pediatric outpatient sistency, and accuracy, entered into EPI data version 3.1 department (OPD) from 1st to 30th April 2019. and exported to Statistical Package for Social Sciences version (SPSS) 22.0 for data analysis. Descriptive sta- Sample size determination tistics with percentages, frequency distributions, meas- The sample size was calculated using a single popula- ures of central tendency, and dispersion were used to tion proportion formula and since there was no propor- describe the data. Bivariate logistic regression was used tion of LRTI with similar population we calculate with to check variables having an association with ALRIs, the assumption of 50 % under-five prevalence of acute and those variables found to have a p-value of < 0.2 LRTIs to obtain the largest sample size, with a 95 % were further analyzed using multiple logistic regres- confidence interval and 5 % marginal error. sions. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95 % CIs were computed By considering a 10 % non-response rate, the final and variables with a p-value < 0.05 were considered sig- sample size was 422 child/mother pairs. nificant variables. Model fitness was checked with the Hosmer and Lemeshow goodness-of-fit test, which was Sampling procedure p 0.767. = The estimated number of child/mother or care taker pairs visited under-five OPDs in the study period was Operational definitions 1050 based on the last six months of patient flow and Acute lower respiratory tract infections then k was calculated, k 1050/422 ~ 2, participants = A child presented with cough, fever, rapid or difficulty were selected using a systematic random sampling breathing in the last two weeks and was diagnosed with technique (k 2), that is every two client (child/mother = acute LRTIs (pneumonia or acute bronchitis or bron- pair) visiting under five OPD until the required sample chiolitis) by the physician. size was obtained. Acute nutritional status of the child; was assessed based on weight-for-height Z- score which was calcu- Data collection instrument lated with WHO AnthroPlus software. A
