Demissie et al. BMC Pediatr (2021) 21:413
KEYWORDS: children, acute, respiratory, lower, ethiopia, infections, lrtis, lower respiratory, study, child, kitchen, fuel, under-five, factors, tract


the physician. size was obtained. Acute nutritional status of the child; was assessed based on weight-for-height Z- score which was calcu- Data collection instrument lated with WHO AnthroPlus software. A face-to-face interview was conducted using a struc- Sever acute malnutrition; those who had WHO Z tured questionnaire that was adopted and modified score of < -3 SD. from previous studies [21–27]. The questionnaire Moderate acute malnutrition; those who had WHO comprises sociodemographic factors, maternal and Z score of -3 to < -2 SD. child factors, environmental factors, and the outcome Mild acute malnutrition/normal; those who had variable acute LRTIs. Length board (< 2 years) or port- WHO Z score of -2 SD. ≥ able stadiometer ( 2 years) and portable digital weight ≥ scale were used to measure the height and weight of the Main cooking fuel child, respectively. Unclean fuel: using wood, animal dung, charcoal, crop wastes, kerosene stove and kerosene lamp . Data collection procedure and quality control Clean fuel: use of electricity, gas, ethanol, and The data were collected by four BSc nurses and super- solar . vised by two MSc pediatrics and child health nurse pro- fessionals. Training was given for data collectors and supervisors for two days, and pre-test was conducted in Breast feeding 5 % of the final sample size in Sodo Christian hos- Exclusive breast feeding: infants receive only breast pital. Both supervisors and data collectors were closely milk for the first six months or receive only breast milk followed for the data collection process, and all filled until the time of assessment for infants < six months. questionnaires were checked every day, and errors Non-exclusive or replacement feeding: Giving food were corrected accordingly. The weight of the child or fluid (milk) alone or in addition to breast milk for was measured using a well-calibrated, portable digital infants < six months. weight scale without shoes and wearing light clothes. Moreover, reliability of the weight scale was checked Immunization status before each measurement. Immunized for age: Took all vaccines appropriate for age based on the immunization schedule. Incomplete: defaulters or those who were not vacci- Table 1 Sociodemographic characteristics of acute lower nated based on the immunization schedule. respiratory infections among under-five children/mother or caretaker pair attended at WSUTRH, 2019 (n 414) Not vaccinated: a child who did not take the vaccine at = all. Variable N 414 Frequency (N) Percent (%) = Result
