Demissie et al. BMC Pediatr (2021) 21:413
KEYWORDS: children, acute, respiratory, lower, ethiopia, infections, lrtis, lower respiratory, study, child, kitchen, fuel, under-five, factors, tract


chil- be due to breast milk contains antibodies that help chil- dren. Widespread immunizations have been related to dren fight viruses and bacteria. Additionally, children the decline of LRTIs in children . Similar find- who are breastfed exclusively for the first six months ings were reported from studies in Gamo Gofa Zone, had a lower risk of acute otitis media, lower respiratory Ethiopia, Southern Ethiopia, and a systematic infections, gastroenteritis and diarrhea, and asthma [33, review and meta-analysis from the UK . This might 34]. Other studies conducted in Northwest Ethiopia, be due to the preventive effect of pneumococcal vaccine Achefer district, Ethiopia, Kersa district, Ethiopia, against streptococcus pneumonia and pentavalent vac- Gamo Gofa Zone, Southwest Ethiopia, South- cine against homophiles influenza and other respiratory ern Ethiopia, a systematic review and meta-analysis pathogens. from the UK, showed similar findings. Children living in households mainly cooking with unclean fuel had 2.12 times higher odds of developing Abbreviations acute LRTIs compared with children living in houses AOR: Adjusted odds ratio; BSc: Bachelors of Science; COR: Crude odds ratio; mainly cooked with clean fuel. This might be due to the LRTI: Lower respiratory tract infection; MDG: Millennium development goal; MSc: Masters of Science; OPD: Outpatient department; SDG: Sustain- use of unclean fuel might produce high levels of house- able development goals; SD: Standard deviations; SPSS: Statistical Package will penetrate deep into the lungs. Deposited particu- hospital. late matter may alter airway reactivity and will affect the Acknowledgements ability of the lungs to fight pathogens. Exposure is high The authors would like to thank Wolaita Sodo University for funding this study. among women and young children, and as a result, it Our thanks also goes to for all study participants, supervisors and data collec- tors for their unreserved efforts and willingness to take part in this study. doubles the risk for childhood pneumonia [36–38]. Stud- ies conducted in Southwest Ethiopia, Gondar city of Authors’ contributions Ethiopia, Wolaita Sodo, Ethiopia, and Pakistan BW was involved in the conception, design, analysis, interpretation, report and manuscript writing; EA and YA were participated in the design, analysis, reported similar findings. interpretation and report writing. ZM was involved in designing the study, The absence of a separate kitchen had 1.7 times higher analysis, report and manuscript writing. The author(s) read and approved the odds of childhood acute LRTIs compared with having a final manuscript. separate kitchen. This is due
