Demissie et al. BMC Pediatr (2021) 21:413
KEYWORDS: children, acute, respiratory, lower, ethiopia, infections, lrtis, lower respiratory, study, child, kitchen, fuel, under-five, factors, tract


1.7 times higher analysis, report and manuscript writing. The author(s) read and approved the odds of childhood acute LRTIs compared with having a final manuscript. separate kitchen. This is due to cooking in the household Authors’ information will result in a higher level of particulate matter concen- 1. Birhanu wondimeneh Demissie is assistant professor in the school of Nurs- Sodo, Ethiopia. to household air pollution due to the longer indoor stay Ethiopia, and Pakistan . 3. Yibeltal Asmamaw Yitayew is a lecturer in the department of Paediatrics more likely to be affected with acute LRTIs compared 4. Zemen Mengesha Yalew is a lecturer in the department of Comprehensive dow in the cooking room. The kitchen without a window Ethiopia. had limited ventilation, and it will increase the exposure Funding much of their time in the kitchen with their mother. This supervision. finding is supported by studies conducted in Wolaita Availability of data and materials Sodo, Ethiopia, Wondo Genet district, Ethiopia , Data will be available upon request from the corresponding author. Gondar, Ethiopia, and Southwest Ethiopia . Declarations Limitation of the study Ethics approval and consent to participate This study will be subjected to recall bias and did not Ethical clearance and approval were obtained from the Institutional Research 06/320/11). An official letter was submitted, and permission was obtained sis for acute LRTIs was made based on the physician from WSUTRH to conduct the research. Informed written consent was assessment. obtained from all mothers/caretakers after explaining the objectives of the study in detail, and anonymity and confidentially of the data was kept. Conclusions Respondents have the right not to participate or withdraw from the study at any stage. All study methods were performed in accordance with the 1964 The prevalence of acute LRTIs among under-five chil- declaration of Helsinki and its later amendments. dren attending WSUTRH was 40.3 %. Unvaccinated chil- Consent for publication dren, non-exclusive/replacement feeding, households Not applicable. mainly cooking with unclean fuel, absence of a separate kitchen, and absence of window in the kitchen room Competing interests The authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest. showed significant association with acute LRTIs. There- fore, strengthening the environmental sanitation (healthy Author details immunization) components of the health extension pack- Received: 16 February 2021 Accepted: 27 August 2021 20. WSU. Referral hospital/Wolaita sodo university. Avaialable at: https:// www. wsu. edu. et/ conte nt/ refer ral- hospi tal. Accessed
