Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


c e r a t i v e c o m m o n .s o r g / p u b l i c d o m a i n e/ z r o / 1 . 0 /) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Background and meningomyelitis . These findings underscore the Ticks are globally recognized as important vectors of dis- significance of acknowledging the neurological effects of ease, capable of transmitting a broad spectrum of viral, TBE infections in dogs. bacterial, and protozoan pathogens to vertebrate hosts Tick-borne fever, caused by A. phagocytophilum, is . In Europe, Ixodes ricinus serves as the primary vector regarded as the most prevalent tick-borne disease in of tick-borne pathogens affecting both humans and ani- domestic animals in Europe , and canine cases are mals . In Norway, this tick species is predominantly reported worldwide . A. phagocytophilum is an intra- distributed along the coastal regions, ranging from Øst- cellular bacterium that primarily infects neutrophil gran- fold County in the southeast up to Brønnøysund in Nor- ulocytes . Although infection is common in endemic dland County in the north [4–6]. Tick infestation in dogs areas, the majority of dogs exposed to A. phagocytophi- has been well documented across Europe . Although lum appear to remain clinically healthy, as evidenced by nymphal ticks are more abundant than adult ticks in the widespread seropositivity despite a lack of documented from dogs are predominantly adults, most likely because infection is typically self-limiting and characterized by the small size of juvenile tick stages allows them to non-specific symptoms such as lethargy and fever, usu- remain undetected in the dogs’ fur . This indicates ally emerging after an incubation period of 1–2 weeks that dogs are at a high risk of acquiring tick-borne infec- . The most consistent laboratory finding is throm- tions. However, as canine tick-borne infections are not bocytopenia, which is observed in approximately 90% notifiable in Norway, the number of infected or clinically of affected dogs . Hence, tick-borne fever infection affected dogs remains unknown. may present as an acute febrile illness with low platelet Clinically relevant infections reported in dogs include counts . A. phagocytophilum evades host immune those caused by viral agents such as tick-borne encephali- responses by impairing neutrophil function, which can tis virus (TBEV) and louping ill
