Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


include counts . A. phagocytophilum evades host immune those caused by viral agents such as tick-borne encephali- responses by impairing neutrophil function, which can tis virus (TBEV) and louping ill virus; bacterial pathogens predispose infected dogs to co-infection with other tick- within the Borreliae, Ehrlichiae/Anaplasmae, and Rick- borne pathogens, potentially complicating diagnosis and spp., all of which contribute to the overall disease burden Dogs are considered suitable hosts for ticks due to their in endemic areas . Among the most well-known tick- behaviour and physical characteristics, and it has been borne pathogens affecting canines in northern Europe suggested that dogs may even contribute to sustaining are Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (s. l.), TBEV, and Ana- local tick populations, particularly in urban areas where plasma phagocytophilum [3, 10–12]. alternative host animals are sparse . Their exploration Lyme borreliosis (LB), caused by B. burgdorferi s. l., is of nature increases their likelihood of exposure to quest- the most frequent tick-borne human disease in Europe, ing ticks, and frequent movement through vegetation, way, the number of reported cases of systemic LB has height for tick attachment. Additionally, their dense fur doubled over the past decade, from 323 cases in 2014 can make it difficult to spot attached ticks, providing suf- to 643 cases in 2024 . Although B. burgdorferi s. l. ficient time for pathogen transmission from the tick to outcomes vary depending on the animal species . In following development of detectable antibody responses, dogs, infections are often mild and self-limiting, and the dogs can serve as valuable sentinel animals . majority of seropositive individuals remain asymptom- Because dogs often accompany their owners during out- intermittent lameness, joint pain, fever, and lymphade- of humans, making them particularly useful for assessing nopathy, and they can appear several months after tick human exposure risk . Hence, monitoring canine exposure . exposure may contribute important epidemiological data Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is an emerging zoonotic relevant to veterinary and public health. The present disease in Europe, posing a growing threat to both ani- study aimed to estimate the seroprevalence of IgG anti- include fever, behavioral changes, motor deficits, and borne pathogen surveillance at the northernmost limit of multifocal neurological dysfunction . Further- I. ricinus’ geographical range. were consistent with inflammatory central nervous sys- tem disorders such as meningitis, meningoencephalitis, Methods Detection of antibodies in dog sera by immunoblot Sample collection Sera were analyzed by the EUROLINE
