Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


were consistent with inflammatory central nervous sys- tem disorders such as meningitis, meningoencephalitis, Methods Detection of antibodies in dog sera by immunoblot Sample collection Sera were analyzed by the EUROLINE Tick-Borne Pro- Blood samples from dogs were collected across 15 coun- file 1 Dog (IgG) kit (EUROIMMUN Medizinische Labor- ties representing all five regions of Norway: Eastern, diagnostika AG, 23560 Lübeck, Germany), according Southern, Western, Central, and Northern (Fig. 1). Sam- to the manufacturer’s instructions. The immunoblot pling was conducted from June 2016 to October 2023 assay targets IgG-antibodies against B. burgdorferi s. l. using a non-systematic recruitment strategy. The study (VIsE and OspC (p25)), TBEV (gpE), and (A) phagocyto- population comprised dogs of various ages, breeds, and philum (MSP-2). According to the manufacturer, due to both sexes, including neutered individuals. All dogs were the high quality of the antigen substrate, no cross-reac- already scheduled for veterinary consultations unre- tivity between (B) burgdorferi s. l. and other species are lated to tick-borne diseases during the study period, and expected. However, cross-reactions between (A) phago- additional blood samples were collected for research cytophilum and Anaplasma platys, Ehrlichia spp., and purposes, with oral consent from the dog owners. This Rickettsia spp. have been reported. Furthermore, cross- was documented by the attending veterinarian in the reactivity between TBEV and other flaviviruses cannot medical record/journal. In addition, residual canine sera be excluded; however, the use of recombinant antigens from clinical samples donated by dog owners were also significantly reduces the probability of such occurrences. obtained through the Central Laboratory at the Nor- According to the manufacturer, the sensitivity/specific- approval for animal experiments was not required, as all ies against (B) burgdorferi s. l., 93%/91% for TBEV and dogs were already undergoing routine blood sampling as 100%/91% for A. phagocytophilum. Results were auto- part of their veterinary visit. The blood samples were col- matically evaluated and classified as positive, negative, or lected by veterinarians or veterinary nurses and allowed borderline by the EUROLineScan program. Borderline to clot at room temperature for 30 min before centrifu- results were interpreted as negative. gation at 2000 x g for 15 min. The serum was removed, aliquoted in microtubes, pseudonymized, stored at -20 Calculation of human lyme borreliosis and tick-borne analyses. The number of registered cases of human Lyme borrelio- sis and tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) was obtained from the Norwegian Surveillance System for Communicable Diseases (MSIS) . The annual
