Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


tick-borne analyses. The number of registered cases of human Lyme borrelio- sis and tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) was obtained from the Norwegian Surveillance System for Communicable Diseases (MSIS) . The annual number of reported Lyme borreliosis cases in each region (county) was extracted for 2024, and incidence was calculated as the number of cases per 100,000 inhabitants per year. Pop- ulation data for the corresponding year were retrieved from Statistics Norway . Statistics Statistical analyses were performed with STATA/SE 17.0 Pearson Chi-square test was used to assess differences in seroprevalence across regions. Logistic regression analy- ses were conducted to assess whether observed regional differences in seroprevalence persisted after adjusting for potential confounders such as age, sex, and breed. The correlation between canine Borrelia seropreva- lence and reported human Lyme borreliosis incidence, as well as between canine TBEV seroprevalence and reported human TBE cases, respectively, across regions was assessed using linear regression analysis. The Clop- per-Pearson exact method was used to calculate propor- Fig. 1 Blood samples were collected from dogs across Norway. The num- tions of 95% confidence intervals (CI). A significance ber of included animals at each location is represented by dot size, while level of P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. the different colours represent the five regions: Eastern (blue), Southern (yellow), Western (purple), Central (turquoise), and Northern Norway (green) Spatial visualization Retriever (n = 11), Gordon Setter (n = 10), and Irish Wolf- The distribution of collected samples was mapped by R hound (n = 10). (version 2023.09.1 + 494) with the ggplot2 (version 3.5.1) and sf (version 1.0–20) packages. Munici- Seroprevalence of tick-borne pathogens in dogs pality boundaries were obtained from the rnaturalearth In total, 38% (165/433) of the dogs were seropositive for package, and sample locations were aggregated based on IgG antibodies against one or more tick-borne patho- unique spatial coordinates. gens (B. burgdorferi s. l., TBEV, and/or (A) phagocyto- philum), with regional seroprevalences ranging from 22% Results (6/27) in Northern Norway to 52% (48/93) in Southern Demographic characteristics Norway. Among the seropositive dogs, 73% showed evi- A total of 433 dogs from across Norway were included dence of exposure to a single pathogen, while 22% were in the study. The age of the dogs ranged from six weeks seropositive for two pathogens, and 4% for three patho- to 16 years; 26 puppies (0–1 year), 27 young dogs (1–2 gens (Additional file 2). The seroprevalence
