Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


of high prevalence of B. burg- southern Norway found that 16% of dogs were seroposi- dorferi s. l. in questing ticks in this region . This aligns tive . The higher seroprevalence in the present study with findings reported nearly three decades earlier from may partly be explained by differences in assay method- the same region, where the seroprevalence of B. burgdor- ology, but could also reflect a true increase in tick abun- feri s. l. in dogs was 14% and 27%, respectively . dance or infected ticks. Supporting this notion, there has In contrast, our data indicate a different trend in North- been a general increase in reported human TBE cases ern Norway: A previous report published in 2012 found a in Norway over the past two decades . The current canine seroprevalence of only 1.7% (2/120) in the north- study included limited sample size from Central and ern region , whereas the present study found a higher Northern Norway, warranting cautious interpretation seroprevalence of 11% (3/27). Although this may suggest of the results. Furthermore, cross-reaction with other a rise in exposure in northern regions, the small sample flaviviruses cannot be excluded , and positive TBEV size in our study warrants cautious interpretation. Nota- results should be interpreted with caution. Nevertheless, bly, the canine seroprevalence of B. burgdorferi s. l. in our findings indicate that dogs are at risk of acquiring Nordic countries seems highly variable; 2.9% in Finland tick-borne viral infection, and TBE should be considered , 3.9% in Sweden , 16.1% in Denmark , and among the differential diagnoses in dogs with neurologi- 20% in Norway. Also, a recent multicentre study reported cal symptoms. an overall canine seroprevalence of 2.4% in Europe, but The overall seroprevalence of IgG antibodies against also here local results ranged widely, from 0 to 13.3% . (A) phagocytophilum in dogs in the present study was The seroprevalence is likely influenced by several fac- 11%, with regional variations ranging from 0 to 23%. tors, such as regional variation of tick abundance, envi- These findings fall within previously reported seropreva- ronmental conditions affecting tick activity, intensity of lence rates across Europe, which range from 0 to 43.3% local pathogen transmission, and levels of tick exposure [21, 38, 41, 49–52]. As for (B) burgdorferi s. l. and TBEV, in the sampled canine population. In addition, differences the wide variability may be caused by several factors.
