Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


exposure [21, 38, 41, 49–52]. As for (B) burgdorferi s. l. and TBEV, in the sampled canine population. In addition, differences the wide variability may be caused by several factors. In in test performance may influence seroprevalence esti- Norway, the prevalence of A. phagocytophilum in quest- mates. When seroprevalence is interpreted in the context ing ticks has also been shown to vary greatly between sites, from 0 to 17.5% [53–57], and may partly explain findings could not be linked to the geographical distribu- the regional differences in canine seroprevalence. Again, tion of the dogs, and none of the breed-related risk fac- due to limited sample size, the estimated seroprevalences tors commonly referred to seems plausible. The sample in Northern and Central Norway should be interpreted sizes in these cohorts are very small, and the findings with caution. Also, cross-reaction cannot be excluded, could be due to chance. However, previous studies have and Neoerlichia mikurensis is previously suggested to be also reported breed predispositions . Several the most likely agent cross-reacting with A. phagocytoph- studies have confirmed a particularly high seroprevalence ilum in Norway . of B. burgdorferi s. l. in Bernese Mountain dogs, but not Co-infection with tick-borne pathogens is assumed to against other tick-borne diseases in the same region . quences of such co-infections remain poorly understood which one tested positive for B. burgdorferi s. l. Further . In the present study, antibodies against two or three studies with larger breed-specific cohorts are warranted pathogens were detected in 10% (44/433) of the included to explore potential breed-related risk factors. dogs, but due to the persistence of antibodies after prior pathogen exposure , we cannot deter- Dogs as sentinel animals for human lyme borreliosis and mine whether these dogs were concurrently infected or tick-borne encephalitis whether the observed serological patterns reflect sequen- Seropositivity does not necessarily indicate active infec- tial exposures, nor can we assess any associated impact tion but may reflect prior or subclinical exposure. While on the dogs’ health. it is important to consider the clinical relevance of Breed-related risk factors as valuable sentinels for the surveillance of tick-borne Breed-related risk factors such as activity level, primary pathogens. In the present study, we observed a positive use (e.g. hunting dog vs. companion dog), outdoor envi- association between canine Borrelia seroprevalence and ronment, coat characteristics, grooming practices, and human incidence of LB . These findings are con- the use
