Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


hunting dog vs. companion dog), outdoor envi- association between canine Borrelia seroprevalence and ronment, coat characteristics, grooming practices, and human incidence of LB . These findings are con- the use of tick ectoparasiticides may influence the risk sistent with previous work demonstrating a quantitative of tick bites and pathogen transmission. In addition to relationship between B. burgdorferi exposure in domes- behavioural and environmental factors, differences in tic dogs and human LB incidence, supporting the poten- host-derived volatile organic compounds may influence tial use of canine seroprevalence as a proxy for human host-seeking behaviour in ticks . Recent evidence risk of LB . In contrast, the canine seroprevalence suggests that such volatiles can affect tick attraction of TBEV did not correlate with the incidence of human and potentially vector competence, although breed-spe- TBE cases; however, the dogs still serve as valuable senti- cific differences in dogs remain unexplored. In Norway, nels for vector and pathogen distribution surveys. Inter- there are approximately 590,000 dogs, present in about estingly, there have been no reported human TBE cases 18% of all households . In our study, Border Collie, from Western Norway , despite 11% of the dogs Golden Retriever, and Setter breeds were most repre- from this region testing positive for antibodies against sented. These breeds rank among the most popular in TBEV. These findings are supported by evidence of TBEV Norway, based on annual registrations reported by the in questing ticks (0 to 20%) and a seroprevalence of Norwegian Kennel Club and a national data registry [61, 10% in horses from the same region . The reason for 62]. In contrast, the Irish Wolfhound is rare, with fewer the lack of human cases in this region is so far unknown, than 200 members in the breed-specific Norwegian Ken- but could be due to multiple intrinsic and extrinsic fac- nel Club . Border Collie, Setter breeds, and often tors of host and vectors or variants of the pathogens caus- Golden Retrievers are frequently used in outdoor activi- ing asymptomatic infections . This geographic ties such as herding, hunting, or companionship, making discrepancy between canine seroprevalence and lack of them prone to tick exposure. The long and dense coat reported human cases highlights the potential value of of some breeds, such as the Golden Retriever, may also dogs as sentinel species in surveillance efforts, as canine facilitate prolonged tick attachment. The Border Collies serology may
