Kloster et al. Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica (2026) 68:22 Acta Veterinaria Scandinavica
KEYWORDS: dogs, norway, tick-borne, seroprevalence, burgdorferi, tbev, tick, ticks, pathogens, canine, antibodies, human, study, phagocytophilum, encephalitis


value of of some breeds, such as the Golden Retriever, may also dogs as sentinel species in surveillance efforts, as canine facilitate prolonged tick attachment. The Border Collies serology may serve as an early indicator of TBEV circula- were clearly exposed to ticks as they showed seropreva- tion in areas where clinical cases have yet to be detected. lence of antibodies against TBEV and (A) phagocyto- philum, yet none of the Border Collies was positive for Limitations of this study antibodies against (B) burgdorferi s. l. Half of the Gordon The non-systematic sampling approach may have affected Setters were seropositive for antibodies against TBEV, the representativeness of the results. For instance, clin- and the Irish Wolfhounds were negative for antibodies ics or dog owners with a particular interest in tick-borne against TBEV and (A) phagocytophilum but had a rela- diseases may have been more likely to participate. To tively high seroprevalence of (B) burgdorferi s. l. These mitigate this potential bias, we aimed to include samples Funding from areas outside I. ricinus’ geographical range where Open access funding provided by University of Agder. This study was lower, and participation was less likely to be driven by veterinary clinical research from “Legat for dyrene - Stiftelsen Astri og Birger heightened concern about ticks. A larger and more sys- Torsted legater”. Funding bodies were not involved in the design, collection of tematically sampled study is needed to further investigate samples, interpretation, or writing of the manuscript. regional differences and to evaluate potential changes Data availability in seroprevalence between years and over time. Never- The datasets used and/or analyses during the current study are available from theless, the dataset represents the most geographically the corresponding author on reasonable request. comprehensive survey of canine exposure to tick-borne pathogens conducted in Norway to date, and the detec- Declarations tion of pathogen exposure outside the established range Ethics approval and consent to participate of I. ricinus underscores the importance of broad-scale This study did not require official or institutional ethical approval. The animals surveillance efforts. were handled according to high ethical standards and national legislation. Prior publication Conclusions Data have not been published previously. This study demonstrates that domestic dogs throughout Consent for publication Norway are exposed to ticks and tick-borne infections, Not applicable. with 38% of the sampled population seropositive for one or more of the pathogens B. burgdorferi s. l., TBEV, Competing interests The
