Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


details of adverse reactions and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 2.4 The list price of rivaroxaban is £58.88 per 2.5 mg, 56 capsule pack (excluding VAT, company submission) The recommended dose is 2.5 mg twice daily which equates to a price of £2.10 per day. Total acquisition costs depend on the duration of therapy. Assuming a treatment duration of 12 months, total acquisition costs are £766.50. Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 The company's submission The Appraisal Committee considered evidence submitted by the company that manufactures rivaroxaban and a review of this submission by the Evidence Review Group (ERG). 3.1 The main evidence in the company's submission came from ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51. This was an international, multicentre (766 sites in 44 countries including the UK), randomised controlled trial (RCT) designed to evaluate whether rivaroxaban in addition to standard-care antiplatelet therapy reduced the risk of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction or stroke in patients with recent acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina, non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI] or ST segment elevation myocardial infarction [STEMI]). The company also provided supportive evidence from the ATLAS-ACS TIMI 46 trial, which compared rivaroxaban once-daily dosing with twice-daily dosing within the same total daily dose range (5 to 20 mg). This study was a safety and efficacy study to determine the most favourable dose and dosing regimen of rivaroxaban for ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51. 3.2 The ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial had 3 phases: a 6-day screening phase; a double-blind treatment phase; and a follow-up phase. Patients were enrolled into the trial within 7 days of being admitted to hospital for acute coronary syndrome. After stabilisation of the acute coronary syndrome (and after completion of any initial management strategies such as revascularisation), patients were stratified on the basis of whether they were to have clopidogrel or ticlopidine in addition to aspirin as standard care (stratum 1: aspirin only [n=1,053]; stratum 2: aspirin plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine [n=14,473]). Patients were then randomised to 1 of 3 treatment groups; rivaroxaban 2.5 mg, rivaroxaban 5 mg or placebo (all taken twice daily). The dosage of clopidogrel or ticlopidine followed national or local prescribing information. Enrolment was neither capped nor fixed and depended on regional medical practice. The daily maintenance dose was not to exceed 75 mg a day for clopidogrel or 250 mg twice daily for ticlopidine. Approximately 99% of the patients in stratum
