Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


medical practice. The daily maintenance dose was not to exceed 75 mg a day for clopidogrel or 250 mg twice daily for ticlopidine. Approximately 99% of the patients in stratum 2 had clopidogrel. The duration of treatment was not fixed because the trial was event-driven (that is, the time needed to obtain at least 983 primary efficacy end-point events across both strata and at least 728 primary efficacy events in stratum 2). The mean duration of treatment was 13.1 months. 3.3 The company considered the baseline patient characteristics of those enrolled into ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 to be generally similar between the treatment groups. The mean age of the trial population was 61.8 years; 9.0% were aged over 75 years, and 74.7% were men. In the trial population, the index acute coronary syndrome event was 50.9% STEMI, 25.6% NSTEMI and 23.6% unstable angina. The company stated that baseline patient characteristics were representative of a moderate to high-risk population of patients with acute coronary syndrome, with the majority of all patients randomised having cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension (67.4%), diabetes (32.0%), a history of myocardial infarction (26.9%) or hypercholesterolaemia (48.6%). Of the 60.5% of patients who had a revascularisation procedure for the index event; the vast majority of these were percutaneous coronary intervention. In the trial population 7.1% of patients had impaired renal function with creatinine clearance less than 50 ml/min. 3.4 The efficacy analysis was based on the modified intention-to-treat (mITT) analysis set, which included all randomised patients (except those from 3 excluded sites where trial misconduct was identified) and the end point events that occurred from randomisation up to the earlier date of the global treatment end date, or 30 days after last dose of study drug (for patients who discontinued the study drug prematurely), or 30 days after randomisation (for patients who were randomised but never treated). The exclusion of the data from the 3 sites was considered to be acceptable by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The company presented the efficacy results for the 2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice-daily and 5 mg twice-daily doses separately and combined by strata (stratum 1, stratum 2 and combined [ALL strata]). 3.5 The primary efficacy end point in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 was the composite of death from cardiovascular causes (cardiovascular [CV] death), myocardial infarction (MI) or stroke (ischaemic, haemorrhagic or stroke of uncertain cause). A range of secondary composite end points were
