Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


combined-dose group. Cost effectiveness 3.14 The company submitted a de novo Markov cohort model comparing rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily with standard care (clopidogrel plus aspirin or aspirin alone) in adults who had a recent acute coronary syndrome with elevated cardiac biomarkers and who had not had a previous stroke or TIA. The model used a time horizon of 40 years that was divided into 2 periods: an observation period, which was intended to replicate the duration of the trial data, and an extrapolation period. The extrapolation period started after 96 weeks and had a cycle length of 6 months. In the observation period the initial 2 cycles had a cycle length of 4 weeks and 8 weeks respectively and the remaining cycles used a cycle length of 12 weeks. The company based the analysis from an NHS and personal social services perspective, and costs and benefits were discounted at an annual rate of 3.5%. Half-cycle correction was performed on the Markov trace. 3.15 The company's model consisted of a number of health states corresponding to whether or not the hypothetical patient had another acute coronary syndrome event. The acute coronary syndrome events considered in the model were: MI, ischaemic stroke, haemorrhagic stroke or intracranial haemorrhage (HS/ICH); a bleeding event measured on the TIMI scale; and revascularisation. These acute coronary syndrome events fell into 2 broad categories: those with longer term implications for the relative risks of developing further conditions, utility and costs and those deemed to be transient events where the impacts were limited to 1 model cycle. Patients could die at any time in the model and there were multiple causes of death simulated in the model. Patients could die from an MI, ischaemic stroke or HS/ICH or other CV death, which included deaths related to bleeding. Patients could also die from non-CV causes at any time point in the model. 3.16 The long-term acute coronary syndrome events included the MI, ischaemic stroke and HS/ICH conditions. The long-term events had 2 subsequent tunnel states to allow for the patient's health-related quality of life to improve over time, and for the cost of treatment and the relative risk of having a subsequent event to fall over time. Patients could have up to 3 acute coronary syndrome events; the specific types of event were recorded when patients had 2 or fewer events. When 3 events happened, it was assumed that
