Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


have up to 3 acute coronary syndrome events; the specific types of event were recorded when patients had 2 or fewer events. When 3 events happened, it was assumed that there was 1 event of each type (that is an MI, an ischaemic stroke and a HS/ICH). 3.17 The health states corresponding to bleeding and revascularisations were assumed to be transient health states and when a patient entered these states a one-off cost and utility decrement was applied. These transient health states were applied to only the patients in the observation period of the model, implicitly assuming that the bleeding and revascularisation rates for the 2 interventions were comparable after rivaroxaban treatment was discontinued for all patients at the end of the second year. 3.18 The population modelled was the subgroup of patients who had acute coronary syndrome with elevated cardiac biomarkers and had not experienced a prior stroke or TIA in the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial. The data were not pooled from both rivaroxaban trial arms; the model was based on the subgroup data from patients who had 2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice daily only. Data from both trial strata were used to inform the model. In accordance with ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, it was assumed that in the base case 93% of patients had clopidogrel plus aspirin and 7% of patients had aspirin alone. A scenario analysis was presented considering only those patients who had clopidogrel and aspirin. 3.19 In the base case the transition probabilities for future acute coronary syndrome-related events in the observation period (2 years) were determined by fitting a Weibull distribution to the trial data. This was undertaken for both the rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice-daily arm and for the placebo arm. The company stated that because patient numbers diminished over time, particularly visible towards the end of ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, it was difficult to estimate transition probabilities directly from the data for the later cycles within the observation period. The company commented that by fitting a Weibull distribution to the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial data, it was able to remove the data fluctuations caused by a decline in the numbers of observations over the trial. 3.20 The company's model assumed that patients could discontinue treatment in the observation period after they had an acute coronary syndrome event. The probability of discontinuation following an event was obtained from ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51. This was calculated by using the
