Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


the observation period after they had an acute coronary syndrome event. The probability of discontinuation following an event was obtained from ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51. This was calculated by using the total trial population, not the licensed population. 3.21 The UK marking authorisation for rivaroxaban states that 'extension of treatment beyond 12 months should be done on an individual patient basis as experience up to 24 months is limited'. To reflect this, the company adjusted the proportion of patients who continued on rivaroxaban treatment in the second year (that is from 48 to 60 weeks on wards). The proportion of patients selected was to allow an overall continuation rate of 19% after 12 months and that this would decline to 0% at the end of the second year. No treatment effect or cost was applied to those patients who discontinued rivaroxaban treatment. 3.22 In the model patients had clopidogrel 75 mg once a day, aspirin 75 mg once a day and rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily as appropriate. Because rivaroxaban entered the treatment pathway after stabilisation of an acute coronary syndrome event, any further differences in costs between the intervention and the comparator were a result of acute coronary syndrome events and discontinuations related to an acute coronary syndrome event. 3.23 Costs of acute coronary syndrome events were determined by the NHS reference costs (2012 to 2013) of treating the event and the cost of follow up for the patient. An assumption was made that if a patient had multiple acute events in the long term, then the cost of hospitalisation and the follow up of two events were applied. This was the case irrespective of the time between the events. It was assumed that, on average, patients experienced 5, 14 and 28 days rehabilitation after MI, ischaemic stroke and HS/ICH respectively. These rehabilitation costs occurred in the first 3 months after the event. Transient event costs were also included in the model. 3.24 The utility values associated with long-term health states were obtained from the literature, primarily from NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ticagrelor for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes. A study by Ara and Brazier was used to calculate the improvement in health-related quality of life that patients would experience in the stroke health states. The study was used to obtain the utility values of patients with stroke in the UK at baseline and at 12 months after
