Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


would experience in the stroke health states. The study was used to obtain the utility values of patients with stroke in the UK at baseline and at 12 months after the stroke occurred. Based on the utility values from these 2 time points, a 33% improvement in health-related quality of life over 12 months was calculated for patients who had strokes. To calculate the utility values for patients who had a stroke 6 months after a previous stroke, the average of the stroke first 6 months and the stroke (post 12 months) health states was taken. Utility values were assumed to be the same for both rivaroxaban and standard care following any event. For multiple event states, the utility values of two events that had occurred were multiplied together. The company stated that this allowed for worsening health-related quality of life following multiple events to be taken into account. The utility value for the event-free health state was assumed to remain constant over time. The resulting utility estimates were 0.842 for no event, 0.779 for non-fatal MI, 0.821 for after MI, 0.703 for non-fatal stroke, and 0.703 for after stroke. 3.25 For the licensed population, the company reported a deterministic incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £6,203 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained (incremental costs £764, incremental QALYs 0.12) for a life time horizon of 40 years for rivaroxaban compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin or aspirin alone. 3.26 The company conducted a series of 1-way deterministic sensitivity analyses. Changes to the cost parameters, discount rates, utility values and risk estimates for MI impacted on the base case ICER, but no factor increased the ICER to over £10,000 per QALY gained. The company's probabilistic analysis showed that rivaroxaban had a 99.9% probability of being cost effective compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin or with aspirin alone if the maximum acceptable amount for an additional QALY was £20,000. Evidence Review Group comments 3.27 The ERG stated that the company undertook a comprehensive systematic review of rivaroxaban for the prevention of adverse outcomes in patients after the acute management of acute coronary syndrome. The ERG considered ATLAS-ACS 2 TIMI 51 to be a well-designed, multicentre RCT of reasonable quality. 3.28 The ERG questioned the generalisability of the population enrolled in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 to the population seen in clinical practice in England. The ERG noted that of all patients randomised in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, 74%
