Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


of the population enrolled in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 to the population seen in clinical practice in England. The ERG noted that of all patients randomised in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, 74% were men and the mean age was 61.8 years. The ERG commented that patients with acute coronary syndrome in England are usually older, with a mean age of 65 years and 72 years for patients with STEMI and NSTEMI respectively. It highlighted that the EMA's assessment report noted that patients in the trial were considered to be at low risk. Patients in the trial had little comorbidity, lower than usual use of percutaneous coronary intervention and included a relatively small proportion of people aged over 75 years or who had impaired renal impairment with creatinine clearance less than 50 ml/min. As a result, the findings from ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 may not be applicable to an older population or to those with a greater incidence of renal impairment and a higher baseline bleeding risk. 3.29 The ERG commented that mean treatment duration with rivaroxaban in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 was 13.1 months. As a result, the evidence on efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily beyond this time is limited. The ERG noted that this is reflected in the summary of product characteristics, which recommends that extension of treatment beyond 12 months should be done on an individual patient basis because experience up to 24 months is limited. 3.30 The ERG stated that the test 'elevated cardiac biomarker' is less sensitive than if a patient exhibits a rise or fall in their cardiac biomarkers (preferably troponins), because many patients have persistently elevated biomarkers outside the context of acute coronary syndrome. In current practice, the diagnosis of NSTEMI requires evidence of myocardial ischaemia with a rise or fall in the blood level of a cardiac biomarker (troponin). In addition, the sensitivity of biomarker assays has increased since the trial was conducted. If more sensitive assays had been available during ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, more patients might have been diagnosed with NSTEMI rather than unstable angina and therefore included in the licensed population. 3.31 The ERG noted that there were numerical inconsistencies between the 2 dose groups (2.5 mg twice daily and 5 mg twice daily) for the components of the composite efficacy end points in the licensed population (see table 2). When the components of the primary efficacy end points were analysed
