Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


mg twice daily) for the components of the composite efficacy end points in the licensed population (see table 2). When the components of the primary efficacy end points were analysed individually, rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily significantly reduced the risk of death from CV causes compared with placebo, but did not reduce the risk of MI or stroke. In contrast, rivaroxaban 5 mg twice daily significantly reduced the risk of MI, but did not reduce the risk of CV death or stroke. The ERG noted that the numerical inconsistencies between the 2 dose groups had been extensively discussed in a US FDA briefing document (albeit in the whole trial population of ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, rather than the licensed population). This briefing document states that 'the proposition that a lower dose of an antithrombotic drug is significantly more effective than a higher dose lacks biological plausibility'. The ERG also noted that the EMA's assessment report concluded that these findings may partly have been due to chance. The ERG therefore considered the hazard ratios from the combined dose to be more plausible than those of the individual doses. 3.32 The ERG considered the validity of the results from the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 study to be questionable as a result of the high discontinuation rates from the trial. The ERG noted that 15.5% of the total randomised population (n=15,526) withdrew from the trial (2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice daily 15%; 5 mg rivaroxaban twice daily 16.3%; placebo 15.1%). The ERG highlighted that the rates of premature withdrawal in the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial were higher than other similar randomised trials in patients with acute coronary syndrome: APPRAISE-2 (apixaban, 1.8% [131 out of 7392]); TRACER (vorapaxar, 5.9% [761 out of 12,944]); PLATO (ticagrelor, 3.0% [562 out of 18,624]) and TRITON (prasugrel, 5.9% [804 out of 13,619]). 3.33 The ERG commented that because data were missing for people who withdrew from the trial (proportion of patients with unknown vital statistics 3.2% [ITT analysis, 495 out of 15,526]) there was a potential risk that this may have led to informative censoring. That is, patients who drop out (and therefore are censored) are more or less likely to experience the primary outcome of interest compared with those remaining in the study, and this happens in a non-random manner. This may be compounded if the reason for, or frequency of, discontinuation differs between treatment groups. The ERG highlighted that
