Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


in the study, and this happens in a non-random manner. This may be compounded if the reason for, or frequency of, discontinuation differs between treatment groups. The ERG highlighted that no detailed discussion was provided in the EMA's assessment report regarding this issue. The ERG considered that the efficacy analyses were at risk of bias because prognoses may differ in those patients who withdrew from the trial. The ERG highlighted that the likely bias introduced by informative censoring in the clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness analyses was unknown. 3.34 The ERG stated that the structure of the company's model led to the potential for systematic errors to occur, because the time between multiple events is not tracked. This causes the potential for systematic errors in 3 ways. First, patients who had 2 events in 1 time cycle were not distinguished from those patients who had multiple events in separate time cycles. Second, for patients who had multiple events in separate time cycles any improvement over time that they may have experienced was ignored. Finally, for those patients who transition into the multiple event states from the single event states, the first event was not tracked. The ERG commented that there were 2 solutions to this problem. First, a more complicated state transition cohort model could be developed so that cost and utilities for each multiple event state can be varied by the preceding health state and by the time between the events. Second, a patient-level simulation approach could be taken. 3.35 The ERG stated that the population modelled by the company was the patient subgroup who had elevated cardiac biomarkers and had not experienced a prior stroke or TIA. Therefore, all issues with the generalisability of the results of ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 (see sections 3.3 and 3.28) and informative censoring (see sections 3.10 and 3.33) also apply to the economic model results. 3.36 The ERG stated that the approach used by the company to calculate the transition probabilities for the transient health states was inappropriate because the cost and QALYs of the events that occurred in the second year were not appropriately discounted. Also, there was no clear adjustment for the number of additional patients who were assumed to discontinue rivaroxaban in year 2 or for those patients who were assumed to discontinue clopidogrel or rivaroxaban treatment after an acute coronary syndrome event. 3.37 The ERG commented that it was not
