Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


in year 2 or for those patients who were assumed to discontinue clopidogrel or rivaroxaban treatment after an acute coronary syndrome event. 3.37 The ERG commented that it was not clear in the submission how the patients who continued rivaroxaban treatment after 1 year were selected from the rest of the patient population. The ERG stated that it was unknown whether the base-case parameters for the change in efficacy and costs represent patient discontinuation in the second year of treatment. 3.38 The ERG had concerns with the methodology used by the company to calculate the utility values for patients who had a stroke. The ERG stated that it was unclear why the values from Ara and Brazier were appropriate to calculate the improvement in health-related quality of life of patients who experienced a stroke, but not considered appropriate to be used as the utility values in the economic model. 3.39 The ERG had concerns about how the improvement in utility values over time was modelled in the multiple event states. If a hypothetical patient transitioned into the multiple event states from a single event state, their utility in the multiple event state could be understated, because improvement in utility after the first event had been ignored. The ERG stated that that this problem was again related to the inability of the model to distinguish when events had occurred. The ERG noted that this was not the only assumption that the company could have made to calculate the utility value in the multiple event states. It could have assumed that the lowest utility value of the 2 events applied to the patients or, if the model could track the chronicity of events, it could have assumed that the utility of the most recent event applied. 3.40 The ERG expressed concerns about the appropriateness of the methods used to model the costs of rivaroxaban, clopidogrel and aspirin and the efficacy data (shape and scale parameters of the Weibull curve) in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis. The ERG recalculated the probabilistic sensitivity analysis and found that the results were generally more favourable to rivaroxaban, producing more incremental QALYs at a lower incremental cost. 3.41 The ERG commented that there were a number of key parameters that could not be adjusted within the model, which may have changed the ICER to a greater extent. These included: amendments to the hazard ratio for fatal bleeds; using
