Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


parameters that could not be adjusted within the model, which may have changed the ICER to a greater extent. These included: amendments to the hazard ratio for fatal bleeds; using pooled efficacy data rather than the 2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice-daily dose alone; and adjusting for the possibility of informative bias. 3.42 The ERG conducted an exploratory probabilistic sensitivity analysis in which published levels of uncertainty around the utility value estimates and the reference costs, rather than an arbitrary range, were taken into account. The resulting probabilistic ICER was £6,150 per QALY gained for rivaroxaban plus clopidogrel plus aspirin or rivaroxaban plus aspirin, compared with clopidogrel plus aspirin or aspirin alone. The ERG noted that its probabilistic ICER was similar to the company's deterministic ICER. 3.43 The ERG addressed its concerns about informative censoring (see section 3.33) by conducting a 'crude' exploratory sensitivity analysis, to explore the effects on the ICER of increasing the number of patients who experienced a fatal bleeding event with rivaroxaban (assuming that the event occurred immediately on taking rivaroxaban). The ERG considered a range of additional fatal bleeding events ranging from no additional fatal bleeding events (company's base case) to 20 additional bleeding events. Because there were 21 fatal bleeding events in the combined rivaroxaban treatment arms of the total population in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51, the ERG considered that 20 additional fatal bleeding events was an unfavourable scenario for the rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice-daily dose. The result of the ERG's exploratory analysis showed that even if rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice a day caused an additional 20 fatal bleeding events compared with the event rate observed in the trial, the ICER was not estimated to be greater than £10,000 per QALY gained. 3.44 The ERG also undertook a series of exploratory scenario analyses. When the following changes to the model were implemented, the ERG's preferred deterministic base-case ICER was £5,622 per QALY gained (compared with the company's deterministic base-case ICER of £6,203 per QALY gained): • The transition probabilities were estimated from the trial data rather than using the Weibull curves. • The treatment duration of rivaroxaban was limited to 1 year. • Age-adjusted utility values for the whole population from Ara and Brazier's formula were used to adjust the no-event health state. • Only 1 cost was applied to the multiple event states. Where there were 2 different costs added together in the company's base case,
