Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


to adjust the no-event health state. • Only 1 cost was applied to the multiple event states. Where there were 2 different costs added together in the company's base case, the maximum of the 2 costs was applied. • No improvement over time in the stroke utility was modelled. • The relative risk of having a subsequent event, given that an event had already occurred, was amended. • The life-years gained matrix and the costs were adjusted for the 12-week cycle length in the observation period. 3.45 Full details of all the evidence are in the committee papers. 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban, having considered evidence on the nature of acute coronary syndrome and the value placed on the benefits of rivaroxaban by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The Committee discussed the clinical management of acute coronary syndrome in England. The Committee understood that treatment options for people with ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) include percutaneous coronary intervention followed by dual antiplatelet therapy, prasugrel in combination with aspirin (for people who have had percutaneous coronary intervention or in whom it is planned), ticagrelor in combination with low-dose aspirin, or clopidogrel in combination with low-dose aspirin. It also understood that people with non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) are offered treatments depending on their Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) or thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) score and that these include a range of options from aspirin alone to percutaneous coronary intervention, depending on the risk of future events. The Committee heard from the clinical experts that ticagrelor and prasugrel have potential advantages over clopidogrel because of their faster antiplatelet action, although they are associated with higher bleeding risk. The Committee also heard from the clinical experts that the use of clopidogrel in clinical practice was generally decreasing as uptake of the newer agents increased, but that there was variation in practice with different centres often having their own local protocols for the treatment of acute coronary syndrome. The Committee heard from the clinical experts that because of its different mechanism of action, rivaroxaban could be a useful additional treatment option for some patients receiving clopidogrel plus aspirin or aspirin alone, although it was not
