Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


that because of its different mechanism of action, rivaroxaban could be a useful additional treatment option for some patients receiving clopidogrel plus aspirin or aspirin alone, although it was not possible to identify a particular subgroup of patients for whom it would be most suitable. However, the clinical experts highlighted that there is some uncertainty as to when and how it would be best incorporated into the treatment pathway. They explained that the mean time to start rivaroxaban in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 was 4.6 days, but the majority of patients in England have been discharged from hospital by then. The clinical experts further explained that if rivaroxaban was started in secondary care this could result in patients staying in hospital longer, which would not happen if it was started in primary care. The Committee heard from its GP members that, after an acute coronary syndrome event, patients would usually be seen by their GP within 1 week of being discharged from hospital. The Committee considered that a discharge summary which is sent to the patient's GP at the time of discharge would give sufficient information for the GP to start treatment with rivaroxaban. The Committee recognised that rivaroxaban may be a useful additional treatment option for selected patients and noted that in the trial it was started between 1 to 7 days after acute coronary syndrome, but acknowledged that its introduction might have an effect on existing patient pathways. 4.3 The Committee discussed the clinical need for treatment in people with acute coronary syndrome. The Committee heard that the symptoms of acute coronary syndrome vary according to the type and severity of the disease. It was highlighted that common symptoms of acute coronary syndrome are chest pain, breathlessness and anxiety, and that the experience is painful and frightening. It was also highlighted that acute coronary syndrome may have a negative impact on the quality of life of the person and their family, as a result of worries over their future health and capability. The Committee heard from the patient expert about the importance of having timely diagnosis and effective treatments available for acute coronary syndrome. The Committee also heard that people were generally prepared to accept a certain risk of bleeding associated with antiplatelet therapy or anticoagulant treatment such as rivaroxaban if the treatment lowered their risk of further cardiovascular events sufficiently, but the patient expert stressed the need for
