Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


bleeding associated with antiplatelet therapy or anticoagulant treatment such as rivaroxaban if the treatment lowered their risk of further cardiovascular events sufficiently, but the patient expert stressed the need for efficient symptom management with regular reviews. The Committee acknowledged the impact on patients and families of the symptoms of acute coronary syndrome and the increased risk of further events that followed it. The Committee concluded that an additional treatment to reduce the risk of further cardiovascular events would be useful, but that the additional bleeding risk should be taken into account for any individual when considering starting treatment. Clinical effectiveness 4.4 The Committee considered the clinical-effectiveness data from the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial comparing rivaroxaban in combination with aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin alone against aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin alone. It noted that this formed the basis of the clinical-effectiveness evidence in the company's submission. The Committee considered that the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial was of good quality but noted that a key issue highlighted by the ERG was the generalisability of the results to people diagnosed with acute coronary syndrome in England. The Committee noted that people with acute coronary syndrome in clinical practice are usually older than those patients who were recruited to ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51. The Committee also noted that patients in the trial could be considered a relatively low-risk population because they had little comorbidity, lower than usual use of percutaneous coronary intervention and included a relatively small proportion of people aged over 75 years or with impaired renal function. The Committee heard from the clinical experts that the average age difference between the trial population and patients seen in clinical practice was not likely to be clinically significant and that patients recruited to ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 were similar in terms of baseline characteristics to those recruited to other trials in acute coronary syndrome. The Committee was persuaded that the issue of generalisability was similar across all trials in this condition, and concluded that the results of ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 were relevant to routine clinical practice. 4.5 The Committee considered the results of the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 trial. The Committee noted that the company had presented clinical-effectiveness results for the overall trial population and also for a post hoc subgroup analysis of patients with elevated cardiac biomarkers (STEMI and NSTEMI) and no history of a stroke or TIA (80% of the total trial population). The
