Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


for a post hoc subgroup analysis of patients with elevated cardiac biomarkers (STEMI and NSTEMI) and no history of a stroke or TIA (80% of the total trial population). The Committee was aware from the company that this post hoc subgroup analysis was carried out at the request of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The Committee noted that this post hoc subgroup analysis (referred to as the licensed population by the company) provided efficacy results that tended to be more favourable to rivaroxaban than the results from the overall trial population. However, it acknowledged that these differences were unlikely to be sufficiently large as to have an impact on the overall decision as to whether rivaroxaban was clinically and cost effective in its licensed indication. 4.6 The Committee discussed the numerical inconsistencies between the 2 dose groups in the trial (2.5 mg twice daily and 5 mg twice daily) for the individual components of the composite efficacy end point that had been identified by the ERG (see section 3.31). It was aware that for some individual outcomes the 2.5 mg twice-daily dose appeared to have a greater efficacy than the 5 mg twice-daily dose. The ERG considered that it was unlikely that the 2.5 mg twice-daily dose would be more clinically effective than 5 mg twice daily and suggested that the results from both doses combined were more plausible than those of the individual doses. The Committee heard from the company that the summary of product characteristics for rivaroxaban specified the 2.5 mg twice-daily dose and that the EMA had based its decision for this dose based on the balance of risk and benefits of the 2.5 mg twice-daily dose, compared with those of the 5 mg twice-daily dose. The Committee noted the lower bleeding risk associated with the 2.5 mg twice-daily dose compared with the 5 mg twice-daily dose. While it acknowledged that there were numerical inconsistencies in the efficacy results between the 2.5 mg and 5 mg twice-daily arms, it concluded that the efficacy data from the 2.5 mg twice-daily rivaroxaban arm were the most relevant for decision-making because it is the licensed dose of rivaroxaban for this indication. 4.7 The Committee discussed the high discontinuation rates from the trial (see section 3.10). The Committee was aware that 15.5% of the total randomised population prematurely discontinued from the trial and that the discontinuation rate was higher in ATLAS-ACS
