Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


the trial (see section 3.10). The Committee was aware that 15.5% of the total randomised population prematurely discontinued from the trial and that the discontinuation rate was higher in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 than in other similar randomised trials in patients with acute coronary syndrome. The Committee heard from the clinical experts that high discontinuation rates were common in trials in patients with acute coronary syndrome and that this is replicated in the adherence rates seen in clinical practice, because current treatment protocols mean that people who had acute coronary syndrome are already taking 5 separate medications. The clinical experts highlighted that clinicians are mindful of the effect on patient adherence of adding any additional treatments to those already prescribed. The Committee acknowledged that the discontinuation rates in ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 were high but that this was a concern for other trials carried out in people with acute coronary syndrome, and that it was also an issue that is seen in clinical practice. 4.8 The Committee discussed the missing data from people who withdrew or were lost from the trial (see section 3.10). The Committee was aware of the ERG's concerns that missing data may result in informative censoring (that is, patients who drop out, and whose data are therefore censored, have different outcomes to those who remain in the trial) leading to bias. The Committee was aware from the company that extensive efforts had been made to trace trial participants, to clarify reasons for withdrawal and to find out if they had died. The company stated that this had reduced the proportion of patients for whom vital status was unknown to 3.2% of people who had been recruited to the trial. The company explained that it had been unable to obtain the data for the remaining participants for whom vital status was unknown, because of restrictions imposed by the countries in which the people lived. The clinical experts acknowledged that this was a problem for many multinational trials in people with acute coronary syndrome but expressed their concern about the level of missing data, given the bleeding risks associated with rivaroxaban added to antiplatelet therapy. The Committee understood that the EMA's assessment report had not discussed this issue in detail but acknowledged the clinical experts' concerns regarding the missing data. The Committee concluded that the missing data from those who withdrew or were lost from the trial remained of concern,
