Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


but acknowledged the clinical experts' concerns regarding the missing data. The Committee concluded that the missing data from those who withdrew or were lost from the trial remained of concern, but the magnitude of any bias introduced by informative censoring was unknown. 4.9 The Committee considered the effectiveness of rivaroxaban in combination with aspirin plus clopidogrel or with aspirin alone, compared with aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin alone in the licensed population (that is, people with elevated cardiac biomarkers and without a history of stroke or TIA). The Committee noted that rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with aspirin plus clopidogrel or with aspirin alone reduced the composite risk of myocardial infarction, stroke and death from cardiovascular causes by 20% compared with aspirin plus clopidogrel or with aspirin alone (see table 2: ALL strata, 2.5 mg twice-daily rivaroxaban dose). The Committee understood that this composite reduction in risk was driven by reductions in cardiovascular death and myocardial infarction. The Committee concluded that rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with aspirin plus clopidogrel or with aspirin alone was more effective than aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin alone for preventing myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes in people with acute coronary syndrome and elevated cardiac biomarkers. 4.10 The Committee discussed the concerns about safety and adverse effects associated with rivaroxaban. The Committee was aware that the results for the licensed population showed that there was a dose-dependent increase in the rate of non-CABG TIMI major bleeds (major bleeding assessed using 'Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction' criteria not related to coronary-artery bypass grafting) for rivaroxaban added to antiplatelet therapy compared with antiplatelet therapy alone. It noted that in the 2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice-daily arm of the ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 study, there was a 3 times greater risk of non-CABG TIMI major bleeding with rivaroxaban in combination with aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin compared with these antiplatelet therapies alone. The Committee acknowledged that all antiplatelet and anticoagulant treatments have an associated risk of bleeding but noted the comments it had heard from the clinical and patient experts that the risk of bleeding was a key consideration when deciding on a particular treatment. The Committee was aware that no data had been presented by the company or other stakeholders comparing the risk of bleeding with rivaroxaban in combination with antiplatelet agents compared with other treatment regimens with antiplatelet agents such as ticagrelor and
