Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


by the company or other stakeholders comparing the risk of bleeding with rivaroxaban in combination with antiplatelet agents compared with other treatment regimens with antiplatelet agents such as ticagrelor and prasugrel, because these were not included in the final scope. The Committee was therefore unable to compare the effectiveness and safety profile of a treatment strategy in which rivaroxaban is added to clopidogrel and aspirin at least 24 hours after admission to hospital, with strategies in which ticagrelor and prasugrel are added to aspirin from the start of treatment. The Committee concluded that treatment with rivaroxaban resulted in more non-CABG-related major bleeding than aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin alone, but also recognised the particular importance of the effects of rivaroxaban in reducing the risk of myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes. The Committee also concluded that clinicians should undertake a careful assessment of whether the bleeding risk is outweighed by the benefits of rivaroxaban in preventing further ischaemic events for individual patients when deciding whether to start or continue treatment. The Committee noted that the summary of product characteristics states that treatment should be regularly evaluated and, in particular, that careful consideration should be given to whether treatment is continued beyond 12 months because experience of treatment with rivaroxaban up to 24 months is limited. Cost effectiveness 4.11 The Committee considered the company's economic model and the review and exploratory sensitivity analyses performed by the ERG. The Committee noted that the ICERs presented by the company in its base-case analysis and in the ERG's exploratory sensitivity analyses were all lower than £10,000 per QALY gained. The Committee was aware of the ERG's concerns about the structure of the company's economic model and, in particular, that the model is relatively inflexible. This meant that the ERG could not carry out all the exploratory analyses that it deemed potentially relevant. These included amendments to the hazard ratio for fatal bleeds and adjusting for the possibility of informative censoring. The Committee noted that, to explore its concerns about informative censoring, the ERG had undertaken a 'crude' exploratory analysis to explore the effects on the ICER of increasing the number of patients who experienced a fatal bleed with rivaroxaban. The Committee was aware that the analysis showed that even if rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily caused as many as 20 more fatal bleeds than observed in the trial, the estimated ICER remained below
