Rivaroxaban for preventing adverse outcomes after acute management of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: rivaroxaban, patients, treatment, aspirin, committee, coronary, trial, acute, company, acute coronary, erg, syndrome, coronary syndrome, events, population


that the analysis showed that even if rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily caused as many as 20 more fatal bleeds than observed in the trial, the estimated ICER remained below £10,000 per QALY gained. The Committee concluded that despite the inflexibility of the company's economic model and the resulting constraints on the ERG's ability to undertake further exploratory analyses, the ICERs presented were a suitable basis for decision-making on the cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban in addition to clopidogrel plus aspirin or with aspirin alone. 4.12 The Committee considered the ICER for the 2.5 mg dose of rivaroxaban in combination with aspirin plus clopidogrel or with aspirin alone, compared with aspirin plus clopidogrel or aspirin alone in patients with acute coronary syndrome with elevated cardiac biomarkers (STEMI or NSTEMI) and no history of stroke or TIA. The Committee noted that the company's base-case ICER was £6,203 per QALY gained, and the ERG's preferred base-case estimate was £5,622 per QALY gained. It accepted that there is uncertainty about the validity of the results based on ATLAS-ACS 2-TIMI 51 because of the risk of bias resulting from missing data and informative censoring. However, the Committee considered that the ICERs presented were all within the range that could be considered cost effective and that the results of the ERG's exploratory sensitivity and scenario analyses suggested that the ICER was unlikely to increase to the extent that it would become unacceptable. It concluded that rivaroxaban can be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.13 The Committee was aware that there is an increased risk of bleeding when rivaroxaban is added to aspirin or aspirin plus clopidogrel and it would be important for clinicians to carefully assess a person's individual bleeding risk and for patients to have an informed discussion with their clinician about the potential risks and benefits before starting treatment with rivaroxaban. The Committee noted that the summary of product characteristics states that after initiation, there should be regular assessment of the risks and benefits of continuing treatment with rivaroxaban and extension of treatment beyond 12 months should be done on an individual patient basis as experience up to 24 months is limited. The Committee concluded that it was appropriate that a formal assessment of whether to continue treatment should be made no later than 12 months after starting rivaroxaban. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care
