1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


use that assess coronary stenosis and it is not clear what clinical benefits QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR offer over these. Therefore, QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR are not recommended for use in the NHS, and further research is recommended. 2 The diagnostic tests Clinical need and practice 2.1 Angina is chest pain caused by insufficient blood supply to the heart (myocardial ischaemia). Stable angina is brought on by physical activity or emotional stress and goes away with rest. It is the key symptom of coronary artery disease, which is one of the main causes of morbidity and mortality in economically developed countries. 2.2 Options for managing stable angina include lifestyle advice, drug treatment and revascularisation using percutaneous (stent placement during percutaneous coronary intervention) or surgical techniques (such as coronary artery bypass surgery). Choosing the appropriate management option relies on correctly detecting and characterising coronary stenosis. Therefore, the diagnostic pathway for stable angina: • confirms a diagnosis of stable angina • defines the severity of coronary stenosis, which provides prognostic information and identifies people who are likely to benefit from myocardial revascularisation, in addition to optimal medical therapy. 2.3 The NICE guideline on assessment and diagnosis of chest pain of recent onset recommends diagnostic testing for people in whom stable angina cannot be excluded by clinical assessment alone. It recommends offering 64-slice (or above) CT coronary angiography as the first-line diagnostic test when: • clinical assessment indicates typical or atypical angina or • clinical assessment indicates non-anginal chest pain but 12-lead resting ECG has been done and indicates ST-T changes or Q waves. 2.4 For people in whom 64-slice (or above) CT coronary angiography has shown coronary artery disease of uncertain functional significance, or is non-diagnostic, the guideline recommends offering non-invasive functional imaging for myocardial ischaemia. This could be: • myocardial perfusion scintigraphy with single-photon emission CT (MPS with SPECT) or • stress echocardiography or • first-pass contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion or • MR imaging for stress-induced wall motion abnormalities. 2.5 If the results of non-invasive functional imaging are inconclusive, invasive coronary angiography is recommended. Invasive coronary angiography shows whether the arteries are blocked or narrowed, and the degree of stenosis. It is usually used as a third-line investigation for stable angina or during the initial stages of percutaneous coronary intervention. However, it is difficult to differentiate between functionally significant and non-significant (not substantially affecting blood supply) coronary stenosis
