1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


for stable angina or during the initial stages of percutaneous coronary intervention. However, it is difficult to differentiate between functionally significant and non-significant (not substantially affecting blood supply) coronary stenosis using visual assessment of invasive coronary angiograms. 2.6 If it is necessary to more accurately understand the functional significance of a stenosis, fractional flow reserve (FFR) or instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) measurements can be done during invasive coronary angiography. These invasive techniques use a pressure wire with or without a vasodilator drug, such as adenosine, and can only be done in interventional catheter laboratories. 2.7 QAngio XA 3D quantitative flow ratio (QAngio QFR) and CAAS vessel FFR (CAAS vFFR) are analytical software that can be used during invasive coronary angiography to assess the functional significance of coronary stenosis. By avoiding unnecessary invasive measurement of FFR or iFR, these technologies could help avoid the risks associated with passing the pressure wire to the coronary arteries, and with adenosine infusion. The interventions 2.8 Both tests included in the assessment are CE marked and available to the NHS. CAAS vFFR 2.9 The CAAS vFFR software (Pie Medical Imaging) works by building a 3D reconstruction of a coronary artery as well as assessing the pressure drop across the stenosis and calculating a vFFR value. Therefore, it gives both anatomical and functional assessments of the stenosis. It uses 2 standard X-ray angiograms, and is compatible with most X-ray systems (that is, it is vendor independent). The company claims that the total analysis time is about 2 minutes per coronary artery. Thresholds for interpretation of vFFR are not provided in the instructions for use document. QAngio XA 3D QFR 2.10 The QAngio software (Medis Medical Imaging) uses X-ray angiographic images taken during invasive coronary angiography. Two images are needed, which have to be taken with at least 25 degrees difference in viewing angle and with a frame speed of at least 12.5 frames per second. High image quality is crucial for appropriate results. The QAngio software creates a 3D anatomical model of a coronary artery from these 2 images, and then estimates QFR from the 3D vessel anatomy and flow velocity. The company claims that the total analysis time is about 4 to 5 minutes per coronary artery. The analysis time may decrease with routine use of the software. The QFR represents an assessment of the pressure drop over the artery, with a value of 1
