1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


coronary artery. The analysis time may decrease with routine use of the software. The QFR represents an assessment of the pressure drop over the artery, with a value of 1 representing a normally functioning artery with no pressure drop. A 20% or more drop in blood pressure (QFR value of 0.80 or less) is usually considered a significant obstruction, where revascularisation should be considered. 2.11 The QAngio software offers 2 different flow models to calculate QFR: • fixed-flow QFR (fQFR), using fixed-flow velocity and • contrast QFR (cQFR), using contrast frame count in an angiogram without hyperaemia. Fixed-flow QFR is faster to compute, but may be less accurate than contrast QFR. The comparator 2.12 The comparator is clinical decision making based on the visual interpretation of the images from invasive coronary angiography, alongside clinical judgement. The reference standard for assessing diagnostic accuracy is FFR or iFR. 3 Evidence The diagnostics advisory committee considered evidence on QAngio XA 3D quantitative flow ratio (QAngio QFR) and CAAS vessel fractional flow reserve (CAAS vFFR) for assessing coronary stenosis during invasive coronary angiography from several sources. Full details are in the project documents for this guidance. Clinical effectiveness 3.1 The external assessment group (EAG) identified 41 unique studies that met the selection criteria for inclusion in the review. Of the included studies, 39 evaluated QAngio QFR, 3 evaluated CAAS vFFR and only 1 study directly compared QAngio QFR with CAAS vFFR. There were 2 studies that did not report diagnostic accuracy data but included other eligible outcomes. Seventeen of the studies were conference abstracts only, 15 of which were included in the diagnostic accuracy review. 3.2 Fifteen of the studies were done in multiple centres. Most studies were done in Asia, including 33 with sites in Japan, 5 in China, 4 in South Korea and 1 site in Singapore. A total of 22 studies had sites in Europe, 3 of which were in the UK. Two of the studies had sites in the US and 2 separate single studies had sites in Brazil and Australia. 3.3 Of the 22 QAngio QFR studies, 11 were at low risk of bias. The main source of bias was related to patient selection. The EAG also noted concerns that a high number of studies had been done retrospectively (offline use of QAngio QFR) rather than as part of invasive coronary angiography and before FFR. 3.4 Of the CAAS
