1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


rates for QAngio QFR were higher overall in retrospective studies (median 28%, range 6% to 92%) compared with prospective studies (median 17%, range 7% to 52%). This may be partly explained by the fact that invasive coronary angiography images in retrospective studies were less likely to have been collected following manufacturer instructions. 3.23 There were only 2 retrospective CAAS vFFR studies that reported exclusion rates, and these were both high at 63% and 65%. In both studies most exclusions were because of angiographic image processing issues such as lack of suitable projections or poor image quality (rather than directly because of CAAS vFFR). Variability 3.24 There were 8 studies that reported outcomes data on reproducibility of QAngio QFR readings between 2 different analysts (inter-observer variability). QAngio QFR was found to have a moderate to high level of inter-observer reliability. In 2 studies, CAAS vFFR was also found to have a high level of inter-observer reliability. 3.25 There were 8 retrospective studies that reported outcomes data on intra- observer reproducibility of QAngio QFR readings. The time gap between initial and repeated measurements was reported in 4 studies and ranged from 3 days to 2 weeks. Most studies reported a high level of intra-observer reliability for QAngio QFR. One study evaluated both QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR and found high levels of repeatability and no statistically significant changes between repeated tests. Timing 3.26 There were 6 studies of QAngio QFR that reported the time needed to complete QFR analysis. Time to QFR data acquisition ranged from an average of 2 minutes and 7 seconds to 10 minutes (standard deviation 3 minutes). One study of 268 patients reported that time to image acquisition significantly decreased with the number of invasive coronary angiographies analysed, from 5 minutes and 59 seconds to 2 minutes and 7 seconds between the first and last 50 patients. Morbidity, mortality and major adverse events 3.27 There were 3 cohort studies that reported mortality or major clinical outcomes in eligible patients with QAngio QFR measurements. All found that a clinically significant QAngio QFR predicted a higher incidence of long-term major cardiovascular adverse events. No data were reported for CAAS vFFR. Subsequent use of invasive pressure-wire FFR 3.28 Five studies included in the diagnostic accuracy review retrospectively derived a grey-zone strategy based on their diagnostic accuracy results to model a potential reduction in adenosine and FFR use. These results are summarised
