1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


is between 0.78 and 0.84, do FFR and revascularise if FFR is 0.80 or less. 3.32 If using the FFR only strategy 40.2% of people would have revascularisation. Using the QAngio QFR only strategy 42.0% would have revascularisation, and using the grey-zone strategy 43.2% would have revascularisation. Using QAngio QFR therefore moderately increased the revascularisation rate, and using it with a grey zone increased it further. 3.33 These simulations suggest that using FFR may prevent slightly more major adverse cardiovascular events, at around 1 event per 1,000 people, but the overlap in simulated distributions means it is highly uncertain whether the difference is genuine. By contrast, the simulation suggests that QAngio QFR increases the number of revascularisations done, without substantially improving the number of major adverse cardiovascular events prevented. Overall these simulations suggested that there was little conclusive clinical difference between using QAngio QFR and FFR to make revascularisation decisions. Cost effectiveness Systematic review of cost-effectiveness evidence 3.34 The EAG did a search to identify studies investigating the cost effectiveness of using QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR imaging software to assess the functional significance of coronary stenosis during invasive coronary angiography. No studies were found so a review of published cost-effectiveness studies evaluating invasive coronary angiography (alone or with FFR) in managing coronary artery disease was done. The EAG identified 21 relevant studies and of these, 2 models (Walker et al. 2011 and Genders et al. 2015) were good examples of alternative ways to evaluate diagnostic strategies in patients with suspected stable angina. 3.35 For the economic analysis, the following 5 diagnostic strategies were considered: • invasive coronary angiography alone (strategy 1) • invasive coronary angiography followed by confirmatory FFR or instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR; reference standard, strategy 2) • invasive coronary angiography with QAngio QFR (strategy 3) • invasive coronary angiography with QAngio QFR, followed by confirmatory FFR or iFR if QFR is inconclusive (strategy 4) • invasive coronary angiography with CAAS vFFR (strategy 5). Economic model 3.36 The EAG developed a de novo economic model. It was designed to estimate the cost effectiveness of using QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR during invasive coronary angiography to assess the functional significance of coronary stenosis in people with stable angina whose angiograms showed intermediate stenosis. The model had 2 parts, a diagnostic model and a prognostic model. The diagnostic model was used to link the diagnostic accuracy of QAngio QFR and
