1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


ratios were 1.06 (95% CI 0.99 to 1.13), 1.09 (95% CI 1.05 to 1.14), 1.07 (95% CI 1.06 to 1.09) per 0.01 decrease in FFR for cardiac death, myocardial infarction, and unplanned or urgent revascularisation, respectively. 3.44 The treatment effect of revascularisation on major adverse cardiovascular events in people with stable coronary artery disease is highly uncertain. The ISCHEMIA trial, a randomised, parallel, open-label clinical trial comparing revascularisation with optimal medical therapy, did not find evidence that revascularisation reduced the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. Therefore, in the base- case analysis, the diagnostic tests did not benefit major adverse cardiovascular events outcomes. Scenario analyses were done to explore the effect of this assumption. Health-related quality of life 3.45 By identifying the appropriateness for revascularisation, the tests can have health benefits through greater symptom relief and, therefore, higher health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Because the base-case analysis assumed that there was no treatment effect of revascularisation on major adverse cardiovascular events, the improvement in symptom relief was the only benefit. The HRQoL effects of revascularisation were based on the FAME trials. Both were randomised, parallel, open-label clinical trials. FAME I compared invasive coronary angiography with FFR for guiding percutaneous coronary interventions in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. FAME II compared clinical outcomes, safety and cost effectiveness of FFR-guided percutaneous coronary intervention with optimal medical treatment alone in patients with stable coronary artery disease. These trials showed that HRQoL improved significantly from baseline after percutaneous coronary intervention. 3.46 In the diagnostic model a one-off procedural disutility was applied for people having invasive FFR or iFR and for those who had revascularisation. In the prognostic model, a one-off utility decrement was also applied for people who had a non-fatal myocardial infarction or needed an unplanned revascularisation. A separate utility decrement was applied to the post-myocardial infarction health state, to reflect a decrease in HRQoL for those with a history of myocardial infarction. 3.47 The base-case analysis made an assumption that the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) loss applied for FFR or iFR was representative of both types of pressure wire procedures. The QALY loss estimates associated with each procedure in the diagnostic model are summarised in table 7. Table 7 QALY loss associated with testing and revascularisation procedures Mean QALY loss (95% confidence Procedure Source interval) ICA 0 Assumed to cancel across strategies FFR/ 0.0056 (0.0051 to Assumed the same as for
