1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


with CAAS vFFR 11.076 £5,119 10.820 0.016 3 0.204 NHB and INHB are measured at a maximum acceptable ICER of £20,000 per QALY gained. Incremental NHB is relative to ICA alone. Abbreviations: ICA, invasive coronary angiography; FFR, fractional flow reserve; QFR, quantitative flow ratio; vFFR, vessel FFR; QALY, quality-adjusted life year; NHB, net health benefit; INHB, incremental NHB. 3.52 Strategy 2 (invasive coronary angiography with FFR) had the highest net health benefit and the highest probability of being cost effective, although the differences between all the strategies were small. Strategy 1 (invasive coronary angiography alone) was the cheapest and had the lowest QALY gain, while strategy 5 (invasive coronary angiography with vFFR) was the most expensive and had the highest QALY gain. Analysis of alternative scenarios 3.53 Results from the scenario analyses showed that the base-case results were generally robust when alterations were made to the sources of data used in the model and when different assumptions were made. However, sometimes these alterations resulted in significant changes to the net health benefit rankings of the different strategies. 3.54 In the base case, the diagnostic accuracy estimates for vFFR were based on the FAST EXTEND study (sensitivity 97.0% and specificity 74.0%), the largest study of vFFR (330 patients). Using accuracy estimates from ILUMIEN I reduced the cost effectiveness of vFFR, but estimates from Jin et al. (2019) increased it. This resulted in vFFR being the second most cost-effective strategy. This highlighted the substantial uncertainty surrounding the cost effectiveness of vFFR in strategy 5. 3.55 When QAngio QFR was considered to have the same diagnostic accuracy as FFR (that is, 100% sensitivity and specificity), the total QALYs and costs for strategy 3 increased by 0.017 QALYs and £6 per person from the base-case scenario. In this scenario strategy 3 became cost effective with the highest net health benefit, largely because of greater total QALYs gained for strategy 3 compared with strategy 2. This difference was mainly because of the procedural disutility associated with FFR or iFR. 3.56 When the procedural disutility of FFR was more than that used in the base case, the net health benefit of strategies 2 and 4 were affected most. The total QALYs for both strategies were reduced, resulting in strategy 2 becoming the second least cost effective and strategy 3 the most cost effective. An FFR disutility of 0.014 QALYs resulted in an equal net health benefit
