1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


resulting in strategy 2 becoming the second least cost effective and strategy 3 the most cost effective. An FFR disutility of 0.014 QALYs resulted in an equal net health benefit for strategies 2 and 3. This procedural disutility was 2.5 times greater than that associated with percutaneous coronary intervention, but less than half the disutility associated with coronary artery bypass graft. 3.57 In terms of how duration of HRQoL affected cost effectiveness, the benefits need to last for at least 7 years to offset the disutility associated with FFR or iFR in the base case for strategy 2 to remain more cost effective than strategy 3. 3.58 The benefits of revascularisation, in terms of improved HRQoL, suggested that the sensitivity of test results was a more important driver of cost effectiveness than specificity. This was because true positive test results translated into higher QALY gains than mismanagement of false negative test results. 3.59 In a diagnostic-only setting, the large additional costs of repeating diagnostic catheterisation at a subsequent appointment in an interventional centre for strategies involving measuring FFR or iFR (strategies 2 and 4) meant that strategies without this testing component were more cost effective. Strategy 3 (QAngio QFR alone) became the strategy with the highest net benefit, followed by strategy 5 (CAAS vFFR alone). 4 Committee discussion Clinical need FFR and iFR are not frequently used so QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR may help with decision making during invasive coronary angiography 4.1 Clinical experts explained that in general, physiological testing using fractional flow reserve (FFR) and instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) is available but not frequently used in the UK. People typically have an invasive coronary angiography after a previous functional test (see section 2.4). Sometimes decisions about revascularisation are based on the images from the invasive coronary angiography, results of the previous tests and patient history. If the revascularisation decision is still uncertain after invasive coronary angiography, people may be referred for FFR or iFR. Using QAngio XA 3D quantitative flow ratio (QAngio QFR) and CAAS vessel FFR (CAAS vFFR) during invasive coronary angiography may provide more information to help with decision making. It could also mean that in some cases clinical decisions could be made without needing FFR. Less invasive tests may benefit patients and carers by reducing anxiety, unpleasant side effects and risk of complications 4.2 A patient expert explained the potential benefits of testing using QAngio
