1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


Less invasive tests may benefit patients and carers by reducing anxiety, unpleasant side effects and risk of complications 4.2 A patient expert explained the potential benefits of testing using QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR. These included reduced anxiety, discomfort and distress than more invasive testing, which may be needed if a definitive treatment decision cannot be made during the initial invasive coronary angiography. Using an invasive test like FFR with a pressure wire means using an adenosine infusion. The committee noted that around 30% of people may experience chest pain and shortness of breath from this. These side effects usually pass quickly but can be distressing. Around 3% of people may experience discomfort from the pressure wire itself and there is a small risk of rupture of the blood vessel. By avoiding adenosine infusion and a pressure wire, QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR could reduce unpleasant side effects and risk of complications. Clinical effectiveness The diagnostic accuracy evidence for CAAS vFFR is highly uncertain 4.3 The committee noted that there were only 3 studies using CAAS vFFR that matched the inclusion criteria for review in the diagnostics assessment report. These included 500 patients. The external assessment group (EAG) explained that there was notable heterogeneity across this small number of studies and that the meta-analyses of the CAAS vFFR studies should be interpreted with caution. Where reported, there was a high exclusion rate because of angiographic image processing issues. In 2 of the studies, the technology was not used in the way it was intended (ILUMIEN I and Jin et al. 2019). The committee concluded that the diagnostic accuracy of CAAS vFFR was highly uncertain and recommended further research (see research recommendation 5.4). The diagnostic accuracy of QAngio QFR appears to be similar to FFR 4.4 The committee noted that 39 studies using QAngio QFR matched the inclusion criteria for the review in the diagnostics assessment report. These included 5,440 patients. These studies showed that QAngio QFR had good diagnostic accuracy to predict the FFR result. The clinical experts explained that there was good agreement between QFR and FFR values particularly at the extremes of measurement. While there was some disagreement between QFR and FFR results within the grey zone, (in the range of 0.78 to 0.84), the clinical experts noted that there is likely to be a limited clinical effect of not identifying someone with an FFR of between 0.76
