1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


the range of 0.78 to 0.84), the clinical experts noted that there is likely to be a limited clinical effect of not identifying someone with an FFR of between 0.76 and 0.80, that is, a false negative result. A more significant effect could occur for people with an FFR result of less than 0.76 who have a negative result on QAngio QFR (0.80 or higher). The EAG noted that modelling suggested around 3% of people with an FFR result of less than 0.76 would be misdiagnosed if using QFR for functional imaging. Clinical experts also explained that with FFR values close to the 0.80 cut-off, it is unclear whether there is any added benefit of revascularisation compared to optimal medical therapy. The committee concluded that there was good agreement between QAngio QFR and FFR values. Although there was some uncertainty around the grey zone, this was not a particular concern. Technical failure rates in diagnostic-only centres may be higher because of lower quality angiography images 4.5 In the UK, invasive coronary angiography is usually done in diagnostic-only catheter laboratories or in interventional catheter laboratories that can also do percutaneous coronary intervention in the same procedure. Clinical experts explained that the quality of angiography images from diagnostic-only centres was generally lower than those from interventional centres. This is because in the diagnostic centre, invasive coronary angiography is done so the information can be used to guide decisions about what further testing and treatment might be needed. In the interventional centre, invasive coronary angiography is often done to help plan percutaneous coronary intervention. Clinical experts noted that QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR need high-quality angiography images so in diagnostic centres the tests may have a high technical failure rate. The committee concluded that because all the data considered were from interventional centres, it was not certain what the technical failure rate would be in diagnostic-only centres. It is unclear how clinical history and symptoms affect clinical decisions based on QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR results 4.6 The NICE guideline on assessment and diagnosis of chest pain of recent onset recommends invasive coronary angiography as a third-line test. People who have invasive coronary angiography should have already had a previous assessment such as 64-slice coronary angiography and non-invasive functional imaging tests, but this may vary between centres. Some people may also have HeartFlow FFRCT which is recommended in the NICE medical technologies guidance
