1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


64-slice coronary angiography and non-invasive functional imaging tests, but this may vary between centres. Some people may also have HeartFlow FFRCT which is recommended in the NICE medical technologies guidance on HeartFlow FFRCT for estimating FFR from coronary CT angiography. The clinical experts explained that these previous assessments can rule out the need for interventional treatment. Therefore, it is likely that people who do go on to have invasive coronary angiography have more severe disease than the people in the diagnostic accuracy studies. While the previous functional assessments may be used to guide further testing decisions such as whether to do an FFR, the QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR results would be used to guide high-level treatment decisions with substantial consequences. Therefore, clinicians need to be confident that making a decision based on the results of these tests would lead to improved outcomes for patients. The committee commented that the diagnostic accuracy studies did not incorporate clinical history and the effect that symptoms had on decision making based on the QAngio QFR result. Therefore, it is unclear how this additional information combined with a QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR result affects clinical decision making about revascularisation. QAngio QFR may slightly increase revascularisation rates compared with FFR but this is uncertain 4.7 The EAG did a simulation study analysis to investigate the possible effect of using QAngio QFR compared with invasive coronary angiography and FFR on coronary outcomes such as revascularisation rates and major adverse cardiovascular events. QAngio QFR (with or without a grey zone) led to slightly more revascularisations compared with FFR (40.2% revascularisations using FFR compared with 42.0% for QAngio QFR and 43.2% using the grey-zone strategy). Both methods prevented broadly the same number of major adverse cardiovascular events (FFR may prevent more major adverse cardiovascular events but only for 1 in 1,000 people). However, the committee noted that the simulation study made numerous assumptions, so its results were uncertain. Clinical outcome data from large endpoint studies for QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR are needed 4.8 The clinical experts noted the lack of prospective outcome data when a QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR-based approach was used to guide revascularisation decisions after invasive coronary angiography. The clinical experts explained that there was a need for clinical outcome data from large endpoint studies comparing these imaging software with FFR or invasive coronary angiography-guided treatment. There are already multiple tests in the
