1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


there was a need for clinical outcome data from large endpoint studies comparing these imaging software with FFR or invasive coronary angiography-guided treatment. There are already multiple tests in the care pathway, and it was unclear how QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR could offer additional clinical benefit. There are currently 2 ongoing clinical trials of QAngio QFR. The FAVOR III Europe- Japan study will compare QFR with standard FFR-guided percutaneous coronary intervention, and the FAVOR III China study will compare QFR with angiography-alone guided percutaneous coronary intervention. These trials will be completed in December 2023 and February 2023, respectively. There is 1 ongoing trial of CAAS vFFR. The LIPSIA STRATEGY trial will compare vFFR with FFR for the assessment of intermediate coronary stenosis and is due to be completed in November 2026. The committee concluded that data from trials like these are essential to be confident that revascularisation decisions based on QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR results would improve patient outcomes (see research recommendation 5.3). Cost effectiveness The disutility associated with FFR or iFR used in the model may not be appropriate 4.9 In the model the procedural disutility for FFR was assumed to be the same as for percutaneous coronary intervention. This was because no data were available on the disutility of FFR. The clinical experts explained that this assumption may not accurately reflect the actual side effects or people's experiences of the procedure. The EAG also looked at different scenario analyses where the disutility of FFR was increased. The committee commented that a disutility equivalent to percutaneous coronary intervention was likely too high. This affected the cost effectiveness of FFR more than might be expected in clinical practice. It noted further that there were important differences between FFR and iFR that were considered the same in the model. Because iFR does not need a hyperaemic agent such as adenosine, it avoids the associated unpleasant side effects. This disutility was a key driver of the cost-effectiveness results, but because of a lack of evidence it was uncertain what disutility should be used. The committee recommended further research into the disutility associated with FFR (see research recommendation 5.1). Test costs may not be accurate because test failure rates are not adequately captured in the model 4.10 Test failure rates were high in the studies, especially the retrospective ones, because the invasive coronary angiography images were not good enough to run
