1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


adequately captured in the model 4.10 Test failure rates were high in the studies, especially the retrospective ones, because the invasive coronary angiography images were not good enough to run QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR. The committee noted that in clinical practice some images may not be of a sufficient quality for the software programs to produce a result. Therefore, the cost per test may have been underestimated because test failure rates were not factored into the model. Only people who had a QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR result were included. The EAG did a scenario analysis in which patient throughput was varied, which affected the cost per test. However, the committee noted that this may not have explored a wide enough range to sufficiently capture this effect. It suggested that failure rates in routine clinical practice would be reduced over time as the operator gained experience in using the system. However, the clinical experts explained that this may be dependent on the setting, with sub-optimal angiography images more likely in diagnostic- only centres (see section 4.5). The committee concluded that further research on QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR failure rates in clinical practice would be beneficial (see research recommendation 5.2). QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR are more cost effective than invasive coronary angiography alone, but the results are uncertain 4.11 In the base case QAngio QFR was within the range NICE considers cost effective compared with invasive coronary angiography alone in both the deterministic and probabilistic analyses. However, the clinical experts commented that the strategy of invasive coronary angiography alone was not representative of clinical practice, where the results of previous tests and people's preferences would also influence a treatment decision (see section 4.6). The committee noted that similar results were seen for CAAS vFFR but concluded that there was greater uncertainty in this result because of the lack of diagnostic accuracy evidence. More data are needed because the clinical utility and cost effectiveness of QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR are uncertain 4.12 Compared with the reference standard of FFR or iFR, QAngio QFR (with and without a grey zone) and CAAS vFFR were less cost effective (generated less quality-adjusted life years [QALYs] but were slightly cheaper) in the base-case analysis. However, the committee noted that a review of the accuracy of FFR or iFR was not done by the EAG and they were assumed in the model to
