1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


base-case analysis. However, the committee noted that a review of the accuracy of FFR or iFR was not done by the EAG and they were assumed in the model to be 100% accurate. It also noted that the difference between the new technologies and the reference standard was small at 0.007 QALYs or £140 per person for QAngio QFR and 0.011 QALYs or £220 per person for CAAS vFFR. Following an update to the price structure of QAngio QFR by the company during consultation, QAngio QFR using an annual licence became slightly cheaper but remained less clinically effective than the reference standard of FFR or iFR. However, given the small difference in costs and outcomes, the committee reiterated the need for clinical outcome data from studies that directly compare QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR with FFR or iFR (see research recommendation 5.3). These data would give clinicians confidence in their decision making based on the results of the tests. The committee concluded that given the uncertainty in clinical utility the cost- effectiveness results were also uncertain. The potential role of QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR in a diagnostic- only setting is unclear 4.13 In a scenario analysis in which the tests were done in a diagnostic-only setting, QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR became the most cost-effective options in the fully incremental analyses. This was because of the additional cost of onward referral for the reference standard tests. However, clinical experts explained that fewer people are having invasive coronary angiography because it is recommended as a third-line test in the NICE guideline on assessment and diagnosis of chest pain of recent onset (see section 4.6). The appropriate use of CT coronary angiography and functional testing has resulted in a fall in the number of people having invasive coronary angiography in diagnostic-only centres. Having an angiographic procedure in an interventional centre means that invasive coronary angiography, FFR or iFR and percutaneous coronary intervention can be done in a single visit, if appropriate. This reduces the need for multiple hospital visits, which has the potential to reduce people's anxiety. A clinical expert explained that according to 2017 to 2018 data from the National Institute of Cardiovascular Outcomes Research, around 35,000 invasive coronary angiography procedures were done in diagnostic-only settings, compared with around 205,000 in interventional centres. The committee concluded that the future role of QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR in a diagnostic-only setting
