1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: qfr, qangio, qangio qfr, ffr, coronary, vffr, caas, caas vffr, invasive, studies, angiography, diagnostic, coronary angiography, invasive coronary, clinical


procedures were done in diagnostic-only settings, compared with around 205,000 in interventional centres. The committee concluded that the future role of QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR in a diagnostic-only setting is unclear because diagnostic- only catheter laboratories are likely to decline in number. QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR are not recommended for routine use 4.14 The committee noted that QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR were more cost effective than invasive coronary angiography alone. QAngio QFR using the proposed annual licence was slightly cheaper but less clinically effective than FFR or iFR. However, the incremental difference in terms of costs and QALYs between the tests was small. For CAAS vFFR, the committee recalled that the diagnostic accuracy data was highly uncertain so it could not be recommended for routine use. The committee noted further that there were no clinical outcome studies for QAngio QFR or CAAS vFFR, which meant that the EAG had to make assumptions about treatment decisions and clinical outcomes, which led to uncertainty in the results. The clinical experts commented that these tests may be used to guide high-level clinical decisions about treatment, so clinicians need to be confident when making decisions based on the tests' results. The committee considered that clinical utility is uncertain and more data are needed. There were concerns around the results of the simulation study that showed that QAngio QFR could lead to an increase in revascularisations (see section 4.7). The committee also recalled the trend in clinical practice of moving away from diagnostic-only settings to interventional centres (see section 4.13) and considered that there was too much uncertainty to consider QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR in this scenario. The committee concluded that because of the uncertainty in diagnostic accuracy and clinical evidence, CAAS vFFR was not recommended. Despite having good diagnostic accuracy evidence, QAngio QFR should not be recommended for use until further data showing that it improves patient outcomes are available. 5 Recommendations for further research 5.1 A patient experience study is recommended to better understand the general effect on patients of having an invasive coronary angiography and the range and severity of side effects and complications from QAngio XA 3D quantitative flow ratio (QAngio QFR), CAAS vessel fractional flow reserve (CAAS vFFR), FFR and instantaneous wave-free ratio. 5.2 Further research is recommended on test failure rates of QAngio QFR and CAAS vFFR and how these affect clinical decision making for
