ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Elevated Blood Pressure and Hypertension:
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, heart, blood pressure, healthcare, hypertension, medication, help, health, high, taking, salt, lower, medications, healthy


What are the risks of high blood pressure? Many people do not notice or feel unwell when their BP is high, so it is important to be aware of the serious health risks that may occur if your BP is not kept under control. Untreated high BP can damage arteries, causing them to become stiff or narrow. Fatty material can build up in damaged arteries to the heart and brain, which may trigger a cardiovascular event, such as a heart attack or stroke. In addition, hypertension may contribute to heart failure and may damage other organs, including the brain, eyes and kidneys. High BP can also cause complications during pregnancy. Cardiovascular Brain impairments disease Heart Eye damage failure Kidney Pregnancy problems complications How is blood pressure measured? BP is reported as two numbers: systolic pressure is measured when the heart is contracting and diastolic pressure is measured when the heart is relaxing. The units for BP measurements are ‘millimetres of mercury’ or ‘mmHg’. Systolic pressure (top number) Measures the pressure when your heart contracts and pumps blood Diastolic pressure (bottom number) Measures the pressure when your heart relaxes between beats Keeping your BP in a healthy range is important to protect your blood vessels, heart and other organs. Normal BP is considered to be less than 120/70 mmHg. It is recommended that everyone under 40 years of age should have their BP measured every 3 years. People over 40 years should have theirs checked every year. How is high blood pressure (hypertension) diagnosed? BP that is consistently 140/90 mmHg or higher is termed ‘hypertension.’ Diagnosing hypertension can be achieved in different settings using different techniques to measure BP accurately. It sometimes requires multiple BP checks to confirm a diagnosis. BP may be checked at the doctor’s office during a visit to your healthcare professional. If needed, healthcare professionals may arrange for ambulatory BP monitoring (or ‘ABPM’), where BP is checked over a 24-hour period using a special device. You may also be asked to carry out ‘home BP monitoring’ (or ‘HBPM’) using a BP monitor. You should check your BP by taking at least two recordings in the morning and in the evening, over several days. Your healthcare team will work out your average BP reading. Home BP monitoring Use a validated BP monitor Measure BP in a quiet room Obtain two readings after 5 mins of rest with arm
