ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Elevated Blood Pressure and Hypertension:
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, heart, blood pressure, healthcare, hypertension, medication, help, health, high, taking, salt, lower, medications, healthy


work out your average BP reading. Home BP monitoring Use a validated BP monitor Measure BP in a quiet room Obtain two readings after 5 mins of rest with arm on each occasion, and back supported 1-2 mins apart Obtain readings morning Record your readings and evening for at least 3 and show them to your and ideally 7 days healthcare team Healthcare providers decide whether you have normal BP, elevated BP or hypertension, depending on your BP measurements and where they were taken: BP measured at the doctor’s office (mmHg) BP measured at home (mmHg) Not elevated Less than 120/70 Less than 120/70 Elevated More than 120/70 but less than 140/90 More than 120/70 but less than 135/85 Hypertension Equal to or more than 140/90 Equal to or more than 135/85 If you have not done so already, it is important to seek medical advice if your BP is consistently higher than 120/70 mmHg to discuss treatment strategies. Elevated BP: If your BP is between 120/70 and 140/90 mmHg, lifestyle changes are recommended. Improving your diet and increasing physical activity can significantly lower your BP and prevent it from rising further. In some individuals with elevated BP, such as those with other health conditions, BP-lowering medication may also be recommended. High BP (hypertension): If you have confirmed BP measurements of 140/90 mmHg or more, you will need to take BP-lowering medication in addition to adopting a healthy lifestyle. Individuals with hypertension often have other factors that may increase the risk of serious health conditions. The healthcare team may test blood and urine samples to measure blood sugar, cholesterol and kidney function. An electrocardiogram may be ordered to check the heart’s rhythm. If you know you have conditions like diabetes, high cholesterol, heart disease or kidney problems, you should tell your healthcare professional. Key actions to control your blood pressure Actively managing your own BP is very important. Here, you can learn about the different ways to control your own BP so you can take action. Regular monitoring Tracking your BP consistently is extremely helpful and recommended. Regular monitoring helps you understand the trends of your BP over time and identify factors that may affect your BP. This is important information to share with your healthcare provider. • Measure your blood pressure weekly • Observe any changes or trends • Speak to your healthcare team to discuss adjustments to your
