ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Elevated Blood Pressure and Hypertension:
KEYWORDS: blood, pressure, heart, blood pressure, healthcare, hypertension, medication, help, health, high, taking, salt, lower, medications, healthy


with heart disease Mineralocorticoid receptor Help your body to get rid of salt while keeping These drugs are useful antagonists potassium in difficult-to-control BP (e.g., spironolactone, eplerenone) Skills for taking pills Treatment adherence means taking your medication as agreed with your healthcare provider. Adherence is essential for your medication to work properly. You can establish good medication-taking habits by following the PILLS strategy: Prompt: Place the medications or a reminder somewhere visible in your home. This can act as a trigger to take them each day. Audible prompts such as phone alarms or text reminders can help. Include others: Family members or friends may be able to remind you to take your medications or support you to have access to an adequate supply of medications at all times. Link it to events: Taking medications at the same time as regular daily events that happen in your usual context can help strengthen the habit e.g. on waking, going to bed or around meal times. Let your doctor or pharmacist know if you are having trouble with your medication: Your doctor or pharmacist may be able to make things easier by consolidating your medications, particularly if you are taking several medications e.g. using combination medications, deprescribing some medications or providing them in reminder packaging. Self-monitoring: Keeping a record of your medication taking may be helpful, using a pen and paper or digitally. This could be done in conjunction with self BP monitoring. Final thoughts Taking a proactive approach to controlling your BP will greatly lower your risk of serious health issues. Take charge of your BP: check it regularly, make healthy lifestyle changes and follow your treatment plan. Always collaborate with your healthcare provider so the plan fits well with your needs. Testimony of a patient with high blood pressure “As someone living with high blood pressure, I have learned that controlling it is not just about managing the numbers – it’s about protecting my overall health and quality of life. High blood pressure often has no symptoms, so it can be easy to underestimate its seriousness. However, left unmanaged, it significantly increases the risk of life-threatening conditions like strokes, heart attacks and kidney disease. For me, controlling my blood pressure is a daily commitment to better health. Simple changes, like reducing salt intake, exercising regularly and managing stress has made a big difference. Taking prescribed medications as directed is also essential,
