Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


puberty, with the aim of elucidating key regulatory pathways involved in pubertal timing, and their implications for diagnosis and for management. NORMAL PUBERTY Puberty is the physiological process through which individuals attain sexual maturity and reproductive capacity. This process is characterized by the development of secondary sexual characteristics, an increase in linear growth velocity, and the onset of menarche and ovulation in females and spermatogenesis in males. The onset of puberty is marked by breast budding in girls and testicular enlargement in boys (testicular volume greater than 4 ml or testicular length greater than 25 mm) ( 1 ). Two physiological processes, gonadarche and adrenarche, govern pubertal transition. Gonadarche reflects gonadal maturation, as a result of the reactivation of the hypothalamic GnRH pulse generator which was briefly functional during infancy, but dormant during early childhood. Adrenarche signifies adrenal pubertal maturation. Pubarche signifies the physical manifestation of adrenarche, and is characterized by the development of pubic hair, axillary hair, apocrine odor, and acne. Adrenarche generally begins several years before gonadarche, but physical manifestations, i.e. pubarche, do not usually appear until shortly after physical evidence of gonadarche ( 2 ). The progression of gonadarche is closely linked to the maturation of the neuroendocrine system, particularly involving the development, activity, and interactions of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons ( 3 ). The initiation of puberty is marked by an increase in kisspeptin secretion from Kisspeptin-Neurokinin-Dynorphin (KNDy) neurons within the hypothalamus. Kisspeptin acts as a potent stimulator of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, promoting the pulsatile release of GnRH ( 4 ). The pulsatile GnRH secretion subsequently triggers the pulsatile release of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) from the anterior pituitary gland. LH and FSH then promote gamete maturation as well as gonadal sex steroid production, driving the development of secondary sexual characteristics ( 3 ) In girls these characteristics are breast development, cornification of the vaginal mucosa, and uterine growth , In boys these characteristics are penile enlargement, increased body and facial hair, deepening of the voice, and increased muscle mass. Sex steroids also modulate hypothalamic-pituitary function through negative feedback mechanisms ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Puberty is marked by an increase in the pulsatile secretion of GnRH from the hypothalamus. GnRH secretion is driven by kisspeptin from KNDy neurons of the hypothalamus. Kisspeptin release is possibly triggered or facilitated by NKB Neurokinin B signaling. GnRH in turn stimulates the secretion
