Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


GnRH secretion is driven by kisspeptin from KNDy neurons of the hypothalamus. Kisspeptin release is possibly triggered or facilitated by NKB Neurokinin B signaling. GnRH in turn stimulates the secretion of FSH and LH from the gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland. In the female (A), FSH stimulates the growth of ovarian follicles and, in conjunction with LH, stimulates production of estradiol by the ovaries. Early in puberty, estradiol stimulates breast development and growth of the skeleton, leading to pubertal growth acceleration. Later in puberty, the interplay between pituitary secretion of FSH and LH and secretion of estradiol by ovarian follicles leads to ovulation and menstrual cycles. The skeletal maturation induced by estradiol eventually results in fusion of the growth plates and cessation of growth. In the male (B), FSH stimulates growth of seminiferous tubules, leading to an increase in testicular volume. FSH also stimulates the Sertoli cells of the testes to produce inhibin, which inhibits secretion of FSH. LH stimulates the Leydig cells of the testes to produce testosterone, which induces growth of the penis, deepening of the voice, growth of facial and body hair, and increases in muscularity. The high local concentration of testosterone in the testes further stimulates growth of the seminiferous tubules. Some testosterone is converted to estradiol, which stimulates growth and skeletal maturation and frequently leads to some breast development (gynecomastia). Taken from the section “Normal puberty, “up-to-date. Δ in figure A or ¶ in figure B- It is uncertain whether NKB acts on the KNDy neurons, GnRH neurons, or both and whether these are the primary sites of action. NKB appears to be important for pubertal timing but does not appear to be an obligate part of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, as there can be reproductive endocrine activity in the absence of NKB. The increased activity of the HPG axis culminates in the formation of follicles (folliculogenesis), ovulation, and menses in the female and spermatogenesis in the male. ¶in figure A or * in figure B- The site of action of MKRN3 within the hypothalamus is not well understood. One possibility is that MKRN3 may work within KNDy neurons to inhibit puberty initiation by suppressing transcription of the genes that encode kisspeptin and NKB32. Normal onset of puberty typically occurs between ages 8 and 13 years in girls and 9 and 14 years in boys ( 5 ). This variation is influenced by genetic,
