Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


status to pubertal regulation ( 2 , 6 ). Despite the influence of multiple environmental, nutritional, and socio‑biological factors on pubertal timing, genetic factors remain the predominant determinant, accounting for an estimated 50–80% of the inter‑individual variation in the onset of puberty ( 9 ). We focus the remainder of this chapter on the genetic causes of precocious puberty. PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY Precocious puberty is defined as the appearance of breast buds before 8 years of age in girls, or an increase in testicular volume greater than 4 mL before 9 years of age in boys ( 13 ), followed by progressive advancement and accompanied by accelerated linear growth. and advanced bone age. The most common form of precocious puberty originates from the early activation of pulsatile hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion, known as central precocious puberty (CPP). The reported incidence of CPP varies between studies mainly due to distinct study definitions of precocious puberty, ranging from 0.2 to 2.6/10.000 in girls and 0.02 to 0.9/10.000 in boys. Regardless of cohort, CPP frequency is about 10 to 20 times higher in females when compared to males ( 14 ). Population studies provide strong evidence for a genetic impact on the timing of pubertal onset ( 15 ). This proposed genetic impact also is supported by similarities in age at menarche among mothers and daughters within ethnic groups, and by higher concordance in monozygotic compared to dizygotic twins ( 16 ). However, despite this evidence, the specific genetic determinants underlying pubertal timing—and particularly CPP—remain largely unidentified. Advancements in genetic sequencing and epigenetic profiling have expanded our understanding of central precocious puberty (CPP), particularly in cases previously considered idiopathic. Monogenic causes, imprinting disorders, and genetic syndromes have all been implicated in the premature activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis ( 13 , 14 ). In the next section, we further delineate the neuroendocrine regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis activation, which facilitates the elucidation of the pathogenesis of CPP. NEUROENDOCRINE AND MOLECULAR REGULATION OF PUBERTAL ONSET Pubertal onset is marked by an increase in the amplitude and frequency of pulses of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) after a quiescent period during childhood. This HPG-axis activation is governed by a complex interplay of neuroendocrine excitatory and inhibitory inputs ( 6 ). Clinical and familial observations of pathologic pubertal phenotypes have led to the identification of pathogenic variants in genes encoding key regulatory factors, such as kisspeptins, neurokinin-B
