Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


inputs ( 6 ). Clinical and familial observations of pathologic pubertal phenotypes have led to the identification of pathogenic variants in genes encoding key regulatory factors, such as kisspeptins, neurokinin-B (NKB), and leptin, which were subsequently shown to play a pivotal role in mammalian puberty. Specifically, the discovery of loss-of-function mutations in KISS1R– (Kisspeptin 1 receptor also known as GPR54- G-protein-coupled receptor 54) , a G-protein–coupled receptor, in families affected by congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 17 ) was a major breakthrough in the understanding of the neuroendocrine control of reproduction, exemplifying the essential role of the kisspeptin signaling pathway in the initiation of puberty. Subsequent evidence from human, animal, and in vitro studies have shown that GnRH secretion requires the stimulatory action of kisspeptins ( 18 ), released primarily from the KNDy neurons in the arcuate nucleus that co-express the neuropeptides NKB-neurokinin B [encoded by TAC3 (Tachykinin Precursor 3) gene] and Dynorphin A. In these neurons, the coordinated action of NKB (stimulatory) and dynorphin (inhibitory) controls release of kisspeptins to effect pulsatile GnRH and hence LH secretion ( 6 ) ( figure 2 ). Figure 2. Sites of expression of genes associated with central precocious puberty (CPP), including MKRN3, DLK1, KISS1, and others. Silverman et al. Frontiers in Endocrinology, 2022. During pubertal maturation, there is an upregulation of Kiss1 (Kisspeptin 1) expression, an increase in the number of kisspeptin-expressing neurons, and enhanced projections to GnRH neurons, particularly within the arcuate nucleus ( 19 ). Several other neuropeptides such as substance P and neurokinin A, both products of the TAC1 (Tachykinin Precursor 1) gene ( 20 ), as well as components of the melanocortin signaling pathway ( 21 ) have been implicated in the regulation of pubertal onset, but their precise mechanisms of action remain incompletely understood. On the inhibitory side, MKRN3 (Makorin Ring Finger Protein 3), a paternally expressed, imprinted gene encoding a putative E3 ubiquitin ligase, was found to act as a brake on GnRH activation. Loss-of-function mutations in MKRN3 are the most common monogenic cause of central precocious puberty ( 16 ). Another imprinted gene, DLK1(Delta-like 1 homolog), has also been implicated in familial cases of precocious puberty ( 22 ). Together, these genetic and molecular insights underscore the finely balanced and multilayered regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis during the transition into puberty. The following aspects focus on the epigenetic considerations involved in the regulation of pubertal
