Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


the finely balanced and multilayered regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis during the transition into puberty. The following aspects focus on the epigenetic considerations involved in the regulation of pubertal onset. EPIGENETIC AND IMPRINTING MECHANISMS IN THE REGULATION OF PUBERTAL ONSET Epigenetic modifications are chemical additions to DNA and histones that play a key role in the regulation of chromatin configuration and gene expression patterns, ultimately leading to gene silencing or activation. These modifications alter gene activity without a change in the DNA sequence itself. Loss of proper epigenetic regulation has been implicated in various human diseases, either through direct defects disrupting epigenetic mechanisms or by mutations in genes encoding epigenetic regulators ( 23 ). Three major epigenetic mechanisms have been described: DNA methylation, post-translational histone modification, and regulation by non-coding RNAs (especially microRNAs) which modulate mRNA degradation, chromatin condensation, and transcription factor binding ( 6 ). Among these, DNA methylation is the most widely studied. This process involves the addition of methyl groups to CpG dinucleotides, leading to gene silencing or activation. DNA methylation suppresses gene expression by recruiting repressor complexes or by preventing transcription factors binding to DNA. This process plays critical roles in several biological functions, including genomic imprinting, X chromosome inactivation, tissue-specific gene regulation, and transposon silencing ( 23 ). A particularly relevant form of epigenetic regulation in puberty is genomic imprinting , a mammalian-specific phenomenon, whereby only one parental allele of a gene is expressed, depending on its origin. Imprinted genes are generally found in clusters and regulated by imprinting control regions (ICRs), which exhibit parental-specific DNA methylation that is acquired during germline development. This gamete-specific DNA methylation at ICRs is maintained after fertilization despite the large amount of epigenetic reprogramming that occurs at this time, through the ICR-specific recognition of proteins such as ZFP57 (Zinc Finger Protein 57) and DNMT1(DNA methyltransferase 1). Deletions or abnormal DNA methylation of ICRs results in perturbed imprinting of multiple genes in a clusters ( 24 ). Approximately 200 imprinted genes have been predicted in the human genome, and while they represent less than 1% of all genes, they play critical roles in development, metabolism, and reproduction ( 23 ). Approximately 50 human imprinted genes have been described to date ( 25 ). In recent years, epigenetic modifications have emerged as central regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis and pubertal timing in rodents and primates. For example, in the
