Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


date ( 25 ). In recent years, epigenetic modifications have emerged as central regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis and pubertal timing in rodents and primates. For example, in the rat arcuate nucleus, the promoter region of the Kiss1 gene has both repressing and activating epigenetic signatures, enabling rapid modulation of gene expression during pubertal onset and in response to metabolic cues. Before puberty, arcuate nucleus Kiss1 expression is low, partly due to the presence of the Polycomb Group (PcG) of epigenetic silencers that induce chromatin compaction. As puberty progresses, arcuate nucleus Kiss1 expression is enhanced by recruitment of the trithorax group (TrxG) of epigenetic activators to the Kiss1 promoter and enhancer regions. Similar mechanisms of epigenetic control have been identified in rhesus macaques ( 6 ). Two of the five described monogenic causes of CPP are imprinted genes, raising the possibility that imprinting plays an important role in the regulation of puberty in humans. The strongest evidence linking imprinting to pubertal timing in humans comes from the identification of loss-of-function mutations in the two paternally expressed imprinted genes: MKRN3 and DLK1 ( 23 , 24 ). These mutations lead to central precocious puberty (CPP) only when inherited from the father, as the maternal allele is normally silenced. Both genes are also located in regions associated with imprinting syndromes: MKRN3 at the boundary of the Prader–Willi syndrome (PWS) domain—CPP occurs in ~4% of affected individuals—and DLK1 at the Temple syndrome locus, where CPP occurs in up to 80–90% of cases. 2 powerful large-scale Genome-wide association study (GWAS) demonstrated that, when paternally inherited, single nucleotide polymorphisms in MKRN3 and DLK1 can largely influence the age at menarche in women, reinforcing the role of both genes on pubertal timing ( 23 ) . Other imprinted genes, still unrecognized, might also be involved in pubertal timing. Further support for the role of epigenetic regulation in pubertal timing comes from methylome profiling studies comparing girls with precocious versus normally timed pubertal onset, both before and after puberty. These studies have demonstrated widespread alterations in DNA methylation patterns during pubertal transition. Bessa et al., demonstrated widespread changes in DNA methylation between prepubertal and post-pubertal girls, with a predominance of hypermethylation in the post-pubertal state that suggests epigenetic silencing as a key regulator in the pubertal switch ( 26 ). However, a more recent longitudinal study ( 27 ) reported a global reduction in DNA methylation
