Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


suggests epigenetic silencing as a key regulator in the pubertal switch ( 26 ). However, a more recent longitudinal study ( 27 ) reported a global reduction in DNA methylation across puberty, particularly in genes related to metabolism, and neuronal plasticity, suggesting that epigenetic activation, rather than repression, may be the dominant mechanism facilitating the transcriptional reprogramming necessary for pubertal maturation. The discrepancies between the studies may stem from methodological differences, sample size, genetic Importantly, both studies converge on the conclusion that dynamic and coordinated changes in DNA methylation occur during pubertal transition, though the direction and magnitude of these changes may vary. The following sections will further explore the various disruptions in these pathways that lead to central precocious puberty. MONOGENIC CAUSES OF CENTRAL PREOCIOUS PUBERTY KISS1 and KISS1R Kisspeptin, encoded by KISS1, and its receptor KISS1R (GPR54) are key regulators of pubertal onset through their central role in stimulating gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion. Binding of Kisspeptin to the KISS1R receptor on GnRH neurons, triggers GnRH release and thereby initiates the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis ( figure 1 ). Physiological and pharmacological studies in animals and humans have demonstrated that kisspeptin is the most potent known stimulator of GnRH-dependent luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion ( 28 ). The KISS1 gene, located on chromosome 1q32, contains four exons and encodes a 145 amino acid pro-peptide, kisspeptin-145. This precursor is proteolytically cleaved into smaller bioactive forms—kisspeptin-54, -14, -13, and -10—all of which exhibit similar affinities for the KISS1R receptor ( 10 ).The binding of kisspeptin to its transmembrane receptor GPR54 /KISS1R-encoded on chromosome 19p3.3- results in the activation of phospholipase C via a protein Gαq mediated signal transduction ( 29 ). Following the elucidation of a Kisspeptin signaling defect as a genetic etiology for delayed puberty, the first monogenic activating mutation associated with central precocious puberty (CPP) was described in 2008- a heterozygous activating mutation in KISS1R gene (R386P) in a girl with CPP ( 30 ). This mutation resulted in prolonged intracellular signaling and enhanced GnRH secretion, thereby driving premature activation of the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal (HPG) axis. Subsequent studies identified two missense mutations in KISS1—P74S and H90D—in Brazilian children with idiopathic CPP. The P74S variant, found in a boy with CPP onset at age 1, results in the loss of a proline residue in an N-terminal PEST sequence (a protein motif rich in the amino acids proline (P), glutamate (E),
