Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


CPP onset at age 1, results in the loss of a proline residue in an N-terminal PEST sequence (a protein motif rich in the amino acids proline (P), glutamate (E), serine (S), and threonine (T) that is located at the N-terminus of a protein) which is important for rapid degradation by proteolytic enzymes. The presumed reduction in kisspeptin degradation prolong its half-life and biological activity, thereby contributing to premature HPG axis activation. The H90D mutation, found in homozygous state in a girl with familial CPP, was also associated with increased signaling capacity ( 31 ). SNPs (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism) located within the Untranslated region of KISS1 and GPR54 are associated with both CPP and idiopathic hypothalamic hypo-gonadal-tropism (IHH). Polymorphisms linked to CPP are thought to increase the transcriptional efficiency of KISS1,but the exact mechanisms of action have yet to be elucidated ( 29 ). Variants of KISS1 and GPR54 are increasingly detected in CPP cases via GWAS and targeted sequencing approaches. Case reports suggest an expected response to GnRH analogs therapy of CPP with pathogenic variations of KISS/ GPR54 ( 29 ). Overall, although mutations in KISS1 and KISS1R are rare, they emphasize the functional importance of kisspeptin signaling in pubertal regulation. MKRN3 (Makorin Ring Finger Protein 3) MKRN3 is a maternally imprinted, paternally expressed gene, located within the Prader–Willi syndrome (PWS) critical region on chromosome 15q11.2 ( 16 ). In healthy individuals, MKRN3 expression peaks in early childhood and declines sharply before pubertal onset, suggesting its function as a puberty repressor ( 16 , 32 ). Functionally, MKRN3 suppresses GnRH release through binding and repressing the promoters of KISS1, TAC3, and GNRH1, thus inhibiting transcription of key genes involved in reactivation of the HPG axis ( 32 ),( 29 ) ( figure 1 ) . Notably, MKRN3 does not alter promoter activity of prodynorphin (PDYN), the gene encoding the inhibitory peptide dynorphin, which is co-expressed in KNDy neurons. These data indicate that MKRN3 is a key component of the inhibitory network that sustains HPG axis latency during childhood ( 16 ). MKRN3 silencing—either physiologically or pathologically—allows the reactivation of the HPG axis and pubertal onset. Loss-of-function mutations in MKRN3 were first identified in 2013 through whole-exome sequencing in familial CPP. All pathogenic variants were shown to be paternally inherited ( 16 ) ( figure 3 ) .Since then, MKRN3 has been established as the most common monogenic cause of
