Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


CPP. All pathogenic variants were shown to be paternally inherited ( 16 ) ( figure 3 ) .Since then, MKRN3 has been established as the most common monogenic cause of central precocious puberty, accounting for approximately 20-30% of familial and ~9-10% of idiopathic CPP cases ( 16 , 29 ). Notably, some populations, such as Korean, Turkish, and Italian cohorts, have demonstrated a lower proportion of CPP cases attributed to MRKN3 mutation within familial cases (19%) ( 13 , 33 – 35 ), emphasizing the population-specific variability in the prevalence and genetic architecture of this condition. Figure 3. Imprinting pattern of maternally imprinted, paternally expressed genes MKRN3 and DLK1. A. Maternal allele is imprinted or silenced; mutant paternal allele is expressed, resulting in phenotype of central precocious puberty. B. Maternal allele is normally imprinted and normal paternal allele is expressed, resulting in normal puberty. C. Maternal allele containing mutation is imprinted; normal paternal allele is expressed, resulting in no pathologic phenotype (i.e., normal puberty). Adapted with changes from Roberts SA, Kaiser UB. Eur. J Endocrinol. 2020 Oct;183( 4 ): R107-R117. To date, 73 inactivating mutations in the coding sequence of MKRN3 have been described ( 23 ), including 10 nonsense, 18 frameshift, and 45 missense mutations ( figure 4 ). These are distributed across the zinc finger domains (including RING and C3H motifs) and inter-domain regions, with a notable mutation hotspot at a poly-C tract at cDNA positions 475-481 (p.160-162), which results in a frameshift mutation with a premature stop codon. Nevertheless, only 11-16 out of these variants are defined as pathogenic in Gnomad, Clinvar and Franklin aggregation databases of the human genome. In addition to point mutations, heterozygous paternally inherited whole-gene deletions were reported in 2 unrelated girls and rare promoter region variants of MKRN3 have been reported in patients with non-syndromic CPP, accentuating the gene’s critical regulatory function.( 13 ). Figure 4. Schematic representation of MKRN3 protein structure and 73 mutations identified in patients with central precocious puberty. Hexagons represent individual amino acids; corresponding numbers indicate amino acid position. Top row mutations are frameshift and nonsense, whereas the bottom row are missense mutations. The functional domains of MKRN3 protein contain Key cysteine and histidine amino acids, which are necessary for zinc ion interaction. RING finger C3HC4 is a protein-binding domain responsible for ubiquitin ligase activity. Zinc-Finger C3H1 are RNA-binding domains. Makorin type zinc-finger is a specific Cys-His domain
