Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


necessary for zinc ion interaction. RING finger C3HC4 is a protein-binding domain responsible for ubiquitin ligase activity. Zinc-Finger C3H1 are RNA-binding domains. Makorin type zinc-finger is a specific Cys-His domain identified in the proteins of the makorin family. Notably, 19 mutations were detected between the first 2 C3H1 domains, 14 of which are frameshift. Mutations tend to also cluster within the C3HC4 RING finger domain, the vast majority of which are missense. (Canton, A. P. M., Macedo, D. B., Abreu, A. P. & Latronico, A. C. J. Endocrine. Soc. 9, bvae228 (2025). Clinically, MKRN3-related CPP is typically non-syndromic, and responds well to GnRH analogs ( 16 , 29 ). The phenotype shows a strong female predominance (~6:1), with girls presenting earlier (as young as age 6) and frequently demonstrating higher FSH levels compared to affected boys. In contrast, boys with MKRN3 mutations may present near the lower end of normal puberty timing, with diagnosis driven by a positive family history ( 16 , 32 ). Interestingly although MKRN3 gene locus is within the PWS critical region, most patients with Prader–Willi syndrome exhibit delayed or incomplete puberty. However, rare cases of central precocious puberty were reported in Prader–Willi syndrome and may be related to disruption of MKRN3 function ( 29 ). DLK1 (Delta-Like 1 Homolog) DLK1 is a maternally imprinted, paternally expressed gene located on chromosome 14q32.2. It encodes a transmembrane protein (also known as protein delta homolog 1 – PDH1) involved in developmental regulation, primarily via the Notch signaling pathway. DLK1 expression is widespread during embryonic development, but postnatally becomes restricted to endocrine tissues, including the adrenal gland, pituitary, pancreas, gonads, and specific hypothalamic nuclei. It is particularly expressed in the arcuate nucleus—an important center for pubertal regulation- and co-expressed.with key neuropeptides involved in pubertal control including kisspeptin, and dynorphin in hypothalamic neurons ( 29 ). Two DLK1 mRNA isoforms have been identified in the hypothalamus: a full-length isoform and a shorter isoform encoding a 30 kDa soluble protein, which predominates in this brain region and may represent the biologically active form regulating GnRH activity ( 13 ). DLK1 is a noncanonical ligand in the Notch signaling pathway and acts as a Notch inhibitor by preventing the conformational changes required for Notch activation ( 13 ). DLK1 appears to function as a negative regulator of puberty. In murine studies, loss of DLK1 expression results in increased NOTCH ½ (Notch Receptor
