Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


puberty in humans. Figure 6. Schematic representation of the hypothalamic regions and paradigmatic monogenic causes of central precocious puberty in humans are shown. ARC=arcuate nucleus. AVPV=anteroventral periventricular nucleus. GABA=γ-aminobutyric acid. GnRH=gonadotropin-releasing hormone. KNDy=kisspeptin, neurokinin B, and dynorphin. Kp=kisspeptin. ME=median eminence. MnPO=median preoptic nucleus. PMV=ventral pre-mammillary nucleus. Adapted with changes from Argente J, Dunkel L, Kaiser UB, Latronico AC, Lomniczi A, Soriano-Guillén L, Tena-Sempere M. Molecular basis of normal and pathological puberty: from basic mechanisms to clinical implications. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2023 Mar;11( 3 ):203-216. Candidate Genes with Limited Evidence for a Role in CPP Isolated case reports have linked alterations in MAGEL2 (MAGE family member L2), located within the Prader–Willi syndrome critical region on chromosome 15, to central precocious puberty (CPP); however, MAGEL2 defects are also associated with genetic syndromes characterized by hypopituitarism or hypogonadism, making its presumed pathophysiologic mechanism unclear. It has been proposed that E3 ubiquitin ligase encoded by MKRN3 is enhanced and stabilized by MAGEL-thus, mutations that decrease the stability of MKRN3 may result in early reactivation of the HPG axis ( 29 ). Variants in the NROB1 (nuclear receptor subfamily 0 group B member 1) gene, which encodes the nuclear receptor DAX1(dosage sensitive sex-reversal, adrenal hypoplasia congenita, on chromosome X, gene 1), are a rare but recognized cause of central precocious puberty (CPP), particularly in the context of X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita (AHC). DAX1 is expressed in multiple endocrine tissues, including the hypothalamus and pituitary, and functions as a negative regulator of nuclear receptors such as SF1(Steroidogenic Factor 1). Mutations in NROB1 commonly lead to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and adrenal insufficiency, but emerging reports have identified cases of CPP associated with AHC caused by NROB1 mutations ( 29 , 37 ). In some patients, CPP resolved following adrenal hormone replacement therapy alone, without the need for GnRH analog treatment ( 38 ). Although the mechanisms linking NROB1 variants and CPP are not fully understood, it has been hypothesized that impaired DAX1-SF1 interactions may enhance hypothalamic nitric oxide synthase activity, triggering premature HPG axis activation. LIN28B (Lin-28 homolog B), a human homolog of the lin-28 pubertal gene in C. elegans, encodes an RNA-binding protein that suppresses let-7 ( lethal-7) microRNA biogenesis and may influence pubertal development through the LIN28B–let-7 pathway ( 28 , 39 ). Its expression declines in early puberty, while let-7 levels rise, suggesting a reciprocal regulation and a role in activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG)
