Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


LIN28B–let-7 pathway ( 28 , 39 ). Its expression declines in early puberty, while let-7 levels rise, suggesting a reciprocal regulation and a role in activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis ( 32 ).Genome-wide association studies have linked common LIN28B SNPs (e.g., rs314276, rs314280) to variations in pubertal timing, particularly age at menarche, breast development, and pubic hair appearance ( 39 ). However, findings are inconsistent across cohorts, with some studies supporting associations with idiopathic central precocious puberty (ICPP), while others report no significant correlation ( 40 ). Functional studies have likewise yielded inconclusive results ( 40 ). In conclusion, while LIN28B is a gene of interest in the genetic regulation of puberty, current evidence suggests common variants may modestly affect pubertal timing, whereas rare variants are unlikely to play a major role in CPP pathogenesis.Other candidate genes, implicated in the regulatory mechanism of GnRH secretion, have also been screened (GABRA1/ Gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor subunit alpha-1, NPYY1R/ neuropeptide Y receptor Y1, TTF1/ Thyroid transcription factor 1, EAP1/enhanced at puberty 1 , Erα/ Estrogen receptor α, TAC3, TACR3/ Tachykinin Receptor 3, LEPTIN and LEPTINR/ leptin receptor), but no pathogenic variants were identified so far ( 28 , 39 ). Secondary CPP in Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH) Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is another genetic disease that is associated central precocious puberty. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) - one of the most common autosomal recessive disorders — is potentially life-threatening in its classic (severe) form and may be asymptomatic or cause elevated androgen levels in its non-classic (mild) form. The most common type of CAH is 21-hydroxylase deficiency due to mutations in CYP21A2 ( 41 ). Unlike the monogenic causes of CPP, in CAH, the primary event is the development of peripheral precocious puberty- adrenarche, due to an androgen excess, which leads to secondary hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis activation and central precocious puberty ( 42 ). Inadequate suppression of adrenal androgens is a risk factor for early central puberty and compromises final adult height due to premature epiphyseal closure. Interestingly, the early onset of puberty is usually not accompanied by early menarche ( 43 ). CPP has been described in both classical and nonclassical congenital adrenal hyperplasia (NCCAH), with reported prevalence rates in NCCAH as high as 28% ( 44 ). The mechanism behind HPG axis activation in CAH is believed to involve chronic exposure to androgen and not to the CAH itself, since virilizing
