Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


high as 28% ( 44 ). The mechanism behind HPG axis activation in CAH is believed to involve chronic exposure to androgen and not to the CAH itself, since virilizing adrenal tumors or ovarian granulosa cell tumors are also associated with premature gonadotropin elevation. It is postulated that CPP correlates with bone age and bone age advancement which may somehow activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. A possible mechanism for CPP in CAH is the decline in androgen levels following glucocorticoids treatment that may increase gonadotropin secretion through a decline in negative feedback of sex hormones on gonadotropin secretion ( 44 ). However, the observation of true precocious puberty in untreated CAH suggests that such a mechanism is not obligatory ( 42 ). Nonclassical CAH can present as true CPP, particularly in girls, and up to 4.8% of girls with CPP may have underlying nonclassical CAH ( 44 ). This highlights the clinical overlap and diagnostic challenges, emphasizing the need to consider CAH as a genetic cause for CPP and to assess adrenal androgens in populations with high CAH prevalence when evaluating CPP. IMPRINTING DISORDERS- TEMPLE SYNDROME (TS14) Temple syndrome (TS14; OMIM #616222), first described at 1991, is a rare imprinting disorder, characterized by a distinct clinical phenotype that includes- prenatal and postnatal growth retardation, mild developmental delay, small hands and precocious puberty ( 24 ). At infancy, clinical features overlapping with Silver-Russell syndrome (SRS) and Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) are frequently observed, including relative macrocephaly, protruding forehead, feeding difficulties, and muscular hypotonia ( 45 ). The feeding difficulties are typically milder than in Russell Silver syndrome ( 46 ). Later in life, metabolic complications such as truncal obesity, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus are common. In addition to the common growth failure in Temple syndrome, growth hormone deficiency has been identified in approximately 16% of patients ( 45 ). Precocious puberty is a hallmark feature of Temple syndrome (TS14), occurring in approximately 80–90% of affected individuals ( 24 ). Several case series suggest that puberty may begin at the lower end of the normal age range or even earlier and progress rapidly. In a comprehensive study of 60 Japanese Patients with Temple syndrome, Ogawa et al. reported a median age at the diagnosis of CPP of 7.3 years in girls and 8.8 years in boys, median height of −1.6 SD in girls and −1.0 SD in boys, and an average advanced bone age
