Genetics and Epigenetics of Central Precocious Puberty
KEYWORDS: puberty, cpp, precocious, precocious puberty, pubertal, pubmed, central, gene, central precocious, mutations, genetic, syndrome, girls, gnrh, genes


the MEG8 gene. Methylation of the MEG8-DMR occurs at or after week 17 of fetal development and may be dependent on the IG-DMR and/or MEG3-DMR, as well as transcription starting at the upstream MEG3 promoter and extending through the MEG8-DMR. Most postnatal tissues show differential methylation of the MEG8-DMR, consistent with imprinting. Although the direction of transcription of DIO3OS is known, the parental origin of transcription in humans is unknown. Alterations leading to TS are diagrammed in the bottom columns. The % represents an estimate of the frequency of cases that are due either to UPD, epimutations or deletions, based on reports describing multiple cases. (A) Normal imprinting, methylation and gene expression at the Chr 14q32 region. The imprinted region begins proximal to the DLK1 gene and ends distal to the DIO3 gene. (B) TS can be caused by maternal UPD leading to expression of only maternally expressed genes from both chromosomes, (C) TS may be caused by hypomethylation of the IG-DMR and MEG3-DMR on the paternal chromosome, leading to a maternal chromosome-like expression pattern. (D) TS may be caused by deletions in the paternally inherited chromosome, leading to absence of paternally expressed genes, Microdeletions involving the IG-DMR and/or the MEG3-DMR may also cause TS. Not drawn to scale. Adapted with changes from Prasasya R et al. Hum Mol Genet. 2020 Sept 30;29(R1):R107-R116. Diagnosis of Temple syndrome involves molecular genetic testing, including methylation and deletion analysis of the DLK1–MEG3:IG-DMR and analysis for maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 14. Treatment of CPP in these patients follows standard protocols using GnRH agonists. However, attention should also be directed to early detection and management of metabolic complications such as insulin resistance and dyslipidemia ( 45 ). SYNDROMES ASSOCIATED WITH CENTRAL PREOCIOUS PUBERTY (CPP) The prevalence of precocious puberty is higher among children with developmental delay compared to the general population with a rate of approximately 0.2% ( 48 ) The primary underlying mechanism is early activation of the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal (HPG) axis, often due to structural or functional abnormalities of the brain, including hypothalamic hamartomas or intracranial tumors or to past events such as meningitis, head trauma, or perinatal asphyxia. Additional contributing factors include genetic causes (e.g., MKRN3 or DLK1 mutations), environmental influences such as obesity, poor nutrition, and exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals. Given the complexity of presentation, children with developmental delay and signs of early puberty warrant comprehensive endocrine evaluation and multidisciplinary follow-up.
