Laser sheath removal of pacing leads
KEYWORDS: leads, laser, removal, patients, sheath, pacing, lead, pacing leads, procedure, group, removal pacing, scar tissue, tissue, scar, required


(142 out of 221 leads) for patients in the non-laser group. In the same study, mean operation time per lead was 11 minutes in the laser group compared with 15 minutes in the non-laser group (p<0.04). For more details, see the overview. 2.3.2 The Specialist Advisors had no concerns about the efficacy of this procedure. They considered it to be at least as efficacious as, and probably more efficacious than, standard techniques. 2.4 Safety 2.4.1 In a randomised controlled trial, 3 of 153 patients randomised to laser sheath removal required subsequent surgery (two patients required a thoracotomy and one patient required a chest tube). One patient later died after a cardiac tamponade, but this was not directly related to the use of laser energy. In the largest case series, major complications (defined as cardiac tamponade, haemothorax, pulmonary embolism, lead migration and death) were observed in 2% (31 out of 1,684) of patients, and 1% (13 out of 1,684) of patients died in hospital. For more details, see the overview. 2.4.2 The Specialist Advisors considered the complications of laser sheath removal of pacing leads to be similar to those of standard extraction techniques. They commented on the small risk of cardiac tamponade caused by rupture of major veins or the myocardium, and noted that this could result in the need for emergency surgery and, in some cases, cause death. 2.5 Other comments 2.5.1 Removal of pacing leads can cause serious complications, requiring cardiac surgery, regardless of the extraction technique used. 3 Further information Sources of evidence The evidence considered by the Interventional Procedures Advisory Committee is described in the overview. Information for patients NICE has produced information for the public on this procedure. It explains the nature of the procedure and the guidance issued by NICE, and has been written with patient consent in mind.
