Liu et al. BMC Ophthalmology (2024) 24:234 BMC Ophthalmology
KEYWORDS: corneal, infection, anthropi, chamber, fungal, anterior, anterior chamber, transplantation, eye, corneal transplantation, infections, pus, case, patient, treatment


to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory licence, visit The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( mons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Case report a partial penetrating keratoplasty was performed with A 51-year-old male patient presented with a 19-day his- a favorable outcome. Intraoperatively, aqueous humor tory of redness and pain in the eye. The diagnosis was samples and the affected corneal tissue were collected fungal keratitis (Fig. 1). Treatment included frequent for subsequent culture and identification of bacteria and instillation of natamycin eye drops (50mg/ml, North fungi. Voriconazole injection was used throughout the China Pharmaceutical, China) and intermittent appli- procedure for corneal margin and anterior chamber irri- cation of intracorneal voriconazole injection (1mg/ gation. The donor cornea, sourced from our eye bank, ml, Pfizer Limited, US). Following one month of treat- and residual donor cornea, along with corneal preserva- ment, examination results indicated that the sign of tion solution (Corneal Chamber, Alchimial, Italy), were corneal ulcer healing, with no observable progress. How- sent for bacterial and fungal culture postoperatively. The ever, there was a concerning sign of corneal perfora- postoperative regimen consisted of local administration tion. (Fig. 2). B-ultrasound demonstrated the absence of of natamycin and tacrolimus eye drops (0.1%, Senju Phar- abnormalities in the vitreous and retina. Consequently, maceutical Co, Japan), as well as levofloxacin eye drops surface, and feathery infiltrating margins. B. Confocal microscopy reveals the presence of fungal hyphae. C. Fungal hyphae are observed in corneal scrapings with Gram staining. D. Corneal scrapings with potassium hydroxide (KOH) wet mount demonstrate the presence of fungal hyphae Fig. 2 A After treatment, the corneal ulcer has healed, with localized margins and corneal perforation. B No fungal hyphae are observed in corneal scrapings with Gram staining, but inflammatory cells are present (0.5%, Senju Pharmaceutical Co, Japan). Additionally, postoperatively, aqueous humour and anterior chamber itraconazole capsules (200 mg daily, Xi’an Yangsen Phar- pus from the operated eye were collected for metagen- maceutical Co.,
