Liu et al. BMC Ophthalmology (2024) 24:234 BMC Ophthalmology
KEYWORDS: corneal, infection, anthropi, chamber, fungal, anterior, anterior chamber, transplantation, eye, corneal transplantation, infections, pus, case, patient, treatment


Senju Pharmaceutical Co, Japan). Additionally, postoperatively, aqueous humour and anterior chamber itraconazole capsules (200 mg daily, Xi’an Yangsen Phar- pus from the operated eye were collected for metagen- maceutical Co., Ltd., China) were orally administered. omic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) test. Total Following corneal transplantation, the graft remained genomic DNA was extracted using a nucleic acid extrac- transparent. However, the aqueous humor exhibited tion kit, then fragmented to 200 bp and used to build a gradual turbidity, and by the fourth postoperative day, library with end-repaired, adapter-ligation, and polymer- anterior chamber pus accumulation was observed, ase chain reaction amplification. The prepared library prompting concern regarding a potential recurrence of was sequenced on the MGISEQ-2000 sequencing plat- fungal infection. Consequently, the anterior chamber was form (MGI, China). The reads were finally aligned to aspirated to remove the pus, and a voriconazole injection the Microbial Genome Databases, which contain the was administered for anterior chamber irrigation and whole-genome sequences of 8,472 viruses, 10,537 bac- medication. Intraoperatively, it was noted that the ante- teria, 903 fungi and 288 parasites. During the aforemen- rior chamber pus was thin and watery in consistency, in tioned interval, the previously administered eye drops contrast to the thicker purulent fluid observed in fungal were maintained. This was accompanied by an increase infections. An examination of the anterior chamber pus in the rate of anterior chamber pus leakage, culminat- revealed the absence of fungal hyphae (Fig. 3D). Postop- ing in the clouding of the corneal graft (Figure 3A). The eratively, there was no significant improvement in the mNGS results identified O. anthropi, with 321 sequences anterior chamber reaction, and the cornea exhibited mild with a relative abundance of 98.98%. Additionally, a vitre- edema. ous opacity was revealed through a B-ultrasound exami- A microbiological examination of the recipient cor- nation. (Fig. 3E). To treat O. anthropic, ceftazidime (25 neal ulcer, aqueous humour, donor cornea, and preser- mg/ml), an amikacin (4 mg/ml), and vancomycin (10 mg/ vation solution yielded negative results for bacteria and ml) were administered to the anterior chamber and vit- fungi, which is thought to be the consequence of pre- reous, respectively, three times each. The oral antifungal operative antifungal and antibacterial treatment. How- medication was discontinued, and a cefuroxime injection ever, given the possibility of other infections occurring (1.0 g, administered three times a day) was administered Fig. 3 A Following corneal transplantation, there was an accumulation of
