Liu et al. BMC Ophthalmology (2024) 24:234 BMC Ophthalmology
KEYWORDS: corneal, infection, anthropi, chamber, fungal, anterior, anterior chamber, transplantation, eye, corneal transplantation, infections, pus, case, patient, treatment


cefuroxime injection ever, given the possibility of other infections occurring (1.0 g, administered three times a day) was administered Fig. 3 A Following corneal transplantation, there was an accumulation of pus in the anterior chamber of the eye, exhibiting a thin and watery consistency. B Subsequent to treatment, there was a discernible reduction in anterior chamber pus. C The corneal graft appeared grayish-white and opaque, and the anterior chamber pus completely disappeared. D Gram staining of corneal scrapings did not reveal any fungal hyphae, but did indicate the presence of a considerable number of inflammatory cells. E Turbidity was observed in the vitreous cavity, resembling sediment. F The vitreous opacities exhibited a noticeable reduction in comparison to the pre-treatment state intracamerally. To prevent a recurrence of fungal infec- infection recurrence encompass the size of corneal ulcer tion, natamycin eye drops were administered four times infiltration, graft dimensions, and the type of fungus daily, in conjunction with tobramycin eye drops (0.3%, involved . Furthermore, comprehensive antifungal Tobramycin Eye Drops, Alcon-Couvreur n. v, Belgium), treatment prior to corneal transplantation constitutes a and levofloxacin eye drops (0.5%, Senju Pharmaceuti- critical determinant for surgical success. In the presented cal Co, Japan) at 1-hour intervals. Following three days case, the patient received standardized antifungal treat- of treatment, there was a reduction in anterior chamber ment post-diagnosis, resulting in favorable therapeutic pus (see Fig. 3B). After a further ten days of treatment, outcomes. Undertaking corneal transplantation at this the anterior chamber pus had been absorbed completely. juncture successfully averted postoperative recurrence of However, the corneal graft remained cloudy (Fig. 3C), fungal infections. Hence, judiciously selecting the timing with ultrasound indicating that the vitreous opacities had for corneal transplantation emerges as a pivotal strategy reduced (Fig. 3F). The patient’s condition remained sta- in controlling the recurrence of fungal corneal ulcers. ble, with effective infection control being maintained. Anterior chamber pus was observed on the fourth day Six months following corneal transplantation, the oper- after the surgery. Given past experience, a recurrence of ated eye exhibited corneal opacities and pseudo-pteryg- fungal infection was suspected and voriconazole ante- ium (Fig. 4A). B-ultrasound examination did not reveal rior chamber lavage was performed on the operative eye. any abnormalities. To enhance visual function, a sec- However, the observed pus appeared thin and lacked the ondary partial penetrating keratoplasty was conducted characteristic viscosity typically seen in fungal infections concurrently with a cataract
