Liu et al. BMC Ophthalmology (2024) 24:234 BMC Ophthalmology
KEYWORDS: corneal, infection, anthropi, chamber, fungal, anterior, anterior chamber, transplantation, eye, corneal transplantation, infections, pus, case, patient, treatment


visual function, a sec- However, the observed pus appeared thin and lacked the ondary partial penetrating keratoplasty was conducted characteristic viscosity typically seen in fungal infections concurrently with a cataract removal procedure. Postop- . Subsequent exacerbation of the patient’s condi- eratively, Tobramycin eye drops were administered for tion after antifungal treatment led to concerns regard- the purpose of prophylaxis against infection, in conjunc- ing potential infection by other pathogens. In order tion with Tacrolimus and Prednisolone Acetate Ophthal- to rule out the possibility of contamination from the mic Suspension (1%, Allergan Pharmaceuticals Ireland) donor cornea, another patient that had received a cor- for the prevention of rejection. One month following the neal transplant from the same donor at the same time procedure, the corneal graft was observed to be transpar- was continuously monitored. No signs of infection were ent, with a corrected visual acuity of 0.1 (Fig. 4B). found. Due to the fact that microbial cultures and smear Discussion examinations of the affected cornea failed to detect any Fungal keratitis stands out as the predominant cause of pathogens, we conducted next-generation sequenc- blindness in patients with infectious corneal diseases in ing (NGS) on the anterior chamber pus to identify the China . Therapeutic keratoplasty serves as a pivotal infectious agent. Metagenomic is a diagnostic tech- intervention in the management of progressive fungal nique widely used in microbiological research but infre- keratitis when conventional pharmaceutical therapies quently employed in routine clinical microbiological prove ineffective. However, a considerable contributor diagnostics. It offers a rapid and accurate advantage in to the failure of corneal transplantation is the recurrence determining the nature and type of infection in clinical of postoperative fungal infections . Risk factors for diagnosis , NGS and shotgun sequencing particularly Fig. 4 A Pseudo-pterygium and corneal opacities developed six months after corneal transplantation. B After the second corneal transplantation, the corneal graft became transparent demonstrating excellent diagnostic value for infections controlling the infection rapidly. However, it is notewor- on the ocular surface and within the eye . In the thy that, after 14 days of treatment, although the infec- event that the traditional microbiological tests employed tion was well controlled, the corneal graft still exhibited in ophthalmology prove to be ineffective, it can serve as a cloudiness. Currently, while there have been numerous highly effective supplementary diagnostic tool, markedly reports on endophthalmitis caused by O. anthropi, there enhancing the detection rate
