Liu et al. BMC Ophthalmology (2024) 24:234 BMC Ophthalmology
KEYWORDS: corneal, infection, anthropi, chamber, fungal, anterior, anterior chamber, transplantation, eye, corneal transplantation, infections, pus, case, patient, treatment


it can serve as a cloudiness. Currently, while there have been numerous highly effective supplementary diagnostic tool, markedly reports on endophthalmitis caused by O. anthropi, there enhancing the detection rate of microorganisms that are is limited documentation on the toxicity of this bacte- particularly challenging to cultivate in clinical samples rium to the cornea itself and the resulting pathological . changes. Nandini et al. reported a case of corneal inflam- O. anthropi is widely present in the environment, soil, mation caused by O. anthropi infection, presenting as and water sources (physiological saline, preservative solu- anterior chamber purulence in a patient with a history of tions, dialysis fluid) . Additionally, it has been iso- viral keratitis. This case was ultimately diagnosed as O. lated from human bodily fluids . As a rare conditional anthropi infection, with corneal histopathological find- infections, with infected patients using various indwell- . Generally, bacterial infections can lead to pathologi- ing and invasive medical devices such as central venous cal changes such as corneal opacification, edema, ulcer catheters, artificial heart valves, and drainage tubes [6, formation, and endothelial damage . Nevertheless, in anthropi-induced endophthalmitis is more common after is generally regarded as a Gram-negative bacterium of cataract intraocular lens implantation , and low virulence, the potential exists for the pathogen to there is also a reported case of infection after artificial elicit more severe pathological alterations. The cloudi- corneal implantation . Infections related to implants ness of the corneal graft subsequent to O. anthropi infec- may be associated with the propensity of O. anthropi to tion in this instance may be attributed to the local eye adhere to the surfaces of synthetic materials . Some drops and anterior chamber injections employed during studies also suggest a correlation between post-cataract the infection treatment, which may have resulted in cor- surgery endophthalmitis and contamination of intraocu- neal endothelial damage [33–35]. lar irrigation fluids . Another report found that after Conclusion thorough cleaning of the cannula kit of an ultrasonic anthropi infection promptly disappeared . This report anthropi-induced keratitis following corneal transplanta- further confirms this hypothesis. tion. The clinical manifestations of the infection are lack- O. anthropi, being an opportunistic pathogen, mani- ing in specificity. Therefore, ophthalmologists must select fests infection significantly in individuals with compro- the most appropriate diagnostic approach to identify mised immune function and a history of both local and the pathogen and guide therapeutic interventions. For
