Liu et al. BMC Ophthalmology (2024) 24:234 BMC Ophthalmology
KEYWORDS: corneal, infection, anthropi, chamber, fungal, anterior, anterior chamber, transplantation, eye, corneal transplantation, infections, pus, case, patient, treatment


infection significantly in individuals with compro- the most appropriate diagnostic approach to identify mised immune function and a history of both local and the pathogen and guide therapeutic interventions. For systemic antibiotic usage . However, in this patients with conditions predisposing to local immune particular case, the patient did not employ any indwelling dysfunction, the possibility of O. anthropi infection or invasive medical devices, and comprehensive exami- should be considered promptly upon the onset of infec- nations, both physical and systemic, failed to reveal any tion. The corneal pathology induced by this pathogen symptoms. Based on the patient’s medical history, the warrants attention and merits further investigation. human Ochrobactrum anthropi infection in this case can Acknowledgment be attributed to local immune function decline after cor- Informed consent was received for publication of the figures in this article. neal transplantation. In addition, the patient had a his- Authors’ contributions tory of topical antibiotic use for 1 month prior to surgery, H.J were involved in the conception, logistics/planning (obtained informed which increased the risk of human O. anthropi infection consent, image acquisition with medical images) and revising the article. due to dysbiosis and antibiotic resistance. X.S were involved in the image acquisition and revising part of the article. L.L drafting the article and critically for important intellectual content and Despite the generally perceived low virulence of finished writing the final draft. C.W participated in the patient’s treatment, O.anthropi, its infection rates have gradually increased in involved in the logistics of the article. recent years due to its inherent multidrug resistance to H.X and L.H and R.H participated interpretation of images. All authors approved the final manuscript. Correspondence to Hui Jia and Xiaoru Shi. antibiotics. O. anthropi exhibits resistance to β-lactam drugs, particularly cephalosporins and penicillins, while Funding being sensitive to quinolone drugs and aminoglycoside The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any fund- ing agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors. drugs, especially amikacin and gentamicin . Our Competing interests: None declared. patient received prompt and adequate antibiotic treat- Provenance and peer review: Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. ment upon confirmation of the infection, effectively Patient consent for publication: Obtained. Availability of data and materials 13. Durand ML. Bacterial and Fungal Endophthalmitis. Clin Microbiol Rev. No datasets were generated or analysed during the current study. 2017;30(3):597–613. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1128/ CMR. 00113- 16. PMID: 28356323;
