NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atg, patients, liver, pmid, globulin, aplastic, pubmed pmid, pubmed, transplantation, anemia, aplastic anemia, antithymocyte, alt, antithymocyte globulin, elevations


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antithymocyte Globulin. [Updated 2017 Jul 25]. Bookshelf URL: Antithymocyte Globulin Updated: July 25, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) is an antibody preparation derived from rabbits or horses hyperimmunized with human thymocytes, which is used to prevent or treat acute cellular rejection after solid organ transplantation and as a therapy of acute aplastic anemia. ATG has been linked to acute elevations in serum enzyme elevations shortly following infusions, but has not been linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury. ATG is a potent immunosuppressive agent and may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in susceptible patients. Background Antithymocyte globulin is a hyperimmune globulin preparation made from plasma of rabbits or horses that have been immunized with human thymocytes or T cells. ATG is given by infusion only and leads to a rapid decrease in circulating T cells. ATG has been shown to be effective in preventing and treating acute cellular rejection a fter renal transplantation, and has been used extensively for the same indications after heart and liver transplantation. The antibodies are polyclonal and are directed at multiple T cell markers (such as CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD 11) as well as HLA markers, beta-2-microglobulin and other tissue antigens (including cytoplasmic and nuclear liver antigens). Equine ATG is also used to treat severe aplastic anemia. ATG was initially approved for use in the United States as treatment of acute cellular rejection after renal transplantation. Since then, the indications for its use have been broadened, although there remains considerable off label use as well. Two commercial products are available in the United States: Thymoglobulin (rabbit ATG) and Atgam (horse ATG). Dose regimens vary by product and clinical indications. The usual regimen for treating acute rejection in adults is a 7 to 14 day course of daily infusion of 1.5 mg/kg of Thymoglobulin or 15 mg/kg of Atgam. ATG is typically used in combination with other immunosuppressive agents and should be prescribed only by physicians experienced in management of immunosuppression. Adverse events are common during ATG administration, but many are due to the underlying condition and other complications of organ transplantation or aplastic anemia. Because ATG is made from animal serum, it can induce serious immune mediated reactions such as acute infusion reactions, anaphylaxis, serum sickness and cytokine release syndrome. ATG is a foreign protein
