NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atg, patients, liver, pmid, globulin, aplastic, pubmed pmid, pubmed, transplantation, anemia, aplastic anemia, antithymocyte, alt, antithymocyte globulin, elevations


ATG is made from animal serum, it can induce serious immune mediated reactions such as acute infusion reactions, anaphylaxis, serum sickness and cytokine release syndrome. ATG is a foreign protein (xenotypic) and may induce inactivating antibodies with repeated use. Furthermore, the initial engagement of T cells by the antibody can result in a transient, acute release of proinflammatory cytokines (cytokine release syndrome) with symptoms of high fever, weakness, dyspnea, nausea, chest pain and diarrhea arising within the first two days of starting therapy. Less common, but potentially severe adverse reactions reported to occur after ATG therapy include bacterial and opportunistic infections, reactivation of viral infections (EBV, HSV, CMV, HBV, RSV, among others), acute thromboses, and malignancies, particularly EBV- associated lymphoproliferative disorders. 2 LiverTox Hepatotoxicity When given as a part of induction therapy for solid organ transplantation, ATG has not been linked to serum enzyme elevations or hepatotoxicity, but it is given with other medications and in preparation for major surgery so that some degree of liver injury might well be missed. In patients with aplastic anemia given ATG, transient serum enzyme elevations arising a few days after the infusions have been reported to occur in up to one-third of patients. These abnormalities generally resolve spontaneously without jaundice or symptoms. Serum alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin levels rise minimally, if at all. There have been no convincing cases of acute, clinically apparent liver injury caused by ATG infusions. Indeed, administration of ATG for acute rejection after liver transplantation is usually followed by a prompt decrease in serum enzymes and jaundice, and administration of ATG for aplastic anemia with hepatitis or hepatitis from check point inhibitors such as ipilumumab commonly results in a prompt improvement in the jaundice and serum enzyme elevations. ATG has occasionally been implicated in causing a worsening of chronic hepatitis C after transplantation, but is not generally implicated as a major cause of long term severe outcomes of recurrent hepatitis C infection. Likelihood score: E* (unproven, but suspected cause of anicteric liver injury). ATG is a potent immunosuppressive agent and may be capable of causing reactivation of chronic hepatitis B. However, when used in prevention of organ rejection it has not been linked to cases of reactivation, perhaps because patients at risk are routinely given prophylaxis and the role of ATG versus other rejection medications (cyclosporine, tacrolimus, corticosteroids) is not clear. Mechanism of Injury The cause of serum enzyme
