NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atg, patients, liver, pmid, globulin, aplastic, pubmed pmid, pubmed, transplantation, anemia, aplastic anemia, antithymocyte, alt, antithymocyte globulin, elevations


patients at risk are routinely given prophylaxis and the role of ATG versus other rejection medications (cyclosporine, tacrolimus, corticosteroids) is not clear. Mechanism of Injury The cause of serum enzyme elevations after ATG use is not known, but may relate to cytotoxicity of the polyclonal antibodies to liver cells or to the known propensity of injured, apoptotic T lymphocytes to home to the liver. Liver injury generally arises after ATG infusions have stopped or between courses of treatment. Outcome and Management The liver injury associated with ATG therapy is generally mild and self-limited without symptoms or jaundice. The other forms of hypersensitivity reactions to ATG are usually more likely to call for alteration in administration or avoidance of further infusions. Monoclonal agents used in the treatment or prevention of transplant rejection include alemtuzumab, basiliximab, daclizumab, and muromonab. Drug Class: Transplant Agents, Polyclonal Antibodies PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Antithymocyte Globulin [Equine] – Atgam® Antithymocyte Globulin [Rabbit] – Thymoglobulin® DRUG CLASS Transplant Agents COMPLETE LABELING Box continues on next page... Antithymocyte Globulin 3 Box continued from previous page. Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NO. MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Antithymocyte [Antilymphocyte] 308067-60-9 Polyclonal Antibody Not Available Globulin ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 25 July 2017 Reuben A. Hepatotoxicity of immunosuppressive drugs. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2011, pp. 569-91. (Review of hepatotoxicity of immunosuppressive agents mentions ATG and problems of reactivation of hepatitis). Krensky AM, Bennett WM, Vincenti F. Immunosuppressants, tolerogens, and immunostimulants. In, Brunton ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2011, pp. 1005-1029. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). antilymphocyte globulin in renal homotransplantation. Transplantation 1967; 5: Suppl: 1100-5. PubMed PMID: 4167452. (Among 20 renal transplant recipients treated with antilymphocyte globulin [horse], 19 survived and had good renal function after 1-7 months; no mention of ALT elevations or hepatotoxicity). PMID: 4103453. (Review of the history of development, mechanism of action, efficacy and side effects of antilymphocyte globulin; no mention of ALT elevations or hepatotoxicity). Doney KC, Weiden PL, Buckner CD, Storb R, Thomas ED. Treatment of severe aplastic anemia using antithymocyte globulin with or without an infusion of HLA haploidentical marrow. Exp Hematol 1981; 9: 829-34. PubMed PMID: 7035206. (Among 19 patients with aplastic anemia treated with ATG with or without marrow infusions, survival was 42% and side effects included fever and chills in all, rash in
