European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483
KEYWORDS: detroper, ton, lin, violaceum, children, mem, child, txs, pic, evitisnes, treatment, detroper ton, derevocer, pzt, neg


BRIEF REPORT Chromobacterium violaceum infections in children: two case reports and literature review ZhiHong Jiang1 · YiFan Ren1 · Sheng Ye2 Received: 10 August 2024 / Accepted: 17 September 2024 / Published online: 17 October 2024 © The Author(s) 2024 Abstract Purpose Chromobacterium violaceum(C. violaceum) is a gram-negative bacterium that rarely infects humans, especially children. However, the mortality rate is high and there are no clear guidelines for treatment. The aim of this paper is to increase clinicians’ awareness of diseases caused by C. violaceum infections in children, to diagnose and treat them in a timely manner, to improve patient survival and to reduce mortality. Results We analysed the latest paediatric-related English language literature over the last 10 years and summarised the latest mechanisms of injury, susceptibility factors, adverse prognostic and mortality predictors, mortality rates, methods to reduce for C. violaceum. Conclusions Based on the available data, we conclude that the possibility of C. violaceum infection should be considered and diagnosed when cellulitis, septicaemia and visceral abscesses develop in children with a history of skin injury and expo- sure to stagnant water or soil. When clinicians strongly suspect that a child is infected with this bacterium, the recommended medication is ciprofloxacin if the child presents with severe illness. If the child has a non-severe condition, medications with relatively fewer side effects for children can be chosen, such as gentamicin, trimethoprim/ sulfamethoxazole, imipenem, and other drugs. The physician can then adjust the antimicrobial regimen based on the antimicrobial spectrum after obtaining the drug sensitivity results. Keywords Chromobacterium violaceum · Infection · Treatment · Children Introduction Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment are important. With global warming, the number of people infected with C. violaceum is a gram-negative γ-protebacterium, which C. violaceum around the world is increasing, and the num- is a facultative anaerobic, and oxidase-positive. It is sensi- bers of children infected are also increasing accordingly. tive to temperature and is widely distributed in freshwater This article reports two cases of infection in children since and soil in tropical and sub-tropical regions. It is usually the establishment of the Zhejiang University Medical Col- . The bacteria can cause abscess in the infected area, for children in the last decade (2015–2024). and can penetrate the bloodstream to cause sepsis, which can cause various organ failure, shock and even death. Case 1 In August 2013, a 4-month-old infant was admitted to the history of
