European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483
KEYWORDS: detroper, ton, lin, violaceum, children, mem, child, txs, pic, evitisnes, treatment, detroper ton, derevocer, pzt, neg


penetrate the bloodstream to cause sepsis, which can cause various organ failure, shock and even death. Case 1 In August 2013, a 4-month-old infant was admitted to the history of swimming and chronic granulomatous disease Medicine, Hangzhou, China 1 3 2478 European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483 costal margin. Laboratory tests upon admission yielded the beginning of the illness. The parents refused the surgical 67.3% neutrophils, and CRP > 160 mg/L. Enhanced CT tomatic treatment without antibiotics for the first 4 days of showed many abscesses in the liver (Fig. 1). The patient was admission. The boy had suffered from cellulitis in the ear empirically treated with intravenous imipenem and metro- a month earlier. Physical examination showed the follow- nidazole for 6 days in addition to symptomatic treatment. ing: body temperature was 38.4 °C, and twists were audible The patient underwent liver abscess drainage on the 6th in both lungs. The liver and spleen were approximately day. C. violaceum was cultured from pus and blood samples 4 cm below the costal margins, and both lower extremi- on the 7th day. Drug sensitivity tests have shown that the ties were swollen. Laboratory tests showed the following perazone/sulbactam, ciprofloxacin, furantoin, gentamicin, phils, CRP 173 mg/L; coagulation activated partial throm- kanamycin, levofloxacin, sulfamethoxazole, tobramycin, boplastin time (APTT) 50.6 s, and D-dimer 1840 mg/L. and piperacillin tazobactam, but is resistant to ampicillin, Abdominal ultrasound examination showed splenomegaly amoxicillin potassium clavulanate, ceftriaxone, cefazolin, and hepatomegaly. Chest X-ray showed exudative alveolar and cefoxitin. The treatment regimen was changed to oral inflammation in both lungs (Fig. 2a). The child was treated cotrimoxazole and intravenous meropenem for 29 days. empirically with antibiotics such as meropenem, linezolid, symptoms disappeared without fever. The third blood and ment. Three hours after admission, the child developed pus culture results were negative and abdominal ultrasound signs of shock (blood pressure 72/19 mmHg; heart rate showed disappearance of intrahepatic abscess. The child 132 beats/min, respiratory rate 60 beats/min). Thirteen recovered well and was discharged after one month of oral hours after admission, the child died after treatment with compound sulfamethoxazole, and was followed up for 12 antishock therapy, mechanical ventilation, and continuous years without recurrence. renal replacement therapy (CRRT). Bacteria were cultured on blood agar at a temperature of 35 °C in a carbon diox- ide incubator. After 24 h, the bacteria grew well(Fig. 2b). Case 2 Subsequently, the VITEK2
