European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483
KEYWORDS: detroper, ton, lin, violaceum, children, mem, child, txs, pic, evitisnes, treatment, detroper ton, derevocer, pzt, neg


were cultured on blood agar at a temperature of 35 °C in a carbon diox- ide incubator. After 24 h, the bacteria grew well(Fig. 2b). Case 2 Subsequently, the VITEK2 system version (BioMérieux, France) fully automated microbial identification and anti- In September 2023, a 6-year-old boy was admitted to the microbial susceptibility testing instrument, along with the with fever and rash for 4 days. The child presented with were used for microbial identification and drug sensitivity painful swelling and haematoma sclerosis of the right foot at testing, identifying the microorganism as C. violaceum. Because the blood culture results were not available until after the child’s death, no further drug susceptibility tests were conducted. As the child had a history of skin injury and cluded that the infectious agent was C. violaceum. Discussion C. violaceum is a tropical pathogen that rarely affects humans. its fatal infectivity in buffaloes was first described by Woolley in 1905 ; Lessar JE reported the first human case in Malaysia in 1927 , and nearly 200 human cases have been reported in the English literature. The English lit- erature was searched in PubMed, Web of Science and other online databases using the search terms " C. violaceum, infant, child, neonate” for the time period between 2015 and June 2024 only. Data were comprehensively collected and duplicates removed. A total of 16 case series of childhood infections were collected (excluding these cases), most of Fig. 1 CT abdomen, two abscesses in the liver 1 3 European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483 2479 F ig. 2 a Chest X-ray, exudative alveolar inflammation in both lungs. b Violet black pigmenta- tion of the C. violaceum on sheep blood agar, after incubation at 37°c for 24 h ) which were case reports (Table 1). Most cases of childhood visceral abscesses (mainly in the liver and lungs), while infections were from tropical and subtropical regions. C. other clinical manifestations may include urinary tract violaceum have been reported to be predominantly found infections, osteomyelitis, fasciitis, ocular infections, menin- in warm climates between 35°N latitude in the north and gitis, otitis media, and may even lead to serious conditions south of the world . The patients in cases 1 and 2 of such as haemophagocytic syndrome, respiratory distress this paper were from southern China distributed in coastal syndromes, and multi-organ dysfunction. Of the seven areas with high summer temperatures
