European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483
KEYWORDS: detroper, ton, lin, violaceum, children, mem, child, txs, pic, evitisnes, treatment, detroper ton, derevocer, pzt, neg


and 2 of such as haemophagocytic syndrome, respiratory distress this paper were from southern China distributed in coastal syndromes, and multi-organ dysfunction. Of the seven areas with high summer temperatures (about 30 °C). The children with serious conditions (serious illness defined as source of infection was mostly community-acquired, with survival or death in the intensive care unit(ICU)), all had 62.5% of the children suspected to have been exposed to sepsis. Therefore, in children, sepsis is a significant predic- the organism through damaged skin, and 37.5% had a clear tor of poor outcome and death. The children in our case history of water or soil exposure. As in previous studies, had sepsis. Previous studies have shown the mechanism children with skin damage and exposure to contaminated of injury of C. violaceum, the bacteria can invade by dam- water or soil were predisposing factors. Occasional cases of aging the host’s epithelial cells and also promote abscess nodeficiencies such as CGD, diabetes mellitus, and glu- virulence mechanisms such as the quorum-sensing system cose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency may (CviI/CviR) and the bacterial III secretion system (T3SS) be important susceptibility factors . In these situations, . A review of the literature showed that the mortality rate neutrophils and monocytes lack the ability to produce the of children infected with C. violaceum in the last decade oxygen metabolites required to kill phagocytosed bacteria, was 18.75%, which is much lower than the 53% mortality which makes patients more susceptible to develop sepsis and rate reported previously . There may be increasing recog- for the infection to spread to various visceral organs . In nition of the virulence of C. violaceum, and increased posi- this article, no underlying predisposing diseases were found tivity of cultures, more aggressive and effective antibiotic in either of the two pediatric patients. Among the infected therapy, and more advanced adjunctive therapies (extracor- children, majority were boys (62.5%) and minority were poreal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), continuous renal girls (37.5%). The possible reason for the gender difference replacement therapy, mechanical ventilation, etc.) may help was that most boys were more active and participated in to reduce mortality. Of the seven children with severe dis- more outdoor activities than girls. They are more exposed to ease who survived, 100 per cent had varying degrees of use stagnant water, soil and injuries than girls. of advanced adjuvant therapies. Clinical signs of C. violaceum infections are varied. Most
