European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483
KEYWORDS: detroper, ton, lin, violaceum, children, mem, child, txs, pic, evitisnes, treatment, detroper ton, derevocer, pzt, neg


naelA laner TXS ,DIL lios -itlum ,kcohs citpes ]61[ )8102( tnemecalper PIC ,MEM eruliaf metsys nagro ypareht ,VM sisylaid liN liN htaeD LCA ,ORC ,TXS ,LUQ ,PZT ,ZAC :evitisneS toN detroper toN niks cihpromylop )M(oy 5.0 aidnI te nanhsirkipoG NAV ,MEM FMA detroper ,snoitpure ]71[ )1202( .la FMA ,PIC citpes dna ainomuenP kcohs liN liN derevoceR MEM ,FMA ,PEF ,MEM ,NEG ,FMA :evitisneS suoromut detroper toN sitilullec )M(oy anihC te naujiL XVL ,MPI snoisel ]7[ )1202(.la PZT ,ZAC :tnatsiseR liN liN derevoceR XMC PEF ,NEG ,PIC :evitisneS toN detroper toN ,dnuow nikS )M(oy ayisyalaM .la te n nahC PIC PZT ,ZAC :tnatsiseR detroper ssecsba revil ]9[ )1202( FMA ,PEF liN liN derevoceR ILC PEF ,NEG :evitisneS toN gnimmiws sitilullec citorcen )F(oy iabuD .la te simeL PIC ,PEF ZAC :tnatsiseR detroper ]81[ )3202( 1 3 European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases (2024) 43:2477–2483 culture results. When pediatric patients present with severe conditions such as sepsis symptoms, NGS can be selected to assist in diagnosis. NGS is a very promising tool for rapid diagnosis of Clostridium difficile infection, which can pre- vent delayed diagnosis and misdiagnosis of Clostridium difficile infection in patients with purulent discharge and negative blood culture tests . Regarding treatment, are no clear guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. C. viola- ceum are usually resistant to penicillin, first- and second- generation cephalosporins, with variable susceptibility to third-generation cephalosporins, carbapenems andami- noglycosides . Ciprofloxacin has been shown to be the most effective antibiotic against purple chromobacteria, fol- lowed by norfloxacin and parfloxacin . Limited data sug- gest that the mechanism of resistance may be related to the production of β-lactamases and modification of lipid A to β-lactams and polymyxins within this bacterium . Same as drug susceptibility in children. Out of 16 cases recorded, 10 (62.5%) children were treated with ciprofloxacin or other quinolones with good efficacy and prognosis. When treating children with C. violaceum infections, the recommended medication is ciprofloxacin if the child is severely ill, and medications with relatively few side effects for children, such as gentamicin, cotrimoxazole, and imipenem, can be chosen if the child has a non-severe illness. However, in paediatric patients, quinolones may lead to a risk of irre- versible bone and joint damage . For therapeutic medica- tions, ingredients such as palmitic acid, theophylline, and taurine need to be further studied for effective treatment of the disease . In previous studies, severely ill
