ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: patients, skin, ibd, bowel, inflammatory, study, inflammatory bowel, disease, lesions, acne, alopecia, manifestations, bowel disease, skin lesions, common


ORIGINAL ARTICLE Prevalence of skin lesions in a sample of Brazilian patients with inflammatory bowel disease Taciana Malosti da Silveira1 , Milena Kroyzanovski1 , Katia Sheylla Malta Purim2 , Odery Ramos Júnior1,3 , Thelma Skare1 , Renato Nisihara1,2,3* SUMMARY OBJECTIVE: Inflammatory bowel diseases may have extra intestinal manifestations such as those affecting the skin. This study aimed to study skin manifestations in a cohort of Brazilian patients with inflammatory bowel diseases. METHODS: Epidemiological and clinical data were obtained through a cross-sectional study of 70 inflammatory bowel diseases patients and a control group comprising 50 healthy individuals. All patients were subjected to dermatological examination and photography of skin lesions. of the inflammatory bowel diseases patients and in 88% of individuals in the control group (p=0.001). Alopecia (p<0.0001), xerosis (p=0.03), striae (p=0.02), and acne (p=0.04) were more common in inflammatory bowel diseases patients than in the control group. Alopecia was more frequent in females (p=0.01) than in males. Two male patients, one with ulcerative colitis and the other with Crohn’s disease, had pyoderma gangrenosum. Erythema nodosum was not observed in both groups. striae, and acne were more common in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases than in those in the control group. KEYWORDS: Inflammatory bowel disease. Pyoderma gangrenosum. Alopecia. Skin care. INTRODUCTION intestinal disease. The skin lesions share similar pathophysio- Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are autoimmune diseases logic mechanisms with intestinal involvement or may appear as affecting the intestinal mucosa and caused by a complex inter- lesions that are secondary either to the treatment or the malab- action of genetic and environmental factors1. In Brazil, IBD is sorption5. Specific lesions, including perianal fistula and peri- more frequent in females than in males and occurs more fre- anal abscess, are more common in CD. Erythema nodosum quently during the third to fifth decade of life2. IBD is subdi- (EN), pyoderma gangrenosum, and Sweet’s syndrome are found vided into Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC); in the group of reactive lesions. Skin manifestations secondary location and depth of the affected intestinal wall are some to malnutrition or malabsorption occur due to a shortage of of the differences between them. UC affects the mucosa and vitamins and microminerals. For example, angular stomatitis submucosa of the gastrointestinal tract and characteristically is due to deficiencies of vitamin B12 and iron, phrynoderma initiates in the rectum spreading proximally. CD involves the is due to vitamin A deficiency, scurvy
