ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: patients, skin, ibd, bowel, inflammatory, study, inflammatory bowel, disease, lesions, acne, alopecia, manifestations, bowel disease, skin lesions, common


gastrointestinal tract and characteristically is due to deficiencies of vitamin B12 and iron, phrynoderma initiates in the rectum spreading proximally. CD involves the is due to vitamin A deficiency, scurvy is due to a deficit of vita- whole thickness of the intestinal wall, from the mucosa to the min C, and seborrheic dermatitis is due to vitamin E and zinc serosa, and may appear in any part of the gastrointestinal tract1. deficiency. Hair loss and skin rashes or allergic reactions may In addition to gastrointestinal tract involvement, IBD may affect be secondary to the immune-suppressive treatment. Psoriasis several other systems, leading to high morbidity and poor quality and infections of the skin are associated with anti-TNF-al- of life1,3. Skin involvement is among the extraintestinal manifesta- pha use2,5,6. Moreover, there are other skin manifestations that tions of IBD and appears in more than 10% of affected individuals4. are more common in IBD patients than in the general pop- The skin involvement associated with IBD may be spe- ulation. They are usually associated with a special expression cific, having the same histological characteristics as those of the of the HLA gene and a chronic inflammatory state. Psoriasis, 2Universidade Positivo, Departmento de Medicina – Curitiba (PR), Brazil. *Corresponding author: ; Conflicts of interest: the authors declare there is no conflicts of interest. Funding: none. Received on May 02, 2023. Accepted on May 27, 2023. Rev Assoc Med Bras. 2023;69(8):e20230165 Skin lesions in patients with inflammatory bowel disease skin vasculitis, autoimmune bullous dermatoses, vitiligo, mul- use of treatment drugs and the presence of acne. p-Values less tiform erythema, phlebitis, lichen planus, urticaria, secondary than 5% were considered statistically significant. amyloidosis, and squamous cell carcinoma are some of them5. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of skin man- RESULTS ifestations and to identify possible epidemiologic factors asso- ciated with their occurrence. Description of studied sample The studied sample included 70 IBD patients, of whom 45 (64.2%) METHODS were females, with a mean age of 44.7±14.7 years. CD were diag- nosed in 50 (71.4%) and 20 (28.6%) with UC. About treatment, Ethical issues aminosalicylates were used by 68.2%, azathioprine by 34.2%, bio- This study was approved by the local Committee of Ethics in logical drugs by 24.2%, glucocorticoids by 10%, methotrexate by Research, under permit number 4.252.1444 and adhered to 1.4%, and no medications by 7.1% of patients. the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
