ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: patients, skin, ibd, bowel, inflammatory, study, inflammatory bowel, disease, lesions, acne, alopecia, manifestations, bowel disease, skin lesions, common


by 24.2%, glucocorticoids by 10%, methotrexate by Research, under permit number 4.252.1444 and adhered to 1.4%, and no medications by 7.1% of patients. the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. All participants As a control group, we invited 50 individuals. Patients and signed consent forms. controls were paired, and there are no differences for gender (p=0.84), age (p=0.08), years of formal education (p=0.27), Sample and study design and Fitzpatrick phototype (p=0.57). This study was a cross-sectional study conducted from October 2020 to March 2022 at a single Gastroenterology Outpatient Clinic that Skin findings cares for IBD patients from the Brazilian Public Health System. Table 1 shows the comparison of the main skin lesions in Patients diagnosed with IBD according to the European Crohn’s patients with IBD and a matched control group. The follow- and Colitis Organization and the European Society of Gastrointestinal ing lesions were found in patients with IBD: dermatofibroma, and Abdominal Radiology guidelines7 and older than 18 years of age eczema, dyshidrosis, actinic keratosis, drug lichenoid eruptions, were included in the study. This is a convenience sample that included striated lichen, scleroatrophic lichen, hidradenitis, dysplastic all patients that came for a regular consultation during the above nevus, depapillated tongue, keloidal folliculitis, pityriasis ver- period and were invited to participate according to their appoint- sicolor, plantar wart, tinea corporis, chronic pigmented pur- ment order and willingness to participate in the study. The control pura, urticaria, erythema pernio, rosacea, hyperhidrosis, stri- group consisted of their companions who were declared healthy. ated melanonychia, varicose ulcer, venous lake, eczematoid, Data were obtained from direct questioning or through chart and drug granulomatous reaction. These lesions were excluded review and included: epidemiological data (age, sex, years of formal from Table 1 due to their low prevalence of 1.4% (only one case education, and phototype according to the Fitzpatrick scale8) and clin- of each lesion was found among the 70 patients with IBD). ical data (IBD type, disease duration, comorbidities, and treatment). The comparison of the most prevalent lesions according to Dermatological examinations, consisting of full inspec- the IBD type is shown in Table 2. The only observed differ- tion and palpation of the patient’s skin, were performed. These ence was in the striae that were more common in CD patients examinations were performed by two researchers trained and than in UC patients. In addition, the distribution of the most supervised by a dermatologist. Each
