ORIGINAL ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: patients, skin, ibd, bowel, inflammatory, study, inflammatory bowel, disease, lesions, acne, alopecia, manifestations, bowel disease, skin lesions, common


usually B12, iron, and zinc may have also contributed to this finding13,14. appears in those with severe bowel disease19. Pyoderma gangre- Unfortunately, micronutrients were not measured in this study, nosum is regarded as a skin lesion associated with UC and more precluding any conclusion on their etiology. Hair is important common in females4,20, but in this study, one of the patients had to a patient’s corporal image, and alopecia may have a negative CD, and both were males. In patients with CD, pyoderma gan- impact on an individual’s quality of life, influencing social rela- grenosum prevalence has been estimated to be 0.7%21. tionships and self-esteem. These harmful effects are usually more None of the patients in the present study had EN, although it prevalent and important in females15. is considered the most common form of reactive lesion in IBD21. The occurrence of xerosis cutis could have been caused by This study is limited by the small number of patients many factors. Use of drugs such as anti-TNF-alpha may play recruited and its cross-sectional design. However, it is import- a role, although it was not possible to prove this association in ant in that it is the first to report the prevalence of skin lesions the present study. Cleynen et al.16 found xerosis cutis occurred in Brazilian patients with IBD. in 10.6% of their IBD patients who used anti-TNF-alpha In conclusion, in this study, there was a high prevalence of for a median time of 1.0 year. Nutritional aspects could also skin lesions in the Brazilian IBD patients. Additionally, alopecia, Rev Assoc Med Bras. 2023;69(8):e20230165 Silveira TM et al. xerosis, striae, and acne were more common in IBD patients Investigation, Writing – original draft. KSMP: Conceptualization, than in the control group. Data curation, Investigation, Writing – original draft. ORJ: Conceptualization, Data curation, Investigation, Writing – original draft. TS: Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal AUTHORS’ CONTRIBUTIONS Analysis Writing – original draft. RN: Project administra- TMS: Conceptualization, Data curation, Investigation, Writing tion, Supervision, Formal Analysis , Writing – original draft, – original draft. MK: Conceptualization, Data curation, Writing – review & editing. REFERENCES 11. Khatana UF, Qamar A, Ashfaq MB. Infliximab-associated acneiform eruption in a patient with inflammatory bowel disease. Cureus. 1. Pagani K, Lukac D, Bhukhan A, McGee JS. Cutaneous manifestations 2021;13(9):e18213. of inflammatory bowel disease: a basic overview. Am J Clin 12. Garcovich S, Amelia R, Magarelli N, Valenza V, Amerio P. Long-term
