J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:25–32
KEYWORDS: acute, pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, level, blood, diagnosis, pancreatic, amylase, abdominal, levels, diseases, criteria, lipase, diagnosis acute, patients


J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:25–32 DOI JPN Guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis: diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis Masaru Koizumi1, Tadahiro Takada2,*, Yoshifumi Kawarada3, Koichi Hirata4, Toshihiko Mayumi5, Masahiro Yoshida2, Miho Sekimoto6, Masahiko Hirota7, Yasutoshi Kimura4, Kazunori Takeda8, Shuji Isaji9, Makoto Otsuki10,**, and Seiki Matsuno11,*** Kitakyushu, Japan Abstract — Ultrasonography (US) is also one of the procedures that The currently used diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis in should be performed in all patients with suspected acute Japan are presentation with at least two of the following three pancreatitis. manifestations: (1) acute abdominal pain and tenderness in — Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is one of the most the upper abdomen; (2) elevated levels of pancreatic enzyme important imaging procedures for diagnosing acute pan- in the blood, urine, or ascitic fluid; and (3) abnormal imaging creatitis and its intraperitoneal complications. findings in the pancreas associated with acute pancreatitis. — Computed tomography (CT) is also one of the most im- When a diagnosis is made on this basis, other pancreatic dis- portant imaging procedures for diagnosing acute pancre- eases and acute abdomen can be ruled out. The purpose of atitis and its intraabdominal complications. CT should be this article is to review the conventional criteria and, in par- performed when a diagnosis of acute pancreatitis cannot enzyme values, with the aim of improving the quality of diag- of blood and urine tests, or US, or when the etiology of the nosis of acute pancreatitis and formulating common interna- pancreatitis is unknown. tionally agreed criteria. The review considers the following — When acute pancreatitis is suspected, chest and abdominal recommendations: X-ray examinations should be performed to determine whether any abnormal findings caused by acute pancreati- — Better even than the total blood amylase level, the blood tis are present. lipase level is the best pancreatic enzyme for the diagnosis — Because the etiology of acute pancreatitis can have a cru- of acute pancreatitis and its differentiation from other cial influence on both the treatment policy and severity diseases. assessment, it should be evaluated promptly and accu- — A pivotal factor in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is rately. It is particularly important to differentiate between identifying an increase in pancreatic enzymes in the blood. gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis, which requires treat- ment of the biliary system, and alcohol-induced acute pan- creatitis, which requires a different form of treatment. Offprint requests to: M. Koizumi
