J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:25–32
KEYWORDS: acute, pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, level, blood, diagnosis, pancreatic, amylase, abdominal, levels, diseases, criteria, lipase, diagnosis acute, patients


the blood. gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis, which requires treat- ment of the biliary system, and alcohol-induced acute pan- creatitis, which requires a different form of treatment. Offprint requests to: M. Koizumi Key words Acute pancreatitis · Criteria for diagnosing acute *President, Japanese Society of Emergency Abdominal pancreatitis · Laboratory diagnosis · Computed tomography Medicine; President, Japanese Society of Hepato- Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery; President, Asian-Pacific Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association **Chairman, Intractable Pancreatic Disease Investiga- tion and Research Group of the Japanese Ministry of ***President, Japan Pancreas Society 26 M. Koizumi et al.: Diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis Clinical questions fluid; and (3) the presence of abnormal imaging findings in the pancreas that are associated with acute pancreati- nosing acute pancreatitis? creatic diseases and acute abdomen can be ruled out. CQ2. Which pancreatic enzymes should be mea- In Japan, many surgeons and physicians specializing sured to diagnose acute pancreatitis? in digestive system diseases and emergency medicine CQ3. What is the optimal examination for are familiar with abdominal ultrasonography (US) and diagnosing acute pancreatitis? perform it routinely. Magnetic resonance imaging CQ4. Is US effective in diagnosing acute (MRI) is less popular than X-rays or computed tomo- pancreatitis? graphy (CT) scanning and is not a routine procedure in CQ5. Is MRI effective in diagnosing acute emergency examinations for abdominal diseases. pancreatitis? The purpose of this article is to review the conven- CQ6. Is CT effective in diagnosing acute tional criteria and, in particular, the various methods of pancreatitis? diagnosis based on pancreatic enzyme values, with the CQ7. Are plain X-ray examinations useful in aim of improving the quality of the diagnosis of acute diagnosing acute pancreatitis? pancreatitis and of formulating common, internation- CQ8. Is the etiology of a specific case of acute ally agreed upon criteria. pancreatitis necessary for its diagnosis? Diagnostic criteria Clinical symptoms and signs Introduction Clinical question (CQ) 1. Are clinical symptoms and The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis has been based on signs useful in diagnosing acute pancreatitis? the clinical manifestations and results of blood- It is essential to interview all patients (including those biochemistry tests, but there are few common criteria with consciousness disorders or who are in a state of that strictly specify the parameters to be used in shock), take their medical histories, and perform a diagnosis. physical examination (Recommendation A) The criteria currently used to diagnose acute pancre- atitis in Japan were originally developed by the Re- Abdominal pain, pain radiating
