J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:25–32
KEYWORDS: acute, pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, level, blood, diagnosis, pancreatic, amylase, abdominal, levels, diseases, criteria, lipase, diagnosis acute, patients


ing the blood P-amylase level as a useful indicator, be- Ultrasonography (US) is capable of identifying pancre- cause the abnormally high level is maintained for longer atic enlargement and inflammatory changes near the than are the abnormal blood amylase levels in acute pancreas, and it may be useful in diagnosing acute pan- pancreatitis (Levels 3b),25 but another report showed creatitis. Although, in severe cases, visualization of the that the blood P-amylase level did not improve sensitiv- pancreas and peripancreatic tissue may be impaired by ity or specificity (Level 2b).17 The diagnostic value of the gas in the intestinal tract (Levels 1b-2b),34,35 the visual- P-amylase level for acute pancreatitis requires further ization rate is 62% to 90% for the pancreas, 100% for study. the peripancreatic tissue in the anterior paranephric cavity, 90% in the cavity of the lesser omentum, and Blood elastase-1 and other pancreatic enzymes 65% in the mesentery (Levels 1b-2b).34,35 Ultrasonogra- phy may also visualize abnormal findings associated Clinically measurable extrapancreatic enzymes can be with the etiology and morbidity of acute pancreatitis, roughly classified into blood and urine amylase, P- such as ascites, gallstones, and cholangiectasis. It is amylase (amylase isozyme), and serum lipase, whose particularly important to check for the presence of enzymatic activity is measured by an enzyme-chemical cholecholithiasis and cholangiectasis when judging method; and serum elastase-1, serum trypsin, and serum whether endoscopic sphincterotomy for gallstone pan- phospholipase A2 (PLA2), whose antigen levels are creatitis is required. It is desirable to examine patients measured immunologically. Because the immunological repeatedly, using US, even when no gallstones are de- measurements require a lot of time, it is difficult to use tected by the initial examination. US is also useful for them as a routine procedure for the diagnosis of acute screening for comorbidities such as aneurysms. pancreatitis. A latex agglutination method has enabled the rapid, convenient measurement of the serum elastase-1 level. Elastase-1 has the advantage of main- Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) taining an abnormally high value for longer than the levels of other pancreatic enzymes (Level 3b),26,27 al- CQ5. Is MRI effective in diagnosing acute though the ability to diagnose or assess the severity of pancreatitis? acute pancreatitis (Level 2b)28 was not improved by the MRI is one of the most important imaging procedures combined use of the serum elastase-1 and blood amy- for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis and its lase levels. intraabdominal complications (Recommendation B) Trypsin
