J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:25–32
KEYWORDS: acute, pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, level, blood, diagnosis, pancreatic, amylase, abdominal, levels, diseases, criteria, lipase, diagnosis acute, patients


it requires no such as perforation caused by a gastroduodenal ulcer, operation of the duodenal papilla and there is no risk and it allows the diagnosis of comorbidities in intra- of aggravating acute pancreatitis. Although MRCP is abdominal organs and complications of pancreatitis; it is noninvasive, it has the disadvantages of less clear imag- also an important procedure for assessing the severity of ing than endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreato- graphy (ERCP) and impaired visualization due to peripancreatic fluid collection. Computed tomography (CT) CQ6. Is CT effective in diagnosing acute pancreatitis? CT is one of the most important imaging procedures for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis and its intraab- dominal complications. CT should be performed when the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis cannot be estab- lished on the basis of the clinical findings and the results of blood and urine tests and US, or when the etiology of the pancreatitis is unknown (Recommenda- tion B) CT is unaffected by the adipose tissue in the abdominal Fig. 2. Plain CT shows enlarged pancreas, associated hazi- wall and inside the abdominal cavity, and it provides ness, and increased density of peripancreatic fat Fig. 1. Plain computed tomography (CT) shows enlargement of the pancreatic body and tail and poorly defined margins of Fig. 3. Contrast-enhanced CT shows low-density region of the the pancreatic body pancreatic tail and fluid in the left anterior pararenal space M. Koizumi et al.: Diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis 31 acute pancreatitis and selecting a treatment plan. CT ERCP should be performed in patients with acute scanning is especially needed in severe acute pancreati- gallstone pancreatitis who are strongly suspected of tis, where adequate information cannot be obtained by having gallstones, but only for the purposes of deter- US because of abdominal pain and the complication of mining etiology and performing endoscopic treatment. ileus. ERCP has several risk factors (level 2b).44 Because ERCP may exacerbate the inflammation at the onset of acute pancreatitis, it should be performed only for lim- Plain X-rays ited indications. The guidelines of the British Society of Gastroenterology recommend the performance of CQ7. Are plain X-ray examinations useful in diag- ERCP in patients with jaundice, liver disorders, or nosing acute pancreatitis? cholangioectasis, and in those who are strongly sus- When acute pancreatitis is suspected, chest and ab- pected of having cholecholithiasis and have had re- dominal X-ray examinations should be performed to peated attacks of pancreatitis.45 Patients with
