Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


uncontrolled liver apoptosis. IKKα can only partially compensate License ( which permits unrestricted use, distribution and reproduction in any medium provided that the original work is properly attributed. for the loss of IKKβ (Li et al., 1999a; Li et al., 1999b). Disease Models & Mechanisms 1031 MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis administration of LPS/PepG or CLP, including the degree of IκBα TRANSLATIONAL IMPACT phosphorylation, the nuclear translocation of NF-κB subunit p65, the tissue levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and the Clinical issue degree of phosphorylation of Akt and endothelial nitric oxide Sepsis is the systemic inflammatory response to infection. The condition is synthase (eNOS), all of which are known to mediate some of the associated with a wide range of serious clinical problems that can ultimately lead to multiple organ failure and death. Interventions that target specific key effects in experimental sepsis in many organs, including the aspects of sepsis pathophysiology have been successful in animal studies, but heart and the liver. not in clinical trials.One obstacle to clinical translation is the high degree of Both animal models employed in this study recapitulate some variability in patient immune responses, necessitating the development of individual features of sepsis while minimizing others and therefore targeted therapies to treat stratified patient populations. There is mounting complement each other to enable us to gain a better and more evidence that inhibition of NF-B activation can reduce sepsis-associated complete insight into the role of IKK inhibition in sepsis. organ dysfunction and injury. However, most of the inhibitors involved have to RESULTS need to develop interventions that target a later stage in NF-B activation. The IκB kinase (IKK) complex is involved in one of the final steps in the pathway; Effect of LPS/PepG administration and treatment with IKK 16 on therefore, inhibition of this complex could represent a promising approach for cardiac function in mice the timely control of sepsis-associated organ failure. Left ventricular (LV) function was assessed by echocardiography 24 hours after administration of vehicle or LPS/PepG. There were Results Here, the effects of delayed administration of a specific IKK inhibitor, IKK 16, on no significant differences in heart rate or temperature of all groups multiple organ dysfunction and injury were examined in two different mouse (P>0.05; Table 1). Fig. 1A shows representative M-mode models of experimental sepsis. The authors report that activation
