Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


all groups multiple organ dysfunction and injury were examined in two different mouse (P>0.05; Table 1). Fig. 1A shows representative M-mode models of experimental sepsis. The authors report that activation of the NF-B echocardiograms of the studied groups: sham + vehicle, sham + protein complex is associated with organ dysfunction and injury in IKK 16, LPS/PepG + vehicle, and LPS/PepG + IKK 16. When experimental sepsis caused by either excessive inflammation via co- compared with sham + vehicle mice, sham mice treated with IKK administration of lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycan (LPS/PepG) in young 16 demonstrated no significant alterations in percentage ejection mice, or polymicrobial sepsis after cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) in aged fraction (EF), fractional shortening (FS) and fractional area of mice. They demonstrate that delayed administration (1 hour after LPS/PepG or change (FAC) (P>0.05; Fig. 1B-D). When compared with sham mice, CLP) of IKK 16 ameliorates sepsis-induced multiple organ dysfunction and injury at 24 hours. Furthermore, their results are consistent with the protective mice subjected for 24 hours to LPS/PepG demonstrated a effect being at least partly attributable to inhibition of NF-B-mediated significant reduction in percentage EF, FS and FAC (P<0.05; Fig. 1B- inflammation and the associated decreases in inducible nitric oxide synthase D), indicating impairment in systolic contractility in vivo. Delayed (iNOS) expression. Interestingly, a role for the well-known Akt-eNOS administration of IKK 16 at 1 hour after LPS/PepG significantly (endothelial nitric oxide synthase) survival pathway was also revealed. attenuated the impairment in systolic contractility associated with Implications and future directions LPS/PepG (P<0.05; Fig. 1B-D). This work provides convincing evidence that selective inhibition of IKK could be an effective strategy for the prevention or treatment of organ dysfunction Effect of CLP-induced polymicrobial sepsis and treatment with IKK and injury associated with sepsis and other conditions involving systemic 16 on cardiac function in mice inflammation. Future studies should seek to determine how late after the We sought to confirm our findings in a clinically relevant model of onset of sepsis an IKK-inhibitor can be administered in order to improve polymicrobial sepsis caused by CLP in aged mice. Mice that survival (e.g. mortality studies), and to find out whether inhibition of IKK has underwent CLP had a lower body temperature (sham + vehicle versus an impact on the host response. Ultimately, the efficacy of IKK 16 and similar molecules needs to be evaluated in large mammals before moving to Phase
