Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


(sham + vehicle versus an impact on the host response. Ultimately, the efficacy of IKK 16 and similar molecules needs to be evaluated in large mammals before moving to Phase 1 CLP + vehicle; P<0.05) and a lower heart rate (sham + vehicle/sham safety studies in humans. + IKK 16 versus CLP + vehicle; P<0.05) in comparison with sham- operated animals. Fig. 1E shows representative M-mode Owing to its rapid activation and unique regulation, the NF-κB echocardiograms of the studied groups: sham + vehicle, sham + IKK pathway plays a pivotal role in the onset of sepsis. This raises the 16, CLP + vehicle, and CLP + IKK 16. When compared with sham important, but hitherto unaddressed, question as to whether one + vehicle mice, sham mice treated with IKK 16 demonstrated no can improve the MOD caused by sepsis by specifically inhibiting IKK. significant alterations in percentage EF, FS and FAC (P>0.05; Fig. 1F- Thus, this study was designed to investigate the role of the H). When compared with sham mice, mice that underwent CLP delayed administration of a specific IKK inhibitor, IKK 16 (Waelchli developed a significant reduction in percentage EF, FS and FAC et al., 2006), in severe lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycan (P<0.05; Fig. 1F-H) at 24 hours, indicating impairment in systolic (LPS/PepG)-induced MOD and in a model of cecal ligation and contractility in vivo. Delayed administration of IKK 16 at 1 hour after puncture (CLP)-induced polymicrobial sepsis in vivo. CLP significantly attenuated the impairment in systolic contractility Specifically, we have investigated: (1) the response of C57BL/6 associated with polymicrobial sepsis (P<0.05; Fig. 1F-H). mice to LPS/PepG (young mice; end points: cardiac and renal dysfunction, hepatic injury, lung inflammation); (2) the effects of Effect of LPS/PepG administration and treatment with IKK 16 on IKK 16 on this response; (3) the effects of IKK 16 in the more renal dysfunction, hepatocellular injury and lung inflammation clinically relevant model of CLP-induced polymicrobial sepsis When compared with sham mice, sham mice treated with IKK 16 with fluid resuscitation and antibiotic therapy (aged mice; end demonstrated no significant alterations (P>0.05) in serum points: cardiac and renal dysfunction, hepatic injury, lung creatinine (Fig. 2A), urea (data not shown), alanine inflammation); and (4) the signaling events underlying the observed aminotransferase (ALT; Fig. 2B) and aspartate aminotransferase beneficial effects of IKK 16 in hearts and livers of mice after co- (AST; data not shown). When
