Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


sepsis. Effect of CLP and treatment with IKK 16 on the phosphorylation of We first developed a model of severe LPS/PepG-induced MOD Akt and eNOS in mouse liver tissue in young mice. Our results demonstrate that co-administration of When compared with sham mice treated with saline, mice that the Gram-negative (LPS) and Gram-positive (PepG) bacterial cell underwent CLP showed no changes in the degree of wall components caused a substantial reduction in percentage EF, phosphorylation (P>0.05) of Akt on Ser473 (Fig. 6D) and eNOS FS and FAC as well as significant increases in serum creatinine, on Ser1177 (Fig. 6E) at 24 hours. However, treatment of septic mice urea, ALT and AST, and in lung MPO activity (marker for with IKK 16 resulted in a significantly increased degree of neutrophil accumulation in the lung), indicating an impairment in phosphorylation (P<0.05) of serine residues on Akt (Fig. 6D) and systolic contractility as well as the development of renal dysfunction, eNOS (Fig. 6E) in the liver. hepatocellular injury and lung inflammation and, hence, MOD. Our results are in line with other studies, which have described that the DISCUSSION LPS/PepG synergism causes the release of inflammatory mediators The pathophysiology of sepsis is yet to be fully understood; and MOD in rats (Dugo et al., 2005; Dugo et al., 2004; Wray et al., however, current understanding of the development of sepsis- 2001). induced MOD highlights the involvement of various cell Although sepsis can occur in previously healthy and/or young populations and cell signaling pathways in the onset of this individuals, the elderly, surgical patients and patients with chronic condition, leading to a systemic, sometimes excessive, immune diseases are predisposed to suffer from this condition (De Gaudio response to an infection. There is good evidence that increased et al., 2009; Girard et al., 2005). Therefore, we wished to activation of the transcription factor NF-κB with a subsequent strengthen our study by confirming our observations in a clinically regulation of pro-inflammatory mediators plays a crucial role in relevant model of severe polymicrobial sepsis with antibiotic the development of organ dysfunction occurring in sepsis therapy and fluid-resuscitation caused by CLP in aged mice, which between enhanced NF-κB activation in sepsis and poor outcome 2013). Disease Models & Mechanisms 1035 MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis Fig. 3. Effect of IKK 16 on signaling pathways in the hearts of mice
