Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


1035 MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis Fig. 3. Effect of IKK 16 on signaling pathways in the hearts of mice with LPS/PepG-induced MOD. Mice received either LPS/PepG or vehicle. One hour later, mice were treated with either IKK 16 (1 mg/kg body weight i.v.) or vehicle. Signaling events in heart tissue were assessed at 24 hours. Each immunoblot (A-E) is from a single experiment and is representative of three separate experiments. Data are expressed as means ± s.e.m. for nnumber of observations. *P<0.05 versus LPS/PepG + vehicle. All values were corrected for the corresponding β-actin band. Densitometric analysis of the bands is expressed as relative optical density (OD) of (A) phosphorylated IκBα (pSer32/36) corrected for the corresponding total IκBα content (Σ IκBα) and normalized using the related sham band; (B) NFĸB p65 subunit levels in both cytosolic and nuclear fractions expressed as a nucleus:cytosol ratio normalized using the related sham bands; (C) iNOS expression corrected for the corresponding β-actin band; (D) phosphorylated Akt (pSer473) corrected for the corresponding total Akt content (Σ Akt) and normalized using the related sham band; (E) phosphorylated eNOS (pSer1177) corrected for the corresponding total eNOS content (Σ eNOS) and normalized using the related sham band. The IKK inhibitor IKK 16 used in this study was designed and owing to its localization close to the continuous infectious stimulus first synthesized by Waelchli et al. . We in the peritoneal cavity, subsequently leading to a less pronounced decided to use a treatment protocol that could theoretically be beneficial effect of IKK 16 on hepatocellular injury than in the applicable in a clinical setting in septic patients with a relatively model of LPS/PepG. low dose of IKK 16, an administration time after induction of In addition to kidney and liver dysfunction, cardiac dysfunction disease and an intravenous application route. is a common clinical complication of severe sepsis and septic shock We report here, for the first time, that the selective delayed and is known to worsen prognosis (Celes et al., inhibition of IKK with a low dose of IKK 16 attenuates the cardiac 2013). Echocardiographic studies suggest that myocardial dysfunction, renal dysfunction, hepatocellular injury and lung depression occurs in 40-50% of patients with prolonged septic shock inflammation caused by co-administration of LPS/PepG in young (Rudiger and Singer, 2007). Contractile dysfunction in the septic mice or CLP-induced polymicrobial sepsis
