Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


in 40-50% of patients with prolonged septic shock inflammation caused by co-administration of LPS/PepG in young (Rudiger and Singer, 2007). Contractile dysfunction in the septic mice or CLP-induced polymicrobial sepsis in aged mice. heart is clinically characterized as biventricular dilatation, reversible It should be noted that we observed a similar magnitude of organ decrease in EF, diminished blood pressure response to intravenous dysfunction and injury in both models, although mice that fluids and blunted ability to augment cardiac output despite underwent CLP had on average a lower body temperature and heart increased levels of circulating catecholamines , rate than LPS/PepG-challenged mice. However, the effect of IKK and is fully reversible in survivors. To date, the principal 16 on the MPO activity in the lung, as a marker for neutrophil mechanisms proposed for intrinsic myocardial depression during infiltration, was much greater in the CLP model than in the sepsis support a considerable role for functional rather than LPS/PepG model, whereas the reduction of ALT and AST by IKK anatomical abnormalities or cell death (Celes et al., 2013; Rudiger 16 was not significant in the CLP model, but was in the model of and Singer, 2007). LPS/PepG. We sought to elucidate underlying signaling mechanism(s) for We can only speculate which different variables in our models the beneficial effects of IKK 16. In hearts and livers of mice that lead to the observed distinct treatment effects of IKK 16. Most likely, were subjected to LPS/PepG or underwent CLP, we observed the liver might be affected more severely in the model of sepsis increased phosphorylation of IκBα on Ser32/36, increased nuclear 1036 dmm.biologists.org MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis Fig. 4. Effect of IKK 16 on signaling pathways in the livers of mice with LPS/PepG-induced MOD. Mice received either LPS/PepG or vehicle. One hour later, mice were treated with either IKK 16 (1 mg/kg body weight i.v.) or vehicle. Signaling events in liver tissue were assessed at 24 hours. Each immunoblot (A-E) is from a single experiment and is representative of three separate experiments. Data are expressed as means ± s.e.m. for n number of observations. *P<0.05 versus LPS/PepG + vehicle. All values were corrected for the corresponding β-actin band. Densitometric analysis of the bands is expressed as relative optical density (OD) of (A) phosphorylated IκBα (pSer32/36) corrected for the corresponding total IκBα content (Σ
