Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


et al., 1995; and to play an important role in the pathophysiology of sepsis. This Wei et al., 1995); (2) inhibition of NO synthesis reduces the LPS- assumption is strengthened by a study of Waelchli et al. that has induced hypotension in the rat (Thiemermann and Vane, 1990); shown the efficacy of the compound to inhibit TNFα release into (3) NO-mediated hyporeactivity to noradrenaline precedes the the plasma upon LPS challenge in the rat . In induction of iNOS in endotoxic shock (Szabó et al., 1993); (4) iNOS their study, IKK 16 was administered subcutaneously (30 mg/kg body inhibitors exert beneficial effects and improve survival in rodent weight) or orally (30 mg/kg body weight) 1 hour prior to LPS models of septic shock (Szabó et al., 1994); (5) enhanced formation challenge. At 4 hours after the challenge, both routes of of NO by iNOS importantly contributes to the circulatory failure, administration resulted in a significant reduction of TNFα of 86% hepatocellular injury, respiratory dysfunction and metabolic (subcutaneously) and 75% (orally) . acidosis, but not the renal failure, caused by lipoteichoic acid/PepG Disease Models & Mechanisms 1037 MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis Fig. 5. Effect of IKK 16 on signaling pathways in the hearts of mice with sepsis-induced MOD.Mice underwent either CLP or sham operation. One hour later, mice were treated with either IKK 16 (1 mg/kg body weight i.v.) or vehicle. Signaling events in heart tissue were assessed at 24 hours. Each immunoblot (A-E) is from a single experiment and is representative of three separate experiments. Data are expressed as means ± s.e.m. for nnumber of observations. *P<0.05 versus CLP + vehicle. All values were corrected for the corresponding β-actin band. Densitometric analysis of the bands is expressed as relative optical density (OD) of (A) phosphorylated IκBα (pSer32/36) corrected for the corresponding total IκBα content (Σ IκBα) and normalized using the related sham band; (B) NFĸB p65 subunit levels in both the cytosolic and nuclear fractions expressed as a nucleus:cytosol ratio normalized using the related sham bands; (C) iNOS expression corrected for the corresponding β-actin band; (D) phosphorylated Akt (pSer473) corrected for the corresponding total Akt content (Σ Akt) and normalized using the related sham band; (E) phosphorylated eNOS (pSer1177) corrected for the corresponding total eNOS content (Σ eNOS) and normalized using the related sham band. in the rat ;
