Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


normalized using the related sham band; (E) phosphorylated eNOS (pSer1177) corrected for the corresponding total eNOS content (Σ eNOS) and normalized using the related sham band. in the rat ; and (6) enhanced formation in heart and liver tissues, but treatment of mice with IKK 16 at 1 of NO by iNOS contributes to the cardiac dysfunction associated hour after co-administration of LPS/PepG or CLP resulted in a with septic shock (Brady et al., 1992; Barth et al., 2006). significantly increased phosphorylation of Akt, and, hence, Furthermore, our results demonstrate that treatment with IKK activation of Akt. It is known that activation of Akt results in the 16 also has a large impact on the regulation of the well-described phosphorylation of eNOS on Ser1177, which in turn causes Akt-eNOS survival pathway. One may consider this result to be activation of eNOS, resulting in an enhanced formation of NO in quite unexpected given that Akt-eNOS are upstream of IKK. the microcirculation. In sepsis, activation of eNOS is seen to be However, there is evidence to suggest that heat shock protein 90 beneficial, because the enhanced formation of NO in the (Hsp90) binds directly with the kinase domains of IKKα and IKKβ microcirculatory compartment (e.g. in the heart and liver) causes , and is also a key molecular chaperone protein local vasodilation, inhibits adhesion of platelets and neutrophils, for eNOS regulation (Fleming and Busse, 2003). The interaction and regulates angiogenesis (Khan et al., 2010; Tyml, 2011). In this of Hsp90 and eNOS creates a complex with Akt, which allows study, co-administration of LPS/PepG or CLP caused no changes eNOS and Akt to both function on the same domain of Hsp90 in the phosphorylation of eNOS on Ser1177 in heart and liver . This interaction is increased when IKK is tissues. Treatment of mice with IKK 16 at 1 hour after co- inhibited, resulting in increased NO production (Mohan et al., administration of LPS/PepG or CLP, however, resulted in a 2009). significantly increased phosphorylation of eNOS. Thus, activation Akt is a member of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase signal of eNOS (possibly secondary to activation of Akt) might contribute transduction enzyme family. When phosphorylated by its upstream to the beneficial effects of IKK 16 reported here. regulator (phosphoinositide-dependent kinase), Akt regulates cellular activation, inflammatory responses, chemotaxis and Conclusion apoptosis, and thus modulates cell survival and growth (Cantley, The activation of NF-κB contributes to the organ dysfunction
