Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


regulator (phosphoinositide-dependent kinase), Akt regulates cellular activation, inflammatory responses, chemotaxis and Conclusion apoptosis, and thus modulates cell survival and growth (Cantley, The activation of NF-κB contributes to the organ dysfunction 2002). We document here that co-administration of LPS/PepG or and/or injury in experimental sepsis caused by either excessive sepsis caused no changes in the phosphorylation of Akt on Ser473 inflammation via co-administration of LPS/PepG in young mice 1038 dmm.biologists.org MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis Fig. 6. Effect of IKK 16 on signaling pathways in the livers of mice with sepsis-induced MOD.Mice underwent either CLP or sham operation. One hour later, mice were treated with either IKK 16 (1 mg/kg body weight i.v.) or vehicle. Signaling events in liver tissue were assessed at 24 hours. Each immunoblot (A-E) is from a single experiment and is representative of three separate experiments. Data are expressed as means ± s.e.m. for nnumber of observations. *P<0.05 versus CLP + vehicle. All values were corrected for the corresponding β-actin band. Densitometric analysis of the bands is expressed as relative optical density (OD) of (A) phosphorylated IκBα (pSer32/36) corrected for the corresponding total IκBα content (Σ IκBα) and normalized using the related sham band; (B) NFĸB p65 subunit levels in both the cytosolic and nuclear fractions expressed as a nucleus:cytosol ratio normalized using the related sham bands; (C) iNOS expression corrected for the corresponding β-actin band; (D) phosphorylated Akt (pSer473) corrected for the corresponding total Akt content (Σ Akt) and normalized using the related sham band; (E) phosphorylated eNOS (pSer1177) corrected for the corresponding total eNOS content (Σ eNOS) and normalized using the related sham band. or polymicrobial sepsis following CLP in aged mice. Most notably, Laboratories UK Ltd, Kent, UK), weighing 35-50 g, receiving a we were able to convincingly demonstrate, for the first time, that standard diet and water ad libitum. the delayed selective inhibition of IKK reduces the MOD associated with sepsis. Our results suggest that the protective effect of IKK Quantification of organ dysfunction and/or injury 16 in experimental sepsis is (at least in part) attributable to an anti- Organ dysfunction and/or injury was assessed in mice subjected inflammatory and endothelial protective effect mediated by to LPS/PepG or CLP at 24 hours. Mice were anesthetized with inhibition of inflammation through NF-κB, subsequent decreased 1.5 ml/kg body weight i.p. of a ketamine (100 mg/ml)/xylazine
