Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


mediated by to LPS/PepG or CLP at 24 hours. Mice were anesthetized with inhibition of inflammation through NF-κB, subsequent decreased 1.5 ml/kg body weight i.p. of a ketamine (100 mg/ml)/xylazine iNOS expression and interestingly the activation of the well-known (20 mg/ml) solution in a 2:1 ratio before being sacrificed. Akt-eNOS survival pathway. We propose that selective inhibition Approximately 0.7 ml of blood was collected by cardiac puncture of IKK might be a novel therapeutic strategy for the prevention or into non-heparinized syringes and immediately decanted into therapy of the MOD associated with sepsis and other conditions serum gel S/1.3 tubes (Sarstedt, Nürnbrecht, Germany), after associated with systemic inflammation. which the heart was removed to terminate the experiment. The samples were centrifuged at 9900 gfor 5 minutes to separate serum, MATERIALS AND METHODS which was sent to an independent laboratory (IDEXX Laboratories, Animals Buckinghamshire, UK) for analysis of serum creatinine, urea, AST The animal protocols followed in this study were approved by the and ALT. Additionally, organ samples were taken, snap frozen and local ‘Animal Use and Care Committee’ in accordance with the stored at −80°C for further analyses. derivatives of both the ‘Home Office Guidance on the Operation of the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986’, published by Her Experimental design Majesty’s Stationery Office and the ‘Guide for the Care and Use of Model of LPS/PepG-induced MOD Laboratory Animals’ of the National Research Council. This study Two-month-old male C57BL/6 mice received LPS (9 mg/kg body was carried out on 32 2-month-old male C57BL/6 mice, weighing weight) and PepG (3 mg/kg body weight) in 0.9% saline (5 ml/kg 20-30 g, and 34 8-month-old male C57BL/6 mice (Charles River body weight) intraperitoneally. Sham mice were not subjected to Disease Models & Mechanisms 1039 MM D smsinahceM & sledoM esaesiD RESEARCH ARTICLE Inhibition of IKK reduces MOD in sepsis LPS/PepG, but were otherwise treated the same way. At 1 hour Immunoblot analyses after LPS/PepG co-administration, mice were treated either with Semi-quantitative immunoblot analyses were carried out in IKK 16 (1 mg/kg body weight i.v.) or vehicle (5 ml/kg body weight mouse heart and liver tissues as described previously (Collino et 10% DMSO i.v.). At 24 hours the experiment was terminated and al., 2006). We assessed the degree of phosphorylation of IκBα on organ and blood samples were collected for quantification of Ser32/36, Akt on Ser473 and eNOS on Ser1177, as well as the organ
