Disease Models & Mechanisms6, 1031-1042 (2013) doi: RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: ikk, mice, lps, sepsis, fig, pepg, lps pepg, sham, clp, vehicle, dysfunction, treatment, enos, mod, hours


Blots were then via a 1.5 cm midline incision, and the cecum exposed. The cecum incubated with a secondary antibody conjugated with horseradish was ligated below the ileocecal valve and punctured at both peroxidase (dilution 1:10,000) for 30 minutes at room temperature opposite ends. After a small amount of fecal matter was extruded and developed with the ECL detection system. The from both ends, the cecum was placed back in its anatomical immunoreactive bands were visualized by autoradiography. position and the abdomen was sutured. Ringer’s solution was Densitometric analysis of the bands was performed using the Gel administered directly after surgery (1 ml/mouse) and 6 hours and Pro Analyzer 4.5, 2000 software (Media Cybernetics, Silver Antibiotic (Imipenem/Cilastin; 20 mg/kg body weight s.c.) and sham data to establish relative protein expression when compared analgesia (buprenorphine; 0.05 mg/kg body weight i.p.) was with sham animals. administered 6 hours and 18 hours after surgery. At 1 hour after CLP, mice were treated either with IKK 16 (1 mg/kg body weight Determination of MPO activity in lung tissue i.v.) or vehicle (5 ml/kg body weight 10% DMSO i.v.). At 24 hours MPO was extracted from the tissue as described by Barone et al. the experiment was terminated and organ and blood samples were with slight modifications. MPO activity, used collected for quantification of sepsis-induced organ dysfunction as a marker for neutrophil accumulation in tissues, was determined and/or injury. Mice were randomly allocated into four different as previously described . groups: (1) sham + vehicle (n=7); (2) sham + IKK 16 (n=3); (3) CLP + vehicle (n=12); (4) CLP + IKK 16 (n=12). Statistics All values described in the text and figures are presented as mean Assessment of cardiac function in vivo ± standard error of the mean (s.e.m.) of nobservations, where n Cardiac function was assessed in mice by echocardiography in vivo represents the number of animals studied. Statistical analysis was as reported previously (Kapoor et al., 2010; Khan et al., 2013). At performed using GraphPad Prism 6.0b (GraphPad Software, San 24 hours after LPS/PepG challenge or after CLP, anesthesia was Diego, CA). Data without repeated measurements were assessed induced with 3% isoflurane and was maintained at 0.5-0.7% for the by one-way ANOVA followed by Dunnett’s post-hoc test. A P-value duration of the procedure. Before assessment of cardiac function, of less than 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. mice were allowed to stabilize
