NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amitriptyline, liver, injury, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, weeks, liver injury, months, jaundice, drug, tricyclic, induced, starting, antidepressants


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amitriptyline. [Updated 2016 Mar 1]. Bookshelf URL: Amitriptyline Updated: March 1, 2016. OVERVIEW Introduction Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant that is widely used in the therapy of depression. Amitriptyline can cause mild and transient serum enzyme elevations and is rare cause of clinically apparent acute cholestatic liver injury. Background Amitriptyline (am" i trip' ti leen) is a tricyclic antidepressant which is believed to act by inhibition of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake within synaptic clefts in the central nervous system, thus increasing brain levels of these neurotransmitters. Amitriptyline is indicated for therapy of depression and was approved for this indication in the United States in 1961, and is still widely used, with more than 10 million prescriptions for amitriptyline being filled yearly. Amitriptyline is also used for anorexia and bulimia and for adjunctive treatment of neurogenic pain. Amitriptyline is available in generic forms and under the brand name of Elavil in 10, 25, 50, 75, 100 and 150 mg tablets. The typical recommended dose for depression in adults is 75 to 100 mg daily in divided doses, increasing gradually to a maximum of 300 mg daily. Amitriptyline can also be given as a single nighttime dose of 50 to 150 mg. Common side effects include dizziness, headache, drowsiness, restlessness, confusion, gastrointestinal upset, increased appetite, weight gain, blurred vision, dry mouth and urinary retention. Hepatotoxicity Liver test abnormalities have been reported to occur in 10% to 12% of patients on amitriptyline, but elevations are uncommonly above 3 times the upper limit of normal. The aminotransferase abnormalities are usually mild, asymptomatic and transient, reversing even with continuation of medication. Rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury have been reported in patients on amitriptyline. The latency to onset is quite variable, ranging from 1 to 14 months of starting the medication. The reported pattern of serum enzyme elevations has varied from hepatocellular to cholestatic. An acute hepatitis-like syndrome with acute liver failure has been reported, as well as acute cholestatic hepatitis and prolonged jaundice compatible with vanishing bile duct syndrome. Signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity (rash, fever and eosinophilia) are frequent, but are usually mild and transient. Autoantibody formation is rare. Likelihood score: B (highly likely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which amitriptyline causes serum aminotransferase elevation is
