NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amitriptyline, liver, injury, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, weeks, liver injury, months, jaundice, drug, tricyclic, induced, starting, antidepressants


Autoantibody formation is rare. Likelihood score: B (highly likely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which amitriptyline causes serum aminotransferase elevation is not known. It undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism and a possible cause of liver injury is production of a toxic intermediate of metabolism. Many cases have features of hypersensitivity and more rapid recurrence with reexposure and it has been associated with a specific HLA haplotype (A11). Outcome and Management The serum aminotransferase elevations that occur on amitriptyline therapy are usually self-limited and do not require dose modification or discontinuation of therapy. The acute liver injury caused by amitriptyline is typically self-limited, but progressive and fatal instances of acute hepatitis and prolonged cholestasis with vanishing bile duct syndrome have been reported. Rechallenge with amitriptyline usually causes a prompt recurrence of the liver injury which can be fatal and should be avoided. Cross reactivity of hepatic injury with other tricyclic antidepressants has been described, but is not invariable. Thus, switching from one to another tricyclic antidepressant after clinically apparent liver injury should be avoided or done with caution. Switching to other forms of antidepressants such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors is likely to be safe. Drug Class: Antidepressant Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Tricyclics: Amoxapine, Clomipramine, Desipramine, Doxepin, Imipramine, Nortriptyline, Protriptyline, Trimipramine CASE REPORTS Case 1. Acute liver failure due to amitriptyline. [Modified from: Danan G, Bernuau J, Moullot X, Degott C, Pessayre D. Amitriptyline-induced fulminant hepatitis. Digestion 1984; 30: 179-84. PubMed Citation] A 51 year old woman developed fever and arthralgias followed 2 days later by jaundice, approximately 14 months after starting amitriptyline (30 mg daily) and perphenazine (12 mg daily). She was icteric and febrile but without rash or pruritus. Serum bilirubin levels were elevated (Table) and ALT levels were 27 times the upper limit of the normal range. She tested negative for hepatitis B surface antigen and an ultrasound showed no evidence of biliary obstruction. The symptoms and jaundice resolved with stopping the medication and all tests were normal 2 months later. Soon thereafter, however, amitriptyline and perphenazine were restarted. Within 12 days, she redeveloped jaundice and fever that progressed to hepatic failure marked by confusion, asterixis and ascites. There was no eosinophilia or autoantibodies. A transjugular liver biopsy showed massive necrosis. Serum and four months later all liver tests were normal. Key Points Medication: Amitriptyline Pattern: Hepatocellular
