Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


Cargill R&D Centre Europe, Vilvoorde, Belgium 6 DSM Nutritional Products Ltd., Kaiseraugst, Switzerland Brussels, Belgium Vol.:(0112 33456789) Introduction: a field of growing scientific should benefit researchers active in fundamental and clini- interest cal gut–brain research from a multi or transdisciplinary perspective (including doctors and possibly patients/care mechanisms of gut microbiota modulation of brain health Does the gut hold the key to brain development and are unravelled, the potential for improving human quality lished the strong connection between the gut and brain, modulated by neurons, neurotransmitters, hormones, and The two‑way street between gut and brain immune mediators (for details, we kindly direct readers towards extensive reviews [1–3]. More recently, focus has An introduction to microbiota–gut–brain been extended to the role of the gut microbiota (referring communication, research, and potential therapeutic to the trillions of microorganisms and viruses residing in strategies the gut) [2, 4–6], creating considerable excitement with findings that suggest specific intestinal microorganisms (the greatest amount of information comes from studies A ‘gut feeling’ or the sensation of ‘butterflies’ in the stomach of bacteria) may be associated with memory , learning are common illustrations of how a response in the brain is , stress , and mood —and even neurodevel- felt in the gut. Beyond that, microbiota–gut–brain interac- opmental and neurodegenerative disorders . tions are much more complex to describe—as is abundantly Today, the so-called microbiota–gut–brain axis is an clear from the intense research efforts to document them and area of multi-disciplinary research that has captured inter- propose links with brain development, physiology, function, endocrinology, immunology, microbiology, and bioinfor- As a highly complex community, the gut microbiota has matics have all found a niche worthy of exploration. Inter- a myriad of functions including education of the immune est is such that international journals publish as many as system, protection against pathogens, energy homeostasis 30 new studies a day related to this field. and metabolite production. It is acknowledged that diet is a While there is now considerable evidence that the key determinant of composition of gut microbial populations microbiota–gut–brain axis plays an important role in men- and that it impacts on gut transit time and gut environmental provided few clear answers to one burning question. How? for microbial growth . The gut microbiota has the How does the gut microbiota influence brain develop- potential to be both a mediator of the effect of diet and an ment and function ?
