Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


The gut microbiota has the How does the gut microbiota influence brain develop- potential to be both a mediator of the effect of diet and an ment and function ? Are brain disorders poten- effect modifier of the metabolic response to diet. In the case tially shaped by the gut microbiota ? What role does of the microbiota acting as a mediator, the dietary interven- diet play and what is its scope in influencing the micro- tion acts directly on the microbiota, modifying the micro- ments exert their apparent effect(s) on stress, mood, and modifier, the effect of diet on metabolism depends on the cognition ? What physiological mechanisms are microbiota but the effect is not due to diet-induced changes interactions through life reflect the cause or symptom of diet and specific dietary components, and it plays a key role an underlying brain condition ? Answering these ques- in shaping the composition and activity of the microbiota mining potential links with metabolic and cardiovascular until now, many of the studies examining the microbi- diseases and for developing nutritional and therapeutic ota–gut–brain axis have been performed in animal models; the individual. fied, or humanised mice, and behavioural models (for further This perspective paper offers a short introduction to details, we kindly direct readers towards extensive reviews so far and the considerable remaining gaps in the under- interactions observed in rodents are also observed in humans standing of causes and mechanisms. Finally, the paper pro- . Due to a heavy reliance on association studies, there is poses how future meaningful progress can be made, which still little evidence of the triggers and mechanisms linking the microbiota to gut–brain communication. 1 3 The extensive reviews by Cryan et al. and Margolis Scientists have similarly used such animal models to inves- et al. are recommended reading for a detailed overview tigate the immunological effects of specific microbes in the for the development of the microbiota–gut–brain axis, the gut microbiota. objective of this paper is to highlight the means for tak- inflammation often seen in neurodegenerative, neuropsy- ing research to the next level of discovery, current micro- chiatric, and metabolic disorders. For example, there have biota–gut–brain axis knowledge is only briefly summarised been extensive studies of the causal role of the microbiota in here. inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which is associated with an increased susceptibility to Parkinson’s disease . Pathways for communication The neuroendocrine system—gut
