Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


of the causal role of the microbiota in here. inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which is associated with an increased susceptibility to Parkinson’s disease . Pathways for communication The neuroendocrine system—gut hormones At a fundamental level, the gut–brain axis is a bi-directional and the regulation of well‑being communication pathway composed of the central, enteric, and autonomic nervous systems and the hypothalamic–pitu- Recent studies suggest that gut hormones are involved in the itary–adrenal (HPA) axis. The microbiota–gut–brain axis physiological processes that lead to disorders such as anxiety includes the gut microbes—comprising bacteria, viruses, and depression—with indications that mood disorders and fungi, and archaea—and their metabolites and by-products obesity often co-exist . Scientists focus increasingly on as factors in this bi-directional communication. the ability of the microbiota to modulate gut hormones and, The vagus nerve, the immune and neuroendocrine sys- through that, their potential to regulate mood. tems, the neurotransmitters and metabolites along with the Increasing evidence supports the concept of bi-directional gut microbiota are currently the key pathways of interest in communication between the neuroendocrine system and gut microbiota–gut–brain axis research . microbiota. Disturbances in both systems have been associ- ated with disorders such as depression and irritable bowel The vagus nerve—the physical connection between brain syndrome . Findings further indicate that the gut micro- and gut. biota can activate the HPA axis —one of the body’s major neuroendocrine systems that controls responses to The tenth cranial nerve that extends from the brain to the stress and is involved in regulating, for example, mood and abdomen is responsible for regulating internal organ func- emotions and the immune system . tions such as digestion, heart rate and respiratory rate. Com- A growing body of research suggests that a number of prising efferent and afferent neurons, the vagus nerve carries neurotransmitters function as hormones and vice versa. motor signals between the brain and organs, including the Dopamine and serotonin, for example, are known to have intestinal cells, which are also subject to the influence of the hormonal properties . Although these hormone-like gut microbiota. The brain is, in this way, able to ‘sense’ the neurotransmitters are not solely produced in the gut, the gut environment in the gut . microbiota is thought to play a role in their modulation. The immune system—firm roots in the gastrointestinal Neurotransmitters and metabolites tract Evidence from animal studies suggests the host’s physiology Evidence of the immune system’s crucial
