Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


a role in their modulation. The immune system—firm roots in the gastrointestinal Neurotransmitters and metabolites tract Evidence from animal studies suggests the host’s physiology Evidence of the immune system’s crucial role in gut–brain is affected in various ways by the ability of gut microorgan- signalling is growing . Today, it is widely recognised isms to produce and metabolise a range of neurotransmit- that most neurological conditions, including autism spec- ters, although this remains to be documented in human sub- trum disorders (ASD), epilepsy, Alzheimer’s disease, jects . In the context of the microbiota–gut–brain axis, Parkinson’s disease and cerebrovascular diseases, have noteworthy neurotransmitters include dopamine, serotonin, low-grade systemic inflammatory components . This noradrenaline, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The low-grade inflammation is indicative of a malfunctioning neuroactive amino acids tyramine and tryptophan, short- immune response and dysbiotic microbiota. chain fatty acids (SCFA), and bile acids are other molecules Studies of germ-free mice and mice treated with broad- of interest. spectrum antibiotics have documented the gut microbiota’s involvement in intestinal immunity related to bacterial infec- GABA GABA is believed to have a role in behaviour, cog- tions and inflammation . Here, the microbiota was seen nition and the body’s response to stress, anxiety and fear to regulate both innate and adaptive immunity—locally , while low GABA levels are associated with psychiatric in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and throughout the body. illnesses, including schizophrenia, autism and depression 1 3 . Although the regulatory importance of the microbiota environmental factors, geography, disease, exercise, fasting is not yet fully mapped, studies of germ-free animals sug- and diet influence the microbiota’s composition—diet gest that the microbiota influences circulating GABA levels and nutritional status being among the most influential fac- . GABA is also produced by some Lactobacilli and tors . Recent reviews give a comprehensive overview specific strains of Bifidobacterium . of the role of diet in shaping the gut microbiota [59–61]. The gut microbiota itself can influence dietary preferences via Serotonin and tryptophan Much research has linked the the mesocorticolimbic system, responsible for the hedonic microbiota with serotonin regulation in the gut . response to food intake . Serotonin is involved in mood, cognition, sleep, and appetite Greater knowledge of the gut microbiota represents excit- control . Today, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ing possibilities to track changes in microbiota composition, (SSRI) are commonly prescribed treatments for depression activity, and behaviour in relation to the development and
