Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


. Today, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ing possibilities to track changes in microbiota composition, (SSRI) are commonly prescribed treatments for depression activity, and behaviour in relation to the development and as they increase the level of available serotonin in the brain progression of brain disorders. Another promising avenue of . Studies also focus on the amino acid tryptophan as the exploration is the modulation of the gut microbiota by spe- sole precursor of serotonin. It has been proposed that gut cific dietary components such as probiotics, prebiotics, post- microbiota may influence tryptophan uptake and, in that biotics, synbiotics, and parabiotics. Such work could lead to way, serotonin synthesis . novel therapeutic strategies, fuelled by so-called microbiotic In addition, 90% of tryptophan in the intestinal tract is medicinal products (MMPs) . metabolised along the kynurenine pathway. Of particu- lar interest are the neuroactive metabolites quinolinic and The potential for nutritional and therapeutic kynurenic acids that affect the enteric nervous system (ENS) strategies and central nervous system (CNS) (for review see ). Research has established many links, associations, and Dopamine Dopamine is a major neurotransmitter associ- hypotheses about the lifelong influence of the gut microbiota ated with the brain’s reward system and is a precursor for epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, and norepineph- ranks the gut microbiota as the fourth key factor in early-life rine, which contributes to arousal and alertness as well as behaviour and cognition . Disorders associated with tal and postnatal environment, and host genetics . The dopamine deficiency include addiction, schizophrenia, and scientific challenge is to identify opportunities to alter and Parkinson’s disease. Research suggests that certain bacteria fine-tune the microbiota and, through that, enhance human produce or metabolise dopamine. health and well-being. SCFAs The SCFAs propionate, butyrate and acetate are explored dietary supplementation with pro-, pre-, syn- and metabolites mainly produced and regulated by the bacterial postbiotics, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and fermentation of complex plant-based polysaccharides in the phytochemicals, such as polyphenols, which may act as gut . In recent years, research has explored the potential prebiotics . High-fibre diets—promoting SCFA produc- role of SCFAs in gut–brain communication with and across tion by the gut microbiota—are a promising intervention to the blood–brain barrier (BBB) and in supporting BBB overcome maternal-obesity-induced impairment of cognitive integrity—a progressively leaky BBB being seen in Alzhei- and social functions . Faecal microbiota transplants are mer’s disease . another potential therapeutic opportunity,
