Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


supporting BBB overcome maternal-obesity-induced impairment of cognitive integrity—a progressively leaky BBB being seen in Alzhei- and social functions . Faecal microbiota transplants are mer’s disease . another potential therapeutic opportunity, having already Studies have led to a wide range of findings that connect been shown to influence hedonic food intake in mice . butyrate, for example, with memory, cognition, mood, and Here, important regulatory differences apply whether devel- metabolism . Acetate has been associated with appetite oping strategies for clinical therapies or foods. regulation , and propionate may be involved in protect- ing against type 2 diabetes and obesity and reducing stress behaviours . Regulation of stress, mood, and anxiety Gut microbiota—the omnipresent factor, modulated Research has associated the gut microbiota with a range of by diet stress- and mood-related conditions . In relation to stress, several clinical studies have linked probiotic and prebiotic Research has repeatedly revealed new aspects of the micro- supplementation with a positive outcome [67–69]. The biota’s contribution to gut–brain crosstalk, beginning with majority of mood and anxiety studies, on the other hand, maternal nutrition and the colonisation of the infant have relied on pre-clinical animal models . Healthy mice gut at birth . It is also known that age, gender, genetics, that received a probiotic formulation with Lactobacillus 1 3 rhamnosus, for example, were seen to perform best in tests Cognitive performance and age‑related disorders designed to provoke anxiety, depression, and stress . Clinical trials have often produced conflicting results. Many scientists now believe in the close relationship While some have observed a significant reduction in stress between microbial diversity and healthy ageing. Studies in and anxiety following probiotic intervention with Lactoba- mice have shown that faecal microbiota transplantation can cillus (sensu lato) and Bifidobacterium strains , others correct age-related defects in immune function —and have not . Reviews of clinical trials found probiotics had that a similar transplant from aged to young mice has a det- a limited effect on psychological outcomes—although this rimental impact on key functions of the CNS . These could be partly explained by an incomplete evidence base and other findings highlight the importance of the micro- along with a large heterogeneity in the population, cogni- biota–gut–brain axis during ageing and raise the possibility tive tests, and interventions . Another study reported that a ‘young’ microbiota may maintain or improve cognitive a positive probiotic effect on mood and anxiety in
