Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


and raise the possibility tive tests, and interventions . Another study reported that a ‘young’ microbiota may maintain or improve cognitive a positive probiotic effect on mood and anxiety in patients functions in life’s later years . with IBD . Neurological research suggests the microbiota also play a role in neurodegenerative diseases . This supports the idea that an ageing gut microbiota could be linked to Implications for autism spectrum disorder immune and neuronal dysfunction in Parkinson’s and Alz- heimer’s disease. Indeed, studies of faecal microbiota trans- The microbiota has been demonstrated to have a clear role plants in transgenic mouse models point to a causal relation- in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). One study has observed ship between intestinal microbiota, protein aggregation and how the transplantation of microbes from a human diag- cognitive problems [84–86]. More studies are necessary to nosed with ASD induced-like behaviour in mice . Con- confirm this. microbiota modulation through antibiotic, prebiotic and Knowledge with potential probiotic and faecal transplantation treatments can improve social behaviour [73–76]. Researchers have further reported Whether changes in the microbiota are key to detecting and a reduction in anxiety behaviour, hyperactivity and defiance understanding the physiological processes that lead to brain behaviours . disorders is still unknown. But the possibilities are unde- Other findings show that children diagnosed with ASD niable. Research has uncovered positive indications that are four times more likely to have GI symptoms, including therapeutic interventions may have a beneficial impact, for inflammation and abdominal pain and that faecal trans- example in neurodevelopmental disorders, such as ASD, and plantation may have long-term beneficial effects on intestinal age-related neurodegenerative disorders . And there is and behavioural symptoms . every reason to be optimistic about the potential to reduce stress and anxiety. The task now is to overcome the barriers to further discovery. Learning and memory Shortfalls and challenges—the bottlenecks A number of studies have explored the relationship between to progress the gut microbiota and the development of learning and memory systems in childhood . This has led to a grow- ing appreciation that sensitive periods of development occur The need for more knowledge and comprehensive across the microbiota–gut–brain axis. study designs From animal studies, there is increasing evidence that changes in the gut microbiota alter performance in relation Research in the microbiota–gut–brain axis has reached a to visual-spatial learning and memory tasks . Although crossroad. The gut microbiota’s omnipresence
