Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


changes in the gut microbiota alter performance in relation Research in the microbiota–gut–brain axis has reached a to visual-spatial learning and memory tasks . Although crossroad. The gut microbiota’s omnipresence and over- there are still few human data, one study has associated lapping influence on physiological systems has made it microbial diversity with cognitive functioning in infancy progressively challenging to discuss individual aspects of . the microbiota–gut–brain axis in isolation—underlining A new approach to cognitive development research is the need for a multi-disciplinary, multi-system research required, including the microbiota–gut–brain axis as a approach to uncover the mechanisms and opportunities peripheral force among the complex biological systems that for improving human quality of life and well-being, as is act on behaviour. By improving understanding, this may being done for metabolic diseases . Multidomain memory disorders . lifestyle approaches, have been demonstrated to be effective 1 3 strategies as they target endogenous and environmental fac- the mechanisms of action in humans. Complex gaps in exist- tors (such as genetics, age, diet, and lifestyle) that modulate ing knowledge include: the gut microbiota activity and composition, underlining enormous variability between individuals . • The immunological effects of specific microbes in the Consequently, while many of the tools and methodologies human gut microbiota and their role in neurodevelop- in use until now have significantly advanced our knowledge mental, neurodegenerative, and neuropsychiatric disor- and understanding of the role of the microbiota–gut–brain ders. to date have been limited to animal models and have mostly mitters in human subjects, the hormonal properties of been observational in a clinical setting. There are still many these neurotransmitters and the mechanisms by which unanswered questions within the field which require more they activate the HPA axis. clarity in order to drive further meaningful progress towards • How microbial by-products, such as SCFAs, branched- Some of the gaps in current knowledge are fundamental and brain function in tandem with immunological and neu- must be bridged by skilful scientific investigation. rological signalling molecules. • The contribution of specific microbes to brain develop- Understanding changes and mechanisms ment during early life. Few and varied clinical studies The characteristics and function of a ‘healthy’ gut micro- biota are still unknown. Although studies have frequently documented a reduction in functional diversity and compo- Intervention studies in humans and pre-clinical studies in sitional alterations in relation to a variety of disorders , humanised mice and rats are
