Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


a reduction in functional diversity and compo- Intervention studies in humans and pre-clinical studies in sitional alterations in relation to a variety of disorders , humanised mice and rats are a fundamental requirement. there is as yet little understanding of how the microbiota In the early days of this research field, most research was disease. Recent data from more than 9000 adults of differ- high prevalence of review articles and meta-analyses of becomes increasingly unique, increasingly different from intervention studies have been performed more frequently others, starting in mid-to-late adulthood. A better under- although often characterised by a low number of human sub- standing of this phenomenon may open the way to an jects and short timeframes . improved understanding of what is a ‘healthy ageing micro- As typical in nutritional intervention studies, the non- biota pattern’ . Similarly, there is lack of knowledge standardised approaches often used means that the authors about disease biomarkers and whether they may be reversed of review articles frequently struggle to find suitable clini- through treatment or dietary interventions. Several system- cal studies for meaningful comparisons. Wide variations in atic reviews and meta-analyses, albeit with different search test subjects, cognitive and mental test designs, interven- criteria, have investigated the effects of probiotics, prebiot- tion formulations and the filtering of data stand in the way ics, and even fermented foods on symptoms of depression, of general conclusions—with many studies being low on anxiety, and mood, as well as on cognition. Interestingly, statistical power . positive effects of dietary interventions or supplements on ease- and microbiota-specific biomarkers, absence of clini- depression and anxiety symptoms , others cally relevant behavioural phenotypes and poor tools for concluded that the data to support the role of dietary inter- cohort stratification. Still, over the last year a number of ventions on mood and cognitive function were insignificant meta-analyses have appeared which show a moderately posi- . In addition, some studies reported that targeting tive evaluation on the use of psychobiotic interventions the gut microbiome to alleviate symptoms of anxiety and for anxiety , schizophrenia or cognitive functions tions compared with healthy adults . Finally, most stud- the numerous confounding factors that may affect—the gut ies did suggest that additional double-blind, randomised, microbiota . warranted to further assess efficacy. quence relation, it might also be important to better under- Numerous association and correlation studies have identi- stand the effects of traditional
