Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


randomised, microbiota . warranted to further assess efficacy. quence relation, it might also be important to better under- Numerous association and correlation studies have identi- stand the effects of traditional drugs, including psychotrop- Further targeted studies are required to identify and confirm . 1 3 A general tendency to conduct pre-clinical and clinical does not equal causation. The next step is to understand the studies within the silos of individual disciplines also com- mechanisms behind those associations and how they are pounds these limitations and, at the same time, rules out the influenced by dietary habits, lifestyle, and genetic risk fac- opportunities created by multi-disciplinary collaboration. tors. This will require new methods, skills, and collabora- The time has clearly come for a new approach. tions. An overview of the gaps and needs is represented in Fig. 1. and therapeutic strategies with reproducible results Practical proposals for moving microbiota–gut– Experiences so far highlight the need to rethink and rede- brain axis research forward sign the approach to clinical studies in a way that facilitates the integration of standardised methods and models from As the microbiota–gut–brain axis continues to attract scien- all fields of study related to the microbiota–gut–brain axis. tific attention, a whole-system, multi-disciplinary approach The emphasis on ‘standardised’ is important. In this con- gut microbiota and brain disorders. However, correlation trials should always be conducted in accordance with the Fig. 1 Key gaps and needs in microbiota–gut–brain axis research on the journey towards nutritional and therapeutic strategies for improved quality of life 1 3 Declaration of Helsinki and the guidelines for Good mental quality of life and specific genera such as Coproc- Clinical Practice (GCP) to ensure ethical and scien- occus . New investigative tools such as the gut–brain tific quality requirements are followed throughout the study module analysis of faecal metagenomes described by design, conduct, recording of information, and reporting of Valles-Colomer et al. could provide greater insight into the data. Compliance with this standard ensures not only that the associations between pathways regulating brain health and rights, safety, and well-being of trial subjects are protected, function, the gut microbiota, and symptoms of mood disor- but also that the data is credible. Finally, only by conducting ders commonly found across different population cohorts. repeated studies that provide comparable and reproducible Clinical studies of the role of microbiota in disease must results will it be possible to build a critical
