Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


across different population cohorts. repeated studies that provide comparable and reproducible Clinical studies of the role of microbiota in disease must results will it be possible to build a critical mass of scientific account for the natural variations in microbiota composition evidence to drive real progress. from one individual to the next. Age, sex, body mass index, A new research framework should include strong guid- medications, and lifestyle are among the host variables that ance on specific areas of the microbiota–gut–brain axis to confound microbiota analyses and limit the capacity to investigate, which biological samples to collect and the bio- draw valid conclusions. For example, research has shown markers or surrogate biomarkers to measure—with regard that patients with depression have an altered gut microbial to sampling and analysis, the NIH Human Microbiome Pro- profile compared with healthy adults [119–122]. However, ject website already provides some guidance . Stand- each study describes unique microbial changes in these ard operating procedures should also be established for the patients due to huge inter-individual microbial differences collection, transport, storage, and analysis of biological in the general human population. This variability between samples and for the sequencing and filtering of data, reduc- studies makes it extremely difficult to interpret whether the ing the variables that can influence study outcomes. Equally microbial changes described are a hallmark of depression or important are the identification and stratification of relevant whether they are unique to one individual study. Indeed, this cohorts to support cross-study comparisons and consoli- is an important limitation to consider before drawing conclu- released for best practice in microbiome research ). such as depression. Furthermore, investigations into the gut Robust human studies must be conducted in real-life set- microbial profile of patients with depression do not indicate tings using calibrated dietary habit assessments and vali- whether these changes are causal to disease state or conse- dated test methods to investigate potential windows for nutri- quential of disease. In studies of personalised interventions tional strategies . At present, studies of dietary habits based on intestinal microbiota composition and activity, an rely on subjects to provide data by filling out food frequency unhealthy diet, for example, may negate the potential ben- questionnaires, 24-h recalls, food checklists, diet histories, eficial effects of a dietary supplement. Nutrition, physical and food diaries which require large and complicated data activity, psychological and physical stress, sleep restric- analyses and experienced dieticians or
