Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


histories, eficial effects of a dietary supplement. Nutrition, physical and food diaries which require large and complicated data activity, psychological and physical stress, sleep restric- analyses and experienced dieticians or nutritionists to accu- tions, socioeconomic status, antibiotics use, exposure to rately extrapolate the data . To improve the quality of pets, noise, and temperature have been all reported to asso- these data, there is a need to replace self-reporting with new ciate with changes in human microbiota [123–125]. It is, and emerging objective tools. The emergence of food intake therefore, essential that human microbiota studies capture biomarkers holds great promise for nutrition research in this such host variables to secure reproducible evidence about regard . Another possibility is to recruit subjects the relationship between specific gut microorganisms and who share the same household or live in a care home, for biomarkers of disease . The appropriate timing of an example, where they tend to eat the same foods. One recent intervention is an additional factor to account for, consider- study by Valles-Colomer et al. assessed gut microbiota com- ing that the impact of lifestyle and environments may vary positional covariation with quality-of-life indicators and along the lifespan. Intervening during sensitive time-win- depression in the Belgian Flemish Gut Flora Project popu- dows, e.g., when microbiota and brain are still developing lation cohort . While Faecalibacterium and Coprococ- and their plasticity is high, may increase the likelihood of a cus were consistently associated with higher quality of life persistent effect. Studies in the first 1000 days of life indicate indicators, both of these genera were depleted in depression that exposure to antibiotics , pets, siblings , and inflammatory bowel disease. Interestingly, Coprococcus specific maternal intakes (sweeteners ) and environ- and Dialister decreased with depression. These results were mental toxicants affecting the infant’s microbiota are validated in other large microbiome cohorts. To investigate likely targets. On the other hand, since diet and lifestyle are the link between microbial neuroactive capacity with qual- such strong drivers of microbiota composition and activity ity of life and depression, the authors constructed the first , this opens the possibility to help patients to take their module-based analytical framework. Specific covariations there is accumulating evidence in nutritional psychiatry 1 3 needs to be established. This challenge cannot be tackled cance. At the current pace of technological development, by observational studies and interventional studies examin- it is now possible
