Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


1 3 needs to be established. This challenge cannot be tackled cance. At the current pace of technological development, by observational studies and interventional studies examin- it is now possible to imagine the potential of such tools ing the effects of dietary and/or lifestyle changes as well as to identify high-risk patients at an early stage, determine interventions with nutraceuticals. It needs to be designed in a which microbial/immunological imbalances may cause different way, because the classical double-blinded approach such risks and suggest possible interventions to mitigate does not work. A combination of alternative interventional them . study approaches, such as cross-over studies (for example , or citizen science (for example ) combined with An emphasis on collaboration mechanistic studies using new models and tools might be the way forward. More sharing and collaborative work is essential to extract Robust new models and elegant tools maximum knowledge from available data and build a truly validated evidence base. This requires the establishment Future progress further relies on the development of new of new biobanks to facilitate the sharing of material from models and elegant tools for studying bi-directional com- human and animal studies. Deep phenotyping databases, munication pathways. While animal models have proven standardised data formats and new methodologies invaluable in establishing the current knowledge base, it is for preserving microbiome samples are essential for inescapable that the gut microbiota of rodents is substan- such biobanks to play a meaningful role. By the same token, tially different from that of humans. To overcome this limita- in vitro models must become more easily available for use tion, there is a need for robust and reliable humanised rodent across labs. models . The competition for funding is one explanation for the From the perspective of in vitro models, three-dimen- low level of scientific collaboration to date. However, a sional brain and gut organoids and advanced co-culture sys- number of programmes and initiatives are, today, moving tems including the ENS, vagus nerve and the BBB provide research in this direction. Within Europe, they include the alternative methods for investigating realistic conditions for Community Research and Development Information Service unravelling the mysteries of microbiota–gut–brain mecha- (CORDIS) , which gathers and disseminates results nisms . Used in combination with models for from projects funded by the EU’s framework programmes digestion, such organoids and co-cultures could form in vitro for research and innovation. workflow models for studying
