Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


in combination with models for from projects funded by the EU’s framework programmes digestion, such organoids and co-cultures could form in vitro for research and innovation. workflow models for studying the gut–brain axis in context. One such project is the five-year multi-centre GEMMA A number of so-called organ-on-a-chip in vitro models have project funded by the EU’s Horizon 2020 programme . already been developed for this purpose, though they still Launched in January 2019, GEMMA explores interactions have limitations . between the gut microbiome, metabolome, epigenome, and Great opportunities also lie in the development of meth- immune function to discover useful biomarkers for early ods that track, for example, how neurotransmitters travel diagnosis of autism, along with potential targets for preven- from the gut through the BBB in response to neuroinflam- tive therapies . Other examples are the ONCOBIOME matory processes. Some of this methodology is becoming and MICROB-PREDICT projects, funded by available, with human brain imaging representing a possi- Horizon 2020 to investigate the microbiome’s role in cancer bility to track the influence of microbiota on neurotransmis- development and chronic liver disease, respectively. sion . Metabolomic, metaproteomic and metagenomic Organisations such as the International Life Science Insti- analyses and gut biopsies are other possible methodologies. tute Europe (ILSI Europe) and the International Scien- Many research studies today involve statisticians from tific Association for Probiotics and Prebiotics (ISAPP) their inception to assure the quality of the study’s design. bring together academic and industrial scientists involved in Computational and data scientists are similarly vital to max- basic and applied research across multiple disciplines. Their imise the value of research through comprehensive data purpose is to promote progress in the field by supporting analysis. Specialised computer programmes are already scientific integrity and transparency, harmonising scientific able to provide next-level precision when generalising and efforts, and providing guidance for collaborative and multi- stratifying results in relation to specific population groups, disciplinary research. such as those at risk of brain disorders . ISAPP is setting an excellent example. Each one of Machine learning technology will become increas- its objectives is relevant to the progress of microbi- ingly essential to improving the efficiency and accuracy ota–gut–brain axis research at large and the ultimate devel- of study findings. Indeed, bioinformatics holds the key opment of dietary strategies where the gut microbiota is the to integrating large, multi-dimensional datasets and, from primary target. 1 3 The dream
