Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


study findings. Indeed, bioinformatics holds the key opment of dietary strategies where the gut microbiota is the to integrating large, multi-dimensional datasets and, from primary target. 1 3 The dream destination—improved quality Europe. The authors wish to thank all workshop participants for their of life valuable input. The research question addressed in this publication and The potential of the microbiota–gut–brain axis efits Assessment of Foods, and Nutrition & Immunity Task Forces. through future nutritional and therapeutic Members of these task forces are listed on the ILSI Europe website. interventions The expert group then refined the research question and carried out the work of discussing and collecting/analysing data and information for this scientific paper, independent of other task force’s activities. The The microbiota–gut–brain axis represents an intricate net- research reported is the result of a scientific evaluation in line with ILSI work of systems which scientists are only beginning to Europe’s framework to provide a precompetitive setting for public- private partnerships. ILSI Europe facilitated scientific meetings and understand. Given this complexity, the nutritional and thera- coordinated the overall project management and administrative tasks peutic strategies with the best chances of success are likely relating to the completion of this work. For further information about to be those aimed at improving human quality of life. Some ILSI Europe, please email or call +3227710014. are even already on the market, including foods and sup- The opinions expressed herein, and the conclusions of this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of plements that promise to improve mood, sleep, or cognitive ILSI Europe nor those of its member companies, nor any regulatory performance. The evidence behind some of these claims is, authority. however, still in question. Very recently though, the Euro- pean Food Safety Agency (EFSA) approved Akkermansia Author contributions AC, GLF, LH, PI, ADK, EP, BP, CS, DV: con- muciniphila as a novel food . ception, design, and revision of the work. LG, MM: overall manage- ment, conception, design, and revision of the work. By expanding knowledge, scientists have recognised the potential to achieve much more. Although the prevention Funding This work was conducted by an expert group (EG) of the of brain disorders may remain out of reach for the foresee- able future, the mapping of healthy microbiota and com- Europe. According to ILSI Europe policies, the EG is composed of at munication pathways could enable
