Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences (2022) 79:80
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, brain, gut microbiota, gut brain, studies, axis, research, brain axis, microbiome, disease, microbiota gut, disorders, human, role


of reach for the foresee- able future, the mapping of healthy microbiota and com- Europe. According to ILSI Europe policies, the EG is composed of at munication pathways could enable their early prediction. least 50% external non-industry members. The complete composition of the EG can be found on the ILSI Europe website ( lsi.e u/ The first signs of neurodegenerative conditions such as Alz- task-f orces/n utrit ion/n utrit ion-a nd-m ental-p erfor mance/). Experts are heimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, for example, are known not paid for the time spent on this work. However, non-industry mem- to develop many years before diagnosis. Imagine if it were bers were offered support for travel and accommodation costs from possible to slow neurodegenerative processes by altering the the above-mentioned task forces when attending workshops/meetings to discuss the manuscript. Journalist and communication consultant microbiome. Cath Mersh received funding for her writing services from the above- A similar scenario is imaginable for children with ASD. mentioned Task Forces. What if dietary influences on the gut microbiota could both relieve GI irritation and calm anxiety and hyperactivity? Data availability Not applicable. And what if it were possible to complement drug and psy- chiatric therapy for schizophrenia with targeted foods such Code availability Not applicable. as probiotics? Declarations These are, perhaps, realisable dreams. Over the past few years, they have inspired a growing number of scientists to Competing interests The following authors: LG, LH, PI, ADK, MM, found start-up companies that are now investigating small CS, DV declare that they have no competing interests. AC, GLF, EP, molecule therapeutics for treating neurological and other BP are employees of the food industry, as declared under affiliation. disorders through microbiome modulation. Private inves- tors often support their clinical research. Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri- Scientists have documented many links between the bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta- microbiota, gut, and brain. The time has come to dig even tion, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long deeper through integrated, multi-disciplinary research— as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes aimed at understanding microbiota–gut–brain mechanisms were made. The images or other third party material in this article are and identifying true opportunities to adapt and adjust the included in the article's Creative
