Peripheral Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: pad, patients, revascularization, artery, disease, claudication, pain, ischemia, symptoms, artery disease, lower, exercise, ischemic, endovascular, peripheral


Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is caused by atherosclerosis of the extremities that leads to impaired perfusion and ischemia. Lower extremity PAD, may be asymptomatic or patients may have atypical symptoms, claudication, or chronic limb-threatening ischemia (ischemic rest pain, ulceration or tissue loss, and gangrene). Diagnosis is typically made by history, physical examination, and measurement of the ankle-brachial index. Treatment of all patients with lower extremity PAD includes risk factor modification, lifestyle modification, including exercise. Antiplatelet medications are recommended for patients with symptomatic lower extremity PAD. For patients with claudication, treatment with cilostazol and referral for supervised exercise training are recommended. Additional treatments for refractory claudication or chronic limb-threatening ischemia include endovascular or surgical revascularization. Some patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia require amputation. Prognosis is generally good with treatment, although morbidity and mortality rates are high due to concomitant diseases, including coronary artery disease. Peripheral artery disease of the upper and lower extremities is discussed below.. Other vascular diseases, including abdominal aortic aneurysm, thoracic aortic aneurysm, aortic dissection, renal artery stenosis and occlusion, fibromuscular dysplasia, mesenteric ischemia, and ischemic stroke resulting from carotid artery stenosis are presented elsewhere. Etiology of Peripheral Artery Disease The global prevalence of peripheral artery disease (PAD) is between 2 and 6% overall; prevalence increases to 15 to 20% after age 80 (1, 2, 3). Risk factors are the same as those for atherosclerosis (4, 5): Cigarette smoking (including passive smoking) or other forms of tobacco use Dyslipidemia (high low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol, low high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol) Family history of atherosclerosis High homocysteine level Hypertension Increasing age Male sex Obesity Atherosclerosis is a systemic disorder; the majority of patients with PAD also have clinically significant coronary artery disease (CAD) or cerebrovascular disease (6). Symptoms and Signs of Peripheral Artery Disease Peripheral artery disease may be categorized into 4 subsets: asymptomatic, chronic symptomatic, chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI), and acute limb ischemia (ALI) (1). Symptoms of occlusive peripheral artery disease may not occur until the luminal diameter is narrowed by 50 to 70%, depending on the specific artery and patient. More than 20% of patients with peripheral artery disease have no symptoms, and nearly the same percentage of patients have atypical symptoms (eg, nonspecific exercise intolerance, hip or other joint pain) (1). Patients with asymptomatic PAD may have functional impairment, as well as symptoms unmasked during objective walking tests (despite experiencing no exertional symptoms in daily life) (1).
