Peripheral Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: pad, patients, revascularization, artery, disease, claudication, pain, ischemia, symptoms, artery disease, lower, exercise, ischemic, endovascular, peripheral


other joint pain) (1). Patients with asymptomatic PAD may have functional impairment, as well as symptoms unmasked during objective walking tests (despite experiencing no exertional symptoms in daily life) (1). Intermittent claudication is the typical manifestation of chronic symptomatic PAD. Intermittent claudication is a painful, aching, cramping, uncomfortable, or tired feeling in the legs that occurs during walking and is relieved by rest (1). Claudication usually occurs in the calves but can occur in the feet, thighs, hips, buttocks, or, rarely, arms. Claudication is a manifestation of reversible, exercise-induced ischemia, and it is typically relieved by rest. With mild claudication, patients are able to perform exertional activities with few limitations. As PAD progresses, the distance that can be walked without symptoms may decrease. Patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia may experience ischemic rest pain, which is usually worse distally, is aggravated by leg elevation (often causing pain at night), and lessens when the leg is below heart level (1). The pain may be described as burning, tightness, or aching, although this finding is nonspecific. When below heart level, the foot may appear dusky red or darker than usual (called dependent rubor). In some patients, elevating the foot causes loss of color and worsens ischemic pain; when the foot is lowered, venous filling is prolonged (> 15 seconds). Edema is usually not present unless the patient has kept the leg immobile and in a dependent position to relieve pain. Patients with chronic PAD may have thin, pale (atrophic) skin with hair thinning or loss. Distal legs and feet may feel cool. The affected leg may sweat excessively and become cyanotic, probably because of sympathetic nerve overactivity. Sudden, complete occlusion is discussed in Acute Limb Ischemia. As ischemia worsens, ischemic ulcers may appear (typically on the toes or heel, occasionally on the leg or foot), especially after local trauma. The ulcers tend to be surrounded by black, necrotic tissue (dry gangrene). They are usually painful, but patients with peripheral neuropathy (eg, due to diabetes or alcohol use disorder) may not feel them. Infection of ischemic ulcers (wet gangrene) occurs frequently, typically leading to rapidly progressive cellulitis. The level of arterial occlusion influences location of symptoms. Aortoiliac PAD may cause buttock, thigh, or calf claudication; hip pain; and, in men, erectile dysfunction (Leriche syndrome). In femoropopliteal PAD, claudication typically occurs in the calf; pulses below the femoral artery are weak or absent. In PAD
