Peripheral Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: pad, patients, revascularization, artery, disease, claudication, pain, ischemia, symptoms, artery disease, lower, exercise, ischemic, endovascular, peripheral


claudication; hip pain; and, in men, erectile dysfunction (Leriche syndrome). In femoropopliteal PAD, claudication typically occurs in the calf; pulses below the femoral artery are weak or absent. In PAD of more distal arteries, femoropopliteal pulses may be present, but foot pulses are absent. Patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia typically have multisegment disease (eg, aortoiliac, femoropopliteal, and tibial occlusions). Peripheral artery disease occasionally affects the arms, especially the left proximal subclavian artery, causing arm fatigue with exercise and occasionally embolization to the hands. Diagnosis of Peripheral Artery Disease Ankle-brachial index Ultrasound Angiography (includes magnetic resonance angiography, CT angiography, or invasive angiography) CT Scan of a Patient with Occlusion of Superficial Femoral Arteries Peripheral artery disease is underrecognized because many patients have atypical symptoms or are not active enough to have symptoms. Spinal stenosis may also cause leg pain during walking but can be distinguished because the pain (called pseudoclaudication) requires sitting, not just rest, for relief, and distal pulses remain intact. Diagnosis is confirmed by noninvasive testing. First, bilateral arm and ankle systolic blood pressure (BP) is measured using Doppler probes and a manual blood pressure cuff. Segmental blood pressure measurements are often used, because pressure gradients and pulse volume waveforms can help distinguish isolated aortoiliac PAD from femoropopliteal PAD and below-the-knee PAD. The ankle-brachial index (ABI) is the ratio of the highest ankle systolic BP (on the right and left) divided by the highest arm systolic BP. A low (≤ 0.90) ankle-brachial index is diagnostic of lower extremity PAD, a value from 0.91 to 0.99 is borderline (1). If the index is normal (1.00 to 1.40) or borderline (0.91 to 0.99) but suspicion of PAD remains high, an exercise ABI can be measured using treadmill walking or ankle lifts. After exercise, a drop in the ABI by 20% is diagnostic of lower extremity PAD. A high resting ABI index (> 1.40) may indicate noncompressible leg vessels (as occurs in Mönckeberg arteriosclerosis with calcification of the arterial wall). If the index is > 1.40 but suspicion of PAD remains high, a toe-brachial index and toe pressure are performed to check for arterial stenoses or occlusions. Ischemic lesions are unlikely to heal when the toe systolic BP is < 30 mm Hg, while healing potential is considered likely if toe pressure is > 60 mm Hg. Lower extremity PAD and the likelihood of ulcer healing can also be assessed by transcutaneous
