Peripheral Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: pad, patients, revascularization, artery, disease, claudication, pain, ischemia, symptoms, artery disease, lower, exercise, ischemic, endovascular, peripheral


Hg, while healing potential is considered likely if toe pressure is > 60 mm Hg. Lower extremity PAD and the likelihood of ulcer healing can also be assessed by transcutaneous oximetry (TcO2). A TcO2 level < 40 mm Hg (5.32 kPa) is predictive of poor healing, and a value < 20 mm Hg (2.66 kPa) is consistent with chronic limb-threatening ischemia. Angiography provides details of the location and extent of arterial stenoses or occlusions; it is a prerequisite for endovascular and/or surgical revascularization procedures. It is not a substitute for noninvasive testing because it provides no information about the functional significance of abnormal findings. Arterial duplex ultrasound, magnetic resonance angiography, and CT angiography are noninvasive testing options that can facilitate planning for invasive angiography and help plan for revascularization (1, 2). Treatment of Peripheral Artery Disease Risk factor management (eg, diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension) Lifestyle modification (eg, exercise, smoking cessation, weight management) Antiplatelet and anticoagulant medications Cilostazol for claudication Antihypertensive therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) Endovascular or surgical revascularization for symptomatic disease Preventive care All patients require aggressive lifestyle and risk factor modification for relief of peripheral artery disease symptoms and prevention of cardiovascular disease, including: Smoking cessation, which is essential Control of diabetes, dyslipidemia, and hypertension Structured exercise therapy Dietary changes Both supervised and home-based exercise training are recommended for patients with lower extremity PAD (1, 2). Approximately 30 to 60 minutes of treadmill or track walking in an exercise-rest- exercise pattern is recommended at least 3 times per week. Supervised exercise programs are probably superior to home-based exercise programs. Exercise can increase symptom-free walking distance and improve quality of life. Mechanisms probably include increased collateral circulation, improved endothelial function with microvascular vasodilation, decreased blood viscosity, improved red blood cell filterability, decreased ischemia-induced inflammation, and improved oxygen extraction. Preventive foot care is crucial, especially for patients with diabetes. It includes daily foot inspection for injuries and skin breakdown; treatment of calluses and corns by a podiatrist; daily washing of the feet in lukewarm water with mild soap, followed by gentle, thorough drying; and avoidance of thermal, chemical, and mechanical injury, especially that due to poorly fitting footwear. Foot ulcer management is discussed elsewhere. 7/11 Pharmacotherapy Statins, ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and aspirin are given to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events (see Treatment of Atherosclerosis). Antiplatelet monotherapy is recommended for all patients with
