Peripheral Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: pad, patients, revascularization, artery, disease, claudication, pain, ischemia, symptoms, artery disease, lower, exercise, ischemic, endovascular, peripheral


7/11 Pharmacotherapy Statins, ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and aspirin are given to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events (see Treatment of Atherosclerosis). Antiplatelet monotherapy is recommended for all patients with lower extremity PAD who have symptoms (3, 4). Antiplatelet medications may modestly lessen symptoms and increase walking distance in patients with PAD; more importantly, these medications modify atherogenesis and help prevent acute coronary syndromes and transient ischemic attacks. Options for patients with symptomatic PAD include aspirin or clopidogrel orally. Randomized trials have shown that the combination of rivaroxaban and aspirin reduced cardiovascular events, including death, and major adverse limb events, including amputation (5, 6). Some data, however, suggest that the combination of aspirin plus rivaroxaban 2.5 mg orally 2 times a day also increases the risk of bleeding (7). Cilostazol taken orally may be used to relieve intermittent claudication by improving blood flow and enhancing tissue oxygenation in affected areas; however, cilostazol is not a substitute for risk factor modification and exercise. The most common adverse effects of cilostazol are headache and diarrhea. Cilostazol is contraindicated in patients with systolic heart failure. ACE inhibitors and ARBs have several beneficial effects. They are antiatherogenic and are potent vasodilators. Among patients undergoing vascular intervention for chronic limb-threatening ischemia, those on ACE inhibitors or ARBs had improved amputation-free and overall survival (8). Beta-blockers are also safe in patients with lower extremity PAD (3). Other medications that may relieve claudication are being studied but are not available in the United States; they include L-arginine (the precursor of endothelium-dependent vasodilator), nitric oxide, vasodilator prostaglandins, chelation therapy, and angiogenic growth factors (eg, vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF], basic fibroblast growth factor [bFGF]) (4, 9). Endovascular revascularization Endovascular revascularization has advanced significantly over the past few decades. The use of multiple modalities in endovascular revascularization, including percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), atherectomy, and/or stenting, has been proven to improve durability and intermediate- and long- term clinical outcomes. Success for patients undergoing endovascular revascularization is quite high (procedural success> 90%, 3-year patency 58 to 82% depending on type and location of stent) (10, 11). More than 80% of all patients undergoing revascularization undergo endovascular revascularization as the first-line treatment (12). Indications for endovascular revascularization include: Intermittent claudication that limits daily activities and does not respond to risk factor modification and noninvasive treatments Rest pain Ischemic ulceration or tissue loss Gangrene 8/11 Complications of endovascular revascularization include thrombosis at the
