Peripheral Artery Disease
KEYWORDS: pad, patients, revascularization, artery, disease, claudication, pain, ischemia, symptoms, artery disease, lower, exercise, ischemic, endovascular, peripheral


daily activities and does not respond to risk factor modification and noninvasive treatments Rest pain Ischemic ulceration or tissue loss Gangrene 8/11 Complications of endovascular revascularization include thrombosis at the site of dilation, distal embolization, vessel dissection, vessel perforation, and bleeding complications. Studies have shown similar limb salvage rates in patients undergoing endovascular and surgical revascularization (13, 14), and patient preferences and patient risk should be considered prior to embarking on either endovascular or surgical revascularization. Surgical revascularization Surgical revascularization is indicated for patients: Who can safely tolerate a major vascular procedure With acute limb ischemia With chronic limb-threatening ischemia With symptomatic intermittent claudication that does not respond to noninvasive treatments (eg, similar to the indications for endovascular revascularization) The goal is to relieve symptoms, prevent or decrease tissue loss, and avoid amputation. While some patients are at high risk for acute coronary syndrome and other complications of surgical revascularization, the empiric use of coronary revascularization is not recommended prior to vascular surgery. Thromboendarterectomy (surgical removal of an occlusive lesion) is used for short, localized lesions in the aortoiliac, common femoral, and/or deep femoral arteries. Lower extremity bypass (eg, femoropopliteal bypass grafting) uses synthetic or natural materials (often the saphenous or another vein) to bypass occlusive lesions. Lower extremity bypass is often used to prevent limb amputation and relieve claudication. Sympathectomy may be effective in patients who cannot undergo major vascular surgery, when a distal occlusion causes severe ischemic pain. Chemical sympathetic blocks are as effective as surgical sympathectomy, so the latter is rarely performed. Amputation is a procedure of last resort, indicated for uncontrolled infection, unrelenting rest pain, and progressive gangrene. Amputation should be as distal as possible, preserving knee and ankle function (if possible) to permit ongoing ambulation. If more severe PAD is present, below knee amputation is preferred over above knee amputation so that patients can be considered for limb prosthesis after amputation (8). Key Points Peripheral artery disease (PAD) occurs most frequently in the lower extremities. Most patients also have significant cerebral or coronary atherosclerosis or both. When symptomatic, PAD causes intermittent claudication, which is discomfort in the legs that occurs during walking and is relieved by rest; it is a manifestation of exercise- induced reversible ischemia, similar to angina pectoris. More severe perfusion abnormalities in PAD may cause ischemic rest pain, ischemic ulcers, or gangrene of the toes or elsewhere on the feet. A low
