Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome RESEARCH Open Access High-tannin food enhances spatial memory and scatter-hoarding in rodents via the microbiota-gut-brain axis Xiangyu Zhao1, Jiawei Guo1,2, Yiming Wang1 and Xianfeng Yi1* Abstract Background The mutually beneficial coevolutionary relationships between rodents and plant seeds have been a theme of research in plant-animal relationships. Seed tannins are important secondary metabolites of plants that regulate the food-hoarding behavior of rodents; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not yet clear. In this study, we investigated whether and how seed tannins improve spatial memory and regulate the hoarding behavior of Tamias sibiricus by altering their gut microbiota. Results We showed that acorn tannins not only improved spatial memory but also enhanced scatter-hoarding in T. sibiricus. Changes in the composition and function of the gut microbiota in response to tannins from acorns are closely related to these improvements. Metabonomic analyses revealed the role of gut isovaleric acid and isobutyric acid as well as serum L-tryptophan in mediating the spatial memory of T. sibiricus via the gut microbiota. The hip- pocampal proteome provides further evidence that the microbiota-gut-brain axis regulates spatial memory and scat- ter-hoarding in animals. Our study is likely the first to report that plant secondary metabolites improve hippocampal function and spatial memory and ultimately modulate food-hoarding behavior via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Conclusion Our findings may have resolved the long-standing puzzle about the hidden role of plant secondary metabolites in manipulating food-hoarding behavior in rodents via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Our study is impor- tant for better understanding the mutualistic coevolution between plants and animals. Keywords Tannin, Hoarding rodents, Spatial memory, Microbiota-gut-brain axis Background animals is still unclear, scatter-hoarding behavior is cru- Seed dispersal by food-hoarding animals plays a key cial for seed dispersal and seedling recruitment of large- role in plant regeneration and the population dynam- seeded species in forest ecosystems . Previous studies ics of various plants bearing large seeds [1–3]. Scatter- have shown that food-hoarding animals rely mainly on hoarding animals usually bury seeds in small shallow pits spatial memory to cache and recover their cached seeds scattered within their home range . Although the ; therefore, spatial memory appears to be a decisive specific mechanism of seed dispersal by scatter-hoarding factor in determining how the seeds are cached and then retrieved. In this scenario, any biotic or abiotic factors that can affect spatial memory will determine the fitness *Correspondence: Xianfeng Yi
