Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


of seed tannins than ever thought. An increasing body microbiota and the spatial cognition and hoarding behav- of literature has shown that tannins have the potential ior of Siberian chipmunk, Tamias sibiricus, an important to prevent neural damage in the hippocampus and hip- scatter-hoarding animal widely distributed in oak forests, pocampal-dependent cognition . Although the were investigated to study whether and how the seed underlying mechanism remains unclear, alteration of the tannins of Quercus variabilis regulate spatial memory gut microbiota by tannins is expected to play a hidden and hoarding behavior by using metagenomics, targeted role through the gut-brain axis. and non-target metabolomics, proteomics, fecal micro- The growing power and finesse of metagenomics stud- biota transplantation (FMT), and behavioral procedures. ies have quickly expanded our knowledge of the impor- Our goal was to explore the underlying mechanisms by tance of the gut microbiota in mutualistic relationships which toxic tannins in acorns modify the mutualistic with its host [17–22]. The gut microbiota plays a crucial interactions between plants and hoarding animals from role not only in the development and functional matura- the perspective of microbiota-gut-brain axis, which is tion of the gut immune system but also in the mainte- highly important for revealing coevolution among plants, axis . The gut microbiota can produce various essen- addressed the following hypotheses: (1) seed tannins not tial neurotransmitters and neuromodulators, such as only improve the spatial memory of T. sibiricus but also gamma amino acid, 5-hydroxytryptamine, dopamine, may regulate its hoarding behavior, (2) improvement of and various short-chain fatty acids, to connect the gut- spatial memory is closely related to alteration of the gut brain axis and ultimately regulate brain function through microbiota by tannin addition, and (3) metabolites such different transport pathways [24–27]. Evidence showed as neurotransmitters and short-chain fatty acids serve as that changes in the gut microbiome altered the perfor- hidden players in regulating the hippocampus through mance of rodents in a series of visual-spatial learning and the microbiota-gut-brain axis. We expect that our memory tasks, restored impairments in spatial memory research will pave a new way to study mutualistic rela- behavior , or improved episodic or long-term tionships between animals and plants regulated by the learning and spatial memory [30–32]. Tannins, including interaction between secondary metabolites and the gut condensed tannins and hydrolyzed tannins, have been microbiota. reported to regulate the gut microbiota composition and Materials and methods bacterial metabolites
