Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


Tannins, including interaction between secondary metabolites and the gut condensed tannins and hydrolyzed tannins, have been microbiota. reported to regulate the gut microbiota composition and Materials and methods bacterial metabolites [33–35], which in turn affect the physiological, behavioral, and cognitive functions of ani- Animals and handling mals . Previous studies have either explored the The Siberian chipmunks purchased from Jiaxiang Tengx- effects of tannin addition on cognitive ability or revealed iang Breeding Co., Ltd. (Jining, China) were housed sepa- the relationship between the gut microbiota and spatial rately in standard plastic cages measuring 53 cm × 39 cm memory in mammals [38–41]. However, few studies have at room temperature and under a natural light cycle and bridged the gap between the effects of tannins on the gut were allowed free access to tap water and food in this microbiota and the improvement of spatial memory, to study. After 1 week of acclimatization, the chipmunks uncover the secondary metabolite-microbiota-gut-brain were randomly divided into four groups: the TST group axis in the context of mutualistic interactions between (acorn addition group, n = 7), TSC group (control group, plant seeds and animals. n = 7), T-tan group (tannic acid addition group, n = 8), Food-hoarding animals play a crucial role in various and T-con group (control group, n = 8). The TSC and forest ecosystems . Each individual scatter-hoard- T-con groups were fed standard rat chow (Jinan Pengyue ing animal is estimated to store several thousand seeds Experimental Animal Breeding Co., Ltd., Jinan, China) in their scattered caches within a single season . and purified water ad libitum. Each T. sibiricus individual Acorns of Quercus, often containing a high level of tan- in the TST group received standard rat chow together nins, constitute the main food items cached by various with five acorns of Q. variabilis every day for 20 days. The acorns of Q. variabilis, containing approximately which prevents escape of the focal animals. A camera 10% tannins, were collected from a local area in a state- wired to be scored in real time by ANY-maze 7.0 ani- owned forest in Shimenshan, Qufu, China. Individuals mal behavior video analysis system (Stoelting Co., USA) in the T-tan group were provided standard rat chow and was placed 1.5 m above the center of the 8-arm maze to 2% tannin solution prepared using tannic acid (Macklin, measure working memory error (WME), i.e., reentry into Shanghai,
