Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


and was placed 1.5 m above the center of the 8-arm maze to 2% tannin solution prepared using tannic acid (Macklin, measure working memory error (WME), i.e., reentry into Shanghai, China) for a period of 10 days. After feeding, the baited arms, and reference memory error (RME), i.e., fresh feces were collected, snap frozen in liquid nitro- first entry into the unbaited arms. The eight-arm maze gen, and stored at − 80 °C for subsequent 16S rDNA gut experiment was divided into three consecutive phases. microbiota analysis. In total, six fecal samples were col- In the acclimatization phase (2d), chipmunks placed lected for each of the TSC and TST groups, and eight in the eight-arm maze were allowed to move freely and samples were collected for each of the T-con and T-tan consume the food pellets for 10 min every day. In the groups. To collect feces, we confined each chipmunk into training phase (7d), after the adaptation phase, training a sterilized live trap measuring 20 cm × 11 cm × 9 cm that was carried out once per day for 7 days. The food pellets was placed on a piece of A4 paper and allowed it to def- were placed in four randomly selected arms, and the daily ecate. At least 10–15 pellets of fresh feces were collected sequence was kept unchanged throughout the training from each chipmunk within 5 min. stage. The chipmunks were first confined to the center of the maze for 30 s and then allowed to enter any arm to Hoarding behavior of T. sibiricus in the artificial enclosures eat the food pellets completely. The training process was To test whether high-tannin food consumption modifies terminated if the chipmunks were unable to consume the hoarding behavior of T. sibiricus, we carried out food- the pellets within 10 min. Between each of the two train- hoarding experiments in five duplicated outdoor arenas ing sessions, we cleaned the maze completely using 75% (10 × 10 m and 2.5 m high). We paved the ground of each alcohol to avoid odor interference. In the test phase (1 enclosure with bricks to create an 8 × 8 grid of 64 evenly d), on the 10th day, the food pellets were removed from spaced, small, shallow pits (24 × 12 cm and 6 cm deep) the arms. The chipmunks were allowed to move freely each separated by 1 m. The
