Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


were removed from spaced, small, shallow pits (24 × 12 cm and 6 cm deep) the arms. The chipmunks were allowed to move freely each separated by 1 m. The pits were filled with fine sand in the maze for 5 min, during which the WME and RME to allow the animals to cache, resulting in an arena that parameters were recorded to test the spatial memory of was nearly all paved, except for the small pits . A seed T. sibiricus. station (0.5 m 2) was established for seed placement in the center of each enclosure, and a man-made nest and Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) a water plate were placed in one corner of each enclosure To test whether the gut microbiota participates in for T. sibiricus. All enclosures were well protected with a improving spatial memory after tannin consumption, we steel net roof to prevent access from potential predators performed fecal microbiota transplantation in 8-week- . The chipmunks were acclimated indoors for 1 week old C57BL/6 J mice (Jinan Pengyue Experimental Animal prior to the scatter-hoarding experiments in the enclo- Breeding Co., China). Mice were housed individually in sures. The chipmunks were individually introduced into polystyrene plastic cages (37 cm × 27 cm × 17 cm) where each enclosure at 06:00 in the morning and allowed to they had free access to water and standard rat chow. freely carry, eat, and hoard the 20 seeds of Castanea mol- One week after acclimatization, the mice were randomly lissima placed at the seed station of the enclosure. Here, divided into four recipient groups: TST-FMT (n = 18), seeds of C. mollissima rather than acorns of Q. variabi- TSC-FMT (n = 18), T-tan-FMT (n = 13), and T-con-FMT lis were provided to avoid any interference from feeding (n = 12) to receive the fecal microbiota from the four experience or chipmunk preferences. At 18:00, the chip- donor chipmunk groups, respectively. Prior to feces col- munks were removed from the enclosures, and the seed lection, the chipmunks had stopped consuming acorns/ fates were checked. The seeds handled by the chipmunks tannic acid for 5 days. To collect feces pellets, each chip- were grouped into intact in situ (IIS), eaten in situ (EAR), munk was individually confined in a sterilized cage (L × intact after removal (IAR), scatter-hoarded in shallow W × H = 20 cm × 11 cm × 9 cm). At
