Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


munk was individually confined in a sterilized cage (L × intact after removal (IAR), scatter-hoarded in shallow W × H = 20 cm × 11 cm × 9 cm). At the same time, fresh pits (SH), and larder-hoarded in nests (LH). feces were collected from each chipmunk within 10 min with forceps. The fresh feces (200 mg) from each donor Eight‑arm maze test group were mixed and dissolved in 2 mL of sterile 0.9% We used an eight-arm maze to test whether the con- saline pellets. After slight shaking, the inoculum was sumption of tannins improved the spatial memory of T. centrifuged at 37 °C, 500 r/min for 10 min under aero- sibiricus following the hoarding experiments. The 8-arm bic conditions. The supernatant was then immediately maze, 75 cm in diameter, consists of eight organic arms collected for gavage. Each recipient mouse was admin- 28 cm in length, 6.5 cm in width, and 60 cm in height, istrated by gavage with 300 μl bacterial suspension from donors every day for 10 consecutive days. To ensure the collect the bilateral hippocampi and cecal contents. All freshness of the bacterial suspension, fresh feces were samples were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and collected daily for gavage. During the gavage period, the stored at − 80 °C for subsequent hippocampal proteomic mice were provided free access to water and standard rat assays, gut microbiota tests, and short-chain fatty acid chow ad libitum. Four weeks after FMT, the Barnes maze assays. To avoid killing too many animals and maximize test was performed to test the difference in spatial mem- animal welfare, individuals in the T-con and T-tan groups ory between the recipients. were not sampled; these groups were expected to show patterns similar to those of the TSC and TST groups. Barnes maze test The Barnes maze is a rotatable circular platform con- Analysis of the gut microbiota structed of organic wood panels 91 cm in diameter with DNA extraction 20 equally spaced circular holes (5 cm × 5 cm) around the The fecal samples were transported on dry ice to OE perimeter of the platform. Only one hole is connected Biotech Shanghai for testing following the manufactur- to a dark black box (i.e., the target box), while the other er’s instructions. A MagPure Soil DNA LQ Kit (Magen, holes are hollowed out. A camera from the Any-maze Guangdong, China) was used to isolate
