Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


the target box), while the other er’s instructions. A MagPure Soil DNA LQ Kit (Magen, holes are hollowed out. A camera from the Any-maze Guangdong, China) was used to isolate bacterial DNA 7.0 Animal Behavior Video Analysis System (Stoelting from feces. We determined the DNA concentration using Co., USA) was placed 1 m above the center of the maze a NanoDrop 2000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher to monitor the mice of the TST-FMT, TSC-FMT, T-tan- Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) and examined the DNA FM, and T-con-FMT groups, and the data were collected integrity via agarose gel electrophoresis. A universal simultaneously. Before the start of each training session, primer pair (343F: 5′-TAC GGR AGG CAG AG-3′; 798 the mice were placed in a rectangular box at the center of r: 5′-AGG GTA TCT AAT CCT-3′) was used. The reverse the maze to restrict movement for 5 s. Then, the box was primer contains the sample barcode, and two primers are removed, and the mice were allowed to move freely on connected to the Illumina sequencing adapter. the platform to locate the target box. The training session lasted 4 min and was terminated when the mice entered Library construction and sequencing the target box with their whole body for 30 s. However, The library was constructed and sequenced using gel if the mice failed to locate the target box within 4 min, electrophoresis to observe the quality of the amplicons. they were manually placed in the target box for 30 s. The The PCR products were purified using Agcourt AMPure maze was randomly rotated to change positions between XP beads (Beckman Coulter Co., USA) and then quanti- each session to prevent the mice from relying on scent to fied using a Qubit dsDNA detection kit. Then, the con- determine the location of the target box, while the ori- centration was adjusted for sequencing performed on an entation of the target box was always fixed. At the same Illumina NovaSeq 6000 with a read cycle of 250 bases per time, the maze was cleaned with 75% alcohol to avoid two paired ends (Illumina Inc., San Diego, CA; OE Bio- odor disturbance between each training session. Each tech; Shanghai, China). The raw image data files obtained mouse was trained once per day for six consecutive days. were transformed into raw sequences (raw data) by base On day 7, spatial memory ability was tested with the
