Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


obtained mouse was trained once per day for six consecutive days. were transformed into raw sequences (raw data) by base On day 7, spatial memory ability was tested with the call analysis. same procedure as in the training phase. The time taken and distance traveled to locate and enter the target box Processing of sequencing data were measured for each mouse. After that, the mice in The raw reads were processed to filter sequences for the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups were immediately length (800–2500 bp) and quality through SMRT Portal sacrificed and dissected on ice to quickly collect the cecal according to the provided protocol . We further fil- contents for subsequent gut microbiota assays. tered the sequences by removing barcodes, chimeras, primer sequences, and those containing 10 consecu- Sample collection of T. sibiricus tive identical bases. Then, we used the unique sequences After the hoarding behavior in the enclosures and the among these remaining reads to define the operational fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) experiment, taxonomic units (OTUs) through USEARCH (version four individuals of T. sibiricus from each group (i.e., TSC 10) with a threshold of 98.65% similarity. We used Silva and TST) were randomly selected and anesthetized. The Release 138.1 (http:// www. arb- silva. de), employing the blood sample was extracted by cardiac puncture and then UCLUST algorithm (v1.2.22q) at a confidence thresh- centrifuged to collect serum in sterile EP tubes, snap fro- old of 0.8, to determine the taxonomic identities of the zen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at − 80 °C for subse- phylotypes . We analyzed the raw sequencing data to quent serum metabolite analysis. Then, the animals were generate rank-abundance curves and specaccum curves immediately euthanized and dissected on ice to quickly and performed core microbiome analysis and distances between groups using the QIIME software package L-2-chlorophenylalanine, 2 μg/mL) was added, and the (version 1.9.0). The annotations were obtained using mixture was shaken for 1 min. The solution was extracted Trimmomatic (version 0.35), Flash (version 1.2.11), split_ by sonication in an ice water bath for 10 min and allowed libraries in QIIME (version 1.8.0), UCHIME (version to stand at − 40 °C for 30 min. Then, the mixture was 2.4.2), VSEARCH software, and the RDP classifier. We centrifuged for 10 min (13,000 rpm, 4 °C), and 200 μL used the naive Bayesian classification algorithm to obtain of the supernatant was evaporated in an LC‒MS injec-
