Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


classifier. We centrifuged for 10 min (13,000 rpm, 4 °C), and 200 μL used the naive Bayesian classification algorithm to obtain of the supernatant was evaporated in an LC‒MS injec- the annotation information for OTUs. tion vial. After that, the solution was redissolved in 300 μL of methanol–water (V:V = 1:4) (vortexing for 30 s, Alpha‑ and beta‑diversity analyses sonication for 3 min) and allowed to stand at − 40 °C for Alpha-diversity indices (Chao1 and Shannon) were 2 h . Finally, the mixture was centrifuged for 10 min assessed based on Mothur v.1.35.1. and compared (13,000 rpm, 4 °C), 150 μL of supernatant was aspirated, between the animal groups using the Wilcoxon signed- and the mixture was filtered through a 0.22-μm organic rank test. Analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) was used phase pinhole filter, transferred to an LC injection vial, to detect the microbial community changes (beta diver- and stored at − 80 °C until LC‒MS analysis. sity) between the animal groups using PCoA based on the unweighted UniFrac distance matrix and Bray–Cur- LC‒MS analysis tis distance matrix with a 999 permutation t-test in R The analytical instrument for the experiments was a liq- (Vegan 3.6.3 package) (http:// www.R- proje ct. org/). We uid mass spectrometry system consisting of an ACQUITY also used R (3.6.3) to construct Venn diagrams to show UPLC I-Class plus ultraperformance liquid tandem QE the unique and overlapping OTU between the animal high-resolution mass spectrometer. An ACQUITY UPLC groups. The Wilcoxon rank-sum test was used to detect HSS T3 column (100 mm × 2.1 mm, 1.8 µm) was used. the significant effects of acorn/tannin addition on the gut The column temperature was set at 45 °C. The mobile microbiota at both the phylum and genus levels between phase was composed of water (containing 0.1% formic different groups of chipmunks or mice. acid) and acetonitrile (containing 0.1% formic acid). The flow rate was 0.35 mL/min, and the injection volume was LEfSe analysis 2 μL . The raw data were processed using Progen- We examined the dissimilarities among the animal esis QI v2.3 metabolomics software (Nonlinear Dynam- groups by performing linear discriminant analysis effect ics, Newcastle, UK) for baseline filtering, peak detection, size (LEfSe, v1.0) and the Kruskal–Wallis sum-rank test. identification and matching, retention time alignment, Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) was then performed and normalization following the standard parameters: a to determine the size effect of each distinctively
