Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


sum-rank test. identification and matching, retention time alignment, Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) was then performed and normalization following the standard parameters: a to determine the size effect of each distinctively abundant precursor tolerance of 5 ppm/10 ppm and a product tol- taxon from species to phylum. erance of 10 ppm/20 ppm . Functional prediction of the microbial genes Metabolite identification and analysis We predicted the metabolic functional profile of the gut The compounds were identified using the Human Metab- microbiota of chipmunks and mice using phylogenetic olome Database (HMDB), LIPID MAPS (v2.3), and MET- investigation of communities by reconstruction of unob- LIN databases, complemented with a self-built library served states (PICRUSt) according to the Kyoto Encyclo- based on accurate mass numbers, secondary fragmenta- pedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. We used tion, and isotopic distribution. Characterization was car- the obtained OTU data to generate BIOM files formatted ried out. For the extracted data, the ion peaks with > 50% as input for PICRUSt v1.1.09 with the make.biom script missing values (0 values) were removed from the group, usable in Mothur. We then mapped the OTU abundances and the 0 values were replaced by half of the minimum to Silva OTU IDs as input to infer the function of the gut value. Therefore, we selected the compounds obtained microbiota . from the characterization based on a score of the charac- terization results. We combined the positive and negative Untargeted metabolome of serum ion data into a data matrix table for subsequent analysis. Sample preparation For the multivariate statistical analysis of the untar- Serum samples frozen at − 80 °C were transferred on dry geted serum metabolome, we used unsupervised prin- ice to Shanghai Lumineers for analysis. Samples stored cipal component analysis (PCA) to examine the general at − 80 °C were removed and thawed at room tempera- distribution between samples and whether the whole ture, after which 100 μL of each sample was transferred analysis process was stable. Then, we used partial to a 1.5-mL EP tube. Then, 300 μL of the protein pre- least squares analysis (PLS-DA) and orthogonal par- cipitant methanol–acetonitrile (V:V = 2:1, containing tial least squares analysis (OPLS-DA) to distinguish general variations in metabolic profiles and detect differ- we first reduced the protein solution with 5-mM dithi- ent metabolites between the animal groups. othreitol at 56 °C for 30 min and then alkylated it with 11-mM
