Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


cell powder, followed by sonication three solution. The scanning range of the secondary mass spec- times on ice using a high-intensity ultrasonic processor trometer was fixed at 110 m/z in a solution of 30,000. The (Scientz). We removed the remaining debris by centrifu- data acquisition mode used a data-dependent scanning gation for 10 min at 4 °C and 12,000 × g. The supernatant (DDA) procedure. To improve the effective utilization of was collected for determination of the protein concen- the mass spectrum, automatic gain control (AGC) was tration using a BCA kit. To facilitate trypsin digestion, used to avoid repeated scanning of the parent ions. Protein identification and bioinformatics analysis detect the difference in the proportion of seeds scatter- We annotated the identified proteins based on our pre- hoarded by the chipmunks after arc-sine transformation. viously assembled chromosome-level genome of T. The same procedure was applied for the differences in sibiricus . Only peptides unique to a given protein the concentrations of serum metabolites and short-chain were used for relative quantification. We normalized the fatty acids in the cecum. The performance of chipmunks quantification for each sample using the average ratio of in the eight-armed maze and mice in the Barnes maze all the unique peptides. The fold change (FC) was cal- was evaluated by using an independent samples t-test culated, and the significance of differences between the to identify significant differences, respectively. Spear- two groups was tested based on quantitative results. We man correlation was used to detect the connection of used the two-tailed Fisher’s exact test to detect the dif- gut microbiota with the production of serum metabolites ferentially expressed proteins (DEPs) versus all identified and short-chain fatty acids in the cecum , respectively. proteins. A P-value < 0.05 was considered to indicate sta- tistical significance. The identified proteins whose calcu- Results lated fold changes (FCs) were less than 1/1.3 or greater Effects of tannins on spatial memory and scatter hoarding than 1.3 were regarded as DEPs in our study. Gene in T. sibiricus Ontology (GO) annotation (e.g., cellular component, The addition of high-tannin acorns of Q. variabilis and molecular function, and biological process domains) of tannic acid significantly decreased working memory the DEPs between the two groups was performed accord- errors (WMEs) in the eight-arm maze (t = 2.270, df = 12, ing to the GO database (http:// geneo ntolo gy. org/) . The P = 0.042;
