Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


sequence coverage. The majority of the detected proteins KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that the metabolic ranged from 2 to 3 charges and 7 to 20 amino acids in pathways that differed significantly between the TST and length (Figure S5E). The Pearson correlation coefficient TSC groups were retrograde endocannabinoid signaling, between samples further verified that both trypsin diges- glycophospholipid metabolism, autophagy-other, Kaposi tion and LC–MS/MS detection were reliable and feasible sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection, African trypa- in our study (Figure S5F). nosomiasis, choline metabolism in cancer, phenylalanine, The PCA results showed that samples from the TST tyrosine and tryptophan biosynthesis, serotonergic syn- group were significantly separated from those from the apse, etc. (Fig. 4E, F, and G). TSC group (Fig. 6A). Compared with those in the TSC (See figure on next page.) Fig. 3 Effect of tannic acid on the gut microbiota of T. sibiricus. A Venn diagram of the OTU changes in the T-tan and T-con groups. B Chao1 and Shannon plots for the T-tan and T-con groups. C PCoA analysis of the gut microbiota in the T-tan and T-con groups. D Relative abundance at the phylum level in the gut microbiota of the T-tan and T-con groups. E Relative abundance of the intestinal microbiota at the genus level in the T-tan and T-con groups. F Box plot of comparative abundance between groups at the genus level for the T-tan and T-con groups. G LEfSe analysis of the gut microbiota in the T-tan and T-con groups. H Heatmap of the KEGG tertiary functional clustering of the T-tan group versus the T-con group. T-con and T-tan indicate the control and TA groups of chipmunks, respectively Fig. 3 (See legend on previous page.) group, 19 proteins were significantly increased, and 35 (Fig. 8A). Neither the Chao1 nor Shannon indices were proteins were significantly reduced in the TST group significantly different between the two groups (Fig. 8B). (FC > 1.3) (Fig. 6B). GO functional enrichment analysis Additionally, the unweighted UniFrac (Anosim = 0.48, revealed that the differentially expressed proteins were P = 0.017) (Fig. 8C) and Bray‒Curtis (Anosim = 0.5, mainly enriched in signaling receptor binding, protein P = 0.024; Figure S2C) differences in β-diversity principal heterodimerization activity, enzyme inhibitor activity, coordinate analysis of diversity (PCoA) showed that there cell adhesion molecule binding, amino acid transmem- was a significant separation in the mouse gut microbiota. brane transporter activity, and other functions (Fig. 6C). At
