Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


(t = 2.162, df = 22, P = 0.045) (Fig. 7C), while there bacterota in the TSC-FMT group (Fig. 8G). were no significant differences between the two groups Discussion in terms of the distance traveled to locate the target hole (t = 0.2914, df = 22, P = 0.774) (Fig. 7D). In this study, we clearly showed that the addition of high- tannin acorns of Q. variabilis significantly improved Effect of FMT on the intestinal microbiota of C57BL/6 mice the spatial memory of the scatter-hoarding rodent T. The rarefaction curves of the Chao1 and Shannon indices, sibiricus, as indicated by its performance in the eight- rank abundance analysis curve, and specaccum species arm maze. Tannic acid alone had a similar effect on the accumulation curve indicated that the sequencing depth spatial cognition of T. sibiricus, further strengthening of all the samples reached the saturation phase, indicating the key role of seed tannins in altering the spatial cog- adequate sampling (Figure S6A, B, C, D). In total, 3115 nition of acorn-eating animals. Although the high-tan- OTU were detected in the two groups after removing the nin hypothesis posits that food hoarding animals prefer chimeric origin. A total of 584 OTU were specific to the to cache high-tannin foods, the underlying behavioral TST-FMT group, and 578 OTU were specific to the TSC- mechanism remains unclear . Our study may pro- FMT group, with 1953 OTU shared by the two groups vide reliable evidence that bitter tannins act as hidden (See figure on next page.) Fig. 4 Effect of high-tannin acorns of Q. variabilis on serum metabolites of T. sibiricus. A PCA of the TST and TSC groups and OPLS-DA. B Volcano plot of differentially abundant metabolites between the TST and TSC groups. C Box plot of changes in serum metabolites in the TST group versus the TSC group. D Combined analysis showing the association of L-tryptophan with the gut microbiota. E Enrichment map of differential metabolic pathways in serum collected from the TST and TSC groups. The vertical coordinate is the name of the metabolic pathway; the horizontal coordinate is the Rich factor; the Rich factor = number of significantly different metabolites/number of total metabolites in the pathway; the higher the Rich factor is, the greater the enrichment. KEGG pathway showing tryptophan metabolism (F) and retrograde endocannabinoid signaling (G). TSC and TST indicate the control and acorn treatment groups of chipmunks, respectively
