Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


factor is, the greater the enrichment. KEGG pathway showing tryptophan metabolism (F) and retrograde endocannabinoid signaling (G). TSC and TST indicate the control and acorn treatment groups of chipmunks, respectively Fig. 4 (See legend on previous page.) Fig. 5 Effect of high-tannin acorns of Q. variabilis on short-chain fatty acids in T. sibiricus. A Short-chain fatty acid contents in the TST and TSC groups of T. sibiricus. B Short-chain fatty acid contents in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups of mice. C Heatmap of the combined analysis of SCFAs and the gut microbiota in the TST and TSC groups. TSC and TST indicate the control and acorn treatment groups of chipmunks, respectively. Note: *Represents statistical significance at P < 0.05 level players to benefit food-hoarding animals despite their or improve the spatial memory of animals and humans toxicity to body weight, digestion, and absorption [10, , further supporting our speculation that tannins 11]. Previous studies have shown that tannins or tannin- may act as a double-edged sword in the interactive rela- related extracts can inhibit nerve cell death in the brain tionship between plants and animals. Additionally, seed tannins significantly regulate the food-hoarding behav- significantly upregulated by the addition of high-tan- ior of T. sibiricus, supporting the findings of a previous nin acorns. The butyrate-producing Lachnospiraceae_ study showing that rodents with better spatial memory NK4A136 plays an important role in neuroprotection, ability tend to cache more seeds . Although tannins cognitive improvement, and antidepressant effects [67, have long been considered one of the most important 68]. The decrease in Prevotellaceae_NK3B31_group and secondary metabolites by which plants regulate the food- Blautia in the gut microbiota has been found to be closely hoarding behavior of rodents , both the improved related to cognitive impairment or a decline in spatial spatial memory and enhanced food-hoarding behavior memory in mice [69–71]. In addition, the abundance of of T. sibiricus in our study may explain why animals pre- Alloprevotella has been shown to increase in mice with fer high-tannin foods during food-hoarding processes. improved cognitive function . Furthermore, the Although germ-free mice were not used in our study, a abundance of Butyricimonas, closely related to the pro- previous study has shown that the memory ability of duction of butyrate, which can improve spatial memory the antibiotic depletion mice administrated by gavage , increased in the gut of T. sibiricus after the addition of Triphala (tannin containing)
