Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


duction of butyrate, which can improve spatial memory the antibiotic depletion mice administrated by gavage , increased in the gut of T. sibiricus after the addition of Triphala (tannin containing) is greatly improved . of tannic acid. However, the abundance of Butyricicoc- Therefore, it is safe to anticipate that administrating tan- cus, which is positively correlated with cognitive impair- nins to antibiotic depletion mice will generate robust ment , decreased significantly in response to tannic results. A recent study showing that the profile of the acid. Moreover, bacterial genera Blautia, Klebsiella, and gut microbiota is closely related to the scatter-hoarding Pseudomonas detected in the chipmunks either consum- behavior of Apodemus draco provides further ing acorns or tannic acid were found to participate in the support for our prediction that tannins enhance hoard- methionine pathway, tryptophan-derived pathway, glu- ing intensity via modification of the gut microbiota of tamate-derived pathway, and acetate pathway according T. sibiricus. Moreover, improved spatial memory by to the gut-brain and gut-metabolic modules . In tannins will allow chipmunks to gain more food from addition, these genera play a crucial role in lipolytic, pro- their caches because they mainly rely on their memory teolytic, and saccharolytic metabolism , further and olfaction to selectively pilfer seeds from caches pointing to similar effects of acorns and tannic acids on of other animals . Therefore, plants are expected to the gut microbiota of T. sibiricus. Therefore, changes in benefit from manipulating spatial memory ability and the the gut microbiota related to cognition are expected to be hoarding behavior of seed-eating rodents by producing highly responsible for improving the spatial memory of tannins to carry out effective seed dispersal and natural chipmunks in response to the addition of seed tannins. regeneration. Spatial memory was improved in mice received bacte- Along with the improvement in spatial memory, both rial suspension from donors either consuming acorns or high-tannin acorns and tannic acid significantly altered tannic acid, reinforcing our view that the gut microbiota the intestinal microbiota of T. sibiricus, as indicated by pathway acts as the main pathway by which seed tan- changes in β-diversity rather than α-diversity. Changes nins improve spatial memory of scatter-hoarding ani- in the gut microbiota are consistent between acorn and mals. We admit that Quercus acorns contain flavonoids tannic acid treatments, reflecting the crucial role of poly- and other polyphenols besides tannins , which have phenols in influencing the
