Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


and mals. We admit that Quercus acorns contain flavonoids tannic acid treatments, reflecting the crucial role of poly- and other polyphenols besides tannins , which have phenols in influencing the abundance and structure of been shown to alter the gut microbiota and improve spa- the gut flora of animals . The increase in Firmicutes tial memory or cognitive function [79–82]. Apart from but the decrease in Bacteroides under the treatments the effects of tannins on gut microbiota, intestinal bac- of acorns and tannic acid reflect the typical influence teria play an important role in decomposing tannins [83, of polyphenols on the gut microbiota . Specifically, 84], to produce short-chain fatty acid production . genera such as Lachnospiraceae_NK4A136, Prevotel- Therefore, gut microbiota may interact with seed tannins laceae_NK3B31_group, Alloprevotella, and Blautia were in regulating spatial cognition of hoarding animals. (See figure on next page.) Fig. 6 Effect of high-tannin acorns of Q. variabilis on the hippocampal proteome of T. sibiricus. A PCA plot of the hippocampal proteome of the TST versus TSC groups of T. sibiricus. B Volcano plot of differentially expressed proteins between the TST and TSC groups. C Bubble diagram of the enrichment of GO functions in the TST and TSC groups. The size of the blue dots indicates the number of differentially expressed proteins in the GO function, with larger dots indicating more differentially expressed proteins. D Bubble diagram of the KEGG enrichment in the TST and TSC groups. The size of the blue dots indicates the number of differential proteins in the KEGG pathway, and the larger dots indicate more differential proteins. E The retrograde endocannabinoid signaling pathway. TSC and TST indicate the control and acorn treatment groups of chipmunks, respectively Fig. 6 (See legend on previous page.) Fig. 7 Effect of FMT on spatial memory in C57BL/6 mice. A Time to find the target hole in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. B Distance traveled to reach the target hole in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. C Time to reach the target hole in the T-tan-FMT and T-con-FMT groups. D Distance traveled to reach the target hole in the T-tan-FMT and T-con-FMT groups. For the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups, N = 18; for the T-tan-FMT and T-con-FMT groups, N = 12. The values are expressed as the means ± SDs. TST-FMT and TSC-FMT indicate mice that received fecal microbiota from the TSC and TST groups of chipmunks,
