Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


groups, N = 12. The values are expressed as the means ± SDs. TST-FMT and TSC-FMT indicate mice that received fecal microbiota from the TSC and TST groups of chipmunks, respectively, while T-tan-FMT and T-con-FMT indicate mice that received fecal microbiota from the T-con and T-tan groups of chipmunks, respectively. Note: *, **, and ** represent statistical significance at P < 0.05, P < 0.01, and P < 0.001 levels, respectively L-Tryptophan, an essential amino acid and an impor- and isobutyric acid in the cecum has been accompanied tant metabolic substrate for the synthesis of 5-HT by synaptic loss and memory impairment in mice . through the 5-hydroxytryptamine pathway, acts as an The combined analysis showed that the upregulation important neurotransmitter in the regulation of spatial of isovaleric acid in the intestinal tract of T. sibiricus memory. Serum tryptophan can cross the blood–brain induced by the addition of acorns is closely associated barrier and further increase the amount of 5-HT in the with spatial memory-mediated microbes such as Allo- brain . Reduced 5-HT levels in the brain lead to prevotella and Tyzzerella, highlighting the vast possibil- impaired learning and spatial memory in rats and mice ity that the microbiota-gut-brain axis regulates the spatial . In contrast, increased levels of 5-HT in the memory of food-hoarding rodents through interactions brain can improve memory and cognitive function . between seed tannins and the intestinal microbiota. Our study showed that the addition of high-tannin It is widely accepted that spatial memories are highly acorns significantly increased the serum level of L-tryp- dependent on the integrity of the hippocampus of ani- tophan in T. sibiricus. The combined analysis of serum mals. Therefore, changes in hippocampal structure and metabolomes and the gut microbiota showed a close function will lead to modifications in the spatial memory correlation between the abundance of L-tryptophan of animals . In this study, we provide a detailed and Lachnospira and other genera, suggesting that the account of the hippocampal proteins of T. sibiricus using increase in L-tryptophan mediated by the gut microbiota a tandem mass tag (TMT). Hippocampal proteome appears to be one of the molecular mechanisms by which analyses revealed that vesicular glutamate transporter 3 seed tannins improve the spatial memory of T. sibiricus. (VGLUT3), which is closely related to cognitive ability, Like neurotransmitters, short-chain fatty acids syn- was upregulated by the addition of high-tannin acorns. thesized by intestinal bacteria
