Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


memory of T. sibiricus. (VGLUT3), which is closely related to cognitive ability, Like neurotransmitters, short-chain fatty acids syn- was upregulated by the addition of high-tannin acorns. thesized by intestinal bacteria are also important for the Evidence has shown that increased VGLUT3 can reduce regulation of brain function . Most importantly, cognitive deficits in rats , while VGLUT3 knock- changes in the gut microbiota of chipmunks and mice out mice exhibit impaired memory and reduced cogni- modulated by the addition of tannins are closely related tive flexibility , possibly because of a metaplastic to the production of isovaleric acid and isobutyric acid, change in synaptic plasticity in CA1 synapses due to loss which have been hypothesized to act as substrates to pro- of VGLUT3 . Additionally, VGLUT3 is capable of vide an alternative energy source to rectify neuronal dys- promoting the vesicular accumulation and transmis- function [92–94]. However, a reduction in isovaleric acid sion of 5-HT and endows 5-HT fibers with the ability to Fig. 8 Changes in the gut microbiota of mice in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. A Venn diagram of the OTU changes in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. B Chao1 and Shannon plots for the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. C PCoA of the intestinal microbiota in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. D Relative abundance of the gut microbiota at the phylum level in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. E Relative abundance of the gut microbiota at the genus level in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. F Box plot comparing the abundances at the genus level between the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. G LEfSe analysis of the gut microbiota in the TST-FMT and TSC-FMT groups. TST-FMT and TSC-FMT indicate mice that received fecal microbiota from the TST and TSC groups of chipmunks, respectively use glutamate in fast excitatory neurotransmission [102, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) that plays a central 103]. Therefore, it can be anticipated that the tannin- role in the regulation of cortical excitability and main- induced accumulation of VGLUT3 in the hippocampus taining excitatory/inhibitory balance, was also upregu- contributes to improving the spatial memory of T. sibiri- lated by high-tannin acorns. Reduced G ABA R-β1 A cus. Furthermore, the beta-1 gamma-aminobutyric acid expression is highly responsible for cognitive impair- receptor subunit (GABA R-beta1) protein, a receptor for ment in both Alzheimer’s disease patients and mice A . KEGG pathway enrichment analysis revealed that chipmunks’ hippocampus. Bar graph showing
