Zhao et al. Microbiome (2024) 12:140 Microbiome
KEYWORDS: groups, microbiota, gut, memory, group, analysis, spatial, fig, acid, tst, sibiricus, tsc, gut microbiota, tannins, spatial memory


impair- receptor subunit (GABA R-beta1) protein, a receptor for ment in both Alzheimer’s disease patients and mice A . KEGG pathway enrichment analysis revealed that chipmunks’ hippocampus. Bar graph showing distribution of (A) identified VGLUT3 affects GABA R-β1 through the retrograde peptides and proteins, (B) molecular weight of proteins, (C) protein length, A endocannabinoid signaling pathway, which is closely (D) proteome sequence coverage, (E) peptide charge, and (F) Pearson correlation coefficient. Figure S6: Gut microbiota analysis of mice from the related to spatial memory . Given that VGLUT3 TSC-FMT and TST-FMT group. Alpha rarefaction plot of Chao 1 and Shan- has the potential to enhance vesicular GABA filling and non (A, B). Rank Abundance analysis curve (C); and Specaccum species promote glutamate release, we predict that elevated hip- accumulation curve (D). pocampal GABA R-β1 expression through the retro- A grade endocannabinoid signaling pathway mediated by Authors’ contributions XY conceived and designed the study. XZ, JG, and YW collected and analyzed elevated expression of VGLUT3 may be one of the mech- the data. XZ and XY wrote the manuscript. All authors provided feedback for anisms by which seed tannins improve the hippocampal the final manuscript. function of T. sibiricus. Funding Overall, in this study, we elucidated the effects of This work was supported by the National Science Foundation of China (NSFC) seed tannins on the spatial memory and food hoarding grant 32070447. behavior of a scatterhoarding rodent in a multidimen- Availability of data and materials sional manner from plant secondary metabolites to gut The 16S rRNA gene sequencing raw reads generated in this study were depos- microbes, hippocampal function, and spatial cognition. ited into Figshare and can be downloaded freely at https:// doi. org/ 10. 6084/ Our results demonstrated that seed tannins improve m9. figsh are. 24572 665. hippocampal function and ultimately modulate spatial memory through the gut microbiota-brain axis pathway. Declarations Gut microbiota-mediated changes in serum neurotrans- Ethics approval and consent to participate mitters such as L-tryptophan, as well as short-chain fatty Ethics approval was obtained from the Animal Ethics and Welfare Committee crucial molecular mechanisms by which seed tannins Consent for publication improve spatial memory in T. sibiricus. The upregula- Not applicable. tion of VGLUT3 and GABA R-beta1 in the hippocam- A Competing interests pus by the addition of high-tannin acorns may also play a The authors declare that they have no competing interests. vital role in improving the
