Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


ABSTRACT: Obesity has become a major public problem which is associated with increased risk to health and enhanced mortality along with increased medical costs. Prevention is obviously the first line of attack and this chapter outlines preventive strategies starting with a model which translates the energy imbalance which produces obesity into the social framework in which this occurs and where intervention must occur. Increased food intake is the major driver with reduced physical activity as a second component, modified by many other factors. Prevention beings with pregnant woman where maintaining a healthy weight gain improves the outcome for both infant and mother with diet and exercise both showing positive results. The early years of life are another important time for prevention. Studies of children have shown that exercise and nutritional quality can be improved by lifestyle intervention, but that impacting body weight change is more difficult. Reducing sugar-sweetened beverage intake and increasing water intake are two potentially useful strategies. Finally, there are many studies examining strategies for prevention of weight gain in adults as a group and in special subsets of adults with variable effect. One can conclude that prevention is the cornerstone for reducing the prevalence of obesity in pregnant women and their offspring, in children and adolescents and in adults, but that the current strategies may need to be supplemented with additional successful modalities of implementation. For extensive coverage of this area and all of endocrinology, please see www.endotext.org . INTRODUCTION Obesity is a worldwide problem (1) and affect more than 100 million Americans (68.5% of the adult population)(2). In the 1980s the prevalence of obesity began to rise more rapidly than before and has now reached epidemic proportions worldwide. Since 1980 it has more than doubled and In the United States data provided by the US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) in 2009-2010 showed that 35.5 % (95% CI, 31.9%─39.2%) of men were obese (BMI>30 kg/m 2 ) and 35.8% (95% CI, 34.0%─37.7%) of adult women were obese (1, 2). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) in 2014 noted a BMI of ≥25 was present in 71.3% of men 20 years or older and in 65.8% of women 20 years or older. The prevalence of obesity (BMI ≥30) was 33.5% for men and 36.1% women combined. Females at any age are disproportionately at greater risk for obesity, and especially extreme obesity (BMI ≥40
