Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


prevalence of obesity (BMI ≥30) was 33.5% for men and 36.1% women combined. Females at any age are disproportionately at greater risk for obesity, and especially extreme obesity (BMI ≥40 8.3% in females; 4.4% in males). The prevalence of obesity has risen dramatically since 1980, but may have slowed at current higher than desirable levels. The prevalence of obesity among children age 3-5 is alarmingly high at 12.4% in boys and 10% in girls with higher rates in Hispanic and Blacks (3). The increase has continued in extreme obesity in the United States and is rising worldwide. This increase in the prevalence of obesity carries with it increased risks for diabetes, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver, heart disease and cancer among others (4). It also has significant costs to the individual and to society (5). Clearly the “brakes” that prevented a rapid increase in obesity before 1980 are not working well enough, and new preventive strategies are needed. To select papers for this chapter the words prevent, prevention, obesity, and overweight were screened in PubMed and additional references identified from the selected papers. FRAMEWORK FOR DEVELOPMENT OF OBESITY Figure 1 is a model with the “energy balance” equation at the center and social and environmental factors surrounding it (4). When an individual becomes obese it is a clear sign that the balance has tipped slightly towards positive energy intake (or reduced expenditure) and that this imbalance has been present for months to years. Primary prevention of obesity would occur if strategies similar to what were in place before 1970-1980 were re-introduced and obesity rates were reversed, or alternatively if equally effective new ones were implemented. Secondary prevention is the use of techniques to prevent regain of weight in an individual who has gained too much weight as fat and then lost it. These are often also called “maintenance” strategies. The development of obesity, that is moving the central pendulum in Fig 1 to the right in favor of a positive energy balance could occur because there is a small increase in energy expenditure, a small decrease in energy expenditure or a combination of both. Food available for consumption and food intake, corrected for plate waste, began to increase in the US after 1970 and has continued to the present (6, 7). The extra amount of food is now estimated to be about 400 kcal/d which is enough to account for
