Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


US after 1970 and has continued to the present (6, 7). The extra amount of food is now estimated to be about 400 kcal/d which is enough to account for the calories needed to produce the documented weight gain (8). An alternative explanation would be a decrease in activity in the ordinary duties of the day (9). I tend to favor the rise in food intake as the major factor. The rise in consumable food items from farms in the United States began after a change in food policy for reimbursing farmers in 1970 (10). There are several outlets for this growing surplus of food. First, it could be stored in warehouses against a future need. It could be destroyed. Or it could be transferred to storage depots on people – obesity (11). Since the growth of the population is less than 1-2% per year, the growth in food supplies was larger than needed to meet this growing population. Since we don’t see stores of food in warehouses, we have probably transferred it to the population producing obesity. As Tillotson has said “…certain of our agricultural and industrial policies have had the unintended and unforeseen consequences of increasing overweight and obesity”. Our current “preventive strategies” thus operate in a setting of agricultural and industrial policies that favor production of more food that is needed to feed the population. Surpluses of food operate in a socio-economic environment. In many groups of women this is reflected in an inverse relationship between the prevalence of obesity and the educational and income levels. (10) Several economic hypotheses related to “food security” have been proposed. These economic factors may need to be part of the preventive strategy if we are to develop a cohesive approach to dealing with obesity around the world. The positive energy balance that we see leading to obesity can be influenced by a variety of factors which are controlled by the individual, by the family and by society. We know that people can “consciously” control their weight by restrained eating. It is clear from the model that the individual is at the center of this system but their responses in terms of energy intake and energy expenditure are influenced by a myriad of factors over which they have little or no control. Genetics underpins obesity (11, 12, 13). There are some genes that have such potent effects on body weight that
