Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


myriad of factors over which they have little or no control. Genetics underpins obesity (11, 12, 13). There are some genes that have such potent effects on body weight that when defective obesity is almost certain. Leptin is one of the most potent (11). There are more than 90 other genes that contribute small amounts to differences in body weight accounting for less than 5% of the risk for obesity (11, 13). Epigenetic factors, environmental influences on the fetus and early life also have important effects. For example, offspring of mothers who smoke during pregnancy or whose mother is a diabetic are at higher risk of obesity later in life and those who gain large amounts of weight (4). Duration of sleep time also affects body weight. Availability of food and its palatability are environmental factors that have significant effects that can override the controls systems for body weight. It is clear that although many of these environmental factors can be controlled by the individual, the genetic and epigenetic influences make it difficult for many people to maintain a stable body weight. Thus preventive and therapeutic strategies are needed. STRATEGIES FOR PREVENTING OBESITY At least 4 preventive strategies are available to deal with the epidemic: Education, regulation, modification of the food supply and changes in the cost of food energy. Education about good nutrition and healthy weight in the school curriculum would be beneficial in helping all children learn how to select appropriate foods and should be included in school curricula. Foods used in school breakfast and lunch programs should match these educational messages. However, it is unwise to rely on educational strategies alone, since they have not, so far, prevented the epidemic of obesity. The program of knowing your BMI initially instituted on a state wide basis in Arkansas may have helped that State to reduce the upward trend in obesity. Regulation is a second strategy. Regulations to provide an improved food label would be one good idea. Better regulations on appropriate serving sizes and caloric value that would be easy for the public to use might be part of the information provided by restaurants on their menus. This is now required in New York City and if effective may spread around the country. Modification in some components of the food system is a third and very important strategy. Since the energy we eat comes from the food we
