Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


may spread around the country. Modification in some components of the food system is a third and very important strategy. Since the energy we eat comes from the food we eat, we need to modify this system to provide smaller portions and less energy density. One approach is to use differentiated food taxes to promote healthy diets. This is the approach New York State is trying with its tax on soft drinks introduced in 2007, and has been urged by a group of prominent nutritional scientists (15). This strategy has been argued both at the academic level (16, 17, 18), and at the policy level. It may be that economic tools that will shift food choices using cost is the “fluoride” for treating the epidemic of overweight that is described below. Some years ago, I proposed that the best strategy for prevention of obesity may be modeled after the use of fluoride for prevention of dental caries (19). The addition of fluoride to the water supply had a more profound effect on the incidence of dental caries than brushing and flossing teeth. Brushing and flossing are like diet and exercise. They both require commitment on the part of the individual. Adding something like fluoride to the water supply doesn't require any commitment. Increasing the price of oil may be one such strategy. Between 1940 and 2005, Pollan pointed out that the number of calories from petroleum (oil) used to produce food energy has risen dramatically. In 1940 it was 0.4 cal of oil for each calorie of food energy. In 2005 it had risen over 20 fold with 10 calories of oil needed for each calorie of food. These calories come from the petroleum products used to make fertilizers, to transport of food, to process and package food, for pesticides and so on. If oil prices rise significantly, this will shift the use of oil for food and shift our consumption patterns (20). Strategies for Preventing Obesity in Pregnant Women Women who gain more weight during pregnancy have increased risk of diabetes, hypertension, pre-eclampsia and still birth. The offspring is at increased risk for marosomia and later obesity (21). A lifestyle intervention program during pregnancy in Denmark (Lifestyle in Pregnancy = LiP), however, failed to alter the metabolic risk factors in the offspring. A systematic review of evidence relating weight gain during pregnancy and outcomes of pregnancy found that dietary
