Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


= LiP), however, failed to alter the metabolic risk factors in the offspring. A systematic review of evidence relating weight gain during pregnancy and outcomes of pregnancy found that dietary interventions were the most effective type of intervention in pregnancy. They reduced gestational weight gain and the risks of pre-eclampsia, hypertension and should dystocia in the infant. There was no difference in the incidence of small-for-gestational-age infants as a result of treatments (22, 23), Another systematic review reached similar conclusions and showed that dietary interventions significantly reduced gestational weight gain by 1.92 kg (95% CI -3,65, -0,19),and the incidence of Caesarean section (24). The Cochrane review of this subject in 2015 found that diet, exercise or both reduced the gestational weight gain by an average of 20%. These interventions included low glycemic index diets, supervised or unsupervised exercise program and diet combined with exercise which were all comparable in their effects. Hypertension was reduced but pre-eclampsia was not. They also found no differences between intervention and control groups in the risk of preterm births, or macrosomia overall. However, in the subgroup of women who were overweight or obese did have a 15% reduction in macrosomia. Fetal distress syndrome of was also reduced in women with obesity in the intervention groups (25). Strategies Aimed at Children There is a great deal of concern for the plight of obese children. The pioneering work of the psychoanalyst, Dr. Hilde Bruch, a refugee from Nazi Germany working in the 1940’s did much to alert the public to this important issue (26). Children of overweight parents are a high risk group for development of overweight (27). In a long term follow-up study, Berkowitz et al studied 32 high risk children whose maternal pre-pregnancy BMI was 30.4 kg/m 2 and compared them to 29 low risk children whose maternal BMI was low at 19.6 kg/m 2 . At this age they consumed a test meal in which their eating behavior was assessed, including rate of caloric consumption, mouthfuls/min, and requests for food. Parental prompts for the child to eat also were measured. Parental feeding prompts were not different between high risk and low risk children, but the rate of eating measured by mouthfuls of food/min, and total caloric intake/min during the test meal predicted an increased risk of being overweight or obese at age 6. Thus pre-school years are important in setting risks for future obesity
