Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


total caloric intake/min during the test meal predicted an increased risk of being overweight or obese at age 6. Thus pre-school years are important in setting risks for future obesity Schools have also changed. They were once a place where children could be very active. With security issues and concerns about safety when children walking home from school there is less opportunity for physical exercise. Providing safe pedestrian walk-ways to school could increase physical activity for children more easily than changing the built environment for adults. In a review of school based programs, 18 studies involving 18,141 children were evaluated. They were primarily elementary school children and had programs that lasted from 6 months to 3 years. A meta-analysis showed that physical activity interventions did not improve BMI (28). To examine the studies that have looked at prevention of childhood obesity, I have taken data from a Cochrane Collaboration review of preventive strategies for children divided studies into long and short term. Short-term studies were those with data for 12 weeks or more but less than 52 weeks. Long-term studies were those with data beyond 52 weeks. I will discuss only the long-term studies. Long-term studies One controlled trial that was deemed of good quality was conducted in the US randomized 26 children and their families to 2 conditions: 1) increasing fruit and vegetable and 2) decreasing fat and sugar (). The children were 6-11 years old and at least one parent accompanied them. They received a comprehensive behavioral program. At the end of 12 months the decrease in percentage of overweight was decreased 1.10% in the fruit and vegetable group and 2.40% in the lower fat and sugar group. These differences were not statistically significant, but are nonetheless tantalizing and suggest the need for applying this to high risk groups like the children of overweight parents. A second study of good quality was conducted by James et al (30) where 644 children were randomized by school class into 15 intervention and 14 control classes in 6 schools. The baseline prevalence of overweight was comparable. The intervention focused on decreasing consumption of carbonated beverages. The intervention was delivered in 3 one-hour sessions by trained personnel with the assistance of teachers. At 12 months the change in BMI “Z” score was not significantly different between intervention and control classes (mean Z score 0.7 (SD 0.2). However, there was a reduction in
