Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


At 12 months the change in BMI “Z” score was not significantly different between intervention and control classes (mean Z score 0.7 (SD 0.2). However, there was a reduction in the self-reported consumption of soft drinks. Sugar-sweetened beverages have been incriminated in the development of obesity and cardio-metabolic risks in a number of studies (31). One outcome of this data were 2 randomized clinical trials to reduce the intake of sugar-sweetened beverages among adolescents (32, 33, 34). At the end of one year the weight gain in one study was significantly smaller in those provided with sugar-free beverages, but most of this benefit, except in the Hispanic children, was lost at 2 years after the treatment program had been discontinued. In the other trial lasting 18 months, the children receiving the artificially sweetened beverages gained less weight than those drinking the sugar-sweetened soft-drinks (33). In a follow-up of this study (34) it was shown that compensation for changing sugar content in beverages was sub-optimal in children in the upper half of the BMI spectrum. Thus replacing the sugar-sweetened beverages associated with weight gain with lower calorie versions might be beneficial to most children and adolescents. Another trial was conducted in Thailand randomized kindergarten children by class into an exercise group and a control group with 5 classes in each arm (35). The reduction in the prevalence of obesity tended toward significance (p=0.07). A US trial including 549 children from 6 schools was stratified by percentage ethnicity (36). This intervention, called SPARK (Sports, Play and Active Recreation for Kids) was a physical education program with a self-management component. The results for boys showed that the control group had significantly lower BMI’s at 6 and 12 months, but not at 18 months. In contrast the girls in the control group had lower BMIs at each time point that reached statistical significance at 18 months. The Pathways Study (37) is one of the largest studies for prevention of obesity in children. The participants included 1704 children from 41 American Indian schools. Children were age 8-11. Pathways was a school-based multi-component, multi-center intervention for reducing percentage body fat. There were 4 components: 1) changing dietary intake 2) increasing physical activity; 3) A classroom curriculum focused on healthy eating and lifestyle and 4) a family-involvement program. At the end of the 3-year study, knowledge improved and fat intake at lunch decreased, but there were no
