Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


focused on healthy eating and lifestyle and 4) a family-involvement program. At the end of the 3-year study, knowledge improved and fat intake at lunch decreased, but there were no changes in either body composition or activity level measured by motion sensor. The Planet Health study is a high quality randomized controlled trial (38) conducted among 1295 ethnically diverse children in 10 US schools in New England who were randomized by school. The children were 11-12 years old and in the 6-8 th grade. The program was a behavioral choice intervention and concentrated on the promotion of physical activity, modification of dietary intake and reduction of sedentary behavior with an emphasis on reducing time watching television. At follow-up the percentage of obese girls in the intervention schools was reduced 53% compared with controls, [Odds Ratio 0.47 (95% CI 0.24 to 0.93)]. Each hour of reduction in television time predicted a 15% reduction in obesity [OR 0.85 (95% CI 0.75 to 0.97]. Among the boys there was a decline in BMI in both groups, but no significant difference between them. Time spent viewing television was reduced among both boys and girls and fruit and vegetable consumption increased significantly. Gortmaker et al (38) concluded that the decline in television watching was a major factor in preventing obesity. In another clinical trial from Germany, Muller et al (39) randomized a group of 414 children from 6 schools into control or intervention groups in the Kiel Obesity Prevention Study or KOPS. The key messages in the intervention group were to eat more fruits and vegetables each day, to reduce high fat foods, to keep active for at least 1 hour a day and to decrease television viewing to less than 1 hour a day. At the end of one year there was no significant difference in change of BMI between the intervention and control groups. In a program called Active Program Promoting Lifestyle in School, or APPLES, 634 children in 10 schools were randomized to intervention or control groups (39). The intervention included teacher training and resources, modification of school meals, support for physical education, and playgroups activities. At one year there was no difference in change in BMI between the children in the two groups, nor was there any difference in dieting behavior. However, children reported a higher consumption of vegetables. Although APPLES was successful in changing the ethos in the schools and
