Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


two groups, nor was there any difference in dieting behavior. However, children reported a higher consumption of vegetables. Although APPLES was successful in changing the ethos in the schools and the attitudes of the children, the trial was ineffective in changing weight status. The program “VERB™--It’s What you Do!” was developed by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is another example of a social marketing strategy. It is designed to increase physical activity among ethnically diverse 9 to 13 year olds (40). The question of whether it is really possible to get long term behavioral change in a society with a vibrant advertising industry remains to be seen. Mind, Exercise, Nutrition – Do it (MEND) is a British program held at a sports centre, twice-weekly, for 3 months which consists of behavior modification, physical activity and nutrition education. In their pilot study, 11 obese children age 7-11 years and their families were recruited and attended a mean of 78% (range 63-88%) of the sessions Waist circumference, cardiovascular fitness and self-esteem were all significantly improved at 3 months and continued to improve at 6 months. BMI was significantly improved at 3 months but lost significance by 6 months. This program has now been expanded to many sites through the United Kingdom (41) and Australia (42). The Stockholm Obesity Prevention Program (STOPP) is another randomized trial parents who are overweight or obesity designed to prevent obesity in their children. (43) A meta-analysis examining the impact of lifestyle interventions on body weight and cardio-metabolic outcomes in overweight children found 33 studies with complete data on weight change. Lifestyle interventions compared to either no treatment control or usual care resulted in significant weight loss of 1.25 to 1.30 kg/m2 (BMI units). In the 15 studies reporting cardio-metabolic outcomes, there were significant reductions in fasting insulin, triglycerides, blood pressure and LDL-cholesterol, but no effect on HDL-cholesterol (44). The importance of prevention in childhood and adolescence has prompted 3 Cochrane Reviews of the effect of Lifestyle Interventions. One focused on improvements in school performance (45), another focused on improvements in physical activity and fitness from lifestyle interventions (46) and a third one on the effects on body weight (47). This latter report showed that lifestyle was effective in in age groups 0 to 5 years, age 6 to 12 and age 13 to 18 with the largest effects seen in the children under 12.
