Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


lifestyle was effective in in age groups 0 to 5 years, age 6 to 12 and age 13 to 18 with the largest effects seen in the children under 12. Community wide interventions for Increasing population levels of physical activity are not very effective based on another Cochrane Database Review (48). Systematic analyses have also been done for special groups of individuals with obesity in the United States. Two of these reviews have examined Latino children and find that lifestyle and physical activity interventions are promising (49, 50). In a review of studies on Latino and African-American children Robinson et al (51) found that 2 of 17 studies showed benefits for preschool and elementary schools on reducing obesity in African-American children. Parent-child participation has also been found to be valuable (52). Strategies Aimed at Adults: A large number of trials have been conducted in adults and reviewed in detail by Kumanyika and Daniels (53). The Pound of Prevention study (54, 55) is probably the largest and most general study for prevention of overweight reported to date. It demonstrated the feasibility of reaching a large number of people and producing some positive behavioral changes. However, as with many of the studies in children, the interventions were not successful in preventing weight gain relative to the control condition. The decrease of fat intake and increased physical activity were the strongest predictors of weight maintenance (55). Again behavioral changes were positive and perhaps a higher intensity might have produced different results, but at the present time there is a reasonable argument to be made that money spent on behavioral efforts at changing behavior is wasted. The results of the 5 year trial from the Healthy Women’s Study is also worth noting (56, 57). Behavioral counseling at 6 months was effective in preventing a weight gain during the transition to menopause. The intervention program appears to have been well received, judging from retention rates, but it seems to be labor and cost intensive to deliver. Rural counties in the United States have higher rates of obesity, sedentary lifestyle, and associated chronic diseases than non-rural areas. To tackle this problem, Perri et al worked with the USDA Cooperative Extension Service. They recruited obese women from rural communities who had completed an initial 6-month weight-loss program at Cooperative Extension Service offices in 6 medically underserved rural counties in Florida (n = 234). The women were randomized
