Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


rural communities who had completed an initial 6-month weight-loss program at Cooperative Extension Service offices in 6 medically underserved rural counties in Florida (n = 234). The women were randomized to extended care program or to an education control group. The extended-care programs entailed problem-solving counseling delivered in 26 biweekly sessions via telephone or face to face. Control group participants received 26 biweekly newsletters containing weight-control advice. The body weight at entry was 96.4 kg, and the women in the intervention group lost 10 kg during the 6 month intervention. One year after randomization, participants in the telephone and face-to-face extended-care programs regained less weight [1.2± 0.7 and 1.2 ±0.6 kg, (mean±SEM) respectively] than those in the education control group (3.7 ±0.7 kg; P = .03 and .02, respectively). The beneficial effects of extended-care counseling were mediated by greater adherence to behavioral weight-management strategies. Cost analyses indicated that telephone counseling was less expensive than face-to-face intervention, thus offering a strategy of working with the Cooperative Extension service using behavioral weight strategies to modulate body weight (58). Strategies for Preventing Obesity Aimed at the Entire Population Population-based messages aimed at the public concerning food and exercise are cognitive in nature requiring individual commitment (53) If the “individual” follows the advice in the message this strategy would be sufficient to “overcome” the epidemic of obesity. However, positive preventive messages are delivered in an environment in which there are many alternative messages urging consumption of this or that kind of food or eating at one or another of many different kinds of restaurants. The Low-Fat message of the 1990’s is one example of a message that assumed obesity results from increased fat intake and that reducing fat intake would reverse it. Omitted from this was the realization that eating less fat did not necessarily mean eating fewer calories and thus redressing the energy imbalance. A test of the low fat hypothesis as a public health message came from the Women’s Health Initiative. Women were randomly assigned to normal or low fat diets, but without calorie goals. The women assigned to the low fat diet lost more weight that the other group, but after the low point, weight was regained (59). Of particular interest, is that the weight change over 8 years had a strong relation to the level of fat that the women chose to eat. Those with the lower fat intake remained
