Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


is that the weight change over 8 years had a strong relation to the level of fat that the women chose to eat. Those with the lower fat intake remained 2 kg or more lighter after 7 years than those in the highest fat intake group indicating that dietary fat is one component of the problem, but that it is not the “whole story”. If one believed that the current epidemic of obesity were due to limited activity, then a campaign like “America on the Move” which enrolls individuals to use step counters as a way to increase their activity should be an effective strategy (60). The jury is still out on this strategy. An alternative approach might be to re-engineer the built environment to make it both easier to walk and make it more likely that individuals would do so rather than getting into their car (61). The current housing model of the cluster of houses off a main street where the automobile is essential for mobility will make this strategy a long-term one. A systematic review by Papas et al (62) identified 20 studies, of which 18 were cross-sectional that examined the relation of obesity to the numbers of outlets for physical activity and food. Seventeen of these found significant relationship between built environment (food outlets or access physical activity) and risk of obesity. The number of recreational facilities and likelihood of overweight in adolescents were significantly related. Food Faith et al (63) reviewed research that used manipulations of the environment to produce weight change. They concluded that easy access to food may influence food purchases, consumption, and possibly weight change while restriction of food availability may accomplish the same goals although this requires further research. The food industry, for obvious reasons, favors the hypothesis that obesity results from reduced levels of physical activity and strongly supports providing more places for people to exercise and providing them with more healthy alternatives in food stores as a strategy to help overcome the obesity problem (53, 64). However, since “healthy” food items are likely to be more expensive than the ones already on food shelves, and since newer technologies and marketing are needed, it is unclear whether a price-sensitive public can be moved in this direction. Strategies for improving access to healthful foods often focus on fruits and vegetables. The value of a diet high in fruits, vegetables and low
