Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


can be moved in this direction. Strategies for improving access to healthful foods often focus on fruits and vegetables. The value of a diet high in fruits, vegetables and low fat dairy products with a reduction in the level of fat and sugar containing products was found to lower blood pressure across the range of salt intake in individuals who were maintaining their body weight (65, 66). Regular farmers’ markets, subsidizing the availability of fresh fruits and vegetables to school children, lowering the cost of fruits and vegetables while increasing the price of high-fat or high sugar foods in school or worksite cafeterias, or changing marketing strategies in other ways that increase fruit and vegetable consumption (67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72). Since we are all price sensitive, these might move choices of food from the lower cost less healthy ones to more healthy choices. However, as Drewnowski has pointed out, the high-fat, high sugar alternatives provide much more food energy for the money than the so-called healthier options (73). Another strategy toward this end is to “limit” availability of higher energy foods by making them more expensive. A review of the use of price of food items by Smed et al (16) has shown that in Europe increasing the tax or reducing the subsidies on “unhealthy” items and reducing the tax on “healthy” items through the value added tax system could shift consumption toward healthier foods (15). Federally funded programs such as food stamps, school lunches and meals on wheels could also be used toward this end. Pending the willingness of the public and the politicians to tackle some of the political implications of tax policy to combat the epidemic of obesity, this strategy is likely to remain on the back burner (13). INCREASING PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AS A FOCUS FOR PREVENTION An overall increase in physical activity would increase energy expenditure and is one strategy for prevention of obesity. One assumption of such a strategy is that activity may have decreased during the time that the epidemic of obesity developed. This is difficult to establish, but a recent publication using total daily energy expenditure in a small number of individuals (some 300) measured over years (74). This strategy would be appropriate, whether there has been a decrease in energy expenditure or not, and the data on this question is unclear. In contrast, Church et al (8) have presented data
