Prevention of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, weight, food, children, activity, physical, intervention, physical activity, intake, prevention, energy, strategies, trial, fat, program


be appropriate, whether there has been a decrease in energy expenditure or not, and the data on this question is unclear. In contrast, Church et al (8) have presented data showing that leisure activity has declined as the obesity epidemic has moved ahead. Altering the “built environment” such as side-walks and shopping centers is one way to do encourage more physical activity (61). However, there is a 30-40 year lag between initiation of changes in architectural land use and real changes in configuration of side walks, making these approaches unlikely to impact this problem in the foreseeable future. How much has our daily activity level changed? To examine this question Cutler et al (75) examined this problem levels of activity in various tasks from 1965 to 1995, which covers the period before and to the peak of weight gain. They found that over the 30 years from 1965 to 1995 the major changes in activity have been a decrease in household work and an increase in recreation and communication. These are relatively small compared to the proportion of the daily routine which is spent in paid work and in personal needs and care. We thus think food intake is a more viable strategy for combating the obesity epidemic. Work places are another place where prevention and intervention can occur. In a review of worksite nutrition and physical activity programs Anderson et al (76) noted modest improvements in employee weight status at the 6-12-month follow-up. Based on 9 randomized controlled trials, there was a loss of 2.8 pounds (-1.3 kg) (95% CI=-4.6, -1.0 weight loss) and a decrease of 0.5 (95% CI=-0.8, -0.2) BMI units based on six RCTs. The findings were applicable to both male and female employees, across a range of worksite settings. Most of the studies combined informational and behavioral strategies to influence diet and physical activity; fewer studies modified the work environment (e.g., cafeteria, exercise facilities) to promote healthy choices. This is an area of potential future advance. The nutrition-transition in China provides an interesting example of how the modern way of life makes preservation of physical activity so difficult (77, 78). As recently as 20 years ago, the bicycle was a major mode of transport for Chinese. This is no longer the case. The automobile and public transport systems are relegating the bicycle to museums. Whether understanding the need for people to move can provide a
