Percutaneous insertion of a temporary heart pump for left ventricular haemodynamic
KEYWORDS: percutaneous, procedure, support, coronary, left, haemodynamic, patients, evidence, percutaneous coronary, committee, haemodynamic support, heart, coronary interventions, high-risk, used


support in high-risk percutaneous coronary interventions All problems (adverse events) related to a medicine or medical device used for treatment or in a procedure should be reported to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency using the Yellow Card Scheme. Commissioners and/or providers have a responsibility to implement the guidance, in their local context, in light of their duties to have due regard to the need to eliminate unlawful discrimination, advance equality of opportunity, and foster good relations. Nothing in this guidance should be interpreted in a way that would be inconsistent with compliance with those duties. Providers should ensure that governance structures are in place to review, authorise and monitor the introduction of new devices and procedures. Commissioners and providers have a responsibility to promote an environmentally sustainable health and care system and should assess and reduce the environmental impact of implementing NICE recommendations wherever possible. 1 Recommendations 1.1 Current evidence on the safety of percutaneous insertion of a temporary heart pump for left ventricular haemodynamic support in high-risk percutaneous coronary interventions shows there are serious, infrequent but well-recognised safety concerns. Evidence on efficacy is limited in quality. Therefore, this procedure should only be used with special arrangements for clinical governance, consent, and audit or research. Find out what special arrangements mean on the NICE interventional procedures guidance page. 1.2 Clinicians wishing to do percutaneous insertion of a temporary heart pump for left ventricular haemodynamic support in high-risk percutaneous coronary interventions should: • Inform the clinical governance leads in their NHS trusts. • Ensure that patients understand the uncertainty about the procedure's safety and efficacy and provide them with clear written information to support shared decision-making. In addition, the use of NICE's information for the public on percutaneous insertion of a temporary heart pump for left ventricular haemodynamic support is recommended. • Details of all patients should be entered into the British Cardiovascular Intervention Society percutaneous coronary interventions database (BCIS PCI database). 1.3 Patient selection should be done by an experienced multidisciplinary team, when the urgency of the clinical situation allows. 1.4 The procedure should only be done in specialised centres by clinicians and teams with specialised training in the use of this technology and experience in complex percutaneous coronary interventions. 1.5 Further research should report details of patient selection and subsequent management. 2 The condition, current treatments and procedure The condition 2.1 Additional support for the heart is
