NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: altretamine, liver, agents, injury, patients, cancer, alkylating, therapy, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, liver injury, syndrome, alkylating agents, ovarian


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Altretamine. [Updated 2016 Mar 1]. Bookshelf URL: Altretamine Updated: March 1, 2016. OVERVIEW Introduction Altretamine is an orally administered alkylating agent, formerly known as hexamethylmelamine, which is currently used as a secondary therapy for advanced ovarian carcinoma. Altretamine therapy has been associated with low rates of serum enzyme elevations during therapy and with rare instances of acute, clinically apparent injury. Background Altretamine (al tret' a meen) is a synthetic, orally available alkylating agent belonging to the methylmelamine class of these agents. The alkylating agents act by causing modification and cross linking of DNA, thus inhibiting DNA, RNA and protein synthesis and causing cell death in rapidly dividing cells. Altretamine was approved for use in the United States in 1990. Current indications are advanced ovarian carcinoma in patients who have failed primary therapy with platinum-containing or other alkylating agents. Altretamine is available in capsules of 50 mg under the brand name Hexalen. The recommended dose varies by indication and body surface area and it is typically given orally for 14 to 21 days in 28 day cycles. Altretamine shares common side effects with other alkylating agents such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, alopecia, bone marrow suppression, peripheral neuropathy and rash. Hepatotoxicity Altretamine therapy is associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevations, but these are generally mild and self limited, not requiring dose adjustment. Rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury attributed to linked specifically to sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, but it is rarely used in high doses in neoplastic disease or in conditioning regimens for bone marrow transplantation, situations in which alkylating agents are commonly associated with this complication. Likelihood score: E* (unlikely but suspected rare cause of liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of the idiosyncratic liver injury associated with altretamine use is probably related to a hypersensitivity reaction to a hepatic metabolite of the drug, which is extensively metabolized by the liver. 2 LiverTox Outcome and Management Liver injury is very rare after altretamine therapy. The severity of injury in reported cases has generally been mild-to-moderate and self limited in course. There have been no instances of acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis or vanishing bile duct syndrome definitely linked to chlorambucil therapy. In situations of acute liver injury a fter altretamine use, rechallenge should be avoided. Drug Class: Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating
