Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


remission) and the 21 prevention of relapse (maintaining remission). Whether a relapse refers to a recurrence of 22 symptoms, or the appearance of mucosal abnormalities before the development of symptoms, 23 remains the subject of dispute.220 Patients’ views about treatment and the type of information they 24 need have changed little over the last 30 years.53,218 1.3 Clinical features 26 Typically people with Crohn’s disease have recurrent attacks, with acute exacerbations interspersed 27 with periods of remission or less active disease. Most people with Crohn’s disease lead active lives. 28 Nevertheless, five years after onset, 15% to 20% of people are disabled by their disease to some 29 degree [see ‘Infliximab (review) and adalimumab for the treatment of Crohn’s disease’, NICE 30 technology appraisal guidance 187, 2010].198 31 People with severe Crohn’s disease can present with evidence of systemic toxicity (for example, fever 32 and raised pulse rate), weight loss, diarrhoea and often other complications. Investigation may reveal 33 severe, and sometimes extensive, intestinal inflammation, with associated biochemical and 34 haematological evidence of clinically significant systemic disturbance (for example, raised levels of C- 35 reactive protein and low albumin levels). People with severe Crohn’s disease often may not respond 36 to standard drug therapy, including immunosuppressives. 37 Crohn’s disease can be complicated by the development of intestinal obstruction, fistulae or perianal 38 disease. Fistulae can develop in about one quarter of people with Crohn’s disease.287 Perianal disease 39 is a frequent complication of colonic and ileocolonic disease and is characterised by fissures, fistulae 40 or abscesses. Spontaneous healing is uncommon, and surgery is often needed, although it is not 41 always possible and may not be successful. 42 Other complications include stricture, acute dilation and perforation of the gastrointestinal tract, and 43 significant haemorrhage, particularly if the disease affects the colon. As well as these intestinal Crohn's disease Introduction 1 problems, the disease may be associated with abnormalities of the joints, eyes, liver and skin. These 2 non-intestinal symptoms have been reported in more than 6% of patients, mainly in people with 3 colonic Crohn’s disease.25 There is also evidence of an increase in the incidence of cancer of the small 4 and large intestine in people with Crohn’s disease. 1.4 Management 6 Current management options for Crohn’s disease include drug therapy, attention to nutrition, 7 smoking cessation and, in severe or chronic active disease, surgery. 8 1.4.1 Drug therapy
