Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


The GDG notes a number of difficulties in the development of this guideline: 2  The relative paucity of high quality data with which to inform evidence-based recommendations. 3 Since its earliest description Crohn’s disease has been the subject of considerable research 5 quality of life. The chronic and periodic nature of the disease has limited the value of short-term 6 studies. The diverse anatomical sites and the existence of associated extra-intestinal 7 complications have made it difficult to conduct randomised controlled studies in which both the 8 intervention and placebo arm contain comparable patient populations. Many published studies 9 are under-powered and lack homogeneity. In addition outcome measures need to reflect benefits 10 which are of clinical significance and are considered valuable by patients. 11  Subgroup data stratified by severity are rare, making clinically and cost-effectiveness evidence- 12 based recommendations for varying levels of severity for the most part unfeasible. The GDG 13 acknowledges that severity is an important factor in management decisions and accepts that 14 consideration of severity will fall within the discretion of the individual clinician and the person 15 with Crohn’s disease. For pragmatic reasons, the guideline primarily addresses best practice and 16 cost-effectiveness for the “average” patient - people with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease. 17 The guidance does not consider in any detail the evidence base for management of Crohn’s 18 disease at the extreme ends of the spectrum (people with either mild or profoundly severe 19 Crohn’s disease). 20  Reporting of outcomes by smoking habit was rare. 21  Recommending pharmaceutical products that are used off-label in Crohn’s disease, but which are 22 widely prescribed in UK clinical practice and which are licensed for use in other conditions or 23 populations. 24  Extrapolating and generalising from adult populations to children and vice versa when there are 25 no or little data for specific populations. The GDG agreed to base treatment recommendations on 26 RCTs with extrapolation to childhood if no separate paediatric evidence was found. 1.5 Considerations specific to children and young people 28 Up to a third of patients with Crohn’s disease are diagnosed before the age of 21104 but there is a lack 29 of studies on treatment for children and young people. Paediatric practice is often based on 30 extrapolation from adult studies and in this guideline all recommendations relate to adults and 31 children unless
