Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


treatment for children and young people. Paediatric practice is often based on 30 extrapolation from adult studies and in this guideline all recommendations relate to adults and 31 children unless otherwise specified. Induction and maintenance of remission as well as optimisation 32 of nutritional status and minimising possible side effects of treatment are fundamental to best 33 practice for all people with Crohn’s disease, whatever their age. There are, however, important 34 differences to consider when treating children including. 35  Childhood and adolescence are critical periods for growth and development and Crohn’s disease 36 can have a major influence on both of these. Between 15% and 40% of children have growth 37 impairment115,187 and this can result in permanently reduced final adult height.115,239 This may be 38 due to the inflammatory process itself, or to impaired nutritional status associated with 39 malabsorption and/or reduced nutritional intake. Along with growth, puberty is often delayed and 40 there may be an opportunity to continue growing into late adolescence. Assessment of pubertal 41 status and bone age can be useful to assess the potential for further growth.In order to achieve 42 optimum growth and development it is vital to induce a rapid and prolonged remission whilst 43 optimising nutritional status and avoiding glucocorticosteroid-related growth impairment. This 44 has led to a search for other treatments such as exclusive enteral nutrition. 45  As well as growth and physical development it is also important to consider the child’s or young 46 person’s psychological and emotional development and educational needs. Several studies have 47 shown a high incidence of psychological morbidity in children and young people as well as adults 48 with Crohn’s disease.74,120 Crohn's disease Introduction 1  Although paediatric practice is often based on adult studies most of the drugs currently used are 2 not licensed for use in children, reflecting similar off-label use in adults. As guidance covers 4 guideline will assume that prescribers will consult the current online version of the British 5 National Formulary for Children. 6  Ultimately the prescriber must take responsibility for using drugs outside of their licensed 7 indications but it is important to involve the parents and, if possible the child, in a discussion 8 about risks and potential benefits. It is implicit in all discussions with patients about their 9 treatment that the clinician should establish that the patient has the capacity2 to
