Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


8 about risks and potential benefits. It is implicit in all discussions with patients about their 9 treatment that the clinician should establish that the patient has the capacity2 to make a fully 10 informed decision about their care, and the ability to understand the potential benefits (and risks) 11 of treatment. 12  In the case of children, clinicians would normally involve those with parental responsibility in the 14 of the child to understand and make decisions about their own care.100 15  Children can consent to treatment when they are able to understand the risks and benefits but 16 they cannot legally refuse treatment against their parents’ wishes until they are 16 years old. It is 17 important to consider the young person’s cognitive developmental stage when discussing the 18 disease and treatment options. Using appropriate terminology will help children and young 19 people participate actively in decision-making. 20  As children mature into adolescents and subsequently young people and adults they should be 21 encouraged to take more responsibility for managing their condition. Arrangements for transition 22 to adult care should be an integral part of the service. Care of young people in transition between 23 paediatric and adult services should be planned and managed according to the best practice 24 guidance described in the DH ‘Transition: getting it right for young people’ (available at 25 26 Browsable/DH_4132944). 27  When managing Crohn’s disease in children and young people, the timing of treatment should be 28 carefully considered to avoid or minimise long-term consequences, be they either physical or 29 psychological. 1.6 Patient vignettes 31 The GDG agreed that it was important to bring the ‘lived experience’ of Crohn’s disease to the 32 reader’s attention whilst considering the evidence base. The reality of living with a chronic 33 condition is a vital aspect of the guideline. The vignettes were provided by the patient and carer 34 members of the GDG. Crohn's disease Development of the guideline 2 Development of the guideline 2.1 What is a NICE clinical guideline? 3 NICE clinical guidelines are recommendations for the care of individuals in specific clinical conditions 4 or circumstances within the NHS – from prevention and self-care through primary and secondary 5 care to more specialised services. Clinical guidelines are based on the best available research 8 NICE clinical guidelines can: 9  provide recommendations for the treatment and care
