Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


secondary 5 care to more specialised services. Clinical guidelines are based on the best available research 8 NICE clinical guidelines can: 9  provide recommendations for the treatment and care of people by health professionals 10  be used to develop standards to assess the clinical practice of individual health professionals 11  be used in the education and training of health professionals 12  help patients to make informed decisions 13  improve communication between patient and health professional. 15 and skills. 16 The guidelines are produced using the following steps: 17  guideline topic is referred to NICE from the Department of Health 18  stakeholders register an interest in the guideline and are consulted throughout the development 19 process 20  the scope is prepared by the National Clinical Guideline Centre (NCGC) 21  the NCGC establishes a guideline development group (GDG) 22  a draft guideline is produced after the group assesses the available evidence and makes 23 recommendations 24  there is a consultation on the draft guideline 25  the final guideline is produced. 26 The NCGC and NICE produce a number of versions of this guideline: 27  the full guideline contains all the recommendations, plus details of the methods used and the 28 underpinning evidence 29  the NICE guideline lists the recommendations 30  information for the public (‘understanding NICE guidance’ or UNG) is written using suitable 31 language for people without specialist medical knowledge. 32 This version is the full version and can be downloaded from the NCGC website at XXXX. The other 33 versions can be downloaded from NICE at www.nice.org.uk, where pathways showing how this 34 guideline within the context of other NICE guidance is also available. 2.2 Remit 36 NICE received the remit for this guideline from the Department of Health. They commissioned the 37 NCGC to produce the guideline. 38 The remit for this guideline is: 39 To prepare a clinical guideline on the management of Crohn’s disease. Crohn's disease Development of the guideline 2.3 Who developed this guideline? 2 A multidisciplinary Guideline Development Group (GDG) comprising professional group members and 3 consumer representatives of the main stakeholders developed this guideline (see section on 4 Guideline Development Group Membership and acknowledgements). 5 The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence funds the National Clinical Guideline Centre 6 (NCGC) and thus supported the development of this guideline.
