Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


Development Group Membership and acknowledgements). 5 The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence funds the National Clinical Guideline Centre 6 (NCGC) and thus supported the development of this guideline. The GDG was convened by the NCGC 7 and chaired by Professor John Mayberry in accordance with guidance from the National Institute for 8 Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). 9 The group met every six weeks during the development of the guideline. At the start of the guideline 10 development process all GDG members declared interests including consultancies, fee-paid work, 11 share-holdings, fellowships and support from the healthcare industry. At all subsequent GDG 12 meetings, members declared arising conflicts of interest, which were also recorded. Members were 13 either required to withdraw completely or for part of the discussion if their declared interest made it 14 appropriate. The details of declared interests and the actions taken are shown in Appendix B: 15 Staff from the NCGC provided methodological support and guidance for the development process. 17 economists and information scientists. They undertook systematic searches of the literature, 18 appraised the evidence, conducted meta-analysis and cost effectiveness analysis where appropriate 19 and drafted the guideline in collaboration with the GDG. 2.4 What this guideline covers 21 Sections 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 are based upon an extract of the guideline scope document that was written 22 before commencement of the guideline and hence the tense used is prospective (see Appendix A: for 23 the full version of the scope). 24  Adults and children with a diagnosis of Crohn's disease. 25  Consideration will be given to specific needs, if any, during pregnancy and in females of child- 26 bearing potential. 27 Key clinical issues that will be covered include 28  Drug therapy, including the following drug categories: 29 o Glucocorticosteroids – conventional glucocorticosteroids and budesonide 30 o Immunosuppressives – azathioprine, mercaptopurine and methotrexate 31 o 5-aminosalicylates 32 Note that guideline recommendations will normally fall within licensed indications; exceptionally, 33 and only if clearly supported by evidence, use outside a licensed indication may be recommended. 34 The guideline will assume that prescribers will use a drug’s summary of product characteristics to 35 inform decisions made with individual patients. 36  Enteral nutrition versus medical management or combination of medical therapy and enteral 37 nutrition 38  Aspects of surgical management, for example: 39 o disease limited to the distal ileum (medical
