Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for induction of remission compared In paediatric studies the main with outcomes included: 2.1 placebo? Remission as defined by: 2.2 conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment?  Absence of clinical symptoms 2.3 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment? (determined by investigator) 2.4 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)?  Paediatric Crohn’s Disease 2.5 methotrexate? Activity Index (PCDAI) < 10 at weeks 4-6 (early), weeks 10-12 (middle) and weeks 15 or later 5 3. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is (late) following initiation of the clinical and cost effectiveness of 5-aminosalicylate (5- therapy ASA) treatment for induction of remission compared with  Endoscopic healing 3.1 placebo?  Fistula healing 3.2 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? Crohn's disease Methods 3.3 methotrexate? Adverse events Withdrawal rate/premature termination 5 4. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is Growth as measured by height the clinical and cost effectiveness of azathioprine or velocity standard deviation score mercaptopurine (AZA/MP) for induction of remission (HVSDS) compared with 4.1 placebo? 4.2 methotrexate? 4.3 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the incidence of serious adverse events for individuals with:  normal blood TPMT activity, on a standard dose of azathioprine  low blood TPMT activity, on a low dose of azathioprine  unknown TPMT activity, on a standard dose of azathioprine? 5 5. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of methotrexate for induction of remission 5.1 compared with placebo? 5.2 plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment compared with placebo plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment? 6 Pharmacological maintenance 6. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is Remission as defined by: the clinical and cost effectiveness of conventional  Absence of clinical symptoms glucocorticosteroid treatment for maintenance of (determined by investigator) remission for 12 months or longer  Crohn’s Disease Activity Index 6.1 compared with placebo? (CDAI) ≤ 150 at weeks 4-6 (early), 6.2 compared with 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment? weeks 10-12 (middle) and weeks 6.3 plus 5-ASA treatment with conventional 15 or later (late) following glucocorticosteroid plus placebo ? initiation of therapy +/- fall of > 6.4 compared with azathioprine or mercaptopurine 70 points in CDAI (AZA/MP)?  Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI) < 3 6.5 plus azathioprine or mercaptopurine compared with  Endoscopic healing conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment plus placebo?  Fistula healing 6.6 methotrexate? Adverse events Withdrawal rate/premature 7. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is termination the clinical and cost effectiveness of low dose and high Inflammatory Bowel Disease
