Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


healing 6.6 methotrexate? Adverse events Withdrawal rate/premature 7. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is termination the clinical and cost effectiveness of low dose and high Inflammatory Bowel Disease dose budesonide for maintenance of remission for 12 Questionnaire (IBDQ) scores months or longer compared with 7.1 placebo? In paediatric studies the main 7.2 conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment? outcomes included: 7.3 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment? Remission as defined by: 7.4 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)?  Absence of clinical symptoms 7.5 methotrexate? (determined by investigator)  Paediatric Crohn’s Disease Crohn's disease Methods 6 8. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is Activity Index (PCDAI) < 10 at ASA) treatment for maintenance of remission compared (middle) and weeks 15 or later with (late) following initiation of therapy 8.1 placebo?  Endoscopic healing 8.2 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 8.3 methotrexate?  Fistula healing Adverse events Withdrawal rate/premature 6 9. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is termination the clinical and cost effectiveness of azathioprine or Growth as measured by height mercaptopurine (AZA/MP) for maintenance of remission velocity standard deviation score for 12 months or longer (HVSDS) 9.1 compared with placebo? 9.2 compared with methotrexate? 9.3 plus conventional glucocorticosteroid or 5-ASA treatment compared with placebo plus conventional glucocorticosteroid or 5-ASA treatment? 6 10. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of methotrexate for maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer 10.1 compared with placebo? 10.2 plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment compared with placebo plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment? 7 Maintaining remission after surgery 11. In adults and children what is the clinical and cost Maintenance of remission as effectiveness of post-surgical (commencing within three defined by: months of any intestinal surgery for Crohn’s disease)  Absence of clinical symptoms maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer of (determined by investigator)  conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment  Crohn’s Disease Activity Index  budesonide (CDAI) ≤ 150 at weeks 4-6 (early),  5-aminosalicylate treatment weeks 10-12 (middle) and weeks 15 or later (late) following  azathioprine initiation of therapy  mercaptopurine  Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI) < 3  methotrexate  Endoscopic evaluation (Rutgeerts  metronidazole or score)  combinations thereof Relapse  or nutritional treatment Relapse + withdrawals compared with Serious adverse events  placebo Withdrawal due to adverse events  no treatment? Quality of life Children:  Absence of clinical symptoms (determined by investigator)  Paediatric Crohn’s Disease Activity
