Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment  budesonide Crohn's disease Methods  5-ASA treatment  azathioprine or mercaptopurine  methotrexate? compared with any of the above? 9 Surgery 14. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease limited Adults effectiveness of surgical resection for induction and  CDAI ≤ 150 +/- fall of > 70 maintenance of remission compared with medical or  HBI < 3 nutritional treatment?  Endoscopic healing  Fistula healing  Any valid index IBDQ Premature termination of study Adverse events including:  Early (up to 30 days) Infection local wound or intra- abdominal abscess, other Anastomotic dehiscence Length of stay is a surrogate, (inpatient v outpatient), ITU Cardiovascular (MI, thromboembolism) Intestinal obstruction Haemorrhage  Late Wound herniation Obstruction Anaemia B12 deficiency Bile salt malabsorption In paediatric studies Remission as defined by:  PCDAI ≤ 10 +/- fall of > 12.5 IMPACT Growth (height velocity) 15. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is  Incidence of perioperative the clinical and cost effectiveness of surgical treatment of complications stricture compared with  Incidence of major complications 15.1 balloon dilation  Recurrence rate of symptomatic 15.2 balloon dilation plus intralesional glucocorticosteroid strictures requiring repeat injections procedure 15.3 conservative management? 10 Monitoring 16. In adults and children diagnosed with Crohn’s disease,  Fracture rates in children under Crohn's disease Methods what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of DEXA 18 compared with no monitoring for changes in bone  Change in bone density in mineral density on patient outcomes (fracture rate)? children under 18  Hospitalisation for fracture in Further to development of the NICE Osteoporosis children under 18 Guideline, this question changed to: In children with Crohn’s disease what is the risk of fracture? 10 17. Does predicting early relapse through monitoring: Adult disease relapse as measured  Unintended weight loss by  CRP  Crohn’s Disease Activity Index > 150 +/- rise 70  ESR  Harvey Bradshaw Index > 3  MRI  Endoscopic relapse by Rutgeerts  Calprotectin score  Colonoscopy or capsule endoscopy  Recurrence of fistula  Growth in children  Hospitalisation compared with standard care, improve patient outcomes  Surgery (quality of life, future surgery, hospitalisation)? IBDQ score Adverse events Colorectal cancer Mortality Disease relapse in children and young people including:  PCDAI ≥ 10 Growth as measured by height velocity or high velocity standard deviation score IMPACT Questionnaire 11 Patient information and support 18.1 What
