Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


children and young people including:  PCDAI ≥ 10 Growth as measured by height velocity or high velocity standard deviation score IMPACT Questionnaire 11 Patient information and support 18.1 What are the primary information needs of adults  the information people with with Crohn’s disease in the UK? Crohn’s disease wanted or found useful 18.2 What are the primary information needs of children  any specific information and young people with Crohn’s disease in the UK? requirements for people with Crohn’s disease  if information received changed the perception of the disease. 12 Pregnancy Scope: “Consideration is given to the specific needs, if any, in pregnancy and females of child-bearing potential” Crohn's disease Methods 3.2 Searching for evidence 2 3.2.1 Clinical literature search 3 Systematic literature searches were undertaken to identify evidence within published literature in 5 searches were conducted to retrieve material on adverse events, pregnancy and breastfeeding and 6 fracture risk in children with Crohn’s disease. Databases were searched using relevant medical 7 subject headings, free-text terms and study type filters where appropriate. Studies published in 8 languages other than English and studies published only in abstract form were not reviewed. Where 9 possible, searches were restricted to articles published in English language. All searches were 10 conducted on core databases: Medline, Embase, Cinahl and The Cochrane Library. All searches were 11 updated on 13th March 2012. No papers after this date were considered. 12 Search strategies were checked by looking at reference lists of relevant key papers, checking search 13 strategies in other systematic reviews and asking the GDG for known studies. The questions, the 14 study types applied, the databases searched and the years covered can be found in Appendix D:. 15 During the scoping stage, a search was conducted for guidelines and reports. Searching for grey 16 literature or unpublished literature was not undertaken. All references sent by stakeholders were 17 considered. 18 3.2.2 Call for evidence 19 The GDG decided to initiate a ‘call for evidence’ (See Appendix K:) for part of Question 3: 20 “3. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 5- 21 aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment for induction of remission compared with 22 3.1 placebo? 23 3.2 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 24 3.3 methotrexate?” 25 They believed that important evidence existed that would not be identified by the standard searches. 26 The NCGC contacted all
