Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


23 3.2 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 24 3.3 methotrexate?” 25 They believed that important evidence existed that would not be identified by the standard searches. 26 The NCGC contacted all registered stakeholders and asked them to submit any relevant published or 27 unpublished evidence. No previously unidentified evidence was submitted. 28 3.2.3 Health economic literature search 29 Systematic literature searches were also undertaken to identify health economic evidence within 31 broad search relating to adults and children with a diagnosis of Crohn's disease in the NHS economic 33 technology assessment (HTA) databases with no date restrictions. Additionally, the search was run 34 on Medline and Embase, with a specific economic filter, from April 2010, to ensure recent 35 publications that had not yet been indexed by these databases were identified. Studies published in 36 languages other than English were not reviewed. 37 The search strategies for health economics are included in Appendix D:. All searches were updated 38 on 13th March 2012. Any papers published after this date were not considered. 39 3.2.3.1 Health economic call for evidence undertaken 40 No health economic call for evidence was undertaken. Crohn's disease Methods 3.3 Evidence of effectiveness 2 The Research Fellow: 3  identified potentially relevant studies for each review question from the relevant search results by 4 reviewing titles and abstracts – full papers were then obtained. 5  reviewed full papers against pre-specified inclusion/exclusion criteria to identify studies that 6 addressed the review question in the appropriate population and reported on outcomes of 7 interest (review protocols are included in Appendix C:) 8  critically appraised relevant studies using the appropriate checklist as specified in The Guidelines 9 Manual197 10  extracted key information about the study’s methods and results into evidence tables (evidence 11 tables are included in Appendix F:) 12  generated summaries of the evidence by outcome (included in the relevant chapter write-ups): 13 o randomised studies:meta-analysis performed, where appropriate and reported in GRADE 14 profiles (for clinical studies) – see below for details 15 o observational studies: data presented as a range of values in GRADE profiles for cohort and 16 case control studies 17 o prognostic studies: data presented in modified quality assessment profiles and forest plots 18 o qualitative studies: each study summarised in adapted GRADE profiles. 19 3.3.1 Inclusion/exclusion 20 The inclusion/exclusion of studies was based on the review protocols (Appendix C:). The
