Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


forest plots 18 o qualitative studies: each study summarised in adapted GRADE profiles. 19 3.3.1 Inclusion/exclusion 20 The inclusion/exclusion of studies was based on the review protocols (Appendix C:). The GDG were 21 consulted about any uncertainty regarding inclusion/exclusion of selected studies. 22 3.3.2 Methods of combining clinical studies 23 3.3.2.1 Data synthesis for intervention reviews 24 Where possible, meta-analyses were conducted to combine the results of studies for each review 25 question using Cochrane Review Manager (RevMan5) software. Fixed-effects (Mantel-Haenszel) 26 techniques were used to calculate risk ratios (relative risk) for the binary outcomes: remission, 27 relapse, relapse + withdrawal, adverse events, withdrawal/premature termination, withdrawal due 28 to adverse events, glucocorticosteroid sparing , maintenance of remission after 12 months, cancer of 29 the colon, height velocity, fracture rates, hospitalisation due to fracture and mortality. The 30 continuous outcome(s) change in CDAI/PCDAI scores, change in IBDQ scores, IMPACT scores, and 31 changes in bone density were analysed using an inverse variance method for pooling weighted mean 32 differences and where the studies had different scales, standardised mean differences were used. 33 Where reported, time-to-event data were presented as a hazard ratio. 34 Statistical heterogeneity was assessed by considering the chi-squared test for significance at p < 0.1 35 or an I-squared inconsistency statistic of > 50% to indicate significant heterogeneity. Where 36 significant heterogeneity was present, predefined subgroup analyses for disease severity, active or 37 quiescent disease, concurrent medications, age or disease location were carried out if the 38 information was available in the selected studies. Sensitivity analysis based on the quality of studies 39 was also carried out if there were differences, with particular attention paid to allocation 40 concealment, blinding and loss to follow-up (missing data). In cases where there was inadequate 41 allocation concealment, unclear blinding, more than 50% missing data or differential missing data, 42 this was examined in a sensitivity analysis. For the latter, the duration of follow-up was also taken 43 into consideration prior to including in a sensitivity analysis. Crohn's disease Methods 1 Assessments of potential differences in effect between subgroups were based on the chi-squared 2 tests for heterogeneity statistics between subgroups. If no sensitivity analysis was found to 3 completely resolve statistical heterogeneity then a random effects (DerSimonian and Laird) model 4 was employed to provide a more conservative estimate of the effect. 5 The means and standard deviations of continuous
