Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


statistical heterogeneity then a random effects (DerSimonian and Laird) model 4 was employed to provide a more conservative estimate of the effect. 5 The means and standard deviations of continuous outcomes were required for meta-analysis. 6 However, in cases where standard deviations were not reported, the standard error was calculated if 7 the p-values or 95% confidence intervals were reported and meta-analysis was undertaken with the 8 mean and standard error using the generic inverse variance method in Cochrane Review Manager 9 (RevMan5) software. 10 For binary outcomes, absolute event rates were also calculated using the GRADEpro software using 11 event rate in the control arm of the pooled results. 12 3.3.2.2 Data synthesis for prognostic factor reviews 13 Odds ratio, relative risks or hazard ratios, with their 95% confidence intervals, from multivariate 14 analyses were extracted from the papers, and standard errors were calculated from the 95% 15 confidence intervals. The log of the effect size with its standard error was entered into the generic 16 inverse variance technique in the Cochrane Review Manager (RevMan5) software. Studies were not 17 combined in a meta-analysis for observational studies. Sensitivity analyses were carried out on the 18 basis of study quality and results were reported as ranges. The included studies were critically 19 appraised using a checklist adapted from the prognostic check list in The Guidelines Manual197 and 20 from the Cochrane Prognosis Methods Group.3 21 3.3.3 Types of studies 22 For most intervention evidence reviews in this guideline, RCTs were included, as they are considered 23 the most robust type of study design. Where the RCT data were not available or would not be 24 considered to be the most appropriate study design (i.e. prognostic reviews) this is detailed in the 25 protocols in Appendix C: and in the clinical evidence introductions. 26 3.3.4 Types of analysis 27 Estimates of effect from individual studies were based on intention to treat (ITT with imputation) 28 analysis if possible. With respect to the maintenance of remission reviews both relapse and relapse 29 plus withdrawal (ITT) analyses were presented. An ITT analysis considers all randomised participants 30 based on the intervention and control groups to which they were originally assigned. An assumption 31 is made that all participants in the trials who were lost to follow-up experienced the outcome of 32 interest, i.e. relapse (categorical variable/outcome). In the case of a continuous variable/outcome
