Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


is made that all participants in the trials who were lost to follow-up experienced the outcome of 32 interest, i.e. relapse (categorical variable/outcome). In the case of a continuous variable/outcome 33 the assumption is that those lost to follow-up would not considerably change the average scores of 34 their assigned groups. ITT analysis is a conservative approach to analyse the data and therefore may 35 under-estimate the effect and tend to bias the results towards no difference. 36 3.3.5 Appraising the quality of evidence by outcomes 37 The evidence for outcomes from the included RCT and observational studies were evaluated and 38 presented using an adaptation of the ‘Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and 39 Evaluation (GRADE) toolbox’ developed by the international GRADE working group 40 ( The software (GRADEpro) developed by the GRADE working 41 group was used to assess the quality of each outcome, taking into account individual study quality 42 and the meta-analysis results. The “Clinical evidence profile” includes details of the quality 43 assessment as well as pooled outcome data, an absolute measure of intervention effect and the 44 summary of quality of evidence for each outcome. In this table, the columns for intervention and Crohn's disease Methods 1 control indicate the sum of the sample size for continuous outcomes. For binary outcomes such as 2 number of patients with an adverse event, the event rates (n/N: number of patients with events 3 divided by sum of number of patients) are shown with percentages. Reporting or publication bias is 4 only taken into consideration in the quality assessment and if apparent. Clinical and Economic study 5 characteristics are included in “Evidence tables” that can be found in Appendix F:. “Economic 6 summary of findings” tables and Economic study characteristics are included in the Economic 7 evidence sections of the guideline. 8 Each outcome was examined separately for the quality elements listed and defined in Table 2 and 9 each graded using the quality levels listed in Table 3: The main criteria considered in the rating of 10 these elements are discussed below (see section 3.3.6 Grading of Evidence). Footnotes were used to 11 describe reasons for grading a quality element as having serious or very serious problems. The 12 ratings for each component were summed to obtain an overall assessment for each outcome. 13 Table 4: The GRADE toolbox is currently designed only for randomised trials
