Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


problems. The 12 ratings for each component were summed to obtain an overall assessment for each outcome. 13 Table 4: The GRADE toolbox is currently designed only for randomised trials and observational 14 studies. For this guideline the GRADE quality assessment elements and outcome presentation was 15 adapted for prognostic and qualitative studies. 16 Table 2: Description of quality elements in GRADE for intervention studies Quality element Description Limitations Limitations in the study design and implementation may bias the estimates of the treatment effect. Major limitations in studies decrease the confidence in the estimate of the effect. Inconsistency Inconsistency refers to any unexplained heterogeneity of results. Indirectness Indirectness refers to differences in study population, intervention, comparator and outcomes between the available evidence and the review question, or recommendation made. Imprecision Results are imprecise when studies include relatively few patients and few events and thus have wide confidence intervals around the estimate of the effect, relative to the clinically important threshold. Publication bias Publication bias is a systematic underestimate or an overestimate of the underlying beneficial or harmful effect due to the selective publication of studies. 18 Table 3: Levels of quality elements in GRADE Level Description None There are no serious issues with the evidence Serious The issues are serious enough to downgrade the outcome evidence by one level Very serious The issues are serious enough to downgrade the outcome evidence by two levels 20 Table 4: Overall quality of outcome evidence in GRADE Level Description High Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect Moderate Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate Low Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate Very low Any estimate of effect is very uncertain Crohn's disease Methods 1 3.3.6 Grading the quality of clinical evidence 2 After results were pooled, the overall quality of evidence for each outcome was considered. The 3 following procedure was adopted when using GRADE: 4 1. A quality rating was assigned, based on the study design. RCTs start HIGH and observational 5 studies as LOW, uncontrolled case series as LOW or VERY LOW. 6 2. The rating was then downgraded for the specified criteria: Study limitations, inconsistency, 7 indirectness, imprecision
