Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


observational 5 studies as LOW, uncontrolled case series as LOW or VERY LOW. 6 2. The rating was then downgraded for the specified criteria: Study limitations, inconsistency, 7 indirectness, imprecision and reporting bias. These criteria are detailed below. Observational 8 studies were upgraded if there was: a large magnitude of effect, dose-response gradient, and if all 9 plausible confounding would reduce a demonstrated effect or suggest a spurious effect when 10 results showed no effect. Each quality element considered to have “serious” or “very serious” risk 11 of bias was rated down -1 or -2 points respectively. 12 3. The downgraded/upgraded marks were then summed and the overall quality rating was revised. 13 For example, all RCTs started as HIGH and the overall quality became MODERATE, LOW or VERY 14 LOW if 1, 2 or 3 points were deducted respectively. 15 4. The reasons or criteria used for downgrading were specified in the footnotes. 16 The details of criteria used for each of the main quality element are discussed further in the following 17 sections 3.3.7 to 3.3.10. 18 3.3.7 Study limitations 19 The main limitations for randomised controlled trials are listed in Table 5. 20 Table 5: Study limitations of randomised controlled trials Limitation Explanation Allocation Those enrolling patients are aware of the group to which the next enrolled patient concealment will be allocated (major problem in “pseudo” or “quasi” randomised trials with allocation by day of week, birth date, chart number, etc) Lack of blinding Patient, caregivers, those recording outcomes, those adjudicating outcomes, or data analysts are aware of the arm to which patients are allocated Incomplete Loss to follow-up not accounted and failure to adhere to the intention to treat accounting of principle when indicated patients and outcome events Selective outcome Reporting of some outcomes and not others on the basis of the results reporting Other limitations For example:  Stopping early for benefit observed in randomised trials, in particular in the absence of adequate stopping rules  Use of non-validated patient-reported outcomes  Carry-over effects in cross-over trials  Recruitment bias in cluster randomised trials 21 3.3.8 Inconsistency 22 Inconsistency refers to an unexplained heterogeneity of results. When estimates of the treatment 23 effect across studies differ widely (i.e. heterogeneity or variability in results), this suggests true 24 differences in underlying treatment effect. When heterogeneity existed (Chi square p < 0.1 or I- 25 squared inconsistency
