Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


differ widely (i.e. heterogeneity or variability in results), this suggests true 24 differences in underlying treatment effect. When heterogeneity existed (Chi square p < 0.1 or I- 25 squared inconsistency statistic of > 50%), but no plausible explanation could be found, the quality of 26 evidence was downgraded by one or two levels, depending on the extent of uncertainty to the 27 results contributed by the inconsistency in the results. In addition to the I- square and Chi square Crohn's disease Methods 1 values, the decision for downgrading was also dependent on factors such as whether the 2 intervention was associated with benefit in all other outcomes or whether the uncertainty about the 3 magnitude of benefit (or harm) of the outcome showing heterogeneity would influence the overall 4 judgment about net benefit or harm (across all outcomes). 5 If inconsistency could be explained based on pre-specified subgroup analysis, the GDG took this into 6 account and considered whether to make separate recommendations based on the identified 7 explanatory factors, i.e. population and intervention. Where subgroup analysis gave a plausible 8 explanation of heterogeneity, the quality of evidence would not be downgraded. 9 3.3.9 Indirectness 10 Directness refers to the extent to which the populations, intervention, comparisons and outcome 11 measures are similar to those defined in the inclusion criteria for the reviews. Indirectness is 12 important when these differences are expected to contribute to a difference in effect size, or may 13 affect the balance of harms and benefits considered for an intervention. 14 3.3.10 Imprecision 15 The sample size, event rates and the resulting width of confidence intervals were the main criteria 16 considered by the GDG for the evaluation of precision in this guideline for all reviews included in the 17 health economic model. The minimal important difference (MID) was also utilised to assess precision 18 but was only applied in this guideline to reviews which were not considered in the economic analysis. 19 The main outputs of the economic analyses were ‘costs per QALY gained’ where QALYs were derived 20 from patient questionnaires. This negates the need to consider MIDs, since QALYs explicitly 21 incorporate important changes in quality of life related to disease burden. i.e. a clinically important 22 difference has been ascertained directly from people with Crohn’s disease. 23 For reviews which considered MIDs, the default MIDs of 0.75 and 1.25 for dichotomous outcomes
