Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


a clinically important 22 difference has been ascertained directly from people with Crohn’s disease. 23 For reviews which considered MIDs, the default MIDs of 0.75 and 1.25 for dichotomous outcomes 24 and of 0.5 of the standardised mean difference for continuous outcomes were accepted by the GDG. 25 The thresholds of important benefits or harms, or the MID for an outcome are considered relevant 26 for determining whether there is a “clinically important” difference between intervention and 27 control groups and in assessing imprecision. For continuous outcomes, the MID is defined as “the 28 smallest difference in score in the outcome of interest that informed patients or informed proxies 29 perceive as important, ether beneficial or harmful, and that would lead the patient or clinician to 30 consider a change in the management.108,137,245,246 31 The difference between two interventions, as observed in the studies, was compared against the 32 MID when considering whether the findings were of “clinical importance”; this is useful to guide 33 decisions. For example, if the effect size was small (less than the MID), this finding suggests that 34 there may not be enough difference to strongly recommend one intervention over the other based 35 on that outcome. 36 The criteria applied for imprecision are based on sample size, event rates and the resulting width of 37 confidence intervals for reviews included in the health economic model or on the confidence 38 intervals for pooled or the best estimate of effect for reviews not included in the health economic 39 model, as outlined in Table 6 and illustrated in Figure 1. Crohn's disease Methods 1 Table 6: Criteria applied to determine precision Dichotomous and continuous outcomes ‘no serious imprecision’ For reviews included in the health economic model: sample size, event rates were sufficient and the resulting width of confidence intervals were narrow. For reviews not included in the health economic model: 95% CI does not cross either of the two minimal important difference (MID) thresholds (the threshold lines for appreciable benefit or harm); defined as precise. ‘serious’ For reviews included in the health economic model: sample size, event rates were small and the resulting width of confidence intervals were wide. For reviews not included in the health economic model: 95% CI crosses one of the two MID thresholds (appreciable benefit or appreciable harm); defined as imprecise. ‘very serious’ For reviews included in the health economic model:
