Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


health economic model: 95% CI crosses one of the two MID thresholds (appreciable benefit or appreciable harm); defined as imprecise. ‘very serious’ For reviews included in the health economic model: sample size, event rates were very small and the resulting width of confidence intervals were very wide. For reviews not included in the health economic model: 95% CI crosses both of the two MID thresholds (appreciable benefit and appreciable harm); defined as imprecise. Figure 1: Illustration of precise and imprecise outcomes based on the confidence interval of outcomes in a forest plot Source: Figure adapted from GRADEPro software 2 The MIDs are the threshold for appreciable benefits and harms. The confidence intervals of the top 3 three points of the diagram were considered precise because the upper and lower limits did not 4 cross the MID. Conversely, the bottom three points of the diagram were considered imprecise 5 because all of them crossed the MID and reduced our certainty of the results. Crohn's disease Methods 3.4 Evidence of cost effectiveness 2 The GDG is required to make decisions based on the best available evidence of both clinical and cost 3 effectiveness. Guideline recommendations should be based on the expected costs of the treatment 5 the total cost or resource impact of implementing them.197 Thus, if the evidence suggests that an 7 be recommended even if it would be expensive to implement across the whole population. 8 Evidence on cost-effectiveness related to the key clinical issues being addressed in the guideline was 9 sought. The health economist undertook: 10  a systematic review of the economic literature 11  new cost-effectiveness analysis in priority areas 12 3.4.1 Literature review 13 The health economist: 14  Identified potentially relevant studies for each review question from the economic search results 15 by reviewing titles and abstracts – full papers were then obtained. 16  Reviewed full papers against pre-specified inclusion / exclusion criteria to identify relevant studies 17 (see below for details). 18  Critically appraised relevant studies using the economic evaluations checklist as specified in The 19 Guidelines Manual.197 20  Extracted key information about the study’s methods and results into evidence tables (evidence 21 tables are included in Appendix F:). 22  Generated summaries of the evidence in NICE economic evidence profiles (included in the 23 relevant chapter write-ups) – see below for details. 24 3.4.1.1 Inclusion/exclusion 25 Full economic evaluations
