Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


 Generated summaries of the evidence in NICE economic evidence profiles (included in the 23 relevant chapter write-ups) – see below for details. 24 3.4.1.1 Inclusion/exclusion 25 Full economic evaluations (studies comparing costs and health consequences of alternative courses 26 of action: cost–utility, cost-effectiveness, cost-benefit and cost-consequence analyses) and 27 comparative costing studies that addressed the review question in the relevant population were 28 considered potentially applicable as economic evidence. 30 effectiveness without disaggregated costs and effects, were excluded. Abstracts, posters, reviews, 31 letters/editorials, foreign language publications and unpublished studies were excluded. Studies 32 judged to have an applicability rating of ‘not applicable’ were excluded (this included studies that 33 took the perspective of a non-Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development [OECD] 34 country). 35 Remaining studies were prioritised for inclusion based on their relative applicability to the 36 development of this guideline and the study limitations. For example, if a high quality, directly 37 applicable UK analysis was available other less relevant studies may not have been included. Where 38 exclusions occurred on this basis, this is noted in the relevant section. 39 For more details about the assessment of applicability and methodological quality see the economic 40 evaluation checklist (The Guidelines Manual197) and the health economics research protocol in 41 Appendix C: 42 The NICE economic evidence profile has been used to summarise cost and cost-effectiveness 43 estimates. The economic evidence profile shows, for each economic study, an assessment of Crohn's disease Methods 1 applicability and methodological quality, with footnotes indicating the reasons for the assessment. 2 These assessments were made by the health economist using the economic evaluation checklist from 3 The Guidelines Manual.197It also shows incremental costs, incremental effects (for example, quality- 4 adjusted life years [QALYs]) and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, as well as information 5 about the assessment of uncertainty in the analysis. See Appendix F: for more details. 6 If a non-UK study was included in the profile, the results were converted into pounds sterling using 7 the appropriate purchasing power parity.208 Crohn's disease Methods 1 Table 7: Content of NICE economic profile Item Description Study First author name, reference, date of study publication and country perspective. situation and NICE decision-making*: Directly applicable – the applicability criteria are met, or one or more criteria are not met but this is not likely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Partially applicable – one
