Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


– the applicability criteria are met, or one or more criteria are not met but this is not likely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Partially applicable – one or more of the applicability criteria are not met, and this might possibly change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Not applicable – one or more of the applicability criteria are not met, and this is likely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Limitations An assessment of methodological quality of the study*: Minor limitations – the study meets all quality criteria, or the study fails to meet one or more quality criteria, but this is unlikely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Potentially serious limitations – the study fails to meet one or more quality criteria, and this could change the conclusion about cost effectiveness. Very serious limitations – the study fails to meet one or more quality criteria and this is very likely to change the conclusions about cost effectiveness. Studies with very serious limitations would usually be excluded from the economic profile table. Other comments Particular issues that should be considered when interpreting the study. Incremental cost The mean cost associated with one strategy minus the mean cost of a comparator strategy. Incremental effects The mean QALYs (or other selected measure of health outcome) associated with one strategy minus the mean QALYs of a comparator strategy. Cost effectiveness Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER): the incremental cost divided by the incremental effects. Uncertainty A summary of the extent of uncertainty about the ICER reflecting the results of deterministic or probabilistic sensitivity analyses, or stochastic analyses of trial data, as appropriate. 2 * Applicability and limitations and were assessed using the economic evaluation checklist from The Guidelines 3 Manual.197 4 3.4.2 Undertaking new health economic analysis 5 As well as reviewing the published economic literature for each review question, as described above, 6 new economic analysis was undertaken by the health economist in selected areas. Priority areas for 8 consideration of the available health economic evidence. 9 The GDG identified drug induction of remission and drug maintenance of remission as the highest 10 priority areas for an original economic model. These models analyse a large proportion of resource 11 use for the majority of Crohn’s patients. The GDG also wished to prioritise surgical versus medical 12 induction of remission but the evidence was considered too limited to develop such a
