Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for the majority of Crohn’s patients. The GDG also wished to prioritise surgical versus medical 12 induction of remission but the evidence was considered too limited to develop such a model. 13 The following general principles were adhered to in developing the cost-effectiveness analysis: 14  Methods were consistent with the NICE reference case.194 15  The GDG was involved in the design of the model, selection of inputs and interpretation of the 16 results. 17  Model inputs were based on the systematic review of the clinical literature supplemented with 18 other published data sources where possible. 19  When published data were not available GDG expert opinion was used to populate the model. Crohn's disease Methods 1  Model inputs and assumptions were reported fully and transparently. 2  The results were subject to sensitivity analysis and limitations were discussed. 3  The model was peer-reviewed by another health economist at the NCGC. 4 To parameterise treatment effects in the model, a network meta-analysis (NMA) based on a 5 conditional logistic regression was carried out. The aim of the NMA was to calculate treatment- 6 specific odds ratios for withdrawal and remission conditional upon people not withdrawing. Separate 7 analyses were carried out for: 8  first-line induction and 9  second-line induction following failure of glucocorticosteroid treatment. 10 The NICE Technical Support Unit wrote the WinBUGS code for these NMA analyses. 11 Full methods for the cost-effectiveness analysis are described in Appendix H:. 12 3.4.3 Cost-effectiveness criteria 13 NICE’s report ‘Social value judgements: principles for the development of NICE guidance’ sets out the 14 principles that GDGs should consider when judging whether an intervention offers good value for 15 money.197 16 In general, an intervention was considered to be cost effective if either of the following criteria 17 applied (given that the estimate was considered plausible): 18 a. The intervention dominated other relevant strategies (that is, it was both less costly in terms of 19 resource use and more clinically effective compared with all the other relevant alternative 20 strategies), or 21 b. The intervention cost less than £20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained compared 22 with the next best strategy. 23 If the GDG recommended an intervention that was estimated to cost more than £20,000 per QALY 24 gained, or did not recommend one that was estimated to cost less than £20,000 per QALY gained, 25
