Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


compared with the benefits, 14 current practices, recommendations made in other relevant guidelines, patient preferences and 15 equality issues. The consensus recommendations were agreed through an on-line survey and follow- 16 up discussions in the GDG meeting resolved any differences of opinion. The GDG also considered 17 whether the uncertainty was sufficient to justify delaying making a recommendation to await further 18 research, taking into account the potential harm of failing to make a clear recommendation (see 19 Appendix I:). 20 The main considerations specific to each recommendation are outlined in the ‘Linking evidence to 21 recommendations’ section preceding the recommendations for each review question. 22 3.5.1 Research recommendations 23 When areas were identified for which good evidence was lacking, the guideline development group 24 considered making recommendations for future research. Decisions about inclusion were based on 25 factors such as: 26  the importance to patients or the population 27  national priorities 28  potential impact on the NHS and future NICE guidance 29  ethical and technical feasibility. 30 3.5.2 Validation process 31 The guidance was subject to a five week public consultation and feedback as part of the quality 32 assurance and peer review of the document. All comments received from registered stakeholders 33 were responded to and posted on the NICE website. 34 3.5.3 Updating the guideline 35 Following publication, NICE undertake a review for update according to the guideline manual.197 36 3.5.4 Disclaimer 38 whether it is appropriate to apply guidelines. The recommendations cited here are a guide and may 39 not be appropriate for use in all situations. The decision to adopt any of the recommendations cited 40 here must be made by the practitioners in light of individual patient circumstances, the wishes of the Crohn's disease Methods 1 The National Clinical Guideline Centre disclaims any responsibility for damages arising out of the use 2 or non-use of these guidelines and the literature used in support of these guidelines. 3 3.5.5 Funding 4 The National Clinical Guideline Centre was commissioned by the National Institute for Health and 5 Clinical Excellence to undertake the work on this guideline. Crohn's disease Guideline summary 4 Guideline summary 4.1 Algorithms GC ur Figure 2: Inducing remission in Crohn’s disease id o h e lin n 's e s u d is me a ms a r e y GC appropriate, information, advice and support in line with
