Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


glucocorticosteroid or budesonide to maintain remission. R24. Offer azathioprine*¥ or R25. R26. Consider R16. Treatment with infliximab or adalimumab (see R13 mercaptopurine*¥ as monotherapy Consider azathioprine*¥ or methotrexate and R15) should only be continued if there is clear to maintain remission when mercaptopurine*¥ to maintain to maintain remission only in evidence of ongoing active disease as determined by glucocorticosteroid to induce previously received these drugs  needed methotrexate to induce including endoscopy if necessary. Specialists should remission. (particularly those with adverse remission, or discuss the risks and benefits of continued treatment prognostic factors such as early age  have tried but did not tolerate with patients and consider a trial withdrawal from of onset, perianal disease, azathioprine or mercaptopurine for treatment for all patients who are in stable clinical glucocorticosteroid use at maintenance or remission. People who continue treatment with presentation and severe  have contraindications to azathioprine infliximab or adalimumab should have their disease presentations). or mercaptopurine (for example, reassessed at least every 12 months to determine deficient TPMT activity or whether ongoing treatment is still clinically appropriate. previous episodes of People whose disease relapses after treatment is pancreatitis). stopped should have the option to start treatment again. remission in Crohn’s disease. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. ^Follow BNF/BNFC cautions on prescribing methotrexate. ¥Advice on monitoring of immunosuppressives can be found in the BNF/BNFC. The gastroenterology chapter and other relevant sections should be consulted. Crohn's disease Guideline summary 4.2 Key priorities for implementation 2 From the full set of recommendations, the GDG selected nine key priorities for implementation. The 3 criteria used for selecting these recommendations are listed in detail in The Guidelines Manual.197 4 They are not listed in order of importance. 5 39. Ensure that information and advice about Crohn's disease: 6 • is age appropriate 7 • is of the appropriate cognitive and literacy level, and 8 • meets the cultural and linguistic needs of the local community. 9 1. Discuss treatment options and monitoring with the person with Crohn’s disease, and/or their 10 parent or carer if appropriate, and within the multidisciplinary team. Apply the principles outlined in 11 'Patient experience in adult NHS services' (NICE clinical guidance 138). 12 42. Give people
