Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for surgery), or until 12 months after the start of treatment, whichever is shorter. People 10 should then have their disease reassessed (see recommendation 16) to determine whether ongoing 11 treatment is still clinically appropriate. 12 14. Treatment as described in recommendation 13 should normally be started with the less 13 expensive drug (taking into account drug administration costs, required dose and product price per 14 dose). This may need to be varied for individual patients because of differences in the method of 15 administration and treatment schedules. 16 15. Infliximab, within its licensed indication, is recommended as a treatment option for people with 17 active fistulising Crohn’s disease whose disease has not responded to conventional therapy (including 18 antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive treatments), or who are intolerant of or have 19 contraindications to conventional therapy. Infliximab should be given as a planned course of 20 treatment until treatment failure (including the need for surgery) or until 12 months after the start of 21 treatment, whichever is shorter. People should then have their disease reassessed (see 22 recommendation 16) to determine whether ongoing treatment is still clinically appropriate. 23 16. Treatment with infliximab or adalimumab (see recommendations 13 and 15) should only be 25 biological markers and investigation, including endoscopy if necessary. Specialists should discuss the 26 risks and benefits of continued treatment with patients and consider a trial withdrawal from 27 treatment for all patients who are in stable clinical remission. People who continue treatment with 28 infliximab or adalimumab should have their disease reassessed at least every 12 months to 29 determine whether ongoing treatment is still clinically appropriate. People whose disease relapses 30 after treatment is stopped should have the option to start treatment again. 31 17. Infliximab, within its licensed indication, is recommended for the treatment of people aged 6–17 32 years with severe active Crohn’s disease whose disease has not responded to conventional therapy 33 (including corticosteroids, immunomodulators and primary nutrition therapy), or who are intolerant 34 of or have contraindications to conventional therapy. The need to continue treatment should be 35 reviewed at least every 12 months. 36 18. For the purposes of this guidance, severe active Crohn’s disease is defined as very poor general 38 frequent (3–4 or more) diarrhoeal stools daily. People with severe active Crohn’s disease may or may 39 not develop new fistulae or have extra-intestinal manifestations of the disease.
