Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


general 38 frequent (3–4 or more) diarrhoeal stools daily. People with severe active Crohn’s disease may or may 39 not develop new fistulae or have extra-intestinal manifestations of the disease. This clinical definition 40 normally, but not exclusively, corresponds to a Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) score of 300 or 41 more, or a Harvey-Bradshaw score of 8 to 9 or above. 42 19. When using the CDAI and Harvey-Bradshaw Index, healthcare professionals should take into 43 account any physical, sensory or learning disabilities, or communication difficulties that could affect 44 the scores and make any adjustments they consider appropriate. 45 20. Treatment with infliximab or adalimumab should only be started and reviewed by clinicians with 46 experience of TNF inhibitors and of managing Crohn’s disease. Crohn's disease Guideline summary 1 Maintaining remission in Crohn’s disease 2 21. Discuss with people with Crohn's disease, and/or their parents or carers if appropriate, options 3 for managing their disease when they are in remission, including both no treatment and treatment. 4 The discussion should include the risk of inflammatory exacerbations (with and without drug 5 treatment) and the potential side effects of drug treatment. Record the person's views in their notes. 6 22. Offer colonoscopic surveillance in line with 'Colonoscopic surveillance for prevention of colorectal 8 Follow-up during remission for those who choose not to receive maintenance treatment 9 23. When people choose not to receive maintenance treatment: 10 • discuss and agree with them, and/or their parents or carers if appropriate, plans for follow-up, 11 including the frequency of follow-up and who they should see 12 • ensure they know which symptoms may suggest a relapse and should prompt a consultation with 13 their healthcare professional (most frequently, unintended weight loss, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, 14 general ill-health) 15 • ensure they know how to access the healthcare system if they experience a relapse 16 • discuss the importance of not smoking. 17 Maintenance treatment for those who choose this option 18 24. Offer azathioprine or mercaptopurineh as monotherapy to maintain remission when previously 19 used with a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonide to induce remission. 20 25. Consider azathioprine or mercaptopurineh to maintain remission in people who have not 21 previously received these drugs (particularly those with adverse prognostic factors such as early age 22 of onset, perianal disease, glucocorticosteroid use at presentation and severe presentations). 23 26. Consider methotrexatec,i to maintain
