Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


level at which the disease is considered inactive. Objective measures include 10 mucosal healing17,94 on endoscopy and the absence of inflammation in tissue biopsy, but with the 11 patchy distribution typical of Crohn’s disease, samples examined may not necessarily be 12 representative of the whole bowel. With these limitations in current measurements of disease 14 symptoms as well as laboratory-based assessments. The purpose of such an approach is to ensure 15 that new treatments lead to a symptom-free patient with objective evidence of healing of diseased 16 tissue and improved quality of life. 17 Induction of remission in patients with Crohn’s disease may involve drug therapy, specific nutritional 18 therapy, and surgery, in addition to cessation of smoking. 19 Pharmacological therapy largely includes four groups of drugs – glucocorticosteroid treatment, 5- 21 economics relevant to induction of remission will be influenced more by the costs of monitoring and 22 serious side effects, than the actual costs of most of the pharmaceutical agents. Before the recent 23 advance of biological treatments, the field was dominated by agents prescribed generically, with 24 budesonide being a branded exception. 25  Glucocorticosteroids were first shown to be effective in the management of ulcerative colitis in 26 1955 by Truelove & Witts.289 Subsequently they were also found to play a role in the treatment of 27 Crohn’s disease.270 Glucocorticosteroids suppress the production of a large number of pro- 28 inflammatory proteins, such as interleukin, interferon, tumour necrosis factor, adhesion 29 molecules, E-selectin, lymphocyte adhesion molecules, colony-stimulating factor, prostaglandins, 30 and leukotrienes. They can also inhibit protein synthesis at the post-transcription level by altering 31 messenger RNA stability.310. Current concerns, both amongst patients and clinicians, include long- 32 term side effects and thus there is a general desire to minimise exposure to these agents. 33  Sulfasalazine, the original 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA), was probably the first designer drug in 34 history. It was found to have a role in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease by Nanna 36 treated patients with ulcerative colitis.273 Subsequent work showed that 5-ASA is the active 37 ingredient of sulfasalazine.15 For the purposes of this guidance, 5-ASA as used to denote plurality, 38 refers to both 5-aminosalicylates (mesalazine, including Pentasa MR, Mesren MR, Asacol MR and 39 Octasa MR; olsalazine, balsalazide) and sulfasalazine (Salazopyridine). 40  The immunosuppressives azathioprine and mercaptopurine have long been used for the 41 prevention of relapse223, but
