Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


MR, Asacol MR and 39 Octasa MR; olsalazine, balsalazide) and sulfasalazine (Salazopyridine). 40  The immunosuppressives azathioprine and mercaptopurine have long been used for the 41 prevention of relapse223, but were considered to have potentially serious side effects leading to 42 concern about their use in both the short and long term.212 Although their original use was as 43 glucocorticosteroid-sparing agents, their value as agents in the treatment of Crohn’s disease in 44 their own right soon emerged. Mercaptopurine and its pro-drug, azathioprine, are purine 45 analogues that inhibit cell growth by directly interfering with nucleic acid synthesis.212 46 Azathioprine is non-enzymatically converted to mercaptopurine upon ingestion, and is for 47 pragmatic and clinical purposes considered to be the same entity as mercaptopurine. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 1 Methotrexate has been investigated as another immunosuppressive that may be effective in 2 Crohn’s disease because of its efficacy in rheumatoid arthritis and its potential as an alternative to 3 azathioprine and mercaptopurine in this situation.7 These three drugs are used extensively in 4 Crohn’s disease and their role is acknowledged in the British National Formulary138 and in the NICE 5 technology appraisal 187: Infliximab (review) and adalimumab for the treatment of Crohn’s 6 disease198, despite the fact that azathioprine, methotrexate and mercaptopurine are not licensed 7 to treat Crohn’s disease. 8  Biological treatments (such as infliximab and adalimumab) are not the subject of systematic 9 review within this guideline as they are covered in a NICE Technology Appraisal. 10 Recommendations from TA187198 are incorporated into the present guidance. 12 Patient vignette 1 Sometimes the treatment can seem worse than the illness. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 5.2 Conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for induction of remission 3 5.2.1 Clinical questions 4 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 5 conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for induction of remission 6  compared with placebo? 7  compared with 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment? 8  plus 5-ASA treatment compared with placebo? 9  compared with azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 10  plus azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP) compared with conventional 11 glucocorticosteroid treatment plus placebo? 12  compared with methotrexate? 13  plus methotrexate compared with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment plus placebo? 14 5.2.2 Conventional glucocorticosteroid versus placebo or 5-ASA treatment 15 5.2.2.1 Clinical evidence 16 A Cochrane systematic review22 was identified and quality assessed and accepted for this review.The 17
