Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


of 5-ASA treatment for the induction 29 of remission of Crohn’s disease. 31 section 5.6 and Appendix H: for the full health economic report. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 5.5 Immunosuppressives for induction of remission 2 5.5.1 Clinical questions 3 The clinical questions searched in the review of immunosuppressives for induction of remission in 4 Crohn’s disease included: 6 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 7 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP) for induction of remission compared with 8  placebo? 9  methotrexate? 11 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the incidence of serious adverse events for the 12 following subgroups: 13  normal blood TPMT activity, on a standard dose of azathioprine? 14  low blood TPMT activity, on a low dose of azathioprine? 15  blood TPMT is unknown, on a standard dose of azathioprine? 16 The objective of this review was to collect incidence data about serious adverse events in relation to 17 TMPT levels and azathioprine dose (presented in tabular format below). 19 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 20 methotrexate for induction of remission 21  compared with placebo? 22  plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment compared with placebo plus conventional 23 glucocorticosteroid treatment? 24 A further review of serious adverse events occurring in people with Crohn’s disease was conducted 25 to support discussion about treatment decisions between healthcare professional and the person 28 The review of TPMT monitoring included serious adverse events associated with normal TPMT 29 activity, low TPMT activity and unknown TPMT activity. 30 The safety review for AZA/MP included the following adverse events: 31  Death 32  Malignancy, particularly lymphoma 33  Neutropenia 34  Agranulocytosis 35  Pancreatitis 36  Blood dyscrasias (methotrexate) 37  Cirrhosis of the liver (methotrexate). Crohn's disease Induction of remission 1 5.5.2 Azathioprine or mercaptopurine versus placebo 2 5.5.2.1 Clinical evidence 3 There were no systematic reviews which met inclusion criteria for this review. Two RCTs were 4 included in this review. These papers by Singleton258 and Summers270 evaluated different outcomes 5 for the same study. InC dr o Table 22: Evidence profile: azathioprine or mercaptopurine versus placebo u c t h n No of Quality assessment Other No of patients Sum Re m la a t r i y v e o E f f f f
