Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


metabolised by three competitive enzymes: xanthine 5 oxidase (XO), thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT), and hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl- 6 transferase (HGRT). Only HGRT anabolises 6-MP into the active nucleotide responsible for 7 therapeutic activity. 8 The role of TPMT was first recognised in 1987151 and pre-treatment screening for TPMT was first 9 suggested in 1992.10 10 Reduction in TPMT as a result of genetic variation may lead to bone marrow suppression because of 11 preferential metabolism of 6-MP to 6-thioguanine. Most people (88%) have a genotype with two 12 high (normal) metabolizing alleles. These people are homozygous with two wild type (normal) 13 TPMT*1/TPMT*1 alleles corresponding to high enzyme activity. Heterozygosity occurs in 11% of 14 patients who have one high and one low (mutant) allele. In 0.3% of patients a homozygous deficiency 15 exists, characterised by two low metabolizing alleles. 16 For the purposes of this review, TPMT phenotyping reflects TPMT enzyme activity in red blood cells. 17 Normal to high activity range is 24−80 units; intermediate enzyme activity is 14−23 units and TPMT 18 deficiency is less than or equal to 13 units. However healthcare professionals should be familiar with 19 local laboratory values when making prescribing decisions. 20 Patients may be tested either for TPMT genotype or TPMT activity (phenotype) or both. Correlation 21 between genotype and phenotype is good, particularly in inflammatory bowel disease, but may not 22 be complete, because factors other than genetic constitution can influence TPMT activity. 23 Normal dose: azathioprine 2−2.5 mg/kg; mercaptopurine 1−1.5 mg/kg/day. 24 The objective of this review was to collect incidence data about serious adverse events in relation to 25 TPMT levels and azathioprine dose (presented in tabular format below). 26 This review includes only studies which reported serious adverse events in individuals with Crohn’s 27 disease. Specifically, these events include cytopenia and pancytopenia. Cytopenia refers to 28 suppression of one of the major cell lines, for example thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia and 29 leukopenia. Pancytopenia indicates a more global effect on bone marrow suppression. While these 30 effects usually reverse on discontinuing treatment, the risk of fatality due pancytopenia or 31 neutropenia is recognised. 32 Mixed IBD populations that were not able to be analysed separately as a Crohn’s disease subgroup 33 were excluded. InC dr o Table 24: Serious adverse events in patients with different levels of TPMT activity u c t h n S S t a u m
