Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


normal dose was not associated with leukopenia, but 6 was associated with some other adverse events, but normal activity on low dose was associated 7 with fewer adverse events.219[LOW QUALITY] 8  Low-dose azathioprine was associated with low numbers of adverse events in both normal and 9 heterozygous people with Crohn’s disease.222[LOW QUALITY] 10  12% of people with Crohn’s disease who had normal TPMT genotype and activity on a low- to 11 normal- azathioprine dose experienced severe adverse events. Heterozygosity on a normal to high 12 dose was associated with cytopenia.247[LOW QUALITY] 13  Of 41 people with Crohn’s disease who retrospectively experienced serious adverse events, 40% 14 with normal TPMT activity, and 30% who had low TPMT experienced adverse events. 15 Intermediate or normal TPMT activity is not a good predictor of risk of serious adverse 16 events.43[LOW QUALITY] 17 5.5.7 Economic evidence 18 One study71 was identified from the economic search. This is summarised in the economic evidence 19 profile below. A full evidence table is also provided in Appendix F:. 20 Table 25: Disease management strategies - economic study characteristics Study Comparators Applicability Limitations Other Comments Dubinsky et al Azathioprine Partially Potentially Population: Patients with moderate to severe 2005 treatment with applicable(c) serious(d) chronically active Crohn’s disease (CDAI 150- USA TPMT test(a) vs 450) azathioprine One-year time horizon treatment without The model was based on a decision tree TPMT test(b) structure where the difference in costs and outcomes for each strategy were driven by the response to different drug regimens and the number of cases identified with the TPMT monitoring strategy. The only adverse event considered was sepsis. Costs: drugs, consultations, monitoring, treatment for sepsis and surgery. Outcomes were reported as time to clinical response and time to sustained clinical response. 21 a) Patients in the TPMT arm were initially given 50 mg AZA, 100 mg AZA or MTX, depending on their TPMT levels. AZA 23 of 250 mg. Patients not responding to MTX were switched to infliximab; no description was given for patients in this 24 treatment arm not responding to the maximum dose of AZA, though based on the probability inputs quoted, this is 25 likely to be a small number (~3%). 26 b) Patients in the no TPMT armwere initially treated with 50 mg AZA. The AZA dose was increased to 100 mg for patients 27 who didn’t respond to treatment after three
