Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


Patients in the no TPMT armwere initially treated with 50 mg AZA. The AZA dose was increased to 100 mg for patients 27 who didn’t respond to treatment after three months. Those who didn’t respond to 100 mg AZA either underwent 28 surgery (25%) or were given infliximab (75%) as well as continuing on 100 mg AZA. 29 c) A US perspective. QALYs were not reported. 31 as a limitation by the authors themselves. Due to the lack of published data identified by the literature review, no meta- 32 analysis was conducted on model inputs and the authors did not conduct a probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 2 Table 26: Disease management strategies - economic summary of findings Incremental Incremental Study Comparators cost (£) effects ICER Uncertainty Dubinsky TPMT test vs Reference- -3.31 weeks to TPMT Probabilities and costs were et al azathioprine £2,075(a) response(b) dominates increased and decreased 50% 2005 treatment -2.45 weeks to from the base case and costs of USA without TPMT sustained azathioprine were increased test response(c) three-fold. The cost effectiveness rankings were not affected by the sensitivity analysis 3 (a) Converted from 2004 USD. 4 (b) ‘Time to response in weeks’ was defined as the elapsed time from the first administration of drug treatment until the first 5 clinical response (CDAI < 150). 6 (c) ‘Time to sustained response in weeks’ was defined as the elapsed time from the first drug administration until the time a 7 person was able to maintain CDAI < 150, and remain off glucocorticosteroid treatment for eight weeks. 9 5.5.7.1 Evidence statements – economic 10  One partially-applicable cost-effectiveness analysis with potentially serious limitations found that 11 TPMT screening and metabolite monitoring are associated with lower costs and better clinical 12 outcomes. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 5.6 Health economic induction model summary 2 5.6.1 Original economic analysis 3 The GDG considered the clinical evidence with regard to induction of remission and noted the 4 superiority of 5  conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment as first-line therapy 6  and azathioprine plus conventional glucocorticosteroid combination therapy as second-line 7 treatment. 8 The GDG noted that acquisition costs of these drugs are relatively inexpensive, however this does not 9 account for costs of monitoring, consultations, treatment withdrawal or downstream costs due to 10 treatment failure. Induction of remission was identified as high priority by the GDG in the early 11
