Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for costs of monitoring, consultations, treatment withdrawal or downstream costs due to 10 treatment failure. Induction of remission was identified as high priority by the GDG in the early 11 stages of guideline development, since this topic is relevant for everyone with Crohn’s disease and 12 no appropriate economic analyses in this area were identified in the literature. It was therefore 13 decided that an original economic analysis would be conducted; a summary of the analysis is 14 provided below and a full description can be found in Appendix H:. 15 5.6.2 Methods 16 5.6.2.1 Model overview 17 A cost-utility analysis was undertaken where costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 18 considered from a UK NHS and personal social services perspective. A decision tree was constructed 19 in order to estimate costs and QALYs associated with different treatment strategies for medical 20 induction of remission. Uncertainty was explored through probabilistic and univariate sensitivity 21 analyses. The model time horizon was 30 weeks, chosen to reflect the length of the longest 22 treatment sequence explored in the analysis. 23 5.6.2.2 Population 24 The population entering the model comprises people with an acute inflammatory exacerbation of 25 Crohn’s disease, defined by a Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) score of > 150. Biologics are only 26 recommended for people with severe Crohn’s disease198; an assumption was made that people 27 whose exacerbation failed to respond to two lines of treatment would be regarded as falling under 28 the aegis of the technology appraisal, though it was noted that this may not always be the case. 29 Strategy 9 in Table 27 is relevant for people in whom the Crohn’s disease has progressed to being 30 defined as severe before initiation of biologic treatment, despite only failing one line of treatment. 31 5.6.2.3 Comparators 32 The comparators examined in the model were treatment sequences agreed by the GDG economic 33 subgroup and ratified by the GDG. These are shown in Table 27. Due to the difference in costs and 34 side-effect profile, the GDG decided to consider sulfasalasine and mesalazine separately within the 35 economic model. The GDG also elected to consider the cost-effectiveness of one-off induction 36 treatment strategies in the induction of remission model, to reflect the nature of the treatment and 38 established the most cost-effective induction sequence, longer term costs and effects could be 39 captured in the maintenance
