Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


and the model was run. The cost effectiveness ranking did 21 not change. 22 5.6.4 Limitations and interpretation 23 This model was based on findings from RCTs and therefore any issues concerning interpretation of 24 the clinical review also applied to interpretation of the economic analysis. Limitations of the model 25 include: 26  The utility-loss and treatment-cost associated with adverse events was not explicitly 27 incorporated.This is likely to mean the cost effectiveness of all the treatment strategies has 28 been overestimated in the economic analysis, though since each treatment is likely to have a 29 different side-effect profile, it is unlikely that ICERs have been underestimated by the same 30 magnitude for all treatment strategies. For treatment strategies with more severe side 31 effects, the overestimation of the ICER is likely to be higher than in treatment strategies with 32 less severe side-effect profiles. However, the additional sensitivity analysis conducted on side 33 effects associated with glucocorticosteroid monotherapy provides some extra assurance 34 about conclusions related to the strategy ranked first in terms of cost effectiveness. 35  No clinical review was conducted on the efficacy of biologic treatment as this was outside 36 the Crohn’s disease guideline remit. Efficacy data were derived from the two studies in the 37 NICE Technology Appraisal 187198. 38 5.6.5 Generalisability to other populations and settings 39 It should be noted that all of the findings from this cost-effectiveness-analysis relate to an adult 40 population and the conclusions may not apply to paediatric treatment. It was not possible to conduct 41 a separate model for children due to the paucity of both clinical and quality of life studies conducted 42 in this area. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 1 5.6.6 Conclusion evidence statement 2 The original cost-effectiveness analysis conducted for this guideline suggested that 3 glucocorticosteroid treatment, followed by azathioprine plus a glucocorticosteroid then a biologic is 4 the most cost-effective medical treatment strategy for a moderate to severe inflammatory 5 exacerbation of Crohn’s disease. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 5.7 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Given the complex and interrelated nature of the data reviewed for the induction chapters of the 3 Crohn’s guideline (and to avoid repetition) one ‘linking evidence to recommendations’ section is 4 presented. 5 Table 29: Linking evidence to recommendations – drug therapy for induction Clinical question What is the most effective way to induce remission for
