Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


to recommendations’ section is 4 presented. 5 Table 29: Linking evidence to recommendations – drug therapy for induction Clinical question What is the most effective way to induce remission for people with an exacerbation of Crohn’s disease? (Questions 1- 5) Recommendations 1. Discuss treatment options and monitoring with the person with Crohn’s disease, and/or their parent or carer if appropriate, and within the multidisciplinary team. Apply the principles outlined in 'Patient experience in adult NHS services' (NICE clinical guidance 138). Monotherapy 2. Offer monotherapy with a conventional glucocorticosteroid (prednisolone, methylprednisolone or intravenous hydrocortisone) to induce remission in people with a first presentation or a single inflammatory exacerbation of Crohn’s disease in a 12-month period. 3. Enteral nutrition recommendation (see section 8.3). 4. In people with one or more of distal ileal, ileocaecal or right-sided colonic diseasee who decline, cannot tolerate or in whom a conventional glucocorticosteroid is contraindicated, consider budesonidef for a first presentation or a single inflammatory exacerbation in a 12-month period. Explain that budesonide is less effective than a conventional glucocorticosteroid but may have fewer side effects. 5. In people who decline, cannot tolerate or in whom glucocorticosteroid treatment is contraindicated, consider 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatmentg for a first presentation or a single inflammatory exacerbation in a 12-month period. Explain that 5-ASA is less effective than a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonide but may have fewer side effects than a conventional glucocorticosteroid. 6. Do not offer budesonide or 5-ASA treatment for severe presentations or exacerbations. induce remission. Add-on treatment 8. Consider adding azathioprine or mercaptopurinea to a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonidef to induce remission of Crohn’s disease if:  there are two or more inflammatory exacerbations in a 12-month period, or  the glucocorticosteroid dose cannot be tapered. 9. Assess thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) activity before offering azathioprine or mercaptopurinea. Do not offer azathioprine or mercaptopurine if TPMT activity is deficient (very low or absent). Consider azathioprine or mercaptopurine at a lower dose if TPMT activity is below normal but not deficient (according to local laboratory reference values). 10. Consider adding methotrexateb,c to a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonidef to induce remission in people who cannot tolerate azathioprine or mercaptopurine, or in whom TPMT activity is deficient if:  there are two or more inflammatory exacerbations in a 12-month period, or  the glucocorticosteroid dose cannot be tapered. 11. Monitor the effects of azathioprine, mercaptopurinea and methotrexateb,c as advised in the current
