Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


or more inflammatory exacerbations in a 12-month period, or  the glucocorticosteroid dose cannot be tapered. 11. Monitor the effects of azathioprine, mercaptopurinea and methotrexateb,c as advised in the current online version of the ‘British national formulary’ (BNF)d or ‘British national formulary for children’ (BNFC). Monitor for neutropenia in those taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine even if they have normal TPMT activity. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 12. Ensure that there are documented local safety monitoring policies and procedures (including audit) for adults, children and young people receiving treatment that needs monitoring. Nominate a member of staff to act on abnormal results and communicate with GPs and people with Crohn’s disease and/or their parents or carers, if appropriate. have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. methotrexate did not have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. c Follow BNF/BNFC cautions on prescribing methotrexate. d Advice on monitoring of immunosuppressives can be found in the current online version of BNF/BNFC. The gastroenterology chapter and other relevant sections should be consulted. e See recommendations 1.5.1 and 1.5.2 for when to consider surgery early in the course of the disease for people whose disease is limited to the distal ileum. authorisation specifically for children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. did not have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. Relative values of In relation to induction of remission and prior to evidence evaluation, the GDG different outcomes identified objective measures of remission, such as CDAI or Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI) for adults and PCDAI for children as being the most important measures of efficacy. The GDG
