Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


outcomes identified objective measures of remission, such as CDAI or Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI) for adults and PCDAI for children as being the most important measures of efficacy. The GDG discussed the difficulty of not having a standard definition of treatment response. The goal when treating active disease is to induce remission. Of the accepted outcome measures, remission defined by a Crohn’s disease activity index (CDAI) of ≤ 150 together with a CDAI fall of 70 was considered to be the most rigorous reflection of efficacy. Ideally both an endpoint and a fall would be taken into consideration because, for example, a person with a CDAI of 151 would be considered to be suffering active disease but a reduction in CDAI of 2 to an endpoint of 149 cannot be interpreted as a treatment success. Unfortunately not all studies report both parameters and the GDG did not feel otherwise well-conducted studies should be excluded on this basis. However, the GDG considered that “investigator-reported remission” without objective corroboration was inadequate and should be downgraded on quality grounds. The group also debated the value of “endoscopic mucosal healing” as an index of symptoms, the GDG were aware of evidence that certain endoscopic features – particularly deep ulceration - seen at endoscopy, carry an adverse prognostic significance. It was agreed that when studies reported it, the group would consider the parameter as valid. However this outcome was not reported in any of the studies relating to the drug therapies considered for induction in this guidance. Quantification of the risk of specified adverse events when making decisions about prescribing drugs that are unlicensed for use in Crohn’s disease (and for which informed and documented consent is required) is important. Some of these adverse events are uncommon but serious, and in order to assess specific risks, lower quality cohort studies and MHRA yellow card reporting scheme data were reviewed in addition RCT data for serious adverse events. The GDG considered the following adverse events Crohn's disease Induction of remission to be particularly pertinent for specific drug categories:  5-ASAs – renal impairment and pancreatitis  azathioprine and mercaptopurine – myelosuppression, pancreatitis and hepatotoxicity  methotrexate – myelosuppression, hepatotoxicity, pulmonary fibrosis  glucocorticosteroids – myocardial infarction, osteoporosis (refer to section 10.1 for monitoring of osteopenia and assessment of fracture risk), hip fracture. Adverse events associated with some drugs are very relevant in the short term (i.e.
