Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


osteoporosis (refer to section 10.1 for monitoring of osteopenia and assessment of fracture risk), hip fracture. Adverse events associated with some drugs are very relevant in the short term (i.e. for induction) while others are more of a consideration during maintenance therapy, for example, glucocorticosteroid effects on bone. Glucocorticosteroid adverse-events were also noted between conventional glucocorticosteroid and budesonide treatment. Trade off between The form of the disease (obstructive or inflammatory Crohn’s disease) may have a and harms person with a Crohn’s stricture presenting with obstructive symptoms may need different treatment (including surgery) from someone presenting with inflammatory Crohn’s disease symptoms. There can be an element of both obstruction and inflammation in any presentation of the illness, but unless otherwise stated, recommendations refer to presentations in which inflammation is the predominant component and assumes that other causes of symptoms (for example, obstruction, bowel salt malabsorption, abscesses and infection) have been excluded as part of the diagnostic work-up. Please see section 9.4 for Crohn’s disease stricture. The GDG considered serious adverse events and withdrawals to be significant outcomes in determining the trade off between benefits and harms. They debated the difference between side effects, as reported in RCTs, and those serious, specific adverse events which are more likely to cause withdrawal from treatment and are hence a more important consideration for prescribing decisions. Various drug treatment options for inducing remission have significantly different side- effect and safety profiles. In addition clinician and patient perceptions about these differ, and moreover, individual patients have varying views about the relative hazards of alternative treatment options for example, glucocorticosteroid vs. 5-ASA treatment. The GDG was particularly interested in whether assessment of TPMT activity and monitoring of azathioprine or mercaptopurine in patients requiring these drugs would reduce the risks of serious side effects, and indeed death. The group unanimously agreed that patients known to have deficient (low or absent) TPMT activity should not be given azathioprine or mercaptopurine and should be offered alternative therapy. Prospective and retrospective data from five studies of people with Crohn’s disease assessed azathioprine dose-reduction on side effects in people with intermediate and normal TPMT activity. Lack of evidence for dosing decisions in people known to have intermediate TPMT activity and who might intuitively be at greater risk of side effects was noted and a “consider” recommendation about dose concerning patients with less than normal but not deficient TPMT levels was made. Intermediate
