Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


intuitively be at greater risk of side effects was noted and a “consider” recommendation about dose concerning patients with less than normal but not deficient TPMT levels was made. Intermediate and normal TPMT activity appeared to be poor predictors of some side effects - notably neutropenia - and idiosyncratic agranulocytic or pancytopenic reactions appeared to be independent of TPMT activity. The GDG also recommended that people on immunosuppressives should be monitored for neutropenia irrespective of their TPMT activity. Crohn's disease Induction of remission The GDG debated at length the difficulties with explaining risk concepts. All agreed that quantification of specific risks (pictorially) would be more helpful in the course of an informed discussion with a patient than a qualitative indication similar to that reported in the BNF/BNFC and Summaries of Product Characteristics. The group acknowledged a number of challenges to a practical discussion about risk, including the low quality of data available to inform this quantification, the consideration that figures change over time, contextualizing treatment risk against background risk and quantifying the risk of not treating. Of particular concern was the risk of lymphoproliferative disorders and cervical dysplasia. A 1.7-fold risk over an already relatively high background risk of cervical dysplasia prompted the GDG to emphasize that people with Crohn’s disease should not be precluded from receiving human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccination. Economic Glucocorticosteroid treatment, other than budesonide, is prescribed generically. Each considerations 5-ASA is a different price - some are branded and some are generic. The GDG questioned whether the low incidence of serious side-effects reflected in the safety review of 5-ASA treatment warranted regular monitoring of renal function. However, given the specific caution about monitoring of renal function in some Summaries of Product Characteristics, they did not consider the available evidence strong enough to make any recommendations to change monitoring practice. They agreed that clinicians should refer to the online version of the BNF/BNFC for standardised monitoring protocols, and that the monitoring protocols currently advised in the BNF/BNFC should be incorporated into the health economic model accordingly. The GDG noted that, due to potential differences in costs and side effect profiles, 5- ASAs should be treated separately for economic analysis. The only 5-ASA studies these were analysed separately within the economic model. Induction of remission was identified as a high-priority area for original economic analysis, since it is an issue that affects most people with Crohn’s disease, and
