Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


within the economic model. Induction of remission was identified as a high-priority area for original economic analysis, since it is an issue that affects most people with Crohn’s disease, and no published economic evaluations were identified in this area which addressed the question. The cost-effectiveness of enteral nutrition could not be explored in the model since withdrawal (a key model input) was not reported by RCTs. A decision-analytic model was developed with a 30-week time horizon, which was based on the results of two original network meta-analyses (one of first-line induction and one second line). The model compared alternative sequences of drugs for induction of remission. The decision model showed that glucocorticosteroid treatment followed by azathioprine plus a glucocorticosteroid then a biologic was the most cost-effective treatment sequence for an inflammatory exacerbation of Crohn’s disease. The strategies which started with budesonide and mesalazine, then moved on to the sequence described above were ranked second and third respectively in terms of cost effectiveness. Due to paucity of evidence, specific costs and disutilities due to drug-related adverse events could not be captured in the economic model. This is likely to mean the cost effectiveness of all the treatment strategies has been over-estimated in the economic analysis, though since each treatment is likely to have a different side-effect profile, it is unlikely that ICERs have been underestimated by the same magnitude for all treatment strategies. For treatment strategies with more severe side-effects, the over estimation of the ICER is likely to be more pronounced than in treatment strategies Crohn's disease Induction of remission with less severe side-effect profiles. Due to the lack of quality of life data reported in RCTs, different severities of inflammatory exacerbations could not be captured in the economic model. Additional modelling was subsequently carried out which explored the effects of including drug-related adverse events for glucocorticosteroid monotherapy only; observational data was used to conduct this analysis. This was based upon two publications63,294 which explore the increased risks of fracture and MI in people having intermittent high-dose glucocorticosteroid therapy. The analysis showed that when the additional risks of myocardial infarction and hip fracture associated with glucocorticosteroid monotherapy were accounted for in the model and the likely additional costs and reduction in quality of life quantified, the strategy that ranked top in terms of cost effectiveness did not change. Further analysis of mild or transient glucocorticosteroid-related adverse events was undertaken comparing
