Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


in quality of life quantified, the strategy that ranked top in terms of cost effectiveness did not change. Further analysis of mild or transient glucocorticosteroid-related adverse events was undertaken comparing conventional glucocorticosteroids treatment with budesonide. Similar analyses of transient or non-life threatening adverse events have NOT been undertaken comparing conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment and budesonide with other interventions. For this reason costs associated with these mild or transient adverse events have not been incorporated into the health economic model. Immunosuppressives are generic and cheap, but monitoring requirements and serious side effects have an impact on their cost effectiveness. The GDG considered the cost of a one-off assay to determine TPMT activity to be reasonable (around £26 at time of writing) to prevent potentially severe adverse events, such as neutropenia in people with low or no TPMT activity. The group referred to a partially-applicable US health economic analysis which found TPMT monitoring to be cost effective71. They also noted that the cost-effectiveness model incorporated the cost of a TPMT assay, and adjunctive azathioprine was considered to be the most cost-effective second-line therapy for inducing remission in people needing augmentation from conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment. For these reasons they agreed that the recommendation to assess TPMT activity in all patients prior to initiation of azathioprine or mercaptopurine did not require a formal health economic assessment. Quality of evidence Induction of remission Conventional glucocorticosteroid compared with placebo or 5-ASA The evidence for induction of remission with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment included a Cochrane review.22 This was composed mainly of moderate or high quality studies. Studies comparing conventional glucocorticosteroid and placebo did not exclude people with Crohn’s disease occurring in any particular part of the gastrointestinal tract. Glucocorticosteroid treatment was of benefit versus placebo166,270 and 5-ASA treatment166,242 in Benchimol 200822 and this is in keeping with the clinical experience of the GDG. The GDG noted that the meta-analysis showed that conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment induced 65% more remissions than 5-ASA and at 95% confidence, this increase could be as high as 103% or as low as 33%. Significantly more side effects were reported with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment than placebo or 5-ASA. The GDG made an offer recommendation for conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment. To mitigate concerns about inappropriate repeat glucocorticosteroid prescribing, and maintain alignment with the add-on therapy with immunosuppressives below, the GDG limited the recommendation to “a first presentation or single exacerbation in a 12-month period.” Crohn's disease Induction
