Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


1.63. This was then updated with the larger Tromm study288 and heterogeneity was noted (very low quality). The random effects meta-analysis was non-significant. However 12-week moderate-quality efficacy data based only on Thomsen favoured budesonide over 5-ASA (RR 1.59; 95% CI 1.17 to 2.15). Whilst the data for withdrawal due to adverse events was non-significant (RR 0.43; 95% CI 0.18 to 1.02), the GDG noted numerically more withdrawals in the 5-ASA group (2.8% vs 6.6%). 5-ASA compared with placebo The GDG considered the meta-analysis of six trials162,166,256,257,270,286 to be very low- quality evidence. The meta-analysis of 5-ASA (compared to placebo) induced 51% more remissions than placebo. At 95% confidence, this increase in remissions could be as high as 92% and as low as 20%. Whilst 5-ASA treatment demonstrated a significant result compared with placebo, the GDG noted the benefit of budesonide compared Crohn's disease Induction of remission with 5-ASA (see paragraph above). The GDG explored whether there was any data to support a recommendation for 5-ASA treatment in mild Crohn’s disease, however severity was defined variously in the 5-ASA trials and it was not possible to subgroup data. When attempting to interpret the available evidence to draw conclusions about severity, the GDG felt it would have been necessary to know the level of the disease activity at the beginning and the end of the trial, and whether the level of severity of the disease at inclusion into the study affected outcomes. This level of detail was not available for most of the comparisons reviewed. TA187 suggests that people with severe Crohn’s disease who have not responded to a glucocorticosteroid or budesonide or 5-ASA treatment for severe presentations or exacerbations recommendation was made. Subsequent to the GDG review, publication of the Cochrane 5-ASA review in December 2010154 precipitated GDG debate mainly for the following reasons: The Cochrane review group included additional information (for example, letters to journal editors) Differential licensing (only sulfasalazine is licensed for use for induction of remission in Crohn’s disease) Current perceptions about side-effect profile of sulfasalazine Common prescribing practices (e.g. sulfasalazine is infrequently prescribed, mesalazine frequently prescribed) The Cochrane review group analysed 5-ASA treatments separately based upon site of release (sulfasalazine, controlled-release and delayed-release preparations), whereas the Crohn’s GDG ascribed a class effect to 5-ASA treatment. For further information, please refer to Appendix J:. The Cochrane review showed that only sulfasalazine was more effective than placebo in the
