Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


GDG ascribed a class effect to 5-ASA treatment. For further information, please refer to Appendix J:. The Cochrane review showed that only sulfasalazine was more effective than placebo in the induction of remission. For methodological rigour, the GDG reviewed the per protocol subgroup analysis (severity, concurrent medication, age, site of disease) to determine if there was any heterogeneity that could have contradicted their assumption of a 5-ASA class effect. However, no interactions between subgroups were detected, and the GDG’s original premise that 5-ASA treatment (as a class) was effective in the induction of remission of Crohn’s disease was confirmed. The GDG discussed the potential possibility of unpublished data being available 188 and initiated a call for evidence for 5-ASA efficacy and adverse events data. The GDG also noted concerns regarding the extent to which publication bias can impact on evidence- based practice and guideline development. No new data were submitted for review. Conventional glucocorticosteroid combined with azathioprine or mercaptopurine compared with placebo Moderate quality studies38,80,148,170,207,213,224,227,302 in which azathioprine or mercaptopurine were added to glucocorticosteroid treatment suggest statistically significant benefit in achieving remission in comparison to placebo. The GDG noted that potentially serious side effects, a prolonged time for thiopurines to produce an effect, and inconvenience to patients as well as costs of monitoring make immunosuppressives less appealing as first-line treatment. Having considered the above high-quality evidence that conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment is superior to 5-ASA treatment, and that addition of azathioprine or mercaptopurine to a conventional glucocorticosteroid may be beneficial when glucocorticosteroid alone does not suffice, the GDG agreed this Crohn's disease Induction of remission reflected their clinical experience. The GDG made a ‘consider’ recommendation for the addition of azathioprine or mercaptopurine where conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment alone was not sufficient to induce remission. By GDG consensus this was agreed as two or more inflammatory exacerbations occurring in a 12-month period. In other words, “in those in whom the glucocorticosteroid dose cannot be tapered” or when the disease course is frequently relapsing or refractory to treatment, an immunosuppressive should be initiated early because of its prolonged time to produce an effect (three to four months).The GDG agreed that there should be no reason to avoid adjunctive thiopurine therapy with budesonide. The GDG considered whether the available evidence provided information about when to start adjunctive therapy with an immunosuppressive. Because of the lack of relevant data the GDG agreed by consensus that this
