Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


considered whether the available evidence provided information about when to start adjunctive therapy with an immunosuppressive. Because of the lack of relevant data the GDG agreed by consensus that this could either be immediately at the diagnosis of the second inflammatory exacerbation, or a few weeks later. This latter decision would be influenced by the person’s history, disease course, preferences and whether there is prior knowledge of the person’s TPMT activity. Azathioprine or mercaptopurine compared with placebo or methotrexate Conversely moderate quality studies258,270 (two RCTs were included in this review. Singleton258 and Summers270 evaluated different outcomes for the same study) of azathioprine and mercaptopurine alone demonstrated no evidence of efficacy superior to placebo or compared with methotrexate (very low quality).12,173,207 Mercaptopurine and its pro-drug azathioprine are for pragmatic and clinical purposes considered to be the same entity. The GDG made a negative recommendation that azathioprine or mercaptopurine monotherapy should not be used for induction of remission. The GDG agreed that only under rare circumstances in which people cannot tolerate both glucocorticosteroid treatment and 5-ASA treatment, should immunosuppressive monotherapy be used to induce remission. Having considered all of the above, the GDG noted the immunosuppressive head to head data (azathioprine or mercaptopurine vs methotrexate) for which there was no evidence of a superiority favouring either drug. The group also agreed that no benefit was seen when methotrexate was added to conventional glucocorticosteroid (meta- analysis of three RCTs14,85,207, low quality) and the GDG noted heterogeneity. (The random effects meta-analysis demonstrated a non-significant result with more withdrawals due to adverse events compared with glucocorticosteroid alone). The GDG was also aware of serious precautions associated with methotrexate in the BNF (for example, the need to avoid conception for three months after stopping the drug for both men and women because of its teratogenic effect). However, the GDG recognised that azathioprine or mercaptopurine are contraindicated for some patients, for example those with low or absent TPMT activity. For these circumstances, a ‘consider’ recommendation was made for methotrexate as an alternative immunosuppressive adjunctive therapy to conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment or budesonide should a person with Crohn’s disease require augmented treatment to induce remission of an inflammatory exacerbation. Side effects Although there is clear evidence that conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment is the most effective option for inducing remission in Crohn’s disease, the GDG reflected that generate concern for many people with Crohn’s disease. The GDG noted the predetermined review
