Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


advising healthcare professionals should discuss whether a reduced potential for mild or transient adverse events associated with budesonide is more clinically significant than greater efficacy together with a more rapid response by eight weeks associated with a conventional glucocorticosteroid (equivalence only achieved at 12 weeks). People with Crohn’s disease may have different views from healthcare professionals about the balance of risks, benefits and consequences of treatments. How an exacerbation of Crohn’s disease affects the person, the person’s circumstances and experiences all affect their condition and treatment. Rapid treatment with side-effects lasting for a short time balanced against the risk of the exacerbation remaining uncontrolled for a long period and patients experiencing side-effects for longer are important factors to consider. The GDG agreed that the “offer” a conventional glucocorticosteroid recommendation accurately reflected both the clinical data for efficacy and withdrawal due to adverse events for conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment versus placebo, as well as the health economic analysis which determined first-line conventional glucocorticosteroid to be most cost-effective strategy for inducing remission. The GDG made a separate “consider” recommendation for budesonide to accommodate instances in which the Crohn's disease Induction of remission person with Crohn’s disease “declines” (or doesn’t want) conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment or if there are tolerability issues or contraindications. The GDG limited the recommendation to right-sided disease because this reflected the Summary of product characteristics and the budesonide evidence base (see forest plot 24 in Appendix G:), whereas conventional glucocorticosteroid trials versus placebo166,270 were undertaken in patients with Crohn’s disease at any intestinal site. Because a meta-analysis of six RCTs showed 5-ASA treatment to be more effective than placebo, the GDG made a separate recommendation that 5-ASA could be considered for people with glucocorticosteroid-related side-effect concerns and those who objected to glucocorticosteroid exposure of any kind. The recommendation acknowledges that 5-ASA treatment is less effective than budesonide. The GDG also considered it important that people with Crohn’s disease be made aware that budesonide and 5-ASA treatment are both less effective than conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment and this is noted in the recommendation. Please see Appendix L: and Appendix M: for observational side-effect data pertaining to 5-ASA treatment and immunosuppressives respectively. The GDG noted that hepatotoxicity was not uniformly defined in the immunosuppressive safety studies. The GDG also noted that one study (Setshedi, 2011) showed non-melanoma skin cancer was significantly associated with thiopurine exposure – OR5.0 (95% CI 1.1-22.8), and that one study169
