Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


safety studies. The GDG also noted that one study (Setshedi, 2011) showed non-melanoma skin cancer was significantly associated with thiopurine exposure – OR5.0 (95% CI 1.1-22.8), and that one study169 demonstrated a different risk ratio (1.6) for lymphoproliferative disorders to the other three studies20,82,143 RR 3-4. The GDG believed that this may have been because the Marehbian study169 excluded patients who had less than one year of healthcare cover and suspected that patients with lymphoma may have been excluded on this basis. The study also included baseline comparisons showing a higher incidence of lymphoproliferative disorders in patients with Crohn’s disease compared with the general population and proposed that this may have accounted for the lower RR in Crohn’s patients exposed to immunosuppressives. The GDG concluded that when discussing risks with patients it should be highlighted that people with Crohn’s disease may have a higher risk of these conditions and that azathioprine may increase that risk marginally. The GDG commented that the frequency of serious adverse events reported in observational studies of 5-ASA treatment may tend to over-estimate the incidence of pancreatitis and renal dysfunction compared with clinical experience. They noted the limitations of the data because of the relatively small patient numbers and the fact that adverse events may not have been designated to be primary outcomes. They also noted the risks of under-reporting in the yellow card scheme (latest report 2008), but were reassured by the clear lack of large numbers of serious adverse events. Other Adjunctive therapy considerations The GDG noted that most of the studies examining efficacy of drugs for induction of remission in Crohn’s disease were complicated by varying levels of background therapy. Whilst evidence about which adjuvant therapy had been reviewed, data concerning when to add in adjunctive therapy had not. Furthermore, adjunctive therapy confounds analysis of adverse events, for example pancreatitis is associated with glucocorticosteroid treatment, 5-ASA treatment and azathioprine. Site of action The GDG also raised the issue of whether the purported site of action of various drugs was important. In relation to 5-ASA compounds the studies considered to be of adequate quality for Crohn's disease Induction of remission inclusion in the review were underpowered for subgroups of patients divided by site. Site of disease was also considered by some members of the GDG to be a relevant factor when considering treatment with budesonide compared with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment, although the evidence from
