Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


of disease was also considered by some members of the GDG to be a relevant factor when considering treatment with budesonide compared with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment, although the evidence from the Cochrane Review249 did not support the perception that budesonide may be more effective in the treatment of right-sided (distal ileal, ileocaecal, right colonic) Crohn’s disease in adults - the evidence indicated that conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment was more effective in the treatment of right-sided Crohn’s disease, and although budesonide was associated with fewer side effects, the rate of withdrawal (as a surrogate for serious adverse events) was not significantly different. However, in children with right-sided disease, meta-analysis of two small studies75,153, (80 patients) of budesonide vs. conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment demonstrated similar efficacy, with budesonide associated with fewer side effects and withdrawals. The data conformed to the clinical experience of the GDG. This led the GDG to propose that budesonide could be considered in adults and children with right- sided Crohn’s disease and possibly children with isolated ileal disease. Licensing Of the 5-ASA compounds, only sulfasalazine is licensed for use in active Crohn’s disease and some mesalazine compounds (Mesren MR and Asacol MR) are licensed for use in maintenance of remission of Crohn’s ileocolitis and Octasa MR is licensed for maintenance of remission in Crohn’s disease. The GDG noted the NICE requirement to indicate where recommendations include drugs that are used off label, but emphasizes that because use of 5-ASAs in Crohn’s disease is common in the UK, these compounds have been grouped together for the purposes of this review. Legal The GDG noted that current law holds the prescriber rather than the drug company responsible for adverse events when drugs are prescribed off-licence. Most 5-ASA treatment and all of the immunosuppressives, are not licensed for inducing remission in Crohn’s disease, therefore the need to obtain and document informed consent is emphasized. As informed consent requires an explanation of risks, the need to quantify safety data and clarify monitoring practice was highlighted. The GDG noted that readers might find it useful to refer to GMC guidance on prescribing medicines outside the terms of their licence.101 Service provision The GDG highlighted the need for service providers to put in place a formal written structure to ensure that monitoring and safety results are followed up and managed appropriately and on time. They agreed that these structures may need to be different in primary
