Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


written structure to ensure that monitoring and safety results are followed up and managed appropriately and on time. They agreed that these structures may need to be different in primary and secondary care and determined locally. The GDG acknowledged that Crohn’s disease may not be a national audit priority, but felt strongly that a specific person should be nominated to be accountable for acting on abnormal results and communicating with relevant healthcare professionals and the person with Crohn’s disease. Infliximab It was noted that infliximab within its licensed indication, is recommended in TA 187 as a treatment option for people with active fistulising Crohn’s disease whose disease has not responded to conventional therapy (including antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive treatments), or who are intolerant of or have contraindications to conventional therapy. The GDG considered that it would be prudent to exclude significant abscess prior to treating with infliximab. Crohn's disease Induction of remission Children The GDG agreed to extrapolate and generalise data from adult populations to children and vice versa when there were no or little data for children and once they had given due consideration to the benefits and harms of such extrapolation. The paediatric Crohn’s disease inducing remission data were sparse and of moderate to very low in quality with small sample sizes. For a summary of the data for inducing remission in children, please see Appendix R.2. Overall the paediatric trials looked at outcomes for glucocorticosteroid sparing and remission at one month, at eight and 12 weeks. The trials were old (dates ranged from 1975 (Rosenberg) through to 2004 (Escher). Findings were non-significant for remission for glucocorticosteroid combined with mercaptopurine compared with glucocorticosteroid treatment alone at one month and for glucocorticosteroid compared with budesonide at eight and 12 weeks . Whilst superiority was demonstrated for 5-ASA compared with placebo at eight weeks this was considered by the GDG to be low quality evidence (sample size n = 13 in total). Both Rosenberg (1975) and Markowitz (2000), low and moderate quality studies respectively, demonstrated glucocorticosteroid sparing when azathioprine or mercaptopurine was added to glucocorticosteroid treatment. Conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment, 5-ASA treatment and immunosuppressives are unlicensed for use in children with Crohn’s disease. There may also be particular reluctance to use glucocorticosteroid treatment in children. In practice, concerns about potential glucocorticosteroid effects need to be balanced with the effects of active disease on growth. Also of note, infliximab is recommended for
