Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


(according to local laboratory reference values). 30 10.Consider adding methotrexate,b,c to a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonidef to induce 31 remission in people who cannot tolerate azathioprine or mercaptopurine, or in whom TPMT 32 activity is deficient if: 33  there are two or more inflammatory exacerbations in a 12-month period, or 34  the glucocorticosteroid dose cannot be tapered. 35 11.Monitor the effects of azathioprine, mercaptopurinea and methotrexateb, c as advised in the 36 current online version of the ‘British national formulary’ (BNF)d or ‘British national formulary for 37 children’ (BNFC). Monitor for neutropenia in those taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine even 38 if they have normal TPMT activity. Crohn's disease Induction of remission 1 12.Ensure that there are documented local safety monitoring policies and procedures (including 2 audit) for adults, young people and children receiving treatment that needs monitoring. 3 Nominate a member of staff to act on abnormal results and communicate with GPs and people 4 with Crohn’s disease and/or their parents or carers, if appropriate. 5 Infliximab and adalimumab 6 The recommendations in the following section are from ‘Infliximab and adalimumab for the 7 treatment of Crohn’s disease’ (NICE technology appraisal guidance 187). 8 13.Infliximab and adalimumab, within their licensed indications, are recommended as treatment 9 options for adults with severe active Crohn’s disease (see recommendation 18) whose disease 10 has not responded to conventional therapy (including immunosuppressive and/or 11 corticosteroid treatments), or who are intolerant of or have contraindications to conventional 12 therapy. Infliximab or adalimumab should be given as a planned course of treatment until 13 treatment failure (including the need for surgery), or until 12 months after the start of 14 treatment, whichever is shorter. People should then have their disease reassessed (see 15 recommendation 16) to determine whether ongoing treatment is still clinically appropriate. 16 14.Treatment as described in recommendation 13 should normally be started with the less 17 expensive drug (taking into account drug administration costs, required dose and product price 18 per dose). This may need to be varied for individual patients because of differences in the 19 method of administration and treatment schedules. 20 15.Infliximab, within its licensed indication, is recommended as a treatment option for people with 21 active fistulising Crohn’s disease whose disease has not responded to conventional therapy 22 (including antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive treatments), or who are intolerant of or 23 have contraindications to conventional therapy. Infliximab
