Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


debilitating effects of this, whilst avoiding the side-effects associated 9 with systemic corticosteroids – which are the current mainstay of treatment for first flares of the 10 disease. The question is applicable to adults and children and trials in both are therefore required. 11 Patients with intestinal Crohn’s disease in their first flare of the condition would be recruited and 12 randomised to receive azathioprine or placebo, for prevention of relapse after an initial treatment 13 with corticosteroids. Patients would be randomised once in remission. Co-primary end-points would 14 be quality of life measures and maintenance of glucocorticosteroid-free remission measured by the 15 Crohn’s disease activity index (CDAI). Secondary end-points would be mucosal healing at endoscopy, 17 assessed to inform a cost-effectiveness model. Follow-up needs to be prolonged to at least two 18 years, and ideally to five years. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6 Maintenance of remission 6.1 Clinical introduction 3 For many patients, Crohn's disease is characterized by periods of disease activity and remission. For 4 others the course is one of unremitting ill health.62 As time progresses there is a steady increase in 5 risk of cancer, especially in patients with colonic disease.37 The initial purpose of therapy is to induce 6 resolution of symptoms as both the cause of the disease is unknown and at present there is no 8 and measure long-term remission in Crohn's disease. While an emerging consensus17,94 suggests that 9 mucosal healing with an absence of inflammatory activity may become the gold standard by which 10 other indicators may be measured91, the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits 11 the application of histological sampling. Rather, surrogate markers have been used in many studies. 12 In practice these have included measures of disease activity, such as the CDAI26, serological 14 uniform definition of what constitutes remission in Crohn's disease creates significant problems 15 when interpreting clinical trials in this area. In addition there is the problem of deciding how long 16 people need to be free of active disease to be considered in remission. Once in remission, is 17 medication needed to maintain that remission and if so for how long must it be taken? 18 Adherence to medication is an important issue in maintenance therapy, and strong encouragement 19 is required to maximise efficacy of drug therapy. There is evidence (not reviewed by this guideline) 21 in the
