Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


is an important issue in maintenance therapy, and strong encouragement 19 is required to maximise efficacy of drug therapy. There is evidence (not reviewed by this guideline) 21 in the reviews for this guideline objectively tested for drug adherence. 22 Against this background patients and clinicians accept that recurrence of disease activity is almost 23 inevitable.36 Therefore, the purpose of maintenance treatment is to reduce both the severity and 24 frequency of exacerbations and limit cancer risk.37 Treatments that achieve these aims need to be 25 considered in terms of side effects and potential adverse outcomes from long-term use. Added 26 benefits which could arise from the use of such maintenance therapy include a general overall 27 improvement in the feeling of well-being, reduced need for unplanned surgery and less aggressive 28 surgery. Clearly the benefits of improved heath also allow patients to cope better with the demands 29 of a working life179 and for them to have greater involvement in day-to-day family activities.90 30 At present the main options open to clinicians and patients are either pharmacological or dietary in 31 origin. For many years, glucocorticosteroid treatment, 5-ASA treatment and immunosuppressives 32 were used with variable success. The introduction of biological treatments, such as infliximab and 33 adalimumab has had a significant impact on the maintenance of clinical remission amongst patients 34 in whom other therapies have failed. 35 There also appears to be clinical benefit from cessation of smoking with a reduction in the rate of 36 recurrence of disease activity.145,272 Readers are advised to emphasise the importance of smoking 37 cessation to people with Crohn’s disease and should refer to NICE guidance: Smoking cessation 38 services PH10 and Smoking cessation – Varenicline TA123.193,195 39 These considerations caused the GDG to ask the questions that would enable assessment of the most 40 cost effective maintenance option. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 Patient vignette 1 The early days with Crohn’s are like an unpleasant roller coaster ride – you just want to get off. Then it becomes a long-distance trek, with hills to climb and unexpected obstacles to negotiate. With a bit of luck, there should also be miles and miles of flat, boring plateau. 5 Patient vignette 2 The need to take daily maintenance treatment is obvious to a doctor. For most people, it doesn’t make sense to take powerful drugs when you are well. It’s a
