Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


2 The need to take daily maintenance treatment is obvious to a doctor. For most people, it doesn’t make sense to take powerful drugs when you are well. It’s a lesson that needs to be taught by the medical team, otherwise patients may learn the hard way. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6.2 Conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for maintenance of remission 3 6.2.1 Clinical questions 4 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 5 conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer 6  compared with placebo? 7  compared with 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment? 8  plus 5-ASA treatment with conventional glucocorticosteroid plus placebo ? 9  compared with azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 10  plus azathioprine or mercaptopurine compared with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment 11 plus placebo? 12  compared with methotrexate? 13 6.2.2 Conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for maintenance of remission 14 6.2.2.1 Clinical evidence 15 A Cochrane review264of glucocorticosteroid treatment vs. placebo was identified for this review and 16 was accepted and quality assessed. 17 As the question for this review also included a comparison of conventional glucocorticosteroid with 18 5-aminosalicylate or immunosuppressive treatment, a full comprehensive literature search was 19 undertaken. No comparative studies of conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment vs. 5-ASA 20 treatment, azathoprine or mercaptopurine or methotrexate for maintenance of remission were 21 identified. No paediatric RCTs were identified. 22 Each of the studies included in the Cochrane review166,258,260,270 was fully extracted including 23 additional adverse event and study withdrawal data. It was not possible to analyse relapse + 24 withdrawal data for the Steinhart 2000 meta-analysis, as full withdrawal data were not available for 25 all three studies at one and two year intervals. This information is reported as individual study data. 26 Adverse events as described by Singleton 1979 included ‘disastrous’ defined as an event or condition 27 which necessitated hospitalization and/or produced long-lasting (three-month) disability; ‘severe’ 28 defined as side effects that caused withdrawal of the patient from the study or required specific 29 treatment; ‘moderate’ side effects which required temporary or permanent reduction of study drug. 30 The minimal time for assessment of maintenance of remission was 12 months. MC ar o Table 30: Evidence profile: conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for maintenance of remission inh t en Summary of findings n's Quality assessment a n d No of patients Effect cis ee Conventional oa s
