Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


and withdrawals (due to side effects) were both important outcomes. The GDG debated at length the relative values of the different adverse events reported by the Summers and Singleton papers. Adverse events were classified by the authors as ‘disastrous’, ‘serious’ or ‘moderate’. Of particular interest to the GDG were severe adverse events i.e. those considered by the authors of the relevant studies as disastrous and serious adverse event outcomes. These were defined as o ‘Disaster’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...an event or condition which necessitated hospitalization and/or produced long-lasting (three months) disability.’ o ‘Serious’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...those that caused withdrawal of the patient from the study or required specific treatment.’ The GDG agreed that the disastrous adverse events reported were small in number. Severe adverse events of hypertension, fluid retention, infection, depression, gastric/duodenal ulcer and acne were all noted. Data were also reported for this review if study withdrawal was noted to be due to drug effect (rather than non-compliance or other reasons for drop-out). Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission The GDG highlighted the absence of long-term reported outcomes for osteoporosis and osteopenia or bone fracture. The Summers and Singleton trials were published in 1979 and hence the GDG bore in mind the possible historical confounders from data that are now over 30 years old and the advent of biologic drugs that have subsequently changed the course of the treatment pathway. Whilst the reported side effect and adverse event outcomes were noted to be small in number, clinically, the GDG confirmed that patients report that they find the side-effects of glucocorticosteroid treatment to be unpleasant. Mucosal healing has been more recently emphasized as an end-point, and may not be described in older papers. The relative value of this outcome was felt to be less important than maintenance of remission data. This is because the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits the application of histological sampling. The GDG noted that none of papers reported mucosal healing outcomes for glucocorticosteroid treatment and agreed that this outcome measure seemed to be more widely reported as an outcome for biological drugs. Trade off between clinical The GDG noted that the three trials comparing conventional benefits and harms glucocorticosteroid treatment to placebo (and combined into an new meta-analysis by the developers) reported non-significant results for maintenance of remission, side effects and withdrawals due to side effects at
