Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


harms glucocorticosteroid treatment to placebo (and combined into an new meta-analysis by the developers) reported non-significant results for maintenance of remission, side effects and withdrawals due to side effects at one- and two- year time points. The trials reported both a lack of efficacy and evidence of serious side effects and for these reasons the GDG made a recommendation against using a conventional glucocorticosteroid for maintenance of remission in people with Crohn’s disease. The GDG debated not only statistical significance or non-significance but also the reported relative risk effect sizes. For outcomes reporting side effects and adverse events the GDG highlighted that there was probably an absence of evidence rather than evidence of absence. The numbers reported were small, confidence intervals wide and the trials were powered for efficacy outcomes rather than adverse events. Whilst some of the adverse event data demonstrated non-significant outcomes the GDG noted the importance of absolute numbers reporting a magnitude of effect for side effects that was greater in the glucocorticosteroid group than that of the comparator. The GDG agreed that people should not be exposed to long-term treatment with a glucocorticosteroid. The GDG concluded that for the glucocorticosteroid data reviewed there was no evidence of clear benefit and evidence of harm. Economic considerations A decision-analytic model was developed with a two-year time horizon, based on the results of the clinical review. The model compared different medical treatments for maintenance of medically-induced remission of Crohn’s disease. The analysis was conducted in four different ways as described in the summary of the health economic model for maintenance of remission. Of the six treatments compared in Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission the model, prednisolone had the fifth and fourth highest mean QALYs in conservative and non-conservative analyses respectively. In the conservative analyses it had lower QALYs than no treatment. However, utility loss due to drug related adverse events was not explicitly incorporated in to the model due to lack of data. Original economic analysis showed that prednisolone ranged from being the second most cost-effective treatment in the non-conservative analysis where azathioprine patients had a different induction sequence, to fifth in the conservative analysis where patients relapsing from all treatments had the same induction sequence. Prednisolone was dominated by no treatment in the conservative analyses and in all four base case analyses it was less cost-effective than azathioprine. Utility loss due to drug-related adverse events was not explicitly
