Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


by no treatment in the conservative analyses and in all four base case analyses it was less cost-effective than azathioprine. Utility loss due to drug-related adverse events was not explicitly incorporated in to the model due to lack of data. The GDG considered this a more serious omission for glucocorticosteroid maintenance treatment than for the other maintenance treatments being compared. And therefore the GDG concluded that glucocorticosteroid maintenance treatment was neither clinically effective nor cost effective. Quality of evidence Comparative monotherapy data were found for conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment vs. placebo, azathioprine and sulfasalazine. Data were also found for conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment combined with sulfasalazine vs placebo. There were no data for other monotherapy comparisons (for example glucocorticosteroid treatment vs. methotrexate) or combination therapies. The GDG noted that the systematic literature review yielded no paediatric data. The studies within a Cochrane review (Steinhart et al 2000) which answered the review question were assessed individually in order to obtain relative risk rather than odds ratios. The studies were also analysed to determine adverse event data and withdrawal due to adverse events. The GDG agreed the ‘moderate’ quality rating applied to outcome of the relapse or failure of remission for the three studies reporting this outcome at one and two years. The GDG commented on the general paucity of evidence (only three randomised controlled trials on maintenance of remission for the outcome of interest). The GDG agreed that these trials were well designed and powered in terms of efficacy but not powered to detect significant differences in adverse events or withdrawals. Wide confidence intervals and imprecision were noted. Due to paucity of evidence, specific costs and disutilities due to drug- Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission related adverse events could not be captured in the economic model. This may mean that the cost effectiveness of a glucocorticosteroid - and other treatments explored in the model- has been over-estimated (i.e. their ICERs have been under-estimated). Due to lack of reporting in RCTs and quality of life literature, different severities of relapse could also not be captured in the economic model. Other considerations For glucocorticosteroid treatment, the GDG noted that three trials demonstrated no efficacy data for maintenance of remission. In addition the absolute numbers demonstrated more adverse events associated with their use. The adverse event data were statistically non-significant due to underpowering but given the lack of efficacy the GDG did not wish to recommend
