Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


more adverse events associated with their use. The adverse event data were statistically non-significant due to underpowering but given the lack of efficacy the GDG did not wish to recommend future research in this area. The GDG noted that in clinical practice a small number of people with severe Crohn’s disease may be refractory to other maintenance treatment. They debated at length inserting the word ‘routinely’ to the recommendation to take account of this small group – hence ‘do not routinely offer’. However the GDG decided against this given the evidence they had seen. They also highlighted that TA187 indicates that “People whose disease relapses after [biologic] treatment is stopped should have the option to start treatment again.” Children There were no studies on conventional glucocorticsteroid treatment for maintenance of remission in children. The GDG agreed that children should not be exposed to long-term treatment with a glucocorticosteroid for the same reasons as in adults, but in addition because of their potential to supress growth. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6.3 Budesonide for maintenance of remission 2 6.3.1 Clinical questions 3 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of low dose 4 and high dose budesonide for maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer compared with 5  placebo? 6  conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment? 7  5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment? 8  azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 9  methotrexate? 10 6.3.2 Clinical evidence 11 The review of budesonide for maintenance of remission in Crohn’s disease assessed outcomes in 12 patients who were randomised while in a quiescent phase of their disease. 13 A Cochrane review23 was identified which assessed RCTs comparing budesonide with either placebo, 14 mesalazine or prednisolone for maintenance of clinical remission in Crohn’s disease for 12 months or 15 longer. However, due to differences in inclusion criteria an independent review was undertaken. 16 Specifically, the Cochrane review included post-surgical studies while the current review was limited 17 to patients with medically-induced remission. Maintenance of remission in post-surgical patients is 18 addressed in section 7. 19 No paediatric studies were identified. 20 Two analyses of relapse events were conducted. The primary analysis included all events defined as 21 relapse by the trial protocol; a secondary analysis took account of dropouts/withdrawals and 22 included these patients in the relapse events. Random effects models were run if heterogeneity (I2) 23 in any meta-analysis was
