Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. Studies were only included in the review when people were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. The GDG also agreed that for budesonide trials, adverse events and withdrawals (due to side effects) were both important outcomes. The GDG was particularly interested in the effect of budesonide compared with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment on adrenal suppression. Data were also reported for this review if study withdrawal was noted to be due to drug effect (rather than non-compliance or other reasons for drop-out). Mucosal healing has been more recently emphasized as an end-point, and may not be described in older papers. The relative value of this outcome was felt to be less important than maintenance of remission data. This is because the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits the application of histological sampling. The GDG noted that none of papers reported mucosal healing outcomes for budesonide and agreed that this outcome measure seemed to be more widely reported as an outcome for biologics. Trade off between clinical No statistically significant difference was demonstrated between benefits and harms budesonide 6 mg or 3 mg and placebo for any relapse outcomes, mean difference in CDAI scores or IBDQ scores. When the number of days in remission on budesonide was compared with mesalazine, budesonide was shown to be more effective. Budesonide was shown to be no better than placebo, whilst mesalazine had a very small benefit over placebo and yet budesonide 6 mg was more effective than mesalazine with regard to relapse, mean time to relapse and IBDQ scores. This caused the GDG to look carefully at dosing. They decided that 3 mg budesonide was not effective but that 6 mg Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission budesonide may have a modest efficacy of the same order of magnitude as 5-ASA. When budesonide was compared with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment, there was no statistically significant difference in relapse, [relapse + withdrawal], adrenal suppression and withdrawal due to adverse events. Adrenal function was maintained at a higher level than with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment in one study, but the result was non-significant. Conversely, no statistically significant difference in withdrawals due to adverse events at one year
