Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


a higher level than with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment in one study, but the result was non-significant. Conversely, no statistically significant difference in withdrawals due to adverse events at one year was demonstrated between placebo and budesonide. However the GDG expressed concern about people even on low dose budesonide being at risk for osteoporosis. Safety measures such as withdrawal, adrenal function and ACTH responses were not statistically significantly different between budesonide and mesalazine. In summary, the efficacy data comparing budesonide, placebo and mesalazine were difficult to reconcile. In addition, there was no significant difference in adverse event rates between budesonide and conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment for maintenance of remission. On this basis the GDG agreed a ‘do not offer’ recommendation for budesonide in addition to ‘do not offer’ conventional glucocorticosteroid for maintenance of remission. Economic considerations A decision-analytic model with a two-year time horizon was developed, based on the results of the clinical review. The model compared different medical treatments for maintenance of medically-induced remission of Crohn’s disease. The analysis was conducted in four different ways as described in the summary of the maintenance health economic model. Of the six treatments compared in the model, budesonide was associated with the 3rd most QALYs in all analyses. However, utility loss due to drug related adverse events was not explicitly incorporated in to the model due to lack of data. Original economic analysis showed that budesonide ranged from being the third and fifth most cost-effective treatment out of six in the conservative and non-conservative analyses respectively. The ICER for budesonide ranged from £15,070 per QALY gained in the conservative analysis where patients relapsing from all treatments had the same induction sequence, to £87,610 per QALY gained in the non- conservative analysis where patients relapsing from azathioprine had a different induction sequence. sponsored by a pharmaceutical company and that they were considered to be similar presentations of the same data, looking at slightly different budesonide preparations. They noted that the limitations of the Lofberg study included a short time horizon and the lack of a probabilistic sensitivity analysis. It was also considered only partially applicable because it was conducted in Sweden and did not report QALYs. The Lofberg study showed budesonide to be not cost effective at £2900 per additional year in Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission remission. The other paper did look at QALYs however the investigators did not follow the NICE reference case
