Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


effective at £2900 per additional year in Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission remission. The other paper did look at QALYs however the investigators did not follow the NICE reference case (quality of life estimates were derived from expert opinion rather than patients). The Noble study showed budesonide to be cost effective at £7000 per QALY gained. However it predicted an extra seventeen days in remission per year for people on budesonide compared with no treatment, while the NCGC economic model predicted that budesonide would add, at most, an additional four days in remission over two years. The cost of relapse was also considerably higher in the Lofberg paper. This lead to lowerer estimates of the cost-effectiveness ratio in the published studies. The GDG were cautioned not to put too much importance on the published results as the health economic model presented (see Appendix H:) is more applicable to the UK. Quality of evidence All outcomes comparing budesonide with placebo were moderate, low, or very low quality and for budesonide compared with mesalazine very low quality. In particular, the GDG noted that while IBDQ score and time- to-relapse favoured budesonide over mesalazine, participants were aware of which treatment they were taking. While adrenal function was recorded in many studies, the measures used to report adrenal function were all different, making it impossible to pool or interpret this data. Due to paucity of evidence, specific costs and disutilities due to drug- related adverse events could not be captured in the economic model. This may mean that the cost-effectiveness of budesonide- and other treatments explored in the model- has been over-estimated (i.e. their ICERs have been under-estimated). Due to lack of reporting in RCTs and quality of life literature, different severities of relapse could also not be captured in the economic model. Other considerations Prednisolone 7-20 mg/day was considered to be a high maintenance dose (compared with 30-40 mg/day for induction of remission) potentially biasing the study in favour of prednisolone. Most of the studies comparing budesonide with placebo included patients with small bowel or right-sided colonic disease (the purported site of action of budesonide). Studying this population would ensure that the efficacy of budesonide was not ‘diluted’. Only the Gross study included patients with Crohn’s disease of all parts of the bowel. Children There were no studies on budesonide for maintenance of remission in children. The GDG agreed that it should not
