Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


treatment being the most cost- maintenance Dominatesc effective treatment at a treatmenta willingness-to-pay £415d -0.00021d No treatment threshold of £20,000 per dominatesd QALY was 0% in all £425e -0.00017e No treatment analysesb,c,d,e. dominatese 2 (a) The NCGC model compared a number of different maintenance treatments. 3 (b) Conservative four line model. Conservative treatment effects were used and people relapsing while on azathioprine 4 maintenance treatment had a different induction sequence. 5 (c) Conservative three line model. Conservative treatment effects were used and people are assumed to have the same 6 induction sequence regardless of maintenance treatment. 7 (d) Non conservative four line model. Non conservative treatment effects were used and people relapsing while on 8 azathioprine maintenance treatment had a different induction sequence. 9 (e) Non conservative three line model. Conservative treatment effects were used and people are assumed to have the same 10 induction sequence regardless of maintenance treatment. 11 6.4.3.1 Evidence statement – economic 12 Please see section 6.7 for a summary of original economic analysis conducted for this guideline or 13 Appendix H: for a full report. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 6.4.4 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Table 45: Linking evidence to recommendations – 5-ASA treatment for maintenance Clinical question 8. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) treatment for maintenance of remission compared with 8.1 placebo? 8.2 azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP)? 8.3 methotrexate? Recommendation None made. See research recommendation section 6.9 Relative values of different The agreed key outcome of interest for the GDG was Crohn’s disease outcomes remission maintained for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. It was noted that maintenance of remission and relapse are two different disease states that are not necessarily the reverse of each other, since withdrawals can occur for many different reasons. The GDG agreed that there were three categories:  In remission  Relapse  Trial dropout with outcome unknown (person still in remission or relapsed) The GDG also agreed that for 5-ASA trials, adverse events and withdrawals (due to side effects) were both important outcomes. They were particularly interested in severe adverse events defined as o ‘Disaster’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...an event or condition which necessitated hospitalization and/or produced long-lasting (three months) disability.’ o ‘Serious’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...those that caused withdrawal of the patient from the
