Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


as ‘...an event or condition which necessitated hospitalization and/or produced long-lasting (three months) disability.’ o ‘Serious’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...those that caused withdrawal of the patient from the study or required specific treatment.’ Data were also reported for this review if study withdrawal was noted to be due to drug effect (rather than non-compliance or other reasons for drop-out). Mucosal healing has been more recently emphasized as an end-point, and may not be described in older papers. The relative value of this outcome was felt to be less important than maintenance of remission data. This is because the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits the application of histological sampling. The GDG noted that none of papers reported mucosal healing outcomes for 5-ASA treatment and agreed that this outcome measure seemed to be more widely reported as an outcome for biological drugs. Studies were only included in the review when patients were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. The meta-analysis showed that when only confirmed relapse was considered (i.e. withdrawals were not assumed to be for adverse reasons) 5-ASA treatment compared with placebo was effective for maintaining remission. However when withdrawals were included as probable relapses there was no significant difference. The GDG felt that the true position was likely to be somewhere between the two. For relapse plus withdrawal the fixed effect meta-analysis demonstrated heterogeneity (I2 of 57%) and hence random effects meta-analyses were run. Little difference was noted between the fixed and random effects meta-analyses for relapse and relapse + withdrawal. Summers and Singleton looked at maintenance of remission (rather than relapse) and at one and two years there was a non-significant difference between the 5-ASA and placebo groups. The GDG also noted no significant differences for adverse events, disastrous adverse events and serious adverse events between the two groups in these two studies although event numbers were small. benefits and harms substantial differences in effect size and significance for relapse or relapse + withdrawal outcomes versus placebo and non-significant differences in relapse rates at one and two years compared with azathioprine. The GDG noted significantly more withdrawals due to adverse events with 5-ASA treatment than placebo. They surmised that the
