Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


in relapse rates at one and two years compared with azathioprine. The GDG noted significantly more withdrawals due to adverse events with 5-ASA treatment than placebo. They surmised that the large side effect-related withdrawals in the Mahmud study (which alone used olsalazine) were probably because of diarrhoea, a common side effect of this agent in their experience. They considered this to have skewed the results against 5-ASA treatment, even though there was no significant heterogeneity. They also noted that 5-ASA treatment was associated with fewer serious and disastrous adverse events than azathioprine, although participant numbers were small and results were non-significant. Economic considerations Due to the lack of reporting of specific adverse events in the RCTs, costs and disutilities due to drug-related adverse events could not be captured in the economic model. This may mean that the cost- effectiveness of 5-ASAs- and other treatments explored in the model- has been over-estimated (i.e. their ICERs have been under-estimated). Due to lack of reporting in RCTs and quality of life literature, different severities of relapse could also not be captured in the economic model. A decision-analytic model was developed with a two-year time horizon, based on the results of the clinical review. The model compared different medical treatments for maintenance of medically-induced remission of Crohn’s disease. The GDG accepted that due to potential differences in costs and side- effect profiles, 5-ASAs should be treated separately for the purpose of Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission economic analysis. The 5-ASA clinical review only included studies of mesalazine and olsalazine, and these were analysed separately within the economic model. The analysis was conducted in four different ways as described in the summary of the health economic maintenance model. Original economic analysis showed that of the six treatments compared in the model:  mesalazine was associated with the second most QALYs in all analyses  olsalazine was associated with the sixth most QALYs in all analyses (i.e. even less effective than no treatment).  However, utility loss due to drug-related adverse events was not explicitly incorporated in to the model due to lack of data.  Mesalazine ranged from being the second most cost-effective treatment out of six in the non-conservative analysis where all treatments had the same induction sequence, to fourth in the non- conservative analysis where people treated with azathioprine had a different induction sequence.  Olsalasine was the worst treatment in terms of
