Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


the same induction sequence, to fourth in the non- conservative analysis where people treated with azathioprine had a different induction sequence.  Olsalasine was the worst treatment in terms of cost effectiveness in all analyses.  Mesalazine was dominant compared with no treatment in the analyses where only the azathioprine maintenance strategy had the short induction sequence, but was dominated by azathioprine. Mesalazine was associated with an ICER of £20,319 per QALY gained in the non-conservative analysis where only the azathioprine strategy had a short induction sequence, but was dominated by azathioprine.  Mesalazine was associated with an ICER of £25,133 per QALY gained vs no treatment in the conservative analysis where all treatments had the short induction sequence, but the ICER for azathioprine vs mesalazine was £17,996 per QALY gained, showing that, at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per QALY, azathioprine is still the preferred treatment.  Olsalazine was dominated by no treatment in all analyses. The GDG felt unable to recommend 5-ASA treatment as: a) olsalazine maintenance was the least cost-effective option and worse than no maintenance treatment b) mesalazine maintenance was less effective and less cost- effective than azathioprine c) mesalazine maintenance cost more than £20,000 per QALY in the analyses with a four-line induction sequence. The GDG was made aware of potentially serious limitations of the Trallori health economic study284 because methods were not described and a probabilistic sensitivity analysis was not conducted. In addition, it was considered only partially applicable because the study was undertaken within the Italian healthcare system and HRQoL values were determined by gastroenterologists, not people with Crohn’s disease. Most importantly the cost of relapse was considerably higher in the Trallori paper. This led to lower estimates of the cost-effectiveness ratio in the published study. The GDG concluded that a NCGC health Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission economic model would be more relevant than this study. Quality of evidence No paediatric data and no comparisons of 5-ASA treatment vs. methotrexate were found. For this review the Sutherland study was excluded as follow-up was for 48 weeks and not one year as per the agreed protocol. The GDG noted the varying quality of the evidence for this review. They considered the 5-ASA (compared to placebo) efficacy data to be equivocal, with substantial differences in effect size and significance for relapse or relapse + withdrawal outcomes. The meta-analysis of six RCTs for relapse only
