Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


to placebo) efficacy data to be equivocal, with substantial differences in effect size and significance for relapse or relapse + withdrawal outcomes. The meta-analysis of six RCTs for relapse only at one year showed that 5-ASA reduced relapses by 24% and at 95% confidence this number ranged from 10 to 36%. When relapse and withdrawal were taken into account the meta-analysis showed no difference between 5-ASA and placebo in preventing relapse. At two years a low-quality study also demonstrated a non-significant relapse rate result. In addition, the GDG was unable to draw any conclusions about the relative effectiveness of 5-ASA or azathioprine versus placebo, because of differences in study methodology (see section Linking evidence to recommendations 6.5.4). The GDG noted issues of class effect and consistency of presenting the data in the guideline. The GDG agreed that the data should not be sub- grouped post hoc and that it would be inconsistent to specify one drug, believes that olsalazine is offered to very few people with Crohn’s disease, and considered that such a recommendation would not make a substantial difference to current practice. The GDG remarked that different 5-ASA preparations are purported to be effective in different parts of the bowel (see the current online version of the BNF) and commented on the lack of site-specific 5-ASA RCTs – hence no conclusions about this aspect of maintenance therapy could be drawn. The GDG reflected that meta-analysis of 5-ASA as a class compared to placebo showed they may be effective, though not when withdrawals are factored in. The economic model showed, compared to no treatment, mesalazine may be cost-effective but olsalazine isn’t, however neither were cost-effective compared to azathioprine. The GDG concluded that there was too much uncertainty surrounding the 5-ASA clinical data and health economic analysis to make any recommendation for maintenance of medically-induced remission in Crohn’s disease. The GDG acknowledged that further research in this field would be informative, and developed a research recommendation (see section 6.9). Other considerations The GDG noted that studies should ideally control for smoking, as a confounder and which is considered by some to have a larger effect Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission than drug therapy in maintenance of remission, however none of the studies reviewed reported this. The GDG agreed the importance of providing the necessary information about and support to patients to stop smoking in Chapter 11. Children There were no studies
