Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


maintenance of remission of Crohn’s disease. 26 Please see Health economic maintenance model summary section 6.7 Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 6.5.4 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Table 47: Linking evidence to recommendations – azathioprine or mercaptopurine for 3 maintenance Clinical question 9. In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of azathioprine or mercaptopurine (AZA/MP) for maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer 9.1 compared with placebo? 9.2 compared with methotrexate? 9.3 plus conventional glucocorticosteroid or 5-ASA treatment compared with placebo plus conventional glucocorticosteroid or 5-ASA treatment? 24. Offer azathioprine or mercaptopurineh as monotherapy to maintain Recommendations remission when previously used with a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonide to induce remission. 25. Consider azathioprine or mercaptopurineto maintain remission in people who have not previously received these drugs (particularly those with adverse prognostic factors such as early age of onset, perianal disease, glucocorticosteroid use at presentation and severe presentations). azathioprine and mercaptopurine did not have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. Relative values of different The agreed key outcome of interest was Crohn’s disease remission outcomes maintained for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. Studies were only included in the review when patients were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. The GDG only considered studies in which maintenance therapy was both given, and outcome measures recorded, for 12 months or longer. However, the GDG noted importantly that the Lémann and O’Donoghue trials were withdrawal trials, and hence intrinsically different to the trials reviewed for other interventions. Patients recruited to the trials were in remission and already on azathioprine treatment (i.e. randomised in quiescent phase to either continue with azathioprine or change to placebo). These trials were not designed to answer the question about the potential of azathioprine to maintain remission per se, because participants taking azathioprine for a long period of time are much more likely to be those in whom the drug has been both efficacious and well tolerated. This effect might falsely inflate the
