Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for a long period of time are much more likely to be those in whom the drug has been both efficacious and well tolerated. This effect might falsely inflate the potential efficacy ascribed to azathioprine. The GDG also agreed that for azathioprine or mercaptopurine maintenance trials, adverse events were important outcomes. They were predominantly interested in the incidence of lymphoproliferative disorders associated with long-term immunosuppressive drugs, as well as Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission pancreatitis and serious infections due to bone marrow suppression. The GDG were also interested in withdrawal outcomes, specifically related to drug effect (rather than non-compliance or other reasons for drop-out which may be significant in number over long-term maintenance trials). Mucosal healing has been more recently emphasized as an end-point, and may not be described in older papers. The relative value of this outcome was felt to be less important than maintenance of remission data. This is because the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits the application of histological sampling. None of papers reported mucosal healing outcomes for azathioprine or mercaptopurine and agreed that this outcome measure seemed to be more widely reported as an outcome for biological drugs. There was no evidence in children and no comparison between azathioprine/mercaptopurine and methotrexate. Trade off between clinical The GDG acknowledged that side effects associated with any long-term benefits and harms drug therapy are a major concern for people with Crohn’s disease. Importantly, lymphoproliferative side effect data associated with long- term immunosuppressives are equivocal. The studies show a benefit of azathioprine in maintaining remission at 12 months. However, the GDG noted that [relapse + withdrawals] resulted in a very large difference in the relative risk point estimate compared with confirmed relapse alone (RR 0.21 v RR 0.58). In the Lémann trial, the benefit of azathioprine [relapse + withdrawals] was also shown to disappear at 18 months. No significant difference was demonstrated between azathioprine and placebo for serious or disastrous side effects o ‘Disaster’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...an event or condition which necessitated hospitalization and/or produced long-lasting (three months) disability.’ o ‘Serious’ in Singleton 1979 defined as ‘...those that caused withdrawal of the patient from the study or required specific treatment.’ or withdrawals at 12 or 24 months. However, the experience of the clinicians present contradicted this particularly as regards lymphoproliferative disorders over the long term. The GDG debated particular patient characteristics that
