Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


at 12 or 24 months. However, the experience of the clinicians present contradicted this particularly as regards lymphoproliferative disorders over the long term. The GDG debated particular patient characteristics that might be associated with higher risk of relapse or severity of the course of the disease and which therefore may be traded off against potentially serious adverse events. In justifying the use of these treatments, the GDG listed a number of factors which they considered to imply an adverse prognosis. These include early age of onset, perianal disease, glucocorticosteroid treatment at presentation, severe presentations, and fistula formation. Economic considerations A decision-analytic model was developed with a two-year year time different medical treatments for maintenance of medically induced remission of Crohn’s disease. The analysis was conducted in four different ways as described in the health economic maintenance model summary. Of the six treatments compared in the model, azathioprine was Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission associated with the highest number of QALYs in all analyses. However, utility loss due to drug-related adverse events was not explicitly incorporated in to the model due to lack of data. Original economic analysis showed that azathioprine was the most cost effective treatment in all analyses except the conservative analysis where azathioprine patients had a less cost-effective induction sequence than the other strategies where it was ranked second of six treatments. Azathioprine was dominant compared with no treatment in all cases apart from the conservative analysis where patients relapsing from azathioprine had a different induction sequence to the other strategies. In this analysis azathioprine was associated with an ICER of £21,128 per QALY gained compared with no treatment. Quality of evidence There were only three studies meeting the protocol criteria. Two of these, the O’Donoghue and Lémann trials, were graded as low quality for the outcome of remission, with a combined sample size of 134 participants. From the O’Donoghue and Lémann trials for relapse at one year a pooled statistically significant result favouring azathioprine (RR 0.21 CI 0.06 to 0.68). The trials however demonstrated non-significant results for relapse at 18 months, maintenance of remission both at 12 and 18 months, withdrawal due to adverse events at one year and adverse events at one and two years. When relapse + withdrawals at 12 months was considered, whilst the GDG noted a statistically non-significant result, the point estimate with a relative risk of 0.58 and absolute numbers of 114
