Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


relapse + withdrawals at 12 months was considered, whilst the GDG noted a statistically non-significant result, the point estimate with a relative risk of 0.58 and absolute numbers of 114 fewer relapses and withdrawals in the AZA/MP group was considered to be potentially important. The group debated the appropriateness of pooling two of the studies given their differences. There was no heterogeneity but the GDG found this unsurprising given that there were only two small trials. The GDG discussed the differences between the two studies (O’Donoghue and Lémann). They noted that there were differences in remission definition, length of quiescence, background therapy and azathioprine dose difference (Lémann 1.7mg/kg vs. O’Donoghue 2mg/kg). Of the O’Donoghue study participants (n = 51), 16 had been in remission for less than one year, 19 in remission for between one and two years, and 16 in remission for more than two years. Approximately 30% of participants were receiving additional sulfasalazine or low dose glucocorticosteroid treatment. It was also noted that this study was published in 1978 and pre dated the CDAI. In the Lémann study (2005), the participants (n = 83) had been in remission on average for 57 months, receiving continuous azathioprine treatment for at least 42 months with an average of 64 months. They had received no treatment with oral prednisone > 10 mg/day. In this study relapse was defined as a CDAI of greater than 250 or score of 150-250 for three consecutive weeks with an increase of 75 points above baseline. Hence the GDG noted that the Lémann study participants had been in established remission for a much longer period of time and the average Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission azathioprine dose was lower than normal. This may not relate directly to clinical practice in which azathioprine dose is calculated and prescribed bearing in mind the availability of 25 mg and 50 mg tablets. The GDG discussed the difference in results between the two studies; one study was statistically significant and the other non-significant (at a low azathioprine dose) for reducing relapse at 12 months. The GDG was surprised by the fact that the Lémann participants were in remission for more than three years but that the trial still demonstrated a difference in relapse on a lower azathioprine dose. In light of this the GDG gave less credence to this study. Whilst the GDG were aware of these differences they agreed
