Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


difference in relapse on a lower azathioprine dose. In light of this the GDG gave less credence to this study. Whilst the GDG were aware of these differences they agreed that as there were only two trials available for the outcome of ‘relapse’ the studies should be pooled. The Summers (1979) trial was also reviewed but not pooled with the two other studies as the outcome reported was maintenance of remission and not relapse. In this trial, the GDG noted non-significant differences between azathioprine and placebo in maintaining remission at 12 and 24 months. The GDG discussed the differences between the results found for the Cochrane systematic review compared with NCGC review. The GDG agreed it was difficult to compare the two as the Cochrane systematic review included eight studies whereas the NCGC included three studies. The Cochrane review looked at the outcome of maintenance of remission and the studies included people who had been randomised in active disease. In addition the Cochrane review included two studies that looked at outcomes at 24 and 26 weeks. Due to paucity of evidence, specific costs and disutilities due to drug- related adverse events could not be captured in the economic model. This may mean that the cost-effectiveness of azathioprine- and other treatments explored in the model- has been over-estimated (i.e. their ICERs have been under-estimated). Due to lack of reporting in RCTs and quality of life literature, different severities of relapse could also not be captured in the economic model. Other considerations Azathioprine is the prodrug of mercaptopurine. For pragmatic and clinical purposes they are considered to be the same pharmacological entity. The GDG considered the length of time in remission prior to randomisation to be a significant issue influencing reported outcomes in the O’Donoghue and Lémann trials. People who have been in remission for a long time tend to have a lower risk of relapse. Therefore, a lower risk of relapse would be expected in the Lémann paper because of the 42- month quiescent phase prior to randomisation. Conversely, the GDG also debated the impact of dose within these studies. They noted that the Lémann study used a lower (1.7mg/kg) than conventional dose (2 – 2.5mg/kg). The GDG commented that the non- significant Lémann results may be reflective of this low dose and hence a higher dose may add weight to supporting the efficacy of azathioprine. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission
