Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


non- significant Lémann results may be reflective of this low dose and hence a higher dose may add weight to supporting the efficacy of azathioprine. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission The GDG agreed that azathioprine or mercaptopurine should be offered as monotherapy to maintain remission when previously used with a conventional glucocorticosteroid to induce remission. However the GDG felt that azathioprine or mercaptopurine maintenance of remission therapy should not be limited to people who had been induced with azathioprine or mercaptopurine in combination with a conventional glucocorticosteroid. findings and GDG consensus the GDG then went on to make a ‘consider’ recommendation. The GDG acknowledged that following discussion of the benefits and limitations of maintenance treatment, some people may decide against any form of medical maintenance treatment. For those mercaptopurine should be ‘considered’. The clinical consensus of the GDG was that some people are at higher risk of relapse and azathioprine or mercaptopurine should also be ‘considered’ for people with adverse prognostic factors. The examples listed in the recommendation are not intended to be exhaustive. The GDG noted that although they had assessed the evidence in order to make a recommendation to offer azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintenance of remission, this review did not enable them to draw any conclusions about how long maintenance treatment should be continued. Children There were no studies on azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintenance of remission in children. The GDG agreed that because of the lack of any paediatric data it was acceptable to extrapolate from adult studies and to make the same recommendations as for adults. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 6.5.5 Clinical question: methotrexate 2 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 3 methotrexate for maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer 4  compared with placebo? 5  plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment compared with placebo plus conventional 6 glucocorticosteroid treatment? 7 6.5.6 Clinical evidence: methotrexate 8 A Cochrane review of methotrexate for maintenance in Crohn’s disease was published in 2009209. The 9 Cochrane review included three studies84,173,207, but the review was excluded because the studies did 10 not meet GDG inclusion criteria (Feagan followed up for 40 weeks, Mate-Jiminez meta-analysed for 11 methotrexate vs. mercaptopurine with no placebo comparison and Oren randomised patients in 12 active disease). However, one of these studies84 met all GDG inclusion criteria 13 other than length of follow-up and
