Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


147 more) 7 1 Unclear allocation concealment. 2 Confidence interval crosses 1.25. 3 Confidence interval crosses 0.75 and 1.25. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 6.5.6.2 Evidence statements - clinical 2  In one RCT (n = 76)84 of methotrexate for maintenance of remission of Crohn’s disease, 3 methotrexate was significantly more effective than placebo for maintenance of remission after 40 4 weeks (RR 1.67 [1.05 to 2.67]).[LOW QUALITY] 5  In one RCT (n = 76)84 of methotrexate for maintenance of remission of Crohn’s disease, there was 6 no significant difference in: 7 o rates of severe adverse events (RR = 0.18 [0.01 to 3.64]).[VERY LOW QUALITY] or 8 o withdrawals due to adverse events after 40 weeks (RR 2.71 [0.11 to 64.43]).[VERY LOW 9 QUALITY] 10 6.5.7 Economic evidence 11 No published data were found relating to the cost effectiveness of methotrexate treatment for the 12 maintenance of remission of Crohn’s disease. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 6.5.8 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Table 49: Linking evidence to recommendations – methotrexate for maintenance Clinical question In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of methotrexate for maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer  compared with placebo?  plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment compared with placebo plus conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment? Recommendation 26. Consider methotrexatei,c to maintain remission only in people who: • needed methotrexate to induce remission, or • have tried but did not tolerate azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintenance or • have contraindications to azathioprine or mercaptopurine (for example, deficient TPMT activity or previous episodes of pancreatitis). c Follow BNF/BNFC cautions on prescribing methotrexate. methotrexate did not have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. Relative values of different The key outcome of interest agreed prior to evidence evaluation was outcomes Crohn’s disease remission maintained for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. Studies were only included in the review when patients were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. The GDG also agreed that for
