Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. The GDG also agreed that for methotrexate trials, adverse events and withdrawals (due to side effects) were both important outcomes. Data were also reported for this review if study withdrawal was noted to be due to drug effect (rather than non-compliance or other reasons for drop-out). Mucosal healing has been more recently emphasized as an end-point, and may not be described in older papers. The relative value of this outcome was felt to be less important than maintenance of remission data. This is because the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits the application of histological sampling. The GDG noted that none of papers reported mucosal healing outcomes for methotrexate and agreed that this outcome measure seemed to be more widely reported as an outcome for biological drugs. No RCTs fulfilled the protocol inclusion criteria for methotrexate versus placebo maintenance of remission for 12 months or longer. For this reason the GDG accepted RCT data from the multicentre Feagan study of 40 weeks duration (rather than 12 months). Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission In addition, the GDG noted that no trials were found comparing methotrexate to glucocorticosteroid treatment or azathioprine (or mercaptopurine) for maintenance of remission of Crohn’s disease. Trade off between clinical The GDG noted that for maintenance of remission at 40 weeks results benefits and harms favoured the methotrexate group over placebo (RR 1.67 CI 1.05 – 2.67). In statistically significant difference between methotrexate and placebo for withdrawal due to adverse events and severe adverse events. The GDG noted that severe adverse events were noted in the placebo group (2/36) rather than the methotrexate group (0/40). Economic considerations Methotrexate was not included in the economic model due to the way the outcomes in the study were reported. Information on relapse and relapse plus withdrawal, which were used to parameterise treatment effects in the economic model could not be extracted from the Feagan study. Quality of evidence The GDG noted a Cochrane methotrexate systematic review however this was excluded (and used for quality assurance cross referencing purposes only) because the studies within it did not meet the GDG agreed protocol inclusion criteria. The studies within the Cochrane review were:  Feagan (less than 12 months) – looked at separately see below 
