Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


it did not meet the GDG agreed protocol inclusion criteria. The studies within the Cochrane review were:  Feagan (less than 12 months) – looked at separately see below  Mate-Jiminez meta analysed for methotrexate versus mercaptopurine with no placebo comparison  Oren (randomised in active disease)  Feagan and Oren formally meta-analysed for methotrexate versus placebo. In the absence of RCT evidence meeting the agreed protocol for methotrexate versus placebo, the GDG accepted the 40-week Feagan multicentre RCT of moderate quality with 76 participants. Whilst the trial result for maintenance of remission favoured methotrexate over placebo, the GDG noted that the trial used an intramuscular route of administration and without concomitant folic acid administration. The GDG considered the implications of different bioavailability and dose for different methods of administration, particularly where short bowel syndrome would significantly decrease oral bioavailability. The GDG was also aware of the very low quality attributed to the adverse event outcome and very low quality withdrawal due to adverse events outcome (withdrawals due to adverse events methotrexate group 1/40 and nil in the placebo group). Other considerations The GDG recognised the limited evidence (one trial and hence no consistency of results) in favour of offering methotrexate, but noted the apparent value of the drug in other inflammatory conditions, particularly in the field of rheumatology. Given the apparent efficacy of methotrexate in other conditions and lack of evidence for other drugs for maintenance of remission in Crohn’s disease, the GDG debated why methotrexate was not more commonly prescribed. They thought in part that this was because of the known teratogenicity and side effects which were perceived by the GDG from clinical experience to be worse than other drugs. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission The GDG thought it unlikely that further research would be conducted in this area as methotrexate is considered to be an older, off-patent and unlicensed (for Crohn’s disease) drug – it would be unlikely that anyone would sponsor further research in this field. The GDG also discussed whether looking at lower levels of evidence would be of benefit in defining the eventual recommendation. The GDG were aware of descriptive case series that lacked controls and hence suffered from bias and problems with interpretation. The GDG agreed that on this basis they did not wish to explore lower evidence levels. When thinking about a recommendation the GDG agreed that there is a limited amount
