Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


The GDG agreed that on this basis they did not wish to explore lower evidence levels. When thinking about a recommendation the GDG agreed that there is a limited amount of evidence that methotrexate maybe effective for preventing relapse in some groups of people. However, the GDG noted that the vast majority of patients in this single RCT were immunosuppressive naive (98%). On this basis as well as the clinical experience of the group, that the GDG concluded that this data could not justify a potential recommendation for methotrexate to be offered second-line in the event that azathioprine or mercaptopurine fails to maintain remission. The GDG reflected upon current clinical practice and drug pathways. They agreed that methotrexate is currently offered for people who have not responded to glucocorticosteroid induction treatment and who have been intolerant of azathioprine. The GDG also acknowledged that methotrexate may have been commenced for active disease and then continued as maintenance treatment. Hence clinical experience of the GDG highlighted two potential areas where methotrexate fits a drug pathway. The GDG also noted that the drug is used when there is co- existing inflammatory arthropathy (an IBD associate arthritis or rheumatoid arthritis) as it treats both conditions, but they acknowledged that this fell outside the remit of the scope. Thus, the group made a ‘consider’ recommendation that methotrexate may be continued if it had been used successfully to induce remission, or when people had tried azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintenance but it wasn’t tolerated or if they have contraindications to treatment with azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Children There were no studies on methotrexate for maintenance of remission in children. The GDG agreed that ibecause of the lack of any paediatric data it was acceptable to extrapolate from adult studies and to make the same recommendations as for adults. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6.6 Linking evidence to recommendations – maintaining remission summary 3 Table 50: Linking evidence to recommendations –all people with Crohn’s disease Clinical question After inducing remission of an inflammatory exacerbation of Crohn’s disease, what is the most effective way to maintain remission? (Questions 6 - 10) 21. Discuss with people with Crohn's disease, and/or their parents or Recommendations carers if appropriate, options for managing their disease when they are in remission, including both no treatment and treatment. The discussion should include the risk of inflammatory exacerbations (with and without drug treatment) and the potential
