Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


their disease when they are in remission, including both no treatment and treatment. The discussion should include the risk of inflammatory exacerbations (with and without drug treatment) and the potential side effects of drug treatment. Record the person's views in their notes. 22. Offer colonoscopic surveillance in line with 'Colonoscopic surveillance for prevention of colorectal cancer in people with 118). Relative values of different The key outcome of interest agreed prior to evidence evaluation was outcomes Crohn’s disease remission maintained for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. Studies were only included in the review when patients were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. Trade off between clinical The GDG reflected upon the balance of effectiveness and safety of all the benefits and harms interventions reviewed and the economic model results. The GDG concluded that ‘no maintenance treatment’ is a rational option for some people, particularly those in whom relapse risk is low, who are concerned about side effects of long-term drug treatment or whose disease tends to follow a mild to moderate course – please see Table 51 for consensus recommendations and the GDG deliberations. For theGDG debate about maintenance treatment for those who do choose this option, please see ‘Linking evidence to recommendations’ sections 6.2.4, 6.3.4, 6.4.4, 6.5.4 and 6.5.8. Economic considerations NICE clinical guideline 118 recommends a cost-effective strategy for colonoscopic screening, based on a person’s risk of developing cancer. Quality of evidence The GDG made a consensus recommendation about follow-up and advice for people choosing no treatment after remission of an exacerbation is induced. The GDG agreed that the following should be discussed with the person with Crohn’s disease before deciding on a course of action:  risks of relapse with and without active treatment  risks of complications such as fistulae and strictures with and without active treatment, (although complications were not formally reviewed) as well as Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission  potential side effects of active treatment. The group also agreed the importance of making people aware of the need for colonoscopic surveillance. Other considerations Children The GDG agreed similar principles for decisions about maintenance treatment in children. However, they agreed that the considerations specific to paediatric practice may alter the
