Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


colonoscopic surveillance. Other considerations Children The GDG agreed similar principles for decisions about maintenance treatment in children. However, they agreed that the considerations specific to paediatric practice may alter the balance of judgement in each child or young person, for example, growth and unknown long-term side effects. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 Table 51: Linking evidence to recommendations – maintaining remission for those who choose 2 not to receive maintenance treatment After inducing remission of an inflammatory exacerbation of Crohn’s Clinical question disease, what is the most effective way to maintain remission? (Questions 6 - 10) Recommendations Follow-up during remission for those people who choose not to receive maintenance treatment 23. When people choose not to receive maintenance treatment: • discuss and agree with them, and/or their parents or carers if appropriate, plans for follow-up, including the frequency of follow-up and who they should see • ensure they know which symptoms may suggest a relapse and should prompt a consultation with their healthcare professional (most frequently, unintended weight loss, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, general ill health). • ensure they know how to access the healthcare system if they experience a relapse • discuss the importance of not smoking. Relative values of different The key outcome of interest agreed prior to evidence evaluation was outcomes Crohn’s disease remission maintained for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. Studies were only included in the review when patients were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. Trade off between clinical The GDG reflected upon the balance of effectiveness and safety of all the benefits and harms interventions reviewed. They concluded that ‘no maintenance treatment’ is a rational option for some people, particularly those in whom relapse risk is low, who are concerned about side effects of long-term drug treatment or whose disease tends to follow a mild to moderate course. Economic considerations The clinical effectiveness evidence in support of maintenance drug therapy identified and analysed in the systematic review of this guideline was not that strong. For those patients who choose not to receive drug maintenance, lifestyle advice is likely to be cost effective. Quality of evidence The GDG made a consensus recommendation about follow-up and advice for people choosing no treatment
