Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


to receive drug maintenance, lifestyle advice is likely to be cost effective. Quality of evidence The GDG made a consensus recommendation about follow-up and advice for people choosing no treatment after remission of an exacerbation is induced. Other considerations Children The GDG agreed similar principles for decisions about maintenance treatment in children. However, they agreed that the considerations specific to paediatric practice may alter the balance of judgement in each child or young person, for example, growth and unknown long-term side effects. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6.7 Health economic maintenance model summary 2 6.7.1 Original economic analysis 3 The GDG considered the clinical evidence with regard to maintenance of remission and noted the 4 superiority of azathioprine. The GDG noted that acquisition cost of azathioprine is relatively low, 5 however this does not account for costs of monitoring, consultations, treatment withdrawal or 6 downstream costs due to treatment failure. Maintenance of remission was identified as high priority 7 by the GDG in the early stages of guideline development, since this topic is potentially relevant for 8 most patients with Crohn’s disease. Some economic literature was identified, however no studies 9 rated highly in terms of applicability or quality. 10 6.7.2 Methods 11 6.7.2.1 Model overview 12 A cost-utility analysis was undertaken where costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 13 considered from a UK NHS and personal social services perspective. A Markov model was 14 constructed in order to estimate costs and QALYs associated with different treatment strategies for 15 medical maintenance of remission. Uncertainty was explored through probabilistic and univariate 16 sensitivity analyses. A two year time horizon was considered in the base case to reflect the duration 17 of the RCTs used to parameterise treatment effects. 18 6.7.2.2 Population 19 The population entering the model comprised people with medically induced remission of Crohn’s 20 disease, defined by a Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) score of < 150. 21 6.7.2.3 Comparators 22 The comparators examined in the model were the same as those compared in the clinical review: 23  no treatment 24  azathioprine 25  mesalazine 26  olsalazine 27  budesonide 28  glucocorticosteroid 30 olsalazine were separated in the economic analysis due to potential differences in costs and side- 31 effect profiles. 32 6.7.2.4 Model structure and key assumptions 33 A Markov model was constructed, whereby the QALY gain was driven by the amount
