Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


differences in costs and side- 31 effect profiles. 32 6.7.2.4 Model structure and key assumptions 33 A Markov model was constructed, whereby the QALY gain was driven by the amount of time people 34 spend in remission and active disease. Active disease was defined as a CDAI score of > 150. 35 Due to the way withdrawals were reported in the RCTs, two separate analyses were conducted for 37 conservative analysis where ‘relapse + withdrawals’ was analysed. Treatment effects in the economic 38 model were parameterised so as to account for these two different methods. For the non- 39 conservative analysis in the economic model, withdrawals and relapses were treated separately so 40 that people who withdrew from treatment were still assumed to be in remission (although from this Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 point their risk of relapse reverts back to the risk associated with no treatment). For the conservative 2 analysis in the economic model, people who withdrew were assumed to be in relapse. 3 The GDG advised that people in relapse should be treated with the induction sequence that was 4 found to be most cost-effective in the induction of remission model (a glucocorticosteroid, followed 5 by azathioprine + a glucocorticosteroid then a biologic). The GDG were uncertain as to what the 6 induction sequence should be for people who relapse while on azathioprine maintenance treatment. 7 People who relapse on azathioprine treatment are likely to have a glucocorticosteroid or biologic 8 induction therapy added to their azathioprine regimen, and therefore initiation of azathioprine 9 induction therapy in these people is not relevant as they are already taking azathioprine. One 10 plausible alternative was to assume a three-line induction sequence for azathioprine (a 11 glucocorticoteroid – a biologic – surgery) but a four-line sequence (a glucocorticoteroid – 12 azathioprine + a glucocorticosteroid- a biologic – surgery) for the other maintenance strategies but 13 this three-line sequence is less cost-effective and this may potentially bias the assessment. This 14 scenario was explored, but an analysis where there was a three-line induction sequence (a 15 glucocorticoteroid – a biologic – surgery) for all maintenance strategies was also conducted in order 16 to address this potential imbalance. In this analysis only the maintenance treatment varies between 17 comparators and not the induction sequence but this is probably only a reasonable comparison for 18 people who have had a recent
