Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


effect of this uncertainty on model outputs. 35 Model outputs were very uncertain; this is in part due to the inclusion of the induction model 36 treatment sequence and the associated uncertainty of the efficacy inputs. 37 The cost effectiveness of azathioprine was most certain in the non-conservative three-line model 38 where, at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per QALY the lower limit of the 95% confidence 39 interval of the ranking of azathioprine was one and the probability of azathioprine being most cost- 40 effective was 98%. 41 The cost-effectiveness of azathioprine was least certain in the conservative four-line model where, at 42 a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per QALY, azathioprine was ranked second with 95% 43 confidence interval ranging from first to sixth. In this analysis, the probability of azathioprine being 44 the most cost-effective treatment was 41%. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 1 6.7.4 Limitations and interpretation 2 This model was based on findings from RCTs included in the guideline’s review and therefore any 3 issues concerning interpretation in the clinical review also apply to interpretation of the economic 4 analysis. Limitations of the model include: 5  The utility loss and treatment cost associated with treatment-related adverse events were 6 not explicitly incorporated. This is likely to mean the cost effectiveness of all the treatment 7 strategies has been overestimated in the economic analysis, though since each treatment is 8 likely to have a different side-effect profile, it is unlikely that ICERs have been 9 underestimated by the same magnitude for all treatment strategies. For treatment strategies 10 with more severe side effects, the over estimation of the ICER is likely to be higher than in 11 treatment strategies with less severe side-effect profiles. 12  No clinical review was conducted on the efficacy of biologic treatments as this was outside of 13 the Crohn’s disease guideline remit therefore efficacy data were derived from the two 14 studies from within the NICE biologics Technology Appraisal198. 15  Efficacy for azathioprine in the model is based on withdrawal trials and thus any conclusions 16 regarding its cost effectiveness should be made in this context. The participants in these 17 trials were, by definition those who had already achieved a stable remission with 18 azathioprine, and therefore more likely to experience continued remission if randomised to 19 azathioprine than a patient who has not previously tried the drug.It
