Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


achieved a stable remission with 18 azathioprine, and therefore more likely to experience continued remission if randomised to 19 azathioprine than a patient who has not previously tried the drug.It is difficult to incorporate 20 severity of disease with precision, since both the trial and utility evidence tends to 21 dichotomise outcomes to active disease and remission, whereas in reality there is a blurred 22 line between active disease and remission. Furthermore relapses vary in terms of their 23 severity. 24  The conclusions from this model relate to which maintenance treatment to use once it has 25 been decided to put a patient on maintenance treatment. The model is not designed to 26 answer the question of when exactly a patient should be put on maintenance treatment. 27 6.7.5 Generalisability to other populations and settings 28 It should be noted that all of the findings from this cost-effectiveness analysis relate to an adult 29 population and the conclusions may not apply to paediatric treatment. It was not possible to conduct 30 a separate model for children due to the paucity of both clinical and quality of life studies conducted 31 in this area. 32 6.7.6 Conclusion evidence statement 33 The original cost-effectiveness analysis conducted for this guideline suggests that azathioprine is the 34 most cost-effective treatment for maintenance of remission in Crohn’s disease, although there was 35 considerable uncertainty related to interpretation of withdrawals in the trials and the induction 36 sequence assumed for people who relapse. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6.8 Recommendations for maintenance of remission 2 21.Discuss with people with Crohn's disease, and/or their parents or carers if appropriate, options 3 for managing their disease when they are in remission, including both no treatment and 4 treatment. The discussion should include the risk of inflammatory exacerbations (with and 5 without drug treatment) and the potential side effects of drug treatment. Record the person's 6 views in their notes. 7 22.Offer colonoscopic surveillance in line with 'Colonoscopic surveillance for prevention of 9 guideline 118). 10 Follow-up during remission for those who choose not to receive maintenance treatment 11 23.When people choose not to receive maintenance treatment: 12  discuss and agree with them, and/or their parents or carers if appropriate, plans for follow- 13 up, including the frequency of follow-up and who they should see 14  ensure they know which symptoms may suggest a relapse and
