Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


carers if appropriate, plans for follow- 13 up, including the frequency of follow-up and who they should see 14  ensure they know which symptoms may suggest a relapse and should prompt a consultation 15 with their healthcare professional (most frequently, unintended weight loss, abdominal 17  ensure they know how to access the healthcare system if they experience a relapse 18  discuss the importance of not smoking. 19 Maintenance treatment for those who choose this option 20 24.Offer azathioprine or mercaptopurineh as monotherapy to maintain remission when previously 21 used with a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonide to induce remission. 22 25.Consider azathioprine or mercaptopurineh to maintain remission in people who have not 23 previously received these drugs (particularly those with adverse prognostic factors such as early 24 age of onset, perianal disease, glucocorticosteroid use at presentation and severe 25 presentations). 26 26.Consider methotrexatec to maintain remission only in people who: 27  needed methotrexate to induce remission, or 28  have tried but did not tolerate azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintenance or 29  have contraindications to azathioprine or mercaptopurine (for example, deficient TPMT 30 activity or previous episodes of pancreatitis). 31 27.Do not offer a conventional glucocorticosteroid or budesonide to maintain remission. 32 See recommendations 11 and 12 for guidance on monitoring the effects of azathioprine, 33 mercaptopurine and methotrexate. 34 See recommendation 16 for when to continue infliximab or adalimumab during remission. Crohn's disease Maintenance of remission 6.9 Research recommendation 2 2. Following successful medical induction of remission of Crohn’s disease of the colon, is 3 mesalazine more clinically and cost effective than no treatment? 4 The evidence for use of this group of drugs for maintenance of remission in Crohn’s disease is not 5 clear, and in particular, there is very limited reporting of disease site. It is possible that this might be 6 a cost-effective treatment for maintenance of remission, with limited toxicity. Its use in this setting 7 may therefore be associated with higher rates of successful maintenance of disease remission, 9 and surgeries. The question is applicable to adults, children and young people, and trials in all are 10 therefore required. A conventional glucocorticosteroid would be offered to induce remission in a first 11 presentation of colonic Crohn’s disease. Patients would be recruited once in remission and 12 glucocorticosteroid-free and randomised to receive mesalazine or placebo, for maintenance of 13 remission. Co-primary
