Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


 5-aminosalicylate treatment  azathioprine  mercaptopurine  methotrexate  metronidazole or  combinations thereof  or nutritional treatment compared with  placebo  no treatment? Recommendations 28. Consider azathioprine or mercaptopurineh to maintain remission after surgery in people with adverse prognostic factors such as: • more than one resection, or • previously complicated or debilitating disease (for example, abscess, involvement of adjacent structures, fistulising or penetrating disease). 29, Consider 5-ASAk treatment to maintain remission after surgery. 30. Do not offer budesonide or enteral nutrition to maintain remission after surgery. azathioprine and mercaptopurine did not have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. olsalazine, balsalazide and sulfasalazine did not have UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the GMC's Good practice in prescribing medicines – guidance for doctors for further information. Some forms of mesalazine (Octasa MR, Mesren MR, Asacol MR) are licensed for maintaining remission in Crohn’s ileo-colitis. Relative values of different The value of these agents (with the exception of metronidazole) for outcomes maintaining remission has already been assessed in section 6. The question posed here for maintaining remission after surgery is clearly related, but not identical. Firstly, although performing surgery will not alter the fundamental nature of Crohn’s disease, there are additional factors which might be relevant to disease recurrence after surgery, for example bacterial overgrowth. More importantly, the question is not just about the ability of these treatments to prevent recurrence, but asks whether Crohn's disease Maintaining remission after surgery maintenance therapy or one type in particular, should be started routinely after surgery. GDG as the most important outcome, and their preferred tools were the CDAI or HBI as before. Unfortunately not all studies used the same cut- off points for disease relapse, and some studies used alternative measures. In addition, the studies reported relapse rates at different time points, for example one year, 18 months or two years. For these reasons pooling of data for meta-analysis was not possible in many instances. The GDG agreed relapse + withdrawals to be the conservative outcome measure for maintenance efficacy assessment and should therefore
