Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


pooling of data for meta-analysis was not possible in many instances. The GDG agreed relapse + withdrawals to be the conservative outcome measure for maintenance efficacy assessment and should therefore be the outcome measure informing recommendation decisions. The GDG also felt that endoscopic evidence of relapse17,94 should be given more weight in post-surgical studies than in those conducted in people with Crohn’s disease under other circumstances. This is because some of the components of the CDAI can be affected by the surgical procedure itself. For example, following distal ileal resection it is common for people to develop bile acid diarrhoea. benefits and harms referred to the work done in section 6 which considers the same agents outside the post-surgical setting. Metronidazole was not part of that review; the GDG noted that there is a significant risk of neurological toxicity with prolonged use of this agent. Bearing in mind that none of the available agents are free from the potential to cause significant side effects, the GDG did not feel that the evidence supported a general recommendation in favour of routine maintenance treatment post-surgery. Economic considerations An economic evaluation of maintenance therapy specifically in post- surgery patients was not conducted. In the previous chapter, azathioprine appeared to be the most cost-effective maintenance strategy but there was high uncertainty in the estimates of cost- effectiveness. Furthermore, utility loss and treatment costs associated with adverse events were not captured in the model. A partially applicable health economic analysis8 with minor limitations was identified in this area. It was noted that this was an important paper for the GDG to consider, since original economic analysis was not conducted to address this question. The analysis was based on a decision model conducted from a US perspective and was rated as partially applicable since some of the costs used in the model were higher than the UK equivalent. The model compared azathioprine and metronidazole with no treatment. In the base case analysis, and in a sensitivity analysis for high-risk patients, metronidazole was the dominant strategy compared with both azathioprine and no maintenance. Azathioprine was dominant compared with no treatment in both these analyses, but dominated by metronidazole. Hence metronidazole was found to be associated with the highest increase in QALYs compared with both no treatment and aziothioprine. But utility loss due to drug-related side- effects of azathioprine and metronidazole were not explicitly modelled.. The GDG considered
