Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


highest increase in QALYs compared with both no treatment and aziothioprine. But utility loss due to drug-related side- effects of azathioprine and metronidazole were not explicitly modelled.. The GDG considered this to be a serious omission for metronidazole Crohn's disease Maintaining remission after surgery given the neuropathy associated with it. In people at low risk of relapse, neither metronidazole nor azathioprine was cost effective compared with no treatment at a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY. Quality of evidence For most outcomes the quality was low or very low. The GDG concurred with this, noting that the studies were generally relatively small and many had other limitations including non-blinding (under normal circumstances such studies would not be considered, but for some comparisons there was no other available data). They also noted that the populations studied were heterogeneous in that some had experienced a first, whereas others had required multiple, resections. 5-ASA treatment 5-ASA treatment was the most extensively-studied (although even here the studies were relatively small, except for that by Ewe et al). The GDG agreed that as in sections 5 and 6, 5-ASA treatment was considered as a class and not assessed on the basis of different delivery mechanisms. In this review specifically, site of action is even less pertinent as the data include any intestinal surgery for Crohn’s disease. The NCGC meta-analyses of 3 RCTs (Brignola, Ewe and Wenckert) for 5- ASAs (sulfasalazine and mesalazine) vs placebo for relapse (only) at one year showed that 5-ASA reduced relapses by 40% compared to placebo. At 95% confidence this number ranged from 60 to 90% (RR 0.60 [0.40 to 0.91]). A meta analysis of two RCTs (Locks and Wenckert) at 18 months showed that 5-ASA reduced relapses by 26% compared to placebo. Of borderline significance at 95% confidence, this number ranged from a 48% decrease to a 4% increase. However at two years, meta analysis of two studies (Ewe and Hanauer) showed that 5-ASA reduced relapses by 31% compared to placebo and at 95% confidence this number ranged from 10 to 47%. The GDG noted that when relapse and withdrawal were taken into account at one year, meta-analysis of the same three RCTs (Brignola, Ewe and Wenckert) demonstrated a non-significant trend favouring 5- ASA - relapses reduced by 18% compared with placebo and at 95% confidence, this number ranged from a 35% decrease to a 3% increase. By two years
