Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


trend favouring 5- ASA - relapses reduced by 18% compared with placebo and at 95% confidence, this number ranged from a 35% decrease to a 3% increase. By two years however a meta-analysis of two RCTs (Ewe and Hanauer) of sulfasalazine for relapse and withdrawal for maintaining remission after surgery showed a statistically-significant result - 5-ASA reduced relapses by 16% compared with placebo and at 95% confidence this number ranged from 28% to 2%. The GDG were also aware of a Cochrane review69 which pooled results of endoscopic relapse from four studies, and did not show benefit from 5- ASA treatment. The GDG debated this evidence at length and ultimately agreed that overall, 5-ASAs were thought to be effective at preventing relapses from surgically-induced remission. For these reasons the GDG made a “consider recommendation” for 5- ASAs to maintain remission after surgery. Crohn's disease Maintaining remission after surgery Thiopurines In view of the paucity of RCTs, and the lack of any RCT comparing azathioprine and placebo, the GDG debated whether it was reasonable to pool results from studies of azathioprine + metronidazole versus placebo + metronidazole (D’Haens 2008) and mercaptopurine versus placebo . The latter is regarded as being better-tolerated, but is not readily available in some localities, particularly some primary care settings. Mercaptopurine is usually only available under a shared care policy, and some GPs will also only prescribe azathioprine, under a shared care policy. The two have an identical mode of action. The GDG decided to consider the evidence from these two trials (D’Haens, Hanauer) together, and noted that some of the outcome measures were positive, including an intention-to-treat analysis of relapse rate at two years. The GDG noted that despite the evidence supporting fewer relapses with mercaptopurine than placebo (Hanauer) there was only one study, and that this drug demonstrated more side effects. The GDG also noted that azathioprine did not demonstrate any greater effect than 5-ASA for clinical relapse or endoscopic relapse (which is thought to be predictive of mercaptopurine or azathioprine for all patients after surgery, but suggested azathioprine or mercaptopurine should be “considered” when poor prognostic factors increase the need to prevent relapse. The group also noted that other ongoing trials may help to resolve uncertainty associated with mercaptopurine for maintaining remission after surgery. For this reason, the GDG did not prioritise azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintaining remission after surgery as a question for
