Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


resolve uncertainty associated with mercaptopurine for maintaining remission after surgery. For this reason, the GDG did not prioritise azathioprine or mercaptopurine for maintaining remission after surgery as a question for future research. In relation to 5-ASA (mesalazine only) compared with azathioprine for relapse only at the two-year time point the meta-analyses of two RCTs (Ardizzone and Hanauer) demonstrated statistical non-significance that azathioprine reduced relapses by 32% and at 95% conflidence this number ranged from a 6% increase to an 84% decrease. The result remained statistically non-significant when relapse and withdrawals at two years were taken into account in a meta-analysis of the same RCTs. This showed that azathioprine and 5-ASAs are approximately equivalent for preventing relapse for post-sugical maintenance of remission. Budesonide Studies of budesonide did not show any benefit for routine use and the GDG were aware of the side-effects associated with long-term glucocorticosteroid treatment. Enteral nutrition The available data for enteral nutrition were particularly disappointing; the GDG felt that the difficulty in adequate blinding of participants to the intervention did not excuse the absence of properly randomised trials with investigator blinding. The GDG noted that there was only one small very low-quality observational study (Yamamoto) demonstrating a non- significant trend towards enteral nutrition over placebo in maintaining remission after surgery. Given that there was no consistency of evidence the GDG agreed a ‘do not offer’ recommendation until such time that Crohn's disease Maintaining remission after surgery further data was available. Metronidazole Although some of the outcomes for metronidazole relapse compared with placebo, and metronidazole in combination with azathioprine, appeared encouraging, the GDG considered the numbers studied to be small and there to be substantial statistical uncertainty. The analysis included only two trials (not pooled) with low and very low quality outcome data and there were marked differences in effect sizes and significance when relapse, or relapse + withdrawal, were considered. The GDG also noted from the clinical review that benefit that might have been derived from metronidazole in the short-term, was lost at two- and three-year time points. For this reason the GDG felt unable to make a recommendation for metronidazole for maintaining remission after surgery for Crohn’s disease. Other considerations As with the maintenance studies detailed in section 6, the GDG wished to consider only studies in which maintenance therapy was continued for at least 12 months. However, this criterion was not applied to metronidazole. The rationale
