Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


section 6, the GDG wished to consider only studies in which maintenance therapy was continued for at least 12 months. However, this criterion was not applied to metronidazole. The rationale for preventing relapse post-operatively with metronidazole may differ from other agents (all of which have, through varying mechanisms, some form of anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory actions). Metronidazole has additional antibacterial actions, and because of side effects, administration for 12 months is not practical. However, although they considered studies in which metronidazole had been given for shorter periods of time, the GDG still required follow-up of at least 12 months in order to determine the effect of the treatment on maintenance of remission in the longer term. The GDG noted the general limitations of the evidence base despite the common practice of prescribing azathioprine or mercaptopurine for people with a history of multiple resections or severe disease. The listed risk factors are based upon GDG consensus opinion derived from clinical experience. When reflecting upon what characteristics might be considered to be “poor prognostic factors”, the GDG confirmed that although fibrotic strictures are not the same as inflammatory strictures or exacerbations, both may be regarded as appropriate for azathioprine maintenance example, the GDG did not consider first surgery for a fibrotic stricture to be an indication for azathioprine maintenance, but recurrent surgery was regarded as an indication for this. Some people with Crohn’s disease express a wish to continue prior maintenance treatment after surgery. While acknowledging that personal choice plays a part, the need for surgery while on azathioprine treatment, may prompt consideration of TA 187. One suggested management option was to establish if there is endoscopic recurrence six months after surgery and then to offer azathioprine. However the GDG recognised that this strategy is neither evidence-based nor universally available. The GDG wished to highlight the importance of the difference between “complications” for example complicated by stricture or abscess, and “complex” i.e. difficult to treat or requiring many management Crohn's disease Maintaining remission after surgery considerations. They also stressed that in these situations, decisions about post- operative maintenance therapy should be made in partnership with people with Crohn’s disease. Children There were no studies on maintenance of post-surgical remission in children. The GDG agreed that in the lack of any paediatric data it was acceptable to extrapolate from adult studies and to make the same recommendations as for adults. 7.11 Recommendations 2 28.Consider
