Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


adults has tended to follow a cyclical pattern.300 9 Nutritional therapy can be administered enterally (via the gastrointestinal tract) or parenterally 10 (avoiding the gastrointestinal tract i.e. intravenously). A landmark study by Greenberg et al (1988)111 11 showed that total parenteral nutrition, partial parenteral nutrition and enteral nutrition using a liquid 12 feed were equally effective in achieving and maintaining remission. This showed that “bowel rest” 13 was not necessary and as parenteral nutrition has a high complication rate it is now rarely used as 14 the primary nutritional therapy for induction of remission. Therefore this review focuses on the role 15 of exclusive enteral nutrition for induction of remission. 16 Enteral nutrition is provided in the form of a liquid feed which can be taken orally or may be 17 administered via an enteral feeding tube (usually nasogastric). Route of delivery usually depends on 18 patient preference. Tube feeding may increase compliance where oral palatability is an issue. Most 19 units recommend that all solid food is stopped for up to eight weeks but there is variation in practice 20 between adult and paediatric populations, across the UK and between countries. Enteral feeds can 21 be polymeric - containing whole proteins, semi-elemental – containing oligopeptides, or elemental - 22 containing amino acids, in addition to other essential nutrients. The optimal composition of enteral 23 feeds is unknown. Several trials assessing the relative efficacy of the different types have been 24 unable to demonstrate a difference89,295 but lipid content may be important.98,182 Cost, availability 25 and palatability are relevant considerations when choosing a formula. 26 Enteral nutrition is widely used as first-line therapy in children and adolescents to facilitate growth 27 and development.237 Conversely, its use in adults is limited, commonly due to its association with 28 poor compliance, lack of clinician experience in its administration and inadequate availability of 29 dietetic services. Adult patients are often unaware of enteral nutrition as a treatment option. 30 The major arguments for the use of enteral nutrition are avoidance of the adverse effects associated 31 with medications and improvement in nutritional status, bone health202 and growth in children and 32 young people.21 Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition 1 8.1.2 Clinical questions: enteral nutrition for induction of remission 3 In adults and children diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of 4 enteral nutrition (elemental, semi-elemental and polymeric) as a
