Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


plus 5-ASA treatment, height velocity was improved in the Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition 1 enteral nutrition group (+3.2 in enteral nutrition group; -3.1 in conventional glucocorticosteroid 2 plus 5-ASA group).277[VERY LOW] 3 8.1.4 Economic evidence 4 No published data were found and original modelling was not undertaken for this question due to 5 the nature of the clinical evidence. Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition 8.2 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Table 68: Linking evidence to recommendations – enteral nutrition for induction What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of enteral nutrition Clinical question (elemental, semi-elemental and polymeric) for induction of remission compared with  usual diet  medical treatment  conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment  budesonide  5-ASA treatment  azathioprine or mercaptopurine  methotrexate In adults and children diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness for induction of remission of enteral nutrition (elemental, semi-elemental and polymeric) plus medical therapy versus usual diet? Recommendation 3. Consider enteral nutrition as an alternative to a conventional glucocorticosteroid to induce remission for:  children in whom there is concern about growth or side effects, and  young people in whom there is concern about growth Relative values of different The goal when treating active disease is to induce remission and outcomes hence this was agreed by the GDG as the primary outcome of interest. Remission defined by a Crohn’s disease activity index (CDAI) of ≤ 150 together with a CDAI fall of 70 was considered to be the most rigorous reflection of efficacy. Ideally both an endpoint and a fall would be taken into consideration because, for example, a person with a CDAI of 151 would be considered to be suffering active disease but a reduction in CDAI of 2 to an endpoint of 149 cannot be taken as a treatment success. When the GDG was presented with the data it was apparent that not all studies report both of these CDAI parameters. Given the limited data available the GDG did not feel it could exclude studies on this basis. For adults, in addition to the CDAI outcome measure, the Harvey Bradshaw Index (of < 3) was also accepted by the GDG as a recognised outcome measure for disease activity. Because of the paucity of data, the GDG agreed to consider the Disease Activity Index, but placed less importance on this outcome measure. The GDG considered that “investigator-reported remission” was subject
