Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


of the paucity of data, the GDG agreed to consider the Disease Activity Index, but placed less importance on this outcome measure. The GDG considered that “investigator-reported remission” was subject to bias. The GDG anticipated that there would be a paucity of paediatric literature for enteral nutrition and hence included remission measured by the PCDAI and the Lloyd Still Disease Activity Index. For children, when assessing enteral nutrition in relation to other medical therapies, the outcomes of growth and height velocity were of particular interest to the GDG. Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition Adverse event differences were also considered to be of importance. The GDG debated the value of endoscopic healing17,94 as a surrogate marker for an index of response. Deep ulceration is known to be linked to poor prognosis. It was agreed that when studies reported it, the group would wish to consider this information. The GDG noted that endoscopic healing was reported in some of the papers reviewed (in contrast to the studies considering drug therapy). Trade off between clinical benefits The GDG debated the trade-offs between quantitative outcomes and harms noted above and qualitative aspects pertaining to enteral nutrition, for example palatability, repeated insertion of a nasogastric tube and not being able to join in the social activity of meal times and eating. Economic considerations Costs are dependent on use in acute or community settings, type of feed used, route of delivery and duration of use. Enteral nutrition was not included in the cost-effectiveness model looking at induction of remission since the trial evidence did not contain data on withdrawal rates. However, given the relatively low effectiveness observed in the guideline review, it is unlikely to be considered effective or cost effective compared with glucocorticosteroid treatment, in people who can tolerate both. Quality of evidence No data were identified comparing usual diet with combination enteral nutrition and drug therapy. The enteral nutrition evidence compared with drug therapy generated extensive debate. GDG clinical experience is that enteral nutrition is used to induce remission as first-line therapy in children (and some adults particularly if it was effective when the patient was younger). However the data highlighted considerable methodological limitations and outcomes in adults that contradicted this clinical experience. Adults A moderate quality systematic review was conducted by Cochrane311 however all the randomised controlled studies included within it were of moderate to very low quality. The studies were graded as low
