Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


moderate quality systematic review was conducted by Cochrane311 however all the randomised controlled studies included within it were of moderate to very low quality. The studies were graded as low quality due to lack of clarity regarding methodology, small sample sizes and heterogeneity. The methodological limitations and short-term follow-up (ranging from three to ten weeks) noted for the enteral nutrition studies contrasted with the higher quality of evidence seen for inducing remission with conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment compared with placebo 166,270 at 15 to 18 weeks. In addition, from a quality perspective, the GDG considered that “investigator-reported remission” was subject to bias given that no objective measures were reported (such as CDAI). The meta-analysis of seven studies comparing enteral nutrition to glucocorticosteroid treatment for inducing remission in adults and children measured by CDAI/PCDAI at four to ten weeks showed that Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment induced 30% more remissions than enteral nutrition and at 95% confidence, this increase in remissions ranged from 7% to 47%. The GDG noted the predominately low to very low quality and the methodological limitations. Of note, the high dropout rate in the Gorard study is likely to impact upon the outcome (41% of the elemental diet group were withdrawn due to non-compliance). The GDG agreed that further research was required and went on to make a research recommendation. The GDG agreed that there is value in repeating the investigation of effectiveness of enteral nutrition in adults, because the number of patients in the enteral nutrition meta- analysis was relatively small (350), and a large well-designed RCT would have the potential to either support or refute existing findings. The GDG noted the ethical aspects of research in this area and not being able to compare enteral nutrition with placebo. Children and young people The GDG noted that for children and young people the picture was slightly different. Five RCTs were identified which assessed the efficacy of enteral nutrition in children, but patient numbers were noted to be small in all the studies:  Borelli 2006: enteral nutrition vs conventional corticosteroid  Ruuska 1994: enteral nutrition vs conventional corticosteroid  Terrin 2002: enteral nutrition vs conventional corticosteroid and 5- ASA  Thomas 1993: enteral nutrition vs conventional corticosteroid and 5-ASA  Sanderson 1987: enteral nutrition vs conventional corticosteroid and 5-ASA. Borelli 2006 and Terrin 2002 suggested enteral nutrition was superior to conventional corticosteroid +/- 5-ASA for
