Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


conventional corticosteroid and 5-ASA  Sanderson 1987: enteral nutrition vs conventional corticosteroid and 5-ASA. Borelli 2006 and Terrin 2002 suggested enteral nutrition was superior to conventional corticosteroid +/- 5-ASA for inducing remission and endoscopic (Borelli: RR 2.03 [1.09 – 3.79]) and histologic (Borelli: RR 2.21 [1.09 – 4.48]) healing but there was considerable uncertainty in the estimated effect size of these surrogate markers. Terrin 2002 and Sanderson 1987 suggested enteral nutrition was of benefit in children where there are growth concerns. Also the Thomas and Sanderson studies236,277 demonstrated outcomes that favoured enteral nutrition over glucocorticosteroid treatment for improved growth. (Mean height velocity for chronological age was significantly greater in the elemental group (p < 0.05) despite similar gain in weight in the Sanderson study, but further data were not provided). Adverse events outcomes in paediatric studies were equivocal: significantly less in one trial at 10 weeks (Borelli) but not significantly less in another trial at two months (Ruuska). The GDG noted the very Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition small numbers and the low quality of the evidence. In making their recommendation, the GDG considered that there may be reluctance to offer glucocorticosteroid treatment to children with Crohn’s disease (given the side effects) and that none of the 5-ASAs, immunosuppressives or conventional glucocorticosteroids are licensed for use in children with Crohn’s disease. The evidence was low to very low quality but the GDG agreed that there were limited options available for children and there is known widespread paediatric use of enteral nutrition. On this basis, the GDG made a ‘consider’ recommendation for enteral nutrition for inducing remission in the presence of concerns about side effects or concerns about a child’s or a young person’s growth (and as an alternative to conventional glucocorticosteroid) appropriate. The GDG commented on the paucity of high-quality paediatric data for a treatment that is generally accepted as standard clinical practice and this is why the GDG made a ‘consider’ rather than an ‘offer’ recommendation. This is also the reason for the extention of the research recommendation to encompass children and young people, as well as adults. The GDG discussed transition care (children to adult services) and whether it would be appropriate for enteral nutrition to be prescribed for young people at a transition care stage. The GDG appreciated that because of pubertal delay, young people with Crohn’s disease may still be growing until the age of 25. In
