Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


young people at a transition care stage. The GDG appreciated that because of pubertal delay, young people with Crohn’s disease may still be growing until the age of 25. In summary the GDG agreed that enteral nutrition should be considered as an alternative to glucocorticosteroid treatment to induce remission in children and ‘young people’ (rather than stipulating an age cut off for which there is no direct evidence) in whom pubertal delay extended the potential for growth beyond the age of 18. Whilst the GDG made a limited ‘consider’ recommendation they felt that future research in this area was a high priority. Other considerations Whilst the methodological limitations of the evidence led the GDG to make a research recommendation, the GDG acknowledged that enteral nutrition is currently offered to adults and anecdotally noted to be a preferred option for some people. The GDG agreed the importance of encouraging patients to eat a varied, balanced diet when in disease remission. Whilst the GDG did not look at the evidence base pertaining to who should provide dietary advice (for example, dietitians) the group agreed that where appropriate, patients at risk of malnutrition or wishing to restrict their diet or avoid certain foods should be given healthcare professional advice. The GDG emphasized that their enteral nutrition review was conducted on the basis of it being a treatment for inducing remission and not as a nutritional supplement. Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition 8.3 Recommendation 2 3. Consider enteral nutrition as an alternative to a conventional glucocorticosteroid to induce 3 remission for: 4  children in whom there is concern about growth or side effects, and 5  young people in whom there is concern about growth. 8.4 Research recommendation 7 3. What are the benefits, risks and cost effectiveness of enteral nutrition compared with 8 glucocorticosteroid treatment in adults, children and young people? 9 Previous studies suggested that glucocorticosteroid treatment is more effective at inducing remission 10 than enteral nutrition in adults with Crohn’s disease, but some small paediatric studies suggested 11 that growth and mucosal healing may be better following treatment with enteral nutrition. In clinical 12 practice enteral nutrition is often used to avoid the side effects of glucocorticosteroid treatment in 13 children and young people. There is little information about the relative effects on quality of life, 14 bone density or cost effectiveness. Randomised controlled trials should be conducted in children, 15
