Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


is not 6 clear as to whether these are real resource costs or charges. The trial was stopped early due to the observed treatment 7 effect. 8 (b) The analysis was designed to reflect clinical management of Crohn’s diseases in the Japanese healthcare system. HRQoL 9 was assessed using disease-specific measurements rather than a generic instrument and QALYs were not calculated. 10 Table 72: Economic summary of findings Incremental cost Incremental effects Study (per patient) (per patient) ICER Uncertainty Takagi et al £4512 0.29 relapses £15,600 per Not reported 2009: half- preventedb relapse elemental diet preventeda versus free diet 11 (a) Figures may differ due to rounding off. 12 (b) The study did not conduct an incremental analysis of costs and effects. Incremental costs and effects were calculated by 13 the NCGC on the basis of data reported in the study. 14 8.7.1 Evidence statements - economic 15  On the basis of the one partially applicable economic study found (with potentially serious 16 limitations): 17 o It is unlikely that half-elemental diet compared with free-diet is cost-effective for maintenance 18 of remission in Crohn’s disease (at £15,600 per relapse prevented). Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition 8.8 Enteral nutrition for maintaining remission after surgery 2 Please refer to section 7.8 for data pertaining to the use of enteral nutrition after surgery. 8.9 Linking evidence to recommendations 4 Table 73: Linking evidence to recommendations – enteral nutrition for maintenance Clinical question 13.2 What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of enteral nutrition (elemental, semi-elemental and polymeric) for maintenance of remission in combination with  conventional glucocorticosteroid treatment  budesonide  5-ASA treatment  azathioprine or mercaptopurine  methotrexate? compared with any of the above? Recommendation None made. See research recommendation section 8.11 Relative values of different The key outcome of interest agreed prior to evidence evaluation was outcomes Crohn’s disease remission maintained for 12 months or longer following medical treatment as measured by the CDAI. Studies were only included in the review when patients were randomised during the quiescent phase of the disease. People with active Crohn’s disease (active phase) and who then entered remission were excluded as they were not considered comparable with a quiescent phase population. The GDG also agreed that for enteral nutrition trials, adverse events and withdrawals (due to palatability) were both important outcomes, although it is difficult to quantify some of the effects of ingesting a food
