Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


that for enteral nutrition trials, adverse events and withdrawals (due to palatability) were both important outcomes, although it is difficult to quantify some of the effects of ingesting a food supplement over a long-term period (e.g. lack of palatability) and then to draw a comparison with quantifiable effects ascribed to a drug. Data were also reported for this review if study withdrawal was noted to be due to drug effect (rather than non-compliance or other reasons for drop-out). Mucosal healing has been more recently emphasized as an end-point, and may not be described in older papers. The relative value of this outcome was felt to be less important than maintenance of remission data. This is because the patchy way in which the disease affects the intestines limits the application of histological sampling. When this evidence was available, it was reported. Trade off between clinical The GDG found it difficult to draw conclusions about the balance of benefits and harms adverse events versus efficacy when adverse event data were not well quantified and number and quality of studies reporting efficacy were low to very low. Economic considerations Enteral nutrition is considered to be a relatively costly option compared with normal diet or drug therapy with glucocorticosteroid, Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition immunosuppressives and 5-ASAs. Cost is dependent on type, quantity and duration of enteral nutrition. An economic evaluation from a Japanese perspective274 found that half- elemental diet compared with free-diet cost about £15,600 per relapse prevented, which is unlikely to be cost-effective compared with a cost- effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained. Enteral nutrition was not included in the cost-effectiveness analysis because adverse event outcomes were poorly captured in the trial evidence. Quality of evidence Induction of Remission The GDG noted that there was only one RCT considering maintenance of remission with enteral nutrition vs. normal diet in adults. The quality of this study was low due to large confidence intervals, small sample size and premature termination of the study. The GDG considered the other RCT included in the Cochrane review actually to be cohort observational data295 as it compared two kinds of enteral nutrition and detected no difference between them. Because of the paucity of data, observational studies were considered in the review – three prospective, and one retrospective chart study. The GDG commented in particular on the very low quality of the Yamamoto study for the following reasons: non-randomised,
