Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


in the review – three prospective, and one retrospective chart study. The GDG commented in particular on the very low quality of the Yamamoto study for the following reasons: non-randomised, 40 consecutive patients, self-inserting nasogastric tube i.e. self selecting, no comparator group. The GDG also noted that the enteral nutrition ‘regimens’ varied across studies e.g. enteral feeding via nasogastric tube, providing half-calorie requirements or oral nutritional supplements taken twice a day; thereby reducing consistency. Other considerations The GDG raised a number of points pertaining to the Japanese population studied (two of the total number of studies reviewed were in Japanese patients) and the application of the data to UK practice. Crohn’s disease incidence, presentation, natural history and response to medication appear to be different in people of Japanese origin. The Japanese diet (“placebo arm”) is very different from the UK Western diet. The formula, Elental, used in the Takagi study is currently unavailable in the UK. It is different in composition from the elemental formula currently available in the UK, particularly with regard to its lower fat content which may be important in Crohn’s disease. The GDG also made a number of observations about enteral nutrition in general. Costs of and commercial interests surrounding enteral nutrition are significant. The GDG highlighted the difference between enteral nutrition as a therapeutic agent for maintenance of remission and enteral nutrition as a nutritional supplement. Enteral nutrition is generally used as a food supplement to food (nutritional support) for people with malnutrition, growth failure or those following restricted diets, for example food reintroduction or exclusion diets following a period of exclusive enteral nutrition therapy, or for people who self- exclude foods they have identified to exacerbate symptoms and are unable to meet nutritional requirements once in remission (such as low Crohn's disease Enteral nutrition fat food exclusion diet). In some cases, food exclusion diets are used to identify food intolerances with the aim of maintaining remission. Nutrition support is not within the scope of this guideline, but readers are referred to Nutrition support in adults: oral nutrition support, enteral tube feeding and parenteral nutrition, published by the National Collaborating Centre for Acute Care; and available from www.rcseng.ac.uk/research/nccac.192 Enteral nutrition can be used for nutritional support indefinitely, but it is preferable for people to return to a normal eating pattern and have a varied, balanced diet. Whilst acknowledging that dietetic advice and support is important,
