Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


support indefinitely, but it is preferable for people to return to a normal eating pattern and have a varied, balanced diet. Whilst acknowledging that dietetic advice and support is important, the GDG recognised that access to dietetic services is often limited. There was some concern about long-term use of enteral nutrition for maintenance of remission (particularly regimens used in some studies which provide half-calorie needs), in people who are overweight or conversely who are able to meet their nutritional requirements with diet. Given the overall consideration that the available data are poor (uncertainty, imprecision and indirect population), the GDG concluded that there is no evidence for the routine use of supplemental enteral nutrition for maintenance of remission in adults and children. The GDG was aware of a call for primary research into the effectiveness of enteral nutrition for maintenance of remission from the NIHR and agreed to await results of this research prior to making a recommendation. 8.10 Recommendation 2 None made. 8.11 Research recommendation 4 The GDG was aware of a call for research initiated by the NIHR HTA programme in this area. For more 5 information please visit: Crohn's disease Surgery 9 Surgery 2 Surgery has a major role in the management of obstruction associated with Crohn’s disease, as well 3 as the removal of inflamed tissue which is unresponsive to medical therapy. Initial symptoms are due 4 to local inflammation or to narrowing or stenosis causing obstruction. As time passes the disease can 5 progress to a slow perforation of the intestinal wall which results in complications (such as local 6 abscess formation48,160) that may require surgery. 7 Given the size of the topic in Crohn’s disease, the GDG prioritised two areas for review considered to 8 be both discreet clinical entities and for which data may exist that could pragmatically inform clinical 9 practice – surgery compared with medical or nutritional management of disease limited to the distal 10 ileum, and surgical management compared with balloon dilation of stricture in Crohn’s disease. Crohn's disease Surgery 9.1 Surgery versus medical management for disease limited to the distal ileum 3 9.1.1 Clinical introduction 4 Patients who present with disease limited to the distal ileum are usually treated by medication in the 5 first instance, although practice varies widely. Evidence for thiopurine immunosuppression49,216 and 6 biological treatments compared with conventional medical therapy55) to reduce the need for surgery 7
