Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


and is cost effective in avoiding long- 30 term medical treatment. This is particularly relevant for children because timing of surgery in relation 31 to closure of the epiphyses is a key consideration in terms of growth potential. The GDG were 32 therefore interested to review any data that might inform surgery and medical management 33 decisions in children. Crohn's disease Surgery 1 Patient vignette 1 The thought of surgery fills most Crohn’s patients with overwhelming fear. After you’ve had it, you wonder where your symptoms have gone. 5 Patient vignette 2 A patient with Crohn’s disease is more than an inflamed gut. Each one is a person with their own individual abilities, responsibilities, fears and hopes. 7 9.1.2 Clinical question 9 effectiveness of surgical resection for induction and maintenance of remission compared with 10 medical or nutritional treatment? 11 9.1.3 Clinical evidence 12 No RCTs were identified which compared surgery and medical treatment or surgery and nutritional 13 treatment for induction and maintenance of remission in Crohn’s disease limited to the distal ileum. 14 The data search was expanded to include observational studies of greater than 20 patients. It was 15 decided that studies dating from the year 2000 would be separated out as a subgroup in order to 16 take into account mainly the effect of biological treatments on the course of the disease but also 17 changes in surgical techniques over the last decades including laparoscopic surgery. Two 18 observational studies240,254 (one paediatric) provided comparative data on the outcomes of patients 19 managed either surgically or medically after 2000. Further details of the remaining studies are 20 available in Appendix F:. 21 In view of the paucity of evidence for this question, it was considered that a summary of the data 23 would be useful when discussing options with people with Crohn’s disease (Please refer to Appendix 24 N:). SC ur ro Table 74: Evidence profile: medicine versus surgery: management for disease limited to the distal ileum – children g eh rn y's d is Quality assessment No of patients Effect e a s No of Risk of Other Relative e studies Design bias Inconsistency Indirectness Imprecision considerations Medicine Surgery (95% CI) Absolute Quality Height velocity (follow-up six months; Better indicated by lower values); Singh Ranger et al, 2006 MD 0.39 higher 1 observational no serious no serious no serious serious1 none 8 - (0.21 to VERY
