Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


disease. Discuss treatment options within the multidisciplinary team and with the person’s parent or carer and, if appropriate, the child or young person. l Appendix N contains observational data on recurrence rates after surgery. Relative values of different Surgery has the capacity both to induce and maintain remission (for an outcomes unpredictable length of time) via a single procedure. In agreeing the key outcomes of interest prior to the evidence review, the GDG felt it was particularly important to consider a number of complications of surgery: for example, anastomotic dehiscence (which tends to occur early); wound herniation; adhesion, short bowel syndrome with multiple resections, obstruction; anaemia/B12 deficiency/bile salt malabsorption. Where these were found they were reported. In other respects, such as for induction and maintenance of remission, the GDG considered similar parameters to those used to assess efficacy of drug treatment – namely objective measures of remission such as CDAI or HBI. The GDG noted a trend towards colonoscopy for determining mucosal healing or endoscopic recurrence, but acknowledged that this assessment of efficacy post surgery is not fully validated and is not universally available within England and Wales. benefits and harms complications which develop cannot be addressed as easily as is the case with medication, which can be stopped (although some of the hazards of medication are not reversible). The GDG debated increased risks associated with unplanned surgery and compared these with the benefits of less aggressive surgical interventions and cancer risk that may be ameliorated with surgery. However the evidence for these considerations was not formally reviewed as part of this question. Crohn's disease Surgery Economic considerations Short-term costs are high with surgery (including in-patient stay, surgeon, anaesthetist and theatre costs) and complications can be expensive to treat. However, this needs to be weighed against relatively lower drug and monitoring costs. No formal comparison between surgery and medical treatment was found. Quality of evidence All the data presented were non-RCT observational. There was considerable debate about possible effects of biologics on the course of Crohn’s disease and patterns of surgery. High quality up- to-date data are not currently available – most data are case series – whereas the substantial recurrence rate following surgery will continue to stand despite changes in surgical techniques such as laparoscopy. The GDG agreed that the studies included for review should be subgrouped into those that predated the introduction of biological treatments and those that
