Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


in surgical techniques such as laparoscopy. The GDG agreed that the studies included for review should be subgrouped into those that predated the introduction of biological treatments and those that might reflect any change in the course of Crohn’s disease since their advent. For details of studies predating the year 2000, please see Appendix F:. Recurrence rate ranges for the two subgroups are reported in Appendix O:. The GDG noted that the range reported for the more recent analysis is narrower and considered a narrower range to be more useful when discussing risks and benefits with people with Crohn’s disease. Recurrence rate ranges should be interpreted in the context of both background ranges of relapse rates with medical treatment and no treatment at all. These rates are not easily determined. The GDG noted the small paediatric study which showed improved height velocity after surgery, and the prospective cohort study showing improved quality of life with surgery compared with a group managed conservatively. These data are consistent with the experience of the GDG. However, the absence of adequate control groups in these studies inevitably raises the possibility of bias in the outcome measures, and the GDG recognised the difficulty of drawing firm conclusions. Other considerations The GDG was aware of time commitments required to record in notes discussions about choices between surgery or medical treatment and resulting decisions, but felt this to be vital. The group agreed that decisions should be based upon discussion about risks of recurrence on medical treatment and with early surgery. The GDG felt that surgeons would be best placed to inform people with Crohn’s disease about the benefits and risks of the surgery. The GDG was aware of the fear of surgery, and therefore considered “first-line” surgery (prior to a trial of medical treatment) to be unlikely from the patient’s point of view. Children For surgery in children, the GDG agreed that timing of any surgery is critical, both in relation to timing of puberty and to key stages in education. In generating the recommendation to consider surgery early in children with Crohn’s disease limited to the distal ileum, the GDG wanted to be clear that surgery should not be delayed as the opportunity for remedial action for growth impairment may be lost when epiphyses fuse around puberty. (Of particular relevance to children with Crohn’s Crohn's disease Surgery disease, the GDG was aware of the association
