Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


action for growth impairment may be lost when epiphyses fuse around puberty. (Of particular relevance to children with Crohn’s Crohn's disease Surgery disease, the GDG was aware of the association between glucocorticosteroid treatment and early fusion of the epiphyses.) The group did not wish the recommendation to ‘consider surgical intervention’ early to be misinterpreted as an overly supportive stance for surgery in children, but the GDG debated the implications of growth impairment at length. The group acknowledged that failure to reach full height potential may result from long-term drug therapy which may not adequately have controlled the disease. They agreed that indications for surgery include:  Crohn’s disease-related growth impairment and failing medication or  failing medication alone or  growth impairment only, but as an indicator of refractory disease (i.e. occult disease activity demonstrated by further investigation of the child, for example, CRP or endoscopy) When making a management decision, the GDG felt it important to consider the views of children and their parents/carers about potential adult height. A patient member of the GDG pointed out that people with Crohn’s disease facing surgery find the risk of a resulting stoma to be challenging. These concerns should be balanced with the irreversibility of short stature. Multidisciplinary team If there is isolated distal ileal Crohn’s disease a multidisciplinary approach was considered to be sensible, but the patient’s wishes should be taken into account if they feel strongly either way and for any number of reasons. Even in the absence of a multidisciplinary team there should be discussion between gastroenterologist, surgeon and patient. Ongoing research The GDG was aware of an ongoing Dutch study in which ileocolic surgery is compared with infliximab therapy which may provide quality of life data over twelve months. The GDG agreed that it would be important to verify data from an UK effectiveness and cost perspective. A research recommendation comparing long-term quality of life outcomes with azathioprine maintenance, infliximab or surgery after a second presentation of Crohn’s disease limited to the distal ileum was drafted. For more information please see Appendix O:. 1 Summary 2 Based on the available evidence the GDG did not feel able to make a strong recommendation for 3 surgical or medical/nutritional management of disease limited to the distal ileum, but considered 4 that the best practice must include a patient-involved multidisciplinary approach. Crohn's disease Surgery 9.2 Recommendations 2 31.Consider surgery as an
