Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


of disease limited to the distal ileum, but considered 4 that the best practice must include a patient-involved multidisciplinary approach. Crohn's disease Surgery 9.2 Recommendations 2 31.Consider surgery as an alternative to medical treatment early in the course of the disease for 3 people whose disease is limited to the distal ileum, taking into account the following: 4  benefits and risks of medical treatment and surgery 5  risk of recurrence after surgeryl 6  individual preferences and any personal or cultural considerations. 7 Record the person’s views in their notes. 8 32.Consider surgery early in the course of the disease or before or early in puberty for children and 9 young people whose disease is limited to the distal ileum and who have: 10  growth impairment despite optimal medical treatment and/or 11  refractory disease. 12 Discuss treatment options within the multidisciplinary team and with the person’s parent or 13 carer and, if appropriate, the child or young person. 9.3 Research recommendation 15 4. What is the effect on quality of life of medical treatment (immunosuppressive or biological 16 therapy) compared with early surgery for Crohn's disease limited to the distal ileum? 17 Patients presenting for the first time with Crohn's disease limited to the distal ileum are usually 18 treated with medical therapy. When relapse occurs there is the option of further medical treatment, 19 including stepping up to a biological agent, or surgery in the form of a localised resection of the 20 diseased segment of intestine. Comparative studies reporting the long-term outcome of each of 21 these two management strategies are lacking. It is known that surgery is followed by recurrence in 23 respectively at five years. Reoperation rates rise to 30% to 60% at 10 years. Conversely, the majority 24 of patients with Crohn's disease treated medically will require surgery at some time during their 25 illness. During the period of continuing medical treatment, before a resection is performed, patients 26 may have a reduced quality of life due to disease activity, or side effects of therapy. The relative 27 merits of these two management strategies are unknown and there is a need to compare 28 prospectively medical and surgical treatment for Crohn's disease limited to the distal ileum. A 29 multicentre trial is currently in progress in Holland in which patients with Crohn's disease limited to 30 the distal ileum are randomised
