Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


achieved in 18 up to 50% of patients.234 Improvements in instrumentation including the use of guide wires and 19 better-adapted colonoscopes have been made. At the present time, a patient with an anastomotic 20 stricture which may be suitable for dilation would reasonably have a trial of this treatment before 21 surgery, provided the facility for immediate operation is available in case perforation occurs. The 22 primary consideration for the GDG was what is the effectiveness of balloon dilation to either 23 postpone or avoid surgery? The GDG were interested to review the recurrence rate of strictures 24 amenable to dilation and which were considered to be successfully dilated at the time of surgery. 25 Developments in enteroscopy have rendered some strictures in the small intestine amenable to 26 dilation.65 However, this is an advancing field and more experience will be required before 27 comparison with any other surgical treatment is possible. A review of stricture management in the 28 small bowel is therefore not conducted within this guideline. 29 9.4.2 Clinical questions 30 In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of surgical 31 treatment of stricture compared with 32  balloon dilation? 33  balloon dilation plus intralesional glucocorticosteroid injections? 34  conservative management? Crohn's disease Surgery 1 9.4.3 Clinical evidence 2 There were no RCTs which compared the efficacy, safety, quality of life and time to recurrence of 3 balloon dilation for stricture to surgical procedures for stricture. Observational data for these two 4 approaches to treating stricture in Crohn’s disease were extracted into separate tables for 5 comparison of outcomes. A minimum sample size of 20 was required for inclusion in this review. No 6 time restriction was applied. Site-specific outcomes were not included in any of the balloon dilation 7 study results reviewed. Only data from patients whose strictures were considered to have been 8 successfully dilated were extracted as this presupposes appropriate patient selection for the 9 procedure. 10 The summary results of 19 non-comparative observational studies of balloon dilation and 16 non- 11 comparative observational studies of surgery for stricture are presented in the adapted GRADE tables 12 below. Only one small paediatric study reporting change in PCDAI and weaning children off 13 glucocorticosteroid treatment was found. As the data was non-comparative no statistical analysis 14 could be conducted, and so a summary of the summed data is
