Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


observational study of five children66 did not 20 report any complications.[VERY LOW QUALITY] 21 9.4.4 Economic evidence 22 No published data were found and original modelling was not undertaken for this question. Crohn's disease Surgery 1 9.4.5 Linking evidence to recommendations – management of stricture 2 Table 84: Linking evidence to recommendations – management of stricture Clinical question In individuals diagnosed with Crohn’s disease what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of surgical treatment of stricture compared with  balloon dilation  balloon dilation plus intralesional glucocorticosteroid injections,  conservative management? Recommendation 33. Consider balloon dilation particularly in people with a single stricture that is short, straight and accessible by colonoscopy. 34. Discuss the benefits and risks of balloon dilation and surgical interventions for managing stricturesm with:  the person with Crohn’s disease and/or their parent or carer, if appropriate, and  a surgeon and  a gastroenterologist. 35. Take into account the following factors when assessing options for managing a stricture: •whether medical treatment has been optimised • the number and extent of previous resections • the rapidity of past recurrence (if appropriate) • the potential for further resections • the the consequence of short bowel syndrome • the person’s preference, and how their lifestyle and cultural background might affect management. 36. Ensure that abdominal surgery is available for managing complications or failure of balloon dilation. m Appendix O contains observational data on stricturemanagement. Relative values of different The GDG agreed that important outcomes when evaluating the outcomes effectiveness of balloon dilation compared with surgery for stricture were reoccurrence rates of symptomatic strictures necessitating repeat procedures (including subsequent surgery and / or second balloon dilation procedures) and time to reoccurrence. The GDG agreed these outcomes should be considered relative to quality of life and safety aspects including major complications such as perforation and severe haemorrhage requiring transfusion. Sites of balloon dilation and site specific outcomes for this procedure were also of interest to the GDG – particularly whether there were more complications or better outcomes for certain sites. None of the papers found reported site specific outcomes for balloon dilation. The GDG took account of trial data reporting surgery including resection or strictureplasty and not just strictureplasty. The GDG were interested to know whether any of the papers reported stricture related malignancy. Again this was not reported in any of the papers found. Crohn's disease Surgery Trade off between
