Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


were interested to know whether any of the papers reported stricture related malignancy. Again this was not reported in any of the papers found. Crohn's disease Surgery Trade off between benefits and The trade-offs between the success of either intervention (in terms of harms repeated procedures and time to reoccurrence) compared with the potential harms of perforation or major complications were of particular interest to the GDG. The GDG debated when balloon dilation is likely to be used. Anatomical site is also important in assessing suitability. Factors include whether the clinician can access the stricture, perceived risk of perforation, whether there has already been a high reoccurrence rate of stricture, subsequent need for surgery, and whether a single or multiple strictures. The consensus opinion of the GDG was that strictures generally regarded as being amenable to balloon dilation include those that are short, single, anastomotic, straight and inflammatory (as opposed to fibrotic/malignant). The GDG noted the following rates based upon the observational data found: Balloon dilation for strictures:  88% success  50% re-intervention in successfully dilated  5% major complications  1/4 end up needing surgery  No reported deaths Surgery for strictures:  23% re operation for recurrence  24% need for surgery  Time to reoperation – variable  13% major complications  4/1565 x deaths. For more information please see evidence tables in Appendix F:. The GDG debated the different complication rates between the two interventions. They noted that the complication rate is dependent upon the time point at which is it reported. For surgery, approximately a third of people will have operations for reoccurrence and hence there is an added complication rate. For balloon dilation, if the complication rate is estimated immediately after the procedure the rate may appear lower than it actually is. The GDG noted the need to add the surgical complications rate to a third of those patients and that approximately half will have a re-balloon procedure and another quarter will have surgery. Stricture population differences were discussed by the GDG. The consensus view was that most balloon interventions were on strictures at an anastomosis, whereas most strictureplasties were small bowel procedures. It was difficult for the GDG to make comparisons between two interventions when used in differing stricture populations. The group noted though that the reported data did not seem to support their clinical practice experience. The GDG highlighted that 24%
