Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


two interventions when used in differing stricture populations. The group noted though that the reported data did not seem to support their clinical practice experience. The GDG highlighted that 24% of people undergoing balloon dilation eventually required surgery. They also noted what they felt to be a fairly Crohn's disease Surgery high complication rate of 5% with each balloon procedure together with a 50% re-intervention in those with successfully dilated strictures. This was traded off against the surgical complication rate of 13% (with each surgical stricture procedure) and 29% re-operation for recurrence. There was no data available to allow the GDG to assess how many years of good quality life one could expect following each procedure. The GDG also debated the possibility of carcinoma or lymphoma being associated with a long-standing stricture and that clinicians should be aware of this possibility as management for this would be substantially different. Economic considerations It is not possible to ascertain the relative cost-effectiveness of different treatments for stricture without better quality evidence of effectiveness. Quality of the evidence There were no RCTs which compared balloon dilation for stricture to surgical intervention for the outcomes of interest to the GDG. However 35 observational studies were available that reported outcomes for Crohn’s disease stricture interventions; 19 papers reporting balloon dilation and 16 papers reporting surgery. The observation studies were graded as very low quality and only two of the papers were from a UK perspective. The GDG were aware that balloon dilation tends to be more commonly practised in the USA, Japan and some European countries. The GDG noted the limitations in the evidence. The observational studies, whilst reporting differing types of stricture patients, did not provide comparative data. There were no truly comparative studies to enable the GDG to make a definitive recommendation about which intervention is better. The GDG debated the difficulties of comparative research in this area, for example, clinicians would not attempt to balloon dilate a long stricture. There was one small paediatric study reporting change in HBI (Singh Ranger) and one adult study which looked at weaning people off glucocorticosteroid treatment (Sayfan). The GDG agreed that the long- term use of glucocorticosteroid treatment in children is unconventional. The GDG noted one paper (Foster et al) reporting observational data (n = 24) for balloon dilation with adjunctive glucocorticosteroid intralesional injection at the time of the procedure. There was little evidence that
