Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


one paper (Foster et al) reporting observational data (n = 24) for balloon dilation with adjunctive glucocorticosteroid intralesional injection at the time of the procedure. There was little evidence that this was of benefit. The GDG noted one small observational (n = 27) Swiss study reporting that health related quality of life (HRQoL) was worse in the balloon dilation group. However the GDG highlighted that whilst significantly impaired in the balloon dilation patients this was versus both surgical controls and healthy subjects. The GDG gave little credence to this study given the limitations (Nguyen-Tang et al). Other considerations Balloon dilation was acknowledged by the GDG to be an advancing field. At present balloon dilation is not widely practised in the UK. The GDG Crohn's disease Surgery thought there was considerable variation across the UK in terms of current practice and availability of balloon dilation. Despite balloon dilation being available for some time and part of the armoury for treating Crohn’s disease stricture it is more widely used on the Continent. However, expert surgical UK advice indicated that if the stricture was amenable to balloon dilation this would generally be offered first in centres where available and already used before advising resection. Overall with the observational data available the GDG agreed that it was not possible to compare the two interventions and to make a reasoned judgement for or against a particular intervention. The GDG agreed that referrals for strictures varied across the UK and that combined multidisciplinary team decisions between the gastroenterologist, surgeon and patient should be facilitated. The GDG agreed that in discussion with the person with Crohn’s disease, individual patient factors should be taken into consideration by the surgeon and gastroenterology multidisciplinary team when deciding the best course of action. The GDG considered that it would be helpful for healthcare professionals and people with Crohn’s disease to be aware of the current observational data rates for intervention success, re- intervention and complications to enable informed decision-making. 9.5 Recommendations 2 33.Consider balloon dilation particularly in people with a single stricture that is short, straight and 3 accessible by colonoscopy. 4 34.Discuss the benefits and risks of balloon dilation and surgical interventions for managing 5 stricturesm with: 6  the person with Crohn’s disease and/or their parent or carer, if appropriate and 7  a surgeon and 8  a gastroenterologist . 9 35.Take into account the following factors when
