Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


studies risk of bias inconsistency indirectness 8.10% 10% to 1.1) fewer to 9 more) 1 MID crosses default 0.75. Crohn's disease Monitoring 1 10.1.3.1 Evidence statement – clinical 2  In one large paediatric case control study (n = 2734)147 there was no significant difference in any 3 fracture occurring in cases, versus controls (OR 0.8 [ 0.6 to 1.1]).[VERY LOW QUALITY]. 4 10.1.4 Economic evidence 5 No published data were found and original modelling was not undertaken for this question. Crohn's disease Monitoring 1 10.1.5 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Table 86: Linking evidence to recommendations – monitoring for osteopenia in children and 3 young people risk of fracture? Refer to ‘Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture’ (NICE clinical Recommendations guideline 146) for recommendations on assessing the risk of fragility fracture in adults. Crohn’s disease is a cause of secondary osteoporosis. 37. Do not routinely monitor for changes in bone mineral density in children and young people. 38. Consider monitoring for changes in bone mineral density in children and young people with risk factors, such as low body mass index (BMI), low trauma fracture or continued or repeated glucocorticosteroid use. Relative values of different The GDG was aware that the Osteoporosis Guideline Update for adults would outcomes supersede any work done during development of this guideline. To support any recommendation for monitoring children with Crohn’s disease for changes in bone mineral density, the GDG was keen to review the most stringent outcome measure - fracture risk. Trade off between benefits Because no data were found indicating a best practice method for and harms monitoring for bone density changes in children, the GDG felt that it could not specify a monitoring method. Hence an assessment of the balance of benefit and harm was not possible. Economic considerations To assess the cost-effectiveness of monitoring of bone mineral density would require the specification of a treatment protocol and estimates of effectiveness of treatment for specific population identified to be at risk, in addition to estimates of diagnostic accuracy. These are difficult to estimate for Crohn’s disease. Quality of the evidence Only one case control study with 733 children matched to three controls, was identified, and critically appraised (Kappelman, 2008).146 Participants were identified using US administrative database. Glucocorticosteroid exposure was measured using national drug codes and a sensitivity analysis conducted to determine the effect of glucocorticosteroid treatment on fracture risk in children.
