Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


identified using US administrative database. Glucocorticosteroid exposure was measured using national drug codes and a sensitivity analysis conducted to determine the effect of glucocorticosteroid treatment on fracture risk in children. Children with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis were analysed separately. Limitations to Kappelman data were noted:  Fragility fracture and high impact fracture were not analysed separately (considering that well children participate in high impact sports and children who are unwell tend to be less exposed to trauma)  Data relating to fractures in people on glucocorticosteroid treatment were not subdivided into Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis (total IBD population)  Children and young people were defined in the study as those less than 20 (Mean age in the study was 15) – not exactly in line with formal definition of less than 18 years, but the GDG did not consider this to be important. Although the point estimate of the odds ratio (0.8) suggests that Crohn’s Crohn's disease Monitoring disease appears to be protective against fracture, when confidence intervals are taken into account there is no statistically significant difference between children with Crohn’s disease and n = 3287 controls i.e. children with Crohn’s disease were not at greater risk of fracture. Other considerations In the absence of evidence the GDG were unable to make any paediatric recommendations specifically pertaining to the use of fracture risk assessment tools, monitoring or service provision implications. Again in the absence of evidence the GDG agreed making a ‘consider’ recommendation for children based upon extrapolation from the adult Osteoporosis guideline indicating what factors might put children with Crohn’s disease at high risk for fracture (for example low body mass index or repeated glucocorticosteroid use). The GDG agreed that decisions should be the method of monitoring or who would be best placed to manage the child should treatment be required. 10.2 Recommendations 3 Refer to ‘Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture’ (NICE clinical guideline 146) for 4 recommendations on assessing the risk of fragility fracture in adults. Crohn’s disease is a cause 5 of secondary osteoporosis. 6 37.Do not routinely monitor for changes in bone mineral density in children and young people. 7 38.Consider monitoring for changes in bone mineral density in children and young people with risk 8 factors, such as low body mass index (BMI), low trauma fracture or continued or repeated 9 glucocorticosteroid use. 10.3 Research recommendation 11 The GDG did
