Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


young people with risk 8 factors, such as low body mass index (BMI), low trauma fracture or continued or repeated 9 glucocorticosteroid use. 10.3 Research recommendation 11 The GDG did not prioritise any future research in this area. Crohn's disease Monitoring 10.4 Early relapse 2 10.4.1 Clinical introduction 3 The concept that early detection of a relapse in Crohn’s disease would lead to earlier treatment and 4 therefore less severe and destructive disease is the basis for much of the long-term management of 5 this condition. It appeals to both patient and clinician. It introduces the hope that effective treatment 6 could alter the natural course of Crohn’s disease. With this in mind there has been an ongoing search 7 for indicators of an impending relapse. These have varied from a patient’s own assessment of how 8 they feel through to sophisticated monitoring of a range of inflammatory markers. 9 In order for such an approach to be effective it is essential that the marker changes significantly 10 ahead of clinical deterioration. In other words changes in such markers need to be predictors of a 11 clinical relapse rather than the consequence of it. For routine monitoring to be worthwhile these 12 changes need to precede clinical deterioration by months rather than weeks. In addition there needs 13 to be a clear level at which an abnormality is an effective predictor of disease relapse and there 14 should not be significant overlap with levels that can be recorded during remission. Finally if such 15 predictors of relapse can be identified they need to be of clinical value -they need to lead to 16 interventions which can be shown objectively through randomised controlled trials to prevent or 17 shorten disease relapse and to be reflected in a better quality of life for patients. 18 10.4.2 Clinical questions 19 Does predicting early relapse through monitoring 20  Unintended weight loss 21  CRP 22  ESR 23  MRI 24  Calprotectin 25  Colonoscopy/capsule endoscopy or 26  Growth in children 27 compared with standard care, improve patient outcomes (quality of life, future surgery, 28 hospitalization)? 29 10.4.3 Clinical evidence 30 There were no Cochrane reviews or RCTs identified for this prognostic review. A systematic review of 31 the literature identified 11 cohort studies which met the inclusion criteria for this review. There were 32 no studies which addressed the use
