Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


of five studies (n = 327)97,103,142,281,297 faecal calprotectin appears to be effective for 3 assessing risk of relapse in Crohn’s disease. One study (n = 65)59 showed no effect. Each study 4 used different thresholds for prediction of relapse.[LOW QUALITY] 5  In one study (n = 65)59 CRP appears to be effective for assessing risk of relapse in Crohn’s disease. 6 A summary of three studies (n = 225)27,44,142 showed no effect. Each study used different 7 thresholds for prediction of relapse.[LOW QUALITY] 8  In one study (n = 71)44 ESR appears to be effective for assessing risk of relapse in Crohn’s disease. 9 One study (n = 65)59 showed no effect. Each study used different thresholds for prediction of 10 relapse.[LOW QUALITY] 11 10.4.4 Economic evidence 12 No published data were found and original modelling was not undertaken for this question. Crohn's disease Monitoring 1 10.4.6 Linking evidence to recommendations 2 Table 88: Linking evidence to recommendations – monitoring for early relapse Clinical question Does predicting early relapse through monitoring  Unintended weight loss  CRP  ESR  MRI  Calprotectin  Colonoscopy or capsule endoscopy  Growth in children compared with standard care, improve patient outcomes (quality of life, future surgery, hospitalization)? Recommendation None made. Relative values of different The GDG wished to gather any evidence that might support the use of any of outcomes a list of alternative monitoring methods. The GDG felt that in order to be able to recommend monitoring for relapse, any test would need to demonstrate the ability to predict a relapse at a time period sufficiently early enough for action to be taken to avoid symptomatic relapse. Review of the literature revealed no studies pertaining to unintended weight loss, MRI, colonoscopy/capsule endoscopy or growth in children as predictors of relapse in Crohn’s disease. In addition, thresholds associated with high relapse risk for any of the tests listed above, were not universally defined in the literature. There was wide variation in threshold levels and the outcomes reported thereby making it very difficult for the GDG to compare data. The GDG made the following points:  The timing of faecal calprotectin assay is important in interpreting the results. If faecal calprotectin was assessed immediately after an exacerbation, it would have different implications to if it was assessed at random time-points, for example at routine follow-ups. All patients in the studies reviewed
