Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


was assessed immediately after an exacerbation, it would have different implications to if it was assessed at random time-points, for example at routine follow-ups. All patients in the studies reviewed were initially assessed in an asymptomatic state, after they had been in remission for at least one month.  It is important to highlight that this question considers the potential of a test to predict relapse before people become symptomatic, rather than looking at the tests to assess their value in confirming a relapse, which is symptomatic.  Even if there is a test that can predict relapse before symptoms occur, that the best course of action based upon this information is as yet undemonstrated i.e. to treat or not treat, and if so, with what? Trade off between benefits The GDG did not consider the process of having a blood test to cause and harms substantial harm. The GDG did consider whether a false positive test predictive of relapse might expose people to unnecessary harm should they be unnecessarily treated. As neither “accepted management” for this situation yet been agreed, nor was this the question posed, the GDG could not make an informed assessment of this issue. Economic considerations To assess the cost-effectiveness of monitoring of early relapse would require the specification of a treatment protocol and estimates of effectiveness of treatment for specific population identified to be at risk, in addition to estimates of diagnostic accuracy. The GDG was not aware of any trials that Crohn's disease Monitoring have evaluated the effects of early treatment. If monitoring for early relapse is found to be effective then it is possible that monitoring could be a more cost-effective strategy than maintenance therapy. Quality of the evidence A prognostic approach using cohort studies was undertaken. Cox regression analysis is considered the best way to analyse prognostic data, but this was not always available in the studies identified. Studies reviewed used ROC intersection of optimal specificity and sensitivity curves to determine the threshold of a given test to potentially indicate a high relapse risk. Studies were found reporting these thresholds for faecal calprotectin, ESR and CRP. In order to compare the value of each heterogeneous test in predicting relapse, the standard error for each study was calculated. Each of these common measures of each statistic was put into a non-pooled forest plot. Results:  Faecal calprotectin appeared to predict potential relapse, but
