Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


for each study was calculated. Each of these common measures of each statistic was put into a non-pooled forest plot. Results:  Faecal calprotectin appeared to predict potential relapse, but the data did not indicate when or how often the test should be done. The GDG felt this to significantly limit the value of this monitoring approach and acknowledged that future research in this area would be useful. They did not however prioritise it for a research recommendation.  The GDG considered the CRP data to be less convincing, with two results crossing the line of no effect. The GDG considered CRP possibly to be helpful but on the basis of the above results and without more robust data it was difficult to draw a firm conclusion.  Two studies looking at ESR had directly conflicting results. Therefore the GDG did not consider ESR to be helpful in predicting relapse. The GDG looked for data which might provide evidence for the intervals at which patients should be assessed in order to predict relaps, prior to symptomatic presentation. This information could not be extracted from the available data. Given the paucity and low quality of the evidence, the GDG were unable to make a recommendation. Whilst the GDG acknowledged there was limited evidence currently available, the GDG did not give high priority to a future research recommendation in this area. Other considerations The GDG sought the views of the patient members of the GDG and noted the comment “If you can predict you are heading towards a flare-up, and something can be done to minimise or avert it, that would be a huge benefit” and, however, that “Colonoscopy is as bad as the disease”. They noted that patients may not accept frequent ongoing monitoring of this relatively invasive nature (as opposed to follow-up endoscopy/colonoscopy after surgery or biological treatments which are “once-off” investigations checking for endoscopic recurrence or mucosal healing respectively). In any event, the literature was searched, and no evidence found for the capsule endoscopy/colonoscopic monitoring element of the question. The GDG felt it important to stress that even if a test could predict relapse before symptoms occur, best practice in responding to this information is as Crohn's disease Monitoring outcomes have not yet been proven. 10.5 Recommendation and research recommendation 2 Whilst the GDG did not feel there was enough evidence to make a recommendation they also did not
