Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


outcomes have not yet been proven. 10.5 Recommendation and research recommendation 2 Whilst the GDG did not feel there was enough evidence to make a recommendation they also did not 3 designate high priority to future research in this area because they believed there to be ongoing 4 commercial interests in the assessment of a range of biomarkers in this field. Crohn's disease Patient information and support 11 Patient information and support 11.1 Clinical introduction 3 The effects of Crohn’s disease on an individual are diverse. In addition to its physical impact there 4 can be emotional, psychological, spiritual and social consequences. Information giving is one aspect 5 of support that may help an individual address issues such as diagnosis, low mood, tiredness and 6 coping skills, quality of life, effects on family and friends, relationships, education, work and social 7 difficulties. In 1983 a study from South Wales had identified these needs.218 It subsequently became 8 clear that these concerns were common throughout much of Europe141,171,186 and were also true for 9 the parents of children with the condition.61Work from Leeds in the 1990s showed that more than 10 80% of patients wanted more information about their disease.141 In a subsequent study from Austria 11 low information levels about Crohn’s disease were linked with greater concerns.186 It is important 12 that they are recognised and additional support is given. 13 The NICE document “Patient Experience in adult NHS Services (NICE clinical guidance 138)” highlights 14 the need to treat people as individuals and to tailor their care accordingly.191 Points emphasized 15 include the person having timely and appropriate access to the relevant healthcare professional at 16 point of need. People with Crohn’s disease need ongoing access to a multidisciplinary team (MDT). 17 Each member of the MDT plays an important role in the management and support of people with 18 Crohn’s disease. Regular team meetings can be used to identify people with complex needs and 19 ensure the appropriate healthcare professionals become involved. This should also include 20 radiologists and pathologists as well as physicians and surgeons. 21 The IBD Standards Group recommends rapid access to specialist advice and care which is generally 23 ensuring prompt and appropriate care.102 Specialist Pharmacists are increasingly providing patient- 24 centred care, particularly where immunosuppression and biological treatments are used. Dietitians 25 are also important members of the MDT and provide nutritional assessment,
