Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


Specialist Pharmacists are increasingly providing patient- 24 centred care, particularly where immunosuppression and biological treatments are used. Dietitians 25 are also important members of the MDT and provide nutritional assessment, advice and support for 26 persons throughout their disease process. 27 Access to psychologists and counsellors is important for a range of problems and people with Crohn’s 28 disease may benefit from their input at various stages of their disease. Improved access to these 29 services has been recommended by the IBD Standards Group and the British Society of 30 Gastroenterology. The effectiveness of their role, however, awaits rigorous evaluation. 31 There is a particular aspect of information and support that requires special mention because of its 32 unambiguous effect on people with Crohn’s disease. In 1984 smoking was shown to increase the risk 33 of developing Crohn’s disease almost five-fold.261 It soon became clear that heavy and prolonged 34 smoking was associated with a worse outcome155 and that it was an independent predictor of 35 recurrence following surgery.50 Counselling and smoking intervention programmes led to a more 36 benign course for the disease47. However, despite these benefits, response rates can be 37 disappointing - although in line with general smoking cessation programmes.128 Nevertheless 38 patients with Crohn’s disease who smoke should be actively encouraged to give up the habit and be 39 directed towards appropriate services and support as identified in other NICE guidance: 40  Smoking cessation services. NICE public health guidance 10 (2008). 41 www.nice.org.uk/guidance/PH10 42  Varenicline for smoking cessation. NICE technology appraisal guidance 123 (2007). 43 www.nice.org.uk/guidance/TA123 44  Brief interventions and referral for smoking cessation. NICE public health guidance 1 (2006). 45 www.nice.org.uk/guidance/PH1 Crohn's disease Patient information and support 1 In addition to this information, however, the GDG wished to review any data that could help inform 2 what information people with Crohn’s disease actually want. The GDG was also interested to 3 determine whether the information needs of children and young people (and their carers) differ from 4 those of adults. To this end, a specific search for the population of children and young people was 5 completed and results are presented separately. 6 Patient vignette 1 Patients need good quality, well-written and reliable information – the right amount at the right time. And the opportunity to ask questions. 10 Patient vignette 2 If living with Crohn’s is like a journey, then different
