Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


reliable information – the right amount at the right time. And the opportunity to ask questions. 10 Patient vignette 2 If living with Crohn’s is like a journey, then different forms of information and support will be needed at different points on the route. There’s no point having a map of London when you’re negotiating the Himalayas. 14 Patient vignette 3 Sometimes, all the emotional support a patient needs is to meet another person with Crohn’s and realise that they are not alone; that life will go on. 18 Patient vignette 4 I find it incredible that smokers faced with this chronic incurable disease put a higher priority on the 'pleasure' of nicotine instead of the pleasures of enjoying life without Crohn's. Crohn's disease Patient information and support 11.2 Clinical questions 2 What are the primary information needs of adults with Crohn’s disease in the UK? 3 What are the primary information needs of children and young people with Crohn’s disease in the 4 UK? 11.3 Clinical evidence 6 A literature search was conducted for studies that reported information needs identified by people 7 with Crohn’s disease. No study design filter, geographical location or time limit was placed on the 8 literature search, and there were no limitations on sample size. Five patient surveys40,171,177,204,218 9 were identified which addressed the question and were included in the review. Information from the 10 studies was further synthesised into themes and has been summarised in a modified clinical evidence 11 profile and evidence statements. The included studies were critically appraised using the appropriate 12 checklist as specified in The Guidelines Manual.197 13 No paediatric papers were identified which addressed the question specifically. However a GDG 14 member suggested that the group review two papers, Richardson et al 2001225 and Griffiths 1999116 15 to consider quality of life issues identified by children which might influence information-giving in 16 this population. PC ar 1 Table 89: Information needs of adults with Crohn’s disease t ie o h nn No. s t o u f d s y t u d d e i s e i s g n a nd Stu t d h y e s s a tu m d p ie le s in [Clarification: not all participan T ts h e re m p e o s r t e e m d e in rg t e h d
