Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


information, advice and support in line with published NICE guidance on: • smoking cessation • patient experience • medicines adherence • fertility. See ‘Relationships between the guideline and other NICE guidance’ section 2.6. 42. Give people with Crohn’s disease, and/or their parents or caresr if appropriate, additional information on the following when appropriate: • possible delay of growth and puberty in children • diet and nutrition • fertility and sexual relationships • prognosis • side effects of their treatment • cancer risk • surgery • care of young people in transition between paediatric and adult services • contact details for support groups. 43. Offer adults, children and young people, and/or their parents or carers if appropriate, age-appropriate multidisciplinary support to deal with any concerns about the disease and its treatment, including concerns about body image, living with a chronic illness, and attending school and higher education. n Appendices L and M contain observational data on adverse events associated with 5- ASA treatment and immunosuppressives. Relative values of different Much patient information is applicable to any patient. Moreover, much outcomes information relating to a chronic illness is applicable to many people with a different, but nevertheless long-term chronic conditions. The GDG was particularly interested to know what information people with Crohn’s disease (specifically) requested. They gave more credibility to well-designed qualitative studies in a Crohn’s disease population and which were methodologically rigorous. They agreed that key information requirements specific to people with Crohn’s disease included cancer risk, surgery, sexual issues and pregnancy. Trade off between benefits The GDG was aware of some evidence that information may on occasion and harms have a negative impact on outcomes. However this was not formally Crohn's disease Patient information and support assessed as part of this review. Given this caution, the GDG felt that it was important for healthcare professionals to take into account their knowledge of the person with Crohn’s disease and their preferences. Economic considerations The GDG commented that services would need to be configured taking account of the time and expertise required to collate and offer this information. Quality of the evidence A broad search was done to identify qualitative studies with no limitations on dates, study filters, population or sample size. Studies considering patients’ requests for information were sifted and ordered. The GDG debated the following with relation to the quality of the data:  differing comparisons were made between the
