Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


Studies considering patients’ requests for information were sifted and ordered. The GDG debated the following with relation to the quality of the data:  differing comparisons were made between the studies – some stated what information patients wanted, and others stated what information they considered to be inadequate  some studies considered what information patients needed, but did not specify what information these patients had had prior to the study (i.e. lacked historical information)  questionnaires and surveys are tools and frequently employed closed question style i.e. patients choose from a list of topics (biased as the topics are pre-selected) rather than open-ended questions which are information generating. Other considerations In view of the applicability to all patients of certain information readers should refer to “Patient experience in adult NHS services (NICE clinical guidance 138)” and Medicines Adherence NICE clinical guideline 76). In addition the GDG discussed information available from local support groups and from other sources such as the Internet (NHS choices) as well as the need to make patients aware of members of the multidisciplinary team and relevant contact details. The GDG noted that these aspects were covered by Patient Experience CG138. The patient representatives of the GDG noted that patients needed different information at different times, but that it is difficult to predict who needs what, when. They felt that information should be:  sign-posted to reliable and accurate information on a broad range of subjects (there was agreement that the list presented in review was considered to be comprehensive) and that this should be frequently reinforced. The GDG noted that most of these points were covered by Patient Experience CG138. The group agreed the need for a Crohn’s disease research recommendation for information needs using a qualitative paradigm. The GDG noted the current evidence base in this area to be predominately surveys, interviews, questionnaires (e.g. tools). The GDG debated the need for local protocols around patient information and concluded that this guideline and the resultant recommendations would meet this need. Crohn's disease Patient information and support 1 Table 92: Linking evidence to recommendations – patient information and support: children and 2 young people Clinical question What are the primary information needs of children and young people with Crohn’s disease? Recommendations 43. Offer adults, children and young people, and/or their parents or carers age-appropriate multidisciplinary support to deal with any concerns about the disease and its treatment,
