Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


with Crohn’s disease? Recommendations 43. Offer adults, children and young people, and/or their parents or carers age-appropriate multidisciplinary support to deal with any concerns about the disease and its treatment, including concerns about body image, living with a chronic illness, and attending school and higher education. Relative values of different The GDG noted focus group data pertaining to children’s information outcomes needs.116,225 In the absence of higher quality evidence, the GDG was interested in the qualitative results. Trade off between benefits The GDG was aware of some evidence that information may on occasion and harms have a negative impact on outcomes. However this was not formally assessed as part of this review. Given this caution, the GDG felt that it was important for healthcare professionals to take into account their knowledge of the person with Crohn’s disease and their preferences. Economic considerations The GDG commented that services would need to be configured taking account of the time and expertise required to collate and offer this information. Quality of the evidence Two focus group reports of low quality, including both paediatric and adolescent populations with Crohn’s disease were reviewed. Children’s concerns were found to be similar to those of adults, but perhaps were more focussed on body image. The data provided an indication of the support children and young people need. The GDG noted that although many children and young people have similar body issues, these concerns could be exacerbated by their Crohn’s disease. Other considerations The GDG emphasized: liaising with schools and providing information regarding the non-infective nature of the diarrhoea associated with Crohn’s disease  that ‘support’ should not be interpreted within a narrow sense, for example only psychological support. Support should be broad-based and offered by those whom are best placed at the time to meet the needs of adults, children, and also the parents/carers of children with Crohn’s disease  that information and support, and indeed treatment, should be provided in an environment appropriate to the age of the person with Crohn’s disease  the existence of transition guidance for young people becoming adults: Transition: getting it right for young people: Improving the transition of young people with long term conditions (available at onsPolicyAndGuidance/Browsable/DH_4132944) considers the relevant principles.  the challenge associated with balancing the rights of the child, confidentiality and acting within the best interests of the child. The reader is referred to the introductory section
