Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


to significant reductions in 7 the cost of treatment and the social impact of the disease. Further research should be undertaken to 8 determine the information and support needs of people with Crohn’s disease. It should use 9 qualitative techniques to identify the concerns of people with the condition and how they should be 10 best addressed. Delphi techniques would ensure that the professional understanding of these needs 11 was appropriate. From this work a randomised controlled trial would be designed to investigate the 12 impact of a patient-originated program on health outcomes including frequency of relapse and need 13 for surgery as well as quality of life issues. Crohn's disease Conception and pregnancy 12 Conception and pregnancy 12.1 Introduction 3 The scope remit included “Consideration will be given to specific needs, if any, in pregnancy and 4 females of child-bearing potential.” Therefore the specific needs of pregnant women and females of 5 child-bearing potential were considered by the GDG. With the peak occurrence of Crohn’s disease in 6 people during reproductive years, 25% of people with Crohn’s disease conceive after the diagnosis is 7 made. Issues relating to fertility, pregnancy, delivery and breast-feeding are therefore important 8 concerns for people with Crohn’s disease and clinicians involved in their care. Advice and information 9 may be required at a number of different times during an individual’s course and evidence to support 10 such discussions was felt to be important by the GDG. The inevitable lack of randomized-controlled 11 trial data in women in pregnancy meant that the GDG had to make recommendations based on more 12 descriptive systematic and narrative reviews. 13 The GDG felt it was important that clinicians are aware of the following special considerations 14 relating to this population group: 15  There is an acknowledged effect on fertility in women with Crohn’s disease, which may be 16 multifactorial. 17  Prior to a planned pregnancy, advice may be offered to prospective mothers relating to timing of 18 the pregnancy in relation to disease activity, nutrition, dietary or vitamin supplements, risks of the 19 offspring developing Crohn's disease and the range of courses the condition may take during the 20 pregnancy. 21  The GDG also sought evidence that would help healthcare professionals advising women about 22 potential benefits of the medication in terms of treating or preventing active disease, the effect of 23 Crohn’s disease and
