Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


evidence that would help healthcare professionals advising women about 22 potential benefits of the medication in terms of treating or preventing active disease, the effect of 23 Crohn’s disease and their medication on pregnancy outcomes, such as spontaneous abortion, 24 stillbirths, occurrence of congenital abnormalities, low birth weight and preterm delivery. 25  The effect of the disease on the choices for delivery available to women with Crohn’s disease also 26 needs consideration, especially in those with perianal Crohn’s disease. This should be discussed 27 with the obstetric team. 28  Drug treatment is an important part of the management of Crohn’s disease and the GDG 29 specifically considered the implications of their recommendations for treatment during pregnancy 30 and for breast-feeding mothers. The potential risks from medications need to be balanced with 31 the consequences of continued active disease affecting pregnancy outcomes. 32 o Aminosalicylates, conventional glucocorticosteroids, budesonide, azathioprine and 33 mercaptopurine may all be considered during pregnancy and breast-feeding, but potential 34 risks should be understood by clinicians and patients. 35 o Methotrexate is of well documented teratogenicity. Methotrexate should be avoided and the 36 BNF consulted. Advice may also be needed for potential fathers taking the drug. 37 o Interpretation of studies estimating such risks needs care. Risks may be small and therefore 38 not apparent in series of relatively small size, and apparent risks need to be set against the 39 background population risk for adverse outcomes of pregnancy. Crohn's disease Conception and pregnancy 12.2 Clinical evidence 2 A full literature search was undertaken. Systematic and narrative reviews of fertility and pregnancy in 3 Crohn’s disease were identified and reviewed. 4 12.2.1 Fertility 5 Infertility rates in women with inactive CD are similar to those of the general population, 8% to 10% 6 percent.121 In Crohn’s disease, women with active inflammation have reduced fertility by several 7 mechanisms, depending on site of inflammation. Active inflammation or previous surgical 8 intervention, especially in the distal ileum, causes scarring of fallopian tubes and ovaries.132,178 Less 9 direct effects, including poor nutrition and systemic inflammation could also play a more important 10 role.269 Pelvic surgery is negatively associated with fertility in women with Crohn’s disease compared 11 with those who had medical therapy only.185 12 Infertility rates in men were more difficult to assess. Sulfasalazine causes oligospermia. Increased 13 disease activity and poor nutritional status (zinc deficiency in 70%
