Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


possible effects of Crohn's disease on Recommendations pregnancy, including the potential risks and benefits of medical treatment and the possible effects of the Crohn’s disease on fertility. 45. Ensure effective communication and information-sharing across specialties (for example, primary care, obstetrics and gastroenterology) in the care of pregnant women with Crohn's disease. Quality of the evidence The GDG questioned why fertility is reduced in women with Crohn’s disease. Studies considering fertility before and after diagnosis of CD may be biased by a number of factors. Fertility is influenced by  Disease itself  Psychosexual factors  Desire to have children when patient has a significant illness  Desire to have (more) children The GDG also questioned whether surgery per se is related to decreased fertility, and proposed that pelvic but not abdominal surgery is associated with diminished fecundability (combination of ability and desire to have children). This is because pelvic surgery is associated with potential for adhesions around the Fallopian tubes. They also suggested that there is a higher rate of lower uterine segment Caesarean section because of a lower clinician threshold for surgical delivery when a woman has a co-morbid condition, for example Crohn’s disease, and because women with perianal Crohn’s disease have a high risk of perineal trauma (episiotomy/tears). The GDG were aware of data121 suggesting that perinatal morbidity e.g. small for gestational age (SFGA) is unlikely if a woman with Crohn’s disease is in a quiescent phase throughout the pregnancy. The perinatal morbidity reported in the literature may be as a result of women with Crohn’s disease having active Crohn’s disease/flares during pregnancy, but these data were not separated out in the literature reviewed. Hence the GDG was not able to conclude whether it is the disease activity that is of importance, or just having Crohn’s disease itself. Other considerations Multidisciplinary care Gastroenterologists noted that they would tend to see a pregnant woman more frequently, liaise with the obstetricians and ensure documentation in their hand-held maternity notes. No data were identified comparing shared care and usual care of pregnant women with Crohn’s disease and therefore the GDG had no evidence for whether outcomes are better with shared care. There is also no evidence to suggest that a person being looked after in primary care is being looked after any less satisfactorily than when the MDT is involved, but the GDG felt there are a surprising number of people
