Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


being looked after in primary care is being looked after any less satisfactorily than when the MDT is involved, but the GDG felt there are a surprising number of people with Crohn’s disease who are not under the care of a gastroenterologist. Crohn's disease Conception and pregnancy The GDG agreed nevertheless, that pregnant women with Crohn’s disease were at high risk regardless of whether the disease was in remission because  a third of women with Crohn’s disease are likely to flare during the pregnancy  they are at high risk of low birth weight, preterm labour and having small for gestational age babies  GPs cannot access biological treatments and many do not use azathioprine or mercaptopurine  There may be risks associated with some of the drugs used. The benefits and potential risks need to be assessed and discussed. They therefore deemed shared care to be an optimal strategy, including a gastroenterologist, obstetrician, GP and midwife. Ultimately the GDG agreed that the important issue was around ensuring sound care coordination and communication links between healthcare professionals within different specialities, for example the maternity/obstetric team and the gastroenterology team. Preconception support and information should be given to women considering pregnancy. Drugs in pregnancy and the post-partum period The GDG noted that many drugs used to treat people with Crohn’s disease are unlicensed, let alone not proven to be safe during pregnancy or breastfeeding. They generally thought that readers should be guided by the BNF which is frequently updated. Drugs should be used if their potential benefit outweighs their risk. Note: methotrexate should be avoided. The use of any medications in pregnancy should only follow a careful and documented discussion between the person with Crohn's disease and her doctor. It should balance the risk of disease flares against the potential known risks of the relevant medication in pregnancy. The discussion should acknowledge that there is always a risk of miscarriage and of birth abnormalities in all pregnancies. Male fertility and special drug precautions Male fertility was debated by the group but the guideline scope did not specify this as a population of interest and hence it is outside of remit. Nevertheless it was considered to be good practice to discuss the effects of drugs such as sulfasalazine in reducing male fertility as well as the teratogenic effects of methotrexate. Readers are advised to consult the BNF prior to prescribing these
