Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


the effects of drugs such as sulfasalazine in reducing male fertility as well as the teratogenic effects of methotrexate. Readers are advised to consult the BNF prior to prescribing these drugs. In generating the recommendations, the GDG emphasised that information should be given to women who are of childbearing potential, not only those who are actively considering conception or those who are pregnant. People with Crohn’s disease often don’t go to see the obstetrician prior to conception, therefore it is important for the gastroenterologist to be able to provide this information. Enquiry about the impact of the Crohn’s disease on future fertility and parental concern about the impact of the Crohn’s disease on children (both boys and girls) are common. A patient member of the GDG raised the point that when people want a child, they may go “all out” to achieve the pregnancy, irrespective of risks of the disease and medication. The GDG agreed that the person with Crohn’s disease should make these decisions, but that these decisions should be informed. Crohn's disease Conception and pregnancy The GDG did acknowledge that not all gastroenterologists would currently be in a position to provide comprehensive advice, noting that US obstetricians specialise, for example, in managing women with IBD. However, the group felt that gastroenterologists could and should provide a minimal level of information relating to pregnancy issues, as defined in the recommendations. The GDG commented that gastroenterologists would also be well positioned to contribute to discussion about minimising obstetric injury with the obstetrician (for example third degree tear), even though the intention is not to interfere with obstetric management. Contraception The need for effective contraception applies to any sexually active person of child bearing age and for women with Crohn's disease. A Clinical Knowledge Summary (accredited by NHS Evidence) suggests that additional factors which need to be considered in women with Crohn’s disease include malabsorption, surgical treatments, immobility, risk of venous thromboembolism, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and risk of osteoporosis.42 The GDG suggest that decisions about contraception are made with individual people with Crohn’s disease based on their specific clinical and personal circumstances. 12.5 Recommendations 2 44.Give information about the possible effects of Crohn's disease on pregnancy, including the 3 potential risks and benefits of medical treatment and the possible effects of the Crohn’s disease 4 on fertility. 5 45.Ensure effective communication and information-sharing across specialties (for example, 6 primary care, obstetrics
