Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


at a site of previous surgery Applicability The degree to which the results of an observation, study or review are likely to hold true in a particular clinical practice setting. Arm (of a clinical study) Sub-section of individuals within a study who receive one particular intervention, for example placebo arm. Association Statistical relationship between two or more events, characteristics or other variables. The relationship may or may not be causal. AZA Azathioprine (an immunosuppressive drug), prodrug of mercaptopurine. Baseline The initial set of measurements at the beginning of a study (after run-in period where applicable), with which subsequent results are Crohn's disease Glossary compared. Bias Systematic (as opposed to random) deviation of the results of a study from the ‘true’ results that is caused by the way the study is designed or conducted. Blinding Keeping the study participants, caregivers, researchers and outcome assessors unaware about the interventions to which the participants have been allocated in a study. BNF/BNFC British National Formulary/British National Formulary for Children Carer (caregiver) Someone other than a health professional who is involved in caring for a person with a medical condition. Case-control study Comparative observational study in which the investigator selects individuals who have experienced an event (for example, developed a disease) and others who have not (controls), and then collects data to determine previous exposure to a possible cause. Case-series Report of a number of cases of a given disease, usually covering the course of the disease and the response to treatment. There is no comparison (control) group of patients. CDAI Crohn’s disease activity index. Cleveland Global Quality of A simplified quality of life index which consists of three items level), each on a scale of 0 to 10 (0, worst; 10, best). Clinical effectiveness The extent to which an intervention produces an overall health benefit in routine clinical practice. Clinical efficacy The extent to which an intervention is active when studied under controlled research conditions. Clinician A healthcare professional providing direct patient care, for example Cochrane Review The Cochrane Library consists of a regularly updated collection of evidence-based medicine databases including the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (reviews of randomised controlled trials prepared by the Cochrane Collaboration). Cohort study A retrospective or prospective follow-up study. Groups of individuals to be followed up are defined on the basis of presence or absence of exposure to a suspected risk factor or intervention. A cohort study can
