Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


study. Groups of individuals to be followed up are defined on the basis of presence or absence of exposure to a suspected risk factor or intervention. A cohort study can be comparative, in which case two or more groups are selected on the basis of differences in their exposure to the agent of interest. Comparability Similarity of the groups in characteristics likely to affect the study results (such as health status or age). Concordance This is a recent term whose meaning has changed. It was initially applied to the consultation process in which doctor and patient agree therapeutic decisions that incorporate their respective views, Crohn's disease Glossary but now includes patient support in medicine taking as well as prescribing communication. Concordance reflects social values but does not address medicine-taking and may not lead to improved adherence. Confidence interval (CI) A range of values for an unknown population parameter with a stated ‘confidence’ (conventionally 95%) that it contains the true value. The interval is calculated from sample data, and generally straddles the sample estimate. The ‘confidence’ value means that if the method used to calculate the interval is repeated many times, then that proportion of intervals will actually contain the true value. Confounding In a study, confounding occurs when the effect of an intervention on an outcome is distorted as a result of an association between the population or intervention or outcome and another factor (the ‘confounding variable’) that can influence the outcome independently of the intervention under study. Consensus methods Techniques that aim to reach an agreement on a particular issue. Consensus methods may be used when there is a lack of strong evidence on a particular topic. Control group A group of patients recruited into a study that receives no treatment, a treatment of known effect, or a placebo (dummy treatment) - in order to provide a comparison for a group receiving an experimental treatment, such as a new drug. Conventional “Steroids” without a hgh first pass metabolism. glucocorticosteroids Cost-effectiveness analysis An economic study design in which consequences of different (CEA) interventions are measured using a single outcome, usually in ‘natural’ units (For example, life-years gained, deaths avoided, heart attacks avoided, cases detected). Alternative interventions are then compared in terms of cost per unit of effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness model An explicit mathematical framework, which is used to represent clinical decision problems and incorporate evidence from a variety of sources in
