Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


terms of cost per unit of effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness model An explicit mathematical framework, which is used to represent clinical decision problems and incorporate evidence from a variety of sources in order to estimate the costs and health outcomes. Cost-utility analysis (CUA) A form of cost-effectiveness analysis in which the units of effectiveness are quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). C-Reactive Protein A plasma protein that circulates in increased amounts during inflammation and after tissue damage. Decision analysis An explicit quantitative approach to decision making under uncertainty, based on evidence from research. This evidence is translated into probabilities, and then into diagrams or decision trees which direct the clinician through a succession of possible scenarios, actions and outcomes. Discounting Costs and perhaps benefits incurred today have a higher value than costs and benefits occurring in the future. Discounting health benefits reflects individual preference for benefits to be experienced in the present rather than the future. Discounting costs Crohn's disease Glossary reflects individual preference for costs to be experienced in the future rather than the present. Distal ileal disease Preferred term for “terminal” ileal disease, because of negative connotations of the word “terminal”. Dominance An intervention is said to be dominated if there is an alternative intervention that is both less costly and more effective. Drop-out A participant who withdraws from a trial before the end. Economic evaluation Comparative analysis of alternative health strategies (interventions or programmes) in terms of both their costs and consequences. Effect – relative and absolute Relative effect represents the ratio between two risks. Absolute effect represents the difference between two risks. Effect (as in effect measure, The observed association between interventions and outcomes or a treatment effect, estimate of statistic to summarise the strength of the observed association. effect, effect size) Effectiveness See ‘Clinical effectiveness’. Efficacy See ‘Clinical efficacy’. Endoscopic healing Intestinal lumen appears normal when seen on endoscopy. EQ-5D (EuroQol-5D) A standardise instrument used to measure a health outcome. It provides a single index value for health status. Evidence Information on which a decision or guidance is based. Evidence is obtained from a range of sources including randomised controlled and/or patients). Exclusion criteria (clinical Criteria that define who is ineligible to participate in a clinical study. study) Exclusion criteria (literature Explicit standards used to decide which studies should be excluded review) from consideration as potential sources of evidence. Extended dominance If Option A is both more clinically effective than
