Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


(literature Explicit standards used to decide which studies should be excluded review) from consideration as potential sources of evidence. Extended dominance If Option A is both more clinically effective than Option B and has a nothing alternative then Option A is said to have extended dominance over Option B. Option A is therefore more efficient and should be preferred, other things remaining equal. Extrapolation In data analysis, predicting the value of a parameter outside the range of observed values. Follow-up Observation over a period of time of an individual, group or initially defined population whose appropriate characteristics have been assessed in order to observe changes in health status or health- related variables. Food exclusion Avoidance of certain foods in an attempt to modify the presentation of the disease. Crohn's disease Glossary Forest plot A forest plot is a graphical representation of the results of a a meta- analysis. Generalisability The extent to which the results of a study based on measurement in a particular patient population and/or a specific context hold true for another population and/or in a different context. In this instance, this is the degree to which the guideline recommendation is applicable across both geographical and contextual settings. For instance, guidelines that suggest substituting one form of labour for another should acknowledge that these costs might vary across the country. Generic Not protected by trademark registration, non-proprietary. Glucocorticosteroid- Refers to those patients in whom their Crohn's disease flares when dependent glucocorticosteroid therapy is significantly reduced or stopped. GRADE/GRADE profile A system developed by the GRADE Working Group to address the shortcomings of present grading systems in healthcare. The GRADE system uses a common, sensible and transparent approach to grading the quality of evidence. The results of applying the GRADE system to clinical trial data are displayed in a table known as a GRADE profile. Harms Adverse effects of an intervention. HBI Harvey Bradshaw Index, used to measure activity and severity in Crohn’s disease. Health economics The study of the allocation of scarce resources among alternative healthcare treatments. Health economists are concerned with both increasing the average level of health in the population and improving the distribution of health. (HRQoL) being; not merely the absence of disease. Heterogeneity Or lack of The term is used in meta-analyses and systematic reviews when the homogeneity. results or estimates of effects of treatment from separate studies seem to be very different –
