Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


lack of The term is used in meta-analyses and systematic reviews when the homogeneity. results or estimates of effects of treatment from separate studies seem to be very different – in terms of the size of treatment effects or even to the extent that some indicate beneficial and others suggest adverse treatment effects. Such results may occur as a result of differences between studies in terms of the patient populations, outcome measures, definition of variables or duration of follow-up. Histological healing Histological healing refers to a pathological interpretation of intestinal biopsies in which samples no longer show signs of either acute or chronic inflammation. Histological sampling Biopsy for microscopic evaluation. IBDQ Inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire. Imprecision Results are imprecise when studies include relatively few patients and few events and thus have wide confidence intervals around the Crohn's disease Glossary estimate of effect. Inclusion criteria (literature Explicit criteria used to decide which studies should be considered review) as potential sources of evidence. Incremental analysis The analysis of additional costs and additional clinical outcomes with different interventions. Incremental cost The mean cost per patient associated with an intervention minus the mean cost per patient associated with a comparator intervention. Incremental cost The difference in the mean costs in the population of interest effectiveness ratio (ICER) divided by the differences in the mean outcomes in the population of interest for one treatment compared with another. Incremental net benefit (INB) The value (usually in monetary terms) of an intervention net of its cost compared with a comparator intervention. The INB can be calculated for a given cost-effectiveness (willingness to pay) threshold. If the threshold is £20,000 per QALY gained then the INB is calculated as: (£20,000 x QALYs gained) – Incremental cost. Indirectness The available evidence is different to the review question being addressed, in terms of PICO (population, intervention, comparison and outcome). IBD Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Chronic, non-specific disorders of unknown aetiology. Includes Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.) Intention to treat analysis A strategy for analysing data from a randomised controlled trial. All (ITT) participants are included in the arm to which they were allocated, whether or not they received (or completed) the intervention given to that arm. Intention-to-treat analysis prevents bias caused by the loss of participants, which may disrupt the baseline equivalence established by randomisation and which may reflect non-adherence to the protocol. Intervention Healthcare action intended to benefit the patient,
