Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


by the loss of participants, which may disrupt the baseline equivalence established by randomisation and which may reflect non-adherence to the protocol. Intervention Healthcare action intended to benefit the patient, for example, drug treatment, surgical procedure, psychological therapy. Kappa statistic A statistical measure of inter-rater agreement that takes into account the agreement occurring by chance. Length of stay The total number of days a participant stays in hospital. Leukapheresis Leukapheresis involves extracorporeal removal of leukocytes from the blood, either by centrifugation or through an adsorptive system. Licence See ‘Product licence’. Life-years gained Mean average years of life gained per person as a result of the intervention compared with an alternative intervention. Likelihood ratio The likelihood ratio combines information about the sensitivity and specificity. It tells you how much a positive or negative result changes the likelihood that a patient would have the disease. The Crohn's disease Glossary likelihood ratio of a positive test result (LR+) is sensitivity divided by 1- specificity. Long-term care Residential care in a home that may include skilled nursing care and help with everyday activities. This includes nursing homes and residential homes. Markov model A method for estimating long-term costs and effects for recurrent transition between them within a given time period (cycle). MDT Multidisciplinary team. Meta-analysis A statistical technique for combining (pooling) the results of a number of studies that address the same question and report on the same outcomes to produce a summary result. The aim is to derive more precise and clear information from a large data pool. It generally has greater power to confirm or refute a hypothesis than the individual trials. MTX Methotrexate (an immunosuppressive drug). MP Mercaptopurine (an immunosuppressive drug). Mucosal healing An endoscopic appearance where the mucosa shows no visual evidence of inflammation. Ideally it should be supported by evidence of histological healing. Multivariate model A statistical model for analysis of the relationship between two or more predictor (independent) variables and the outcome (dependent) variable. Number needed to treat The number of patients that who on average must be treated to (NNT) prevent a single occurrence of the outcome of interest. Observational study Retrospective or prospective study in which the investigator observes the natural course of events with or without control groups; for example, cohort studies and case–control studies. Odds ratio A measure of treatment effectiveness. The odds of an event happening in the treatment group, expressed as a
