Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


without control groups; for example, cohort studies and case–control studies. Odds ratio A measure of treatment effectiveness. The odds of an event happening in the treatment group, expressed as a proportion of the odds of it happening in the control group. The 'odds' is the ratio of events to non-events. Opportunity cost The loss of other health care programmes displaced by investment in or introduction of another intervention. This may be best measured by the health benefits that could have been achieved had the money been spent on the next best alternative healthcare intervention. Outcome Measure of the possible results that may stem from exposure to a preventive or therapeutic intervention. Outcome measures may be intermediate endpoints or they can be final endpoints. See ‘Intermediate outcome’. Padova Inflammatory Bowel Italian version of the Cleveland Global Quality of Life (CGQL) Disease Quality of Life instrument (see definition above). Crohn's disease Glossary Paediatric Pertaining to children or people less than 18 years of age. PCDAI Paediatric Crohn’s disease activity index Per protocol Only the patients who adhered to their originally-assigned treatments (no switching) and who completed the trialare included in the analysis. Perioperative The period from admission through surgery until discharge, encompassing the pre-operative and post-operative periods. Photopheresis A process in which peripheral blood is exposed in an extracorporeal flow system to photoactivated 8-methoxypsoralen (METHOXSALEN) and ultraviolet light - a procedure known as PUVA THERAPY. PICO In order to define a review question, a number of essential aspects require specification. For the characteristics used to define intervention reviews, the mnemonic PICO is used: Population, Intervention, Comparison, Outcome). Placebo An inactive and physically identical medication or procedure used as a comparator in controlled clinical trials. Polymeric Protein is present in its whole form. Examples of currently available formulas for enteral nutrition: Fortisip (by Nutricia), Ensure (by Fresnius), Modulen IBD (by Nestle). Polypharmacy The use or prescription of multiple medications. Post-operative Pertaining to the period after patients leave the operating theatre, following surgery. Power (statistical) The ability to demonstrate an association when one exists. Power is related to sample size; the larger the sample size, the greater the power and the lower the risk that a possible association could be missed. Pre-digested feed Elemental feed used in enteral nutrition. Protein is present in the form of free amino acids. Example of currently available formula: Elemental 028 Extra (by SHS). Primary care Healthcare delivered to
