Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


feed used in enteral nutrition. Protein is present in the form of free amino acids. Example of currently available formula: Elemental 028 Extra (by SHS). Primary care Healthcare delivered to patients outside hospitals. Primary care covers a range of services provided by general practitioners, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, opticians and other healthcare professionals. Primary outcome The outcome of greatest importance, usually the one in a study upon which the power calculation is based. Product licence An authorisation from the MHRA to market a medicinal product. Prognosis A probable course or outcome of a disease. Prognostic factors are patient or disease characteristics that influence the course. Good prognosis is associated with low rate of undesirable outcomes; poor Crohn's disease Glossary prognosis is associated with a high rate of undesirable outcomes. Prospective study A study in which people are entered into the research and then followed up over a period of time with future events recorded as they happen. This contrasts with studies that are retrospective. Publication bias Also known as reporting bias. A bias caused by only a subset of all the relevant data being available. The publication of research can depend on the nature and direction of the study results. Studies in which an intervention is not found to be effective are sometimes not published. Because of this, systematic reviews that fail to include unpublished studies may overestimate the true effect of an intervention. In addition, a published report might present a biased set of results (e.g. only outcomes or sub-groups where a statistically significant difference was found. P-value The probability that an observed difference could have occurred by chance, assuming that there is in fact no underlying difference between the means of the observations. If the probability is less than 1 in 20, the P value is less than 0.05; a result with a P value of less than 0.05 is conventionally considered to be ‘statistically significant’. Quality of life See ‘Health-related quality of life’. Quality-adjusted life year An index of survival that is adjusted to account for the patient’s (QALY) quality of life during this time. QALYs have the advantage of incorporating changes in both quantity (longevity/mortality) and quality (morbidity, psychological, functional, social and other factors) of life. Used to measure benefits in cost-utility analysis. The QALYs gained are the mean QALYs associated with one treatment minus the mean QALYs associated with an alternative treatment. Quiescent Crohn’s disease A
