Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


to measure benefits in cost-utility analysis. The QALYs gained are the mean QALYs associated with one treatment minus the mean QALYs associated with an alternative treatment. Quiescent Crohn’s disease A situation where the patient is symptom free and has no endoscopic or radiological evidence of disease activity. Randomisation Allocation of participants in a research study to two or more alternative groups using a chance procedure, such as computer- generated random numbers. This approach is used in an attempt to ensure there is an even distribution of participants with different characteristics between groups and thus reduce sources of bias. Randomised controlled trial A comparative study in which participants are randomly allocated (RCT) to intervention and control groups and followed up to examine differences in outcomes between the groups. RCT See ‘Randomised controlled trial’. Receiver operated A graphical method of assessing the accuracy of a diagnostic test. characteristic (ROC) curve Sensitivity Is plotted against 1-specificity. A perfect test will have a positive, vertical linear slope starting at the origin. A good test will be somewhere close to this ideal. Reference standard The test that is considered to be the best available method to establish the presence or absence of the outcome – this may not be the one that is routinely used in practice. Crohn's disease Glossary Refractory Crohn’s disease A situation where the condition does not respond to standard pharmacological treatments. Relapse The return of a sign, symptom, or disease after a remission. Relative risk (RR)/ The number of times more likely or less likely an event is to happen in one group compared with another (calculated as the risk of the Risk ratio event in group A/the risk of the event in group B). Remission Remission is synonymous with quiescent disease and describes a situation where the patient is symptom free and has no endoscopic or radiological evidence of disease activity. Reporting bias See publication bias. Resource implication The likely impact in terms of finance, workforce or other NHS resources. Retrospective study A retrospective study deals with the present/ past and does not involve studying future events. This contrasts with studies that are prospective. Review question In guideline development, this term refers to the questions about treatment and care that are formulated to guide the development of evidence-based recommendations. Secondary outcome An outcome used to evaluate additional effects of the intervention deemed a priori as being less important than the
