Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


are formulated to guide the development of evidence-based recommendations. Secondary outcome An outcome used to evaluate additional effects of the intervention deemed a priori as being less important than the primary outcomes. Selection bias A systematic bias in selecting participants for study groups, so that the groups have differences in prognosis and/or therapeutic sensitivities at baseline. Randomisation (with concealed allocation) of patients protects against this bias. Semi-elemental Enteral nutrition formula in which protein is present in the form of peptide chains, made by protein hydrolysis. Usually these formulas have a mean peptide chain length of four or five amino acids. Examples of currently available formulas: Peptisorb (by Nutricia), Pepdite (by SHS). Sensitivity Sensitivity or recall rate is the proportion of true positives which are correctly identified as such. For example in diagnostic testing it is the proportion of true cases that the test detects. See the related term ‘Specificity’ Sensitivity analysis A means of representing uncertainty in the results of economic evaluations. Uncertainty may arise from missing data, imprecise estimates or methodological controversy. Sensitivity analysis also allows for exploring the generalisability of results to other settings. The analysis is repeated using different assumptions to examine the effect on the results. One-way simple sensitivity analysis (univariate analysis): each Crohn's disease Glossary parameter is varied individually in order to isolate the consequences of each parameter on the results of the study. Multi-way simple sensitivity analysis (scenario analysis): two or more parameters are varied at the same time and the overall effect on the results is evaluated. Threshold sensitivity analysis: the critical value of parameters above or below which the conclusions of the study will change are identified. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis: probability distributions are assigned to the uncertain parameters and are incorporated into evaluation models based on decision analytical techniques (For example, Monte Carlo simulation). Short bowel syndrome A malabsorption syndrome resulting from extensive operative resection of small bowel. Significance (statistical) A result is deemed statistically significant if the probability of the result occurring by chance is less than 1 in 20 (p < 0.05). SPC Summary of Product Characteristics. Specificity The proportion of true negatives that a correctly identified as such. For example in diagnostic testing the specificity is the proportion of non-cases incorrectly diagnosed as cases. See related term ‘Sensitivity’. In terms of literature searching a highly specific search is generally narrow and aimed at picking up the key papers in
