Crohn's disease
KEYWORDS: disease, crohn, treatment, crohn disease, remission, glucocorticosteroid, quality, conventional, clinical, evidence, low, studies, people, conventional glucocorticosteroid, induction


non-cases incorrectly diagnosed as cases. See related term ‘Sensitivity’. In terms of literature searching a highly specific search is generally narrow and aimed at picking up the key papers in a field and avoiding a wide range of papers. Stakeholder Those with an interest in the use of the guideline. Stakeholders include manufacturers, sponsors, healthcare professionals, and patient and carer groups. Symptomatic recurrence Subjective or objective assessment of symptoms that indicate a resurgence of the disease. Systematic review Research that summarises the evidence on a clearly formulated question according to a pre-defined protocol using systematic and explicit methods to identify, select and appraise relevant studies, and to extract, collate and report their findings. It may or may not use statistical meta-analysis. Time horizon The time span over which costs and health outcomes are considered in a decision analysis or economic evaluation. TPMT Thiopurine methyl transferase. Treatment allocation Assigning a participant to a particular arm of the trial. TNF-α Tumour Necrosis Factor (TNF) alpha . Crohn's disease Glossary UNG Understanding NICE Guidance. Univariate Analysis which separately explores each variable in a data set. Utility A measure of the strength of an individual’s preference for a specific health state in relation to alternative health states. The utility scale assigns numerical values on a scale from 0 (death) to 1 (optimal or ‘perfect’ health). Health states can be considered worse than death and thus have a negative value. Wireless capsule endoscopy A small capsule, consisting of a camera, light source and wireless circuit for the acquisition and transmission of images of the gastrointestinal tract. The capsule is swallowed and then passed in the patient’s stool and is not used again. Crohn's disease Scope Appendices Appendix A: Scope See separate document Crohn's disease Declarations of interest Appendix B: Declarations of interest See separate document Crohn's disease Review Protocols: clinical and health economic Appendix C: Review Protocols: clinical and health economic See separate document Crohn's disease Search strategies Appendix D: Search strategies See separate document Crohn's disease Excluded studies Appendix E: Excluded studies See separate document Crohn's disease Evidence tables Appendix F: Evidence tables See separate document Crohn's disease Forest Plots Appendix G: Forest Plots See separate document Crohn's disease Full Health Economics report Appendix H: Full Health Economics report See separate document Crohn's disease Research recommendations Appendix I: Research recommendations See separate document Crohn's disease Review of Cochrane 5-ASA review for induction of remission
