Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


Guidelines Guidelines on the management of ascites in cirrhosis Guruprasad P Aithal ,1,2 Naaventhan Palaniyappan,1,2 Louise China,3 Suvi Härmälä,4 Lucia Macken ,5,6 Jennifer M Ryan,3,7 Emilie A Wilkes,2,8 Kevin Moore,3 Joanna A Leithead,9 Peter C Hayes,10 Alastair J O’Brien ,3 Sumita Verma5,6 ► Additional material is ABSTRACT 2.2. A diagnostic paracentesis should be per- please visit the journal online with British Association for the Study of the Liver has fever or other signs of systemic inflammation, (http:// dx. doi. org/ 10. 1136/ gutjnl- 2020- 321790). prepared this document. The aim of this guideline is to gastrointestinal symptoms, hepatic encephalop- For numbered affiliations see diagnosis and management of ascites in patients with renal function. (Quality of evidence: moderate; end of article. cirrhosis. Substantial advances have been made in Recommendation: strong) Correspondence to this area since the publication of the last guideline in 2.3. Ascitic neutrophil >250/mm3 count re- NIHR Nottingham Biomedical literature search and comprise systematic reviews in the and this can be performed either by manual mi- Research Centre, Nottingham key areas, including the diagnostic tests, diuretic use, croscopy or using automated counts, based on University Hospitals NHS therapeutic paracentesis, use of albumin, transjugular flow cytometry for counting and differentiating Trust and the University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt, spontaneous cells. (Quality of evidence: moderate; Recom- 2UH, UK; bacterial peritonitis and beta- blockers in patients with mendation: strong) guru. aithal@ nottingham. ac. uk ascites. Where recent systematic reviews and meta- 2.4. Ascitic fluid culture with bedside inoc- analysis are available, these have been updated with ulation of blood culture bottles should be Received 11 May 2020 Revised 27 August 2020 additional studies. In addition, the results of prospective performed to guide the choice of antibiotic Accepted 4 September 2020 and retrospective studies, evidence obtained from expert treatment when SBP is suspected. (Quality of Published Online First evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) committee reports and, in some instances, reports 16 October 2020 2.5. Immediate empirical antibiotic therapy from case series have been included. Where possible, should be determined with due consideration of judgement has been made on the quality of information context of SBP (community acquired or health- used to generate the guidelines and the specific care associated), severity of infection and lo- recommendations have been made according to the cal bacterial resistance profile. Cefotaxime has ’Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development been widely studied, but choice of antibiotic and
