Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


of infection and lo- recommendations have been made according to the cal bacterial resistance profile. Cefotaxime has ’Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development been widely studied, but choice of antibiotic and Evaluation (GRADE)’ system. These guidelines are should be guided by local resistance patterns intended to inform practising clinicians, and it is expected and protocol. (Quality of evidence: moderate; that these guidelines will be revised in 3 years’ time. Recommendation: strong) 2.6. A second diagnostic paracentesis at 48 hours from the start of treatment to check the efficacy of antibiotic therapy should be consid- EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS ered in those who have apparently inadequate 1. Diagnostic paracentesis in new- onset ascites response or where secondary bacterial peritoni- 1.1. A diagnostic paracentesis is recommended tis is suspected. (Quality of evidence: low; Rec- in all patients with new-o nset ascites. (Qual- ommendation: weak) ity of evidence: moderate; Recommendation: 2.7. Patients presenting with gastrointestinal strong) bleeding and underlying ascites due to cirrhosis 1.2. The initial ascitic fluid analysis should in- should receive prophylactic antibiotic treatment clude total protein concentration and calcu- (cefotaxime has been widely studied but the an- lation of the serum ascites albumin gradient tibiotic should be chosen based on local data) (SAAG). (Quality of evidence: moderate; Rec- to prevent the development of SBP. (Quality of ommendation: strong) evidence: strong; Recommendation: strong) 1.3. Ascites fluid analysis for cytology, amylase, 2.8. Patients who have recovered from an ep- brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and adenosine isode of SBP should be considered for treat- deaminase should be considered based on pre- ment with norfloxacin (400 mg once daily), © Author(s) (or their test probability of specific diagnosis (Quality of ciprofloxacin (500 mg once daily, orally) or co- employer(s)) 2021. Re- use permitted under CC BY- NC. No evidence: moderate; Recommendation: weak) trimoxazole (800 mg sulfamethoxazole and 160 commercial re- use. See rights 2. Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis mg trimethoprim daily, orally) to prevent fur- and permissions. Published 2.1. Diagnostic paracentesis should be carried ther episode of SBP. (Quality of evidence: low; by BMJ. out without a delay to rule out spontaneous Recommendation: weak) To cite: Aithal GP, bacterial peritonitis SBP) in all cirrhotic patients 2.9. Primary prophylaxis should be offered to et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) an ascitic protein count <1.5 g/dL. However, it Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 9 Guidelines is important that the potential risks and benefits and
