Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) an ascitic protein count <1.5 g/dL. However, it Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 9 Guidelines is important that the potential risks and benefits and existing within 6 hours of diagnosis, followed by 1 g/kg on day 3, is uncertainties are communicated to patients. (Quality of evi- recommended. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: dence: low; Recommendation: weak) weak) 3. Dietary salt restriction 7. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPSS) 3.1. Patients with cirrhosis and ascites should have a mod- 7.1. TIPSS should be considered in patients with refractory erately salt restricted diet with daily salt intake of no more ascites. (Quality of evidence: high; Recommendation: strong) than 5–6.5 g (87–113 mmol sodium). This translates to a no 7.2. Caution is required if considering TIPSS in patients with added salt diet with avoidance of precooked meals. (Quality age >70 years, serum bilirubin >50 µmol/L, platelet count of evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) <75×109/L, model for end- stage liver disease (MELD) score 3.2. Patients with cirrhosis and ascites should receive nutri- ≥18, current hepatic encephalopathy, active infection or tional counselling on the sodium content in the diet. (Quality hepatorenal syndrome. (Quality of evidence: moderate; Rec- of evidence: weak; Recommendation: strong) ommendation: strong) 4. Diuretics 8. Umbilical hernia 4.1. In patients with the first presentation of moderate as- 8.1. Suitability and timing of surgical repair of umbilical her- cites, spironolactone monotherapy (starting dose 100 mg, nia should be considered in discussion with the patient and increased to 400 mg) is reasonable. In those with recurrent multidisciplinary team involving physicians, surgeons and severe ascites, and if faster diuresis is needed (for example, anaesthetists. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: if the patient is hospitalised), combination therapy with strong) spironolactone (starting dose 100 mg, increased to 400 mg) 9. Hepatic hydrothorax (HH) and furosemide (starting dose 40 mg, increased to 160 mg) is 9.1. TIPSS should be considered in patients with HH after recommended. (Quality of evidence: moderate; Recommen- discussion with the multidisciplinary team. (Quality of evi- dation: strong) dence: low; Recommendation: strong) 4.2. All patients initiating diuretics should be monitored for 9.2. In patients with HH who are not undergoing a TIPSS adverse events. Almost half of those with adverse events re- and/or a liver transplant evaluation, alternative palliative in- quire diuretic discontinuation or dose reduction. (Quality of terventions should be considered. (Quality of evidence: low; evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) Recommendation: strong)
