Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


and/or a liver transplant evaluation, alternative palliative in- quire diuretic discontinuation or dose reduction. (Quality of terventions should be considered. (Quality of evidence: low; evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) Recommendation: strong) 4.3. Hypovolaemic hyponatraemia during diuretic therapy 10. Non-s elective beta-b lockers (NSBB) and ascites should be managed by discontinuation of diuretics and ex- 10.1. Refractory ascites should not be viewed as a contrain- pansion of plasma volume with normal saline. (Quality of dication to NSBB. (Quality of evidence: moderate; Recom- evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) mendation: strong) 4.4. Fluid restriction to 1–1.5 L/day should be reserved for 10.2. Patients with refractory ascites who are taking NSBB those who are clinically hypervolaemic with severe hypon- should be monitored closely, and dose reduction or discon- atraemia (serum sodium <125 mmol/L). (Quality of evi- tinuation may be appropriate in those who develop hypo- dence: low; Recommendation: weak) tension or acute/progressive renal dysfunction. (Quality of 4.5. Hypertonic sodium chloride (3%) administration should evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) be reserved for those who are severely symptomatic with 11. Automated low-f low ascites pump acute hyponatraemia. Serum sodium should be slowly cor- 11.1. An automated low-f low ascites pump should be con- rected. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) sidered only in special circumstances with robust arrange- fractory ascites on a case by case basis. (Quality of evidence: evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) low; Recommendation: weak) 12. Palliative care 5. Large volume paracentesis (LVP) 12.1. Patients with refractory ascites who are not under- 5.1. Patients should give informed consent for a therapeutic going evaluation for liver transplant should be offered a or diagnostic paracentesis. (Quality of evidence: low; Recom- palliative care referral. Besides repeated LVP, alternative mendation: strong) palliative interventions for refractory ascites should also be 5.2. Ultrasound guidance should be considered when availa- considered. (Quality of evidence: weak; Recommendation: ble during LVP to reduce the risk of adverse events (Quality strong) of evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) 13. Research recommendations 5.3. Routine measurement of the prothrombin time and 13.1. Randomised controlled trials (RCT) with large sample platelet count before therapeutic or diagnostic paracente- size should evaluate the role of antibiotics in the secondary sis and infusion of blood products are not recommended. prophylaxis for SBP in ascites secondary to cirrhosis. (Quality of evidence: moderate ; Recommendation: strong) 13.2. Large RCTs should assess the role of midodrine in the 6. Use of human albumin solution (HAS) management of ascites. 6.1.
