Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


cirrhosis. (Quality of evidence: moderate ; Recommendation: strong) 13.2. Large RCTs should assess the role of midodrine in the 6. Use of human albumin solution (HAS) management of ascites. 6.1. Albumin (as 20% or 25% solution) should be infused 13.3. Cost- effectiveness of long- term administration of al- after paracentesis of >5 L is completed at a dose of 8 g albu- bumin to patients with decompensated cirrhosis and ascites min/L of ascites removed. (Quality of evidence: high; Recom- should be evaluated. mendation: strong) 13.4. Role of nutritional interventions in the management of 6.2. Albumin (as 20% or 25% solution) can be considered ascites should be evaluated. after paracentesis of <5 L at a dose of 8 g albumin/L of as- 13.5. Large RCT of long-t erm carvedilol versus no carvedilol cites removed in patients with ACLF or high risk of post- in patients with refractory ascites without large oesophageal paracentesis acute kidney injury. (Quality of evidence: low; varices should be carried out. Recommendation: weak) 13.6. Role of TIPSS in the management of hepatic hydro- 6.3. In patients with SBP and an increased serum creatinine thorax should be compared with other therapeutic interven- or a rising serum creatinine, infusion of 1.5 g albumin/kg tions. 10 Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: Guidelines 13.7. The cost- effectiveness and the effect of automated low- INTRODUCTION flow ascites pumps on the quality of life of patients with re- Contemporary data from an NHS hospital serving a popula- fractory ascites should be evaluated. tion of 700 000, found 164 adults with a new diagnosis of 13.8. Effectiveness and safety of long- term abdominal drains ascites over a period of 5 years. Of these, 55% had cirrhosis should be assessed in RCTs for the palliative care of patients (alcohol- related liver disease 58, non- alcoholic fatty liver with cirrhosis and refractory ascites. disease 21, chronic viral hepatitis 4, autoimmune liver diseases 3 and cryptogenic cirrhosis 4), 29% had malignancies (gynae- PATIENT SUMMARY cological 12, gastrointestinal 25 and others 11), 6% cardiac These guidelines have been produced on behalf of the British failure (CF), 3% end- stage renal disease (ESRD) and 7% other Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) in collaboration with the aetiologies. British Association for the Study of the Liver (BASL). These Development of ascites is an important milestone in the natural guidelines are aimed at healthcare professionals who look after history of cirrhosis. About
