Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


the Study of the Liver (BASL). These Development of ascites is an important milestone in the natural guidelines are aimed at healthcare professionals who look after history of cirrhosis. About 20% of patients with cirrhosis have patients with cirrhosis and ascites. ascites at their first presentation, and 20% of those presenting with Ascites is the build-u p of fluid in the belly (abdomen). This ascites die in the first year of the diagnosis.1 The aim of this guide- known as cirrhosis. Ascites is the most common complication diagnosis and management of ascites in patients with cirrhosis. of cirrhosis. All patients with a new onset of ascites should have the fluid Pathogenesis tested. This involves inserting a small needle into the abdomen A detailed description of the pathogenesis of ascites formation is and removing about two tablespoons of ascitic fluid. The fluid beyond the scope of this article, but two key factors involved in is then analysed for protein and white cell count. Protein count the pathogenesis of ascites formation are portal hypertension and can help differentiate whether the cause of ascites is cirrhosis or retention of sodium and water. This is summarised in figure 1. whether the ascites is due to other causes like heart disease or An elevated sinusoidal pressure is essential for the development cancer. The white cell count indicates whether there is an infec- of ascites, as fluid accumulation does not develop at portal pressure tion in the ascitic fluid. If infection is present, this is treated with gradient below 8 mm Hg, and rising corrected sinusoidal pressure a short course of antibiotics. Infection of ascites should be ruled correlates with decreased 24- hour urinary excretion of sodium.2 3 out at every hospital admission as it carries a high risk of death Architectural changes associated with advanced fibrosis are clearly and should therefore be diagnosed and treated promptly. After the primary mechanism underlying increased intrahepatic resis- this initial treatment, patients are given long- term antibiotics to tance to the portal flow in cirrhosis. In addition, phenotypic prevent repeat infections. changes in hepatic stellate cells and liver sinusoidal endothelial cells No salt should be added at the table to food. The total amount contribute to the pathophysiology. Activated stellate cells become of salt in food per day should not be more than the equivalent of contractile, and their recruitment around newly formed sinusoidal one teaspoon. Patients should read
