Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


stellate cells become of salt in food per day should not be more than the equivalent of contractile, and their recruitment around newly formed sinusoidal one teaspoon. Patients should read labels on prepared foods to vessels increases the vascular resistance. Reduction in the produc- confirm their daily salt intake is within the limit of 5 g of salt. The tion/bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO) in the cirrhotic liver adds initial treatment for patients with ascites involves taking medica- further to the rise in vascular tone. Overall, vasoconstriction has tion, commonly known as 'water tablets' (diuretics). These drugs been estimated to account for about 25% of the increased resistance are begun at a small dose, which is gradually increased until the within the liver.4 ascites is treated. Diuretics can have side effects such dehydra- Increased portal pressure is sensed by intestinal microvascula- tion, confusion, abnormal levels of sodium and potassium and ture that generates angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial kidney damage. Therefore patients should be monitored while growth factor,5 and these stimulate the development of portosys- taking these tablets. temic collaterals through the opening of pre- existing vessels or new As the liver disease progresses the ascites may no longer vessel formation. When the portal pressure rises further, induction respond to medication. This is known as untreatable or refrac- of endothelial nitric oxide synthase and over production of NO few weeks to have a temporary drain inserted into the abdomen portal blood flow, thus exacerbating portal hypertension. Portosys- and the ascitic fluid drained. If more than 5 L of fluid is removed, temic collaterals also permit vasodilators such as NO, prostacyclin patients are also given a protein solution into the vein to prevent and endocannabinoids6 to enter the systemic circulation leading dehydration. to a state of ‘effective hypovolaemia’.7 This activates sympathetic In patients with untreatable ascites, alternatives to repeated nervous system stimulating reabsorption of sodium in proximal, This specialised procedure is known as a transjugular intrahepatic renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system, leading to sodium absorp- portosystemic shunt (TIPSS). The TIPSS procedure is effective in tion from distal tubule and collecting duct.8 Renal sodium retention reducing the need for repeated fluid drainage. Because of potential and eventual free water clearance due to non- osmotic release of side effects, patients should be selected carefully for this proce- arginine–vasopressin and its action on V2 receptor in the collecting dure. This is particularly true for patients with
