Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


release of side effects, patients should be selected carefully for this proce- arginine–vasopressin and its action on V2 receptor in the collecting dure. This is particularly true for patients with more advanced liver duct underlie the fluid retention associated with oedema and ascites disease, where the insertion of a TIPSS can potentially be harmful. in cirrhosis.8 The only curative option for untreatable ascites is liver trans- More recently, it has been hypothesised that bacterial trans- plantation. If the patient is not suitable for liver transplantation, location associated with portal hypertension in cirrhosis and medical care then focuses on controlling the ascites symptoms. related pathogen- associated, molecular pattern activated innate This is known as palliative care. The most common palliative immune responses lead to systemic inflammation.9 This is asso- treatment for untreatable ascites is repeated hospital drainage. ciated with vasodilatation as well as release of proinflammatory Alternative treatments for untreatable ascites, such as long- term cytokines, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, contributing to abdominal drains, need further research. organ dysfunction. Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 11 Guidelines Figure 1 The pathogenesis of ascites in cirrhosis. Definitions imaging such as ultrasound or CT is necessary to confirm the The terms used in this article have been defined by the Interna- presence of ascites. tional Ascites Club10 DIAGNOSTIC PARACENTESIS IN NEW-ONSET ASCITES Uncomplicated ascites Aspiration of ascitic fluid and its laboratory analysis is an Ascites that is not infected and which is not associated with the essential step in the management of patients with newly diag- development of the hepatorenal syndrome (HRS). Ascites can nosed ascites. In cirrhosis, hepatic sinusoids are less permeable be graded as mild when ascites is detectable only by ultrasound owing to fibrous tissue deposition, resulting in ascites with low examination, moderate when it causes moderate symmetrical protein content. It is important to estimate total protein level distension of the abdomen and large when it causes marked in ascites fluid; a concentration below 1.5 g/dL (or 15 g/L) is a abdominal distension. risk factor for the development of spontaneous bacterial perito- nitis. In addition, serum ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) should Refractory ascites be estimated routinely. A cut-o ff point of 1.1 g/dL (or 11 g/L) Ascites that cannot be mobilised or the early recurrence of differentiates between causes of ascites with high sensitivity,13–18 which (ie, after therapeutic paracentesis) cannot be satisfacto- although alternative causes should be considered
