Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


cannot be mobilised or the early recurrence of differentiates between causes of ascites with high sensitivity,13–18 which (ie, after therapeutic paracentesis) cannot be satisfacto- although alternative causes should be considered based on the rily prevented by medical treatment. This includes two different clinical scenario (table 1). subgroups. Hepatic sinusoids are normally permeable in heart failure, which allows for leakage of protein- rich lymph into the abdom- Diuretic-resistant ascites inal cavity and therefore, total protein concentration in ascitic Ascites that is refractory to dietary sodium restriction and inten- fluid is high (>2.5 g/dL) in combination with a high SAAG. In sive diuretic treatment. such a situation, measurement of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in the serum±ascites is useful. Total protein concentrations >2.5 Diuretic-intractable ascites g/dL within the ascites and serum BNP >364 ng/L are suggestive Ascites that is refractory to treatment owing to the development of diuretic- induced complications that preclude the use of an effective diuretic dosage. Table 1 Grouping of aetiology of ascites based on serum albumin ascites gradient (SAAG) Evaluation of patients with ascites SAAG ≥11 /L SAAG <11 /L Clinical evaluation should include history of exposure to risk Portal hypertension Peritoneal carcinomatosis factors for cirrhosis and physical examination to look for evidence to support chronic liver disease or an alternative diag- Cardiac failure Peritoneal tuberculosis nosis. Shifting dullness is detectable when about one and a half Portal vein thrombosis* Pancreatitis* litres of free fluid accumulate in the abdomen; the physical sign Hypothyroidism* Bowel perforation* has 83% sensitivity and 56% specificity in detecting ascites.11 12 Nephrotic syndrome* However, in the presence of obesity or smaller amount of fluid, *Limited data27 283 284 12 Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: Guidelines SPONTANEOUS BACTERIAL PERITONITIS (SBP) Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is the development of bacterial infection of ascites in the absence of any intra-a bdominal surgically treatable source of infection. The prevalence of SBP in outpatients is 1.5–3.5% and approximately 10% in hospitalised patients.28 A recent European study detected a prevalence of 11.3% among inpatients.29 When first described, mortality associated with SBP approximately 20% with early diagnosis and prompt treatment.30 In an observational study, each hour of delay in diagnostic para- centesis after admission was associated with a 3.3% increase of in- hospital mortality after adjusting for model for end- stage liver disease (MELD) score.31 Long- term survival remains poor; 1- year survival after hospitalisation with SBP in a UK study
