Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


culture, although culture counts, based on flow cytometry for counting and differentiating positivity occurs in <50% and smear- positive ascites is rare.23 cells, are now used in most centres. This technique has been shown Adenosine deaminase is more useful to distinguish between peri- to have sensitivity and specificity close to 100%,34 35 allowing a toneal TB and carcinomatosis, with an area under the receiver tube containing ethylenediamine tetra- acetate (EDTA; as used for operating characteristic curve of 0.98; adenosine deaminase plasma full blood count) to be inoculated with ascitic fluid and levels of <40 IU/mL are used to exclude TB.24 25 processed on a standard blood count analyser. Reagent strips have Pancreatic ascites is a rare complication of pancreatitis, insufficient sensitivity for reliable use in this context36 and hence although more common when a pseudocyst is present. In cannot be recommended to replace cell count to diagnose SBP. pancreatic ascites, the amylase level in the ascitic fluid is typi- cally >1000 IU/L or greater than six times the serum amylase, with mean values exceeding 4000 IU/L in a recent cohort of 80 Ascitic fluid culture patients.26 Raised polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN) count Ascites culture is essential to help guide antibiotic therapy. may also be found in pancreatic ascites.27 Patients with ‘culture-n egative neutrocytic ascites’ (PMN count The ascitic fluid samples required from the diagnostic para- >250 cells/mm3) have a similar presentation to those with centesis is summarised in figure 2. culture- positive SBP. As both groups of patients have significant morbidity and mortality,37 38 they should be treated in a similar manner. Some patients have ‘bacterascites’ in which cultures Recommendations are positive, but, ascitic neutrophil count is <250 cells/mm3. In ► A diagnostic paracentesis is recommended in all patients some patients, bacterascites represents a transient and sponta- with new-o nset ascites. (Quality of evidence: moderate; neously reversible colonisation of ascites, in others, particularly Recommendation: strong) those who are symptomatic, it may represent the first step in the ► The initial ascitic fluid analysis should include total protein development of SBP.33 Discussion with microbiologists about the concentration and calculation of SAAG. (Quality of evidence: organism cultured can help differentiate the above two scenarios, moderate; Recommendation: strong) and when a positive culture is obtained a repeat tap should be ► Ascites fluid analysis for cytology, amylase, BNP and adeno- sent to guide management. sine deaminase should be considered based on pretest prob- Although
