Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


obtained a repeat tap should be ► Ascites fluid analysis for cytology, amylase, BNP and adeno- sent to guide management. sine deaminase should be considered based on pretest prob- Although the identification of pathogen(s) is essential for the ability of specific diagnosis (Quality of evidence: moderate; management of infectious diseases, ascites fluid cultures often Recommendation: weak) fail to provide positive results, even when using ascites samples Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 13 Guidelines from patients who develop clinical manifestations of SBP. Bacte- de- escalation of anti-m icrobial agents according to susceptibility rial DNA detection and sequencing have been applied to the of positive cultures is recommended. diagnosis of several infectious diseases, and molecular tech- The evidence for the use of human albumin solution and niques can detect small amounts of bacterial DNA within a few recommendations for its use in SBP are discussed in a separate hours. These promising techniques have yet to be introduced section below. into routine clinical practice.39 Fungal peritonitis is a rare, less studied complication and Prophylactic therapy for SBP observational data suggest a worse prognosis.40 In a large multi- Three groups at high risk of developing SBP have been identified: (i) centre study of 2743 cirrhotic inpatients, of whom 1052 had patients with acute gastrointestinal (GI) haemorrhage; (ii) patients infections, 12.7% of infected patients had evidence of fungal with a low ascitic protein concentration and no prior history of infections with a case fatality of 30%. The majority of these were SBP (primary prophylaxis) and (iii) patients with a previous episode urinary, but the highest mortality was seen with fungaemia and of SBP (secondary prophylaxis).51 Although antibiotic prophy- peritonitis (case fatality >50%).41 laxis to prevent further infection in patients presenting to hospital remains uncertainty over prophylaxis in other circumstances. Addi- Secondary bacterial peritonitis tional studies related to this area after the Cochrane review53 are A small proportion of patients with cirrhosis may develop peri- summarised in online supplemental table 1. tonitis secondary to perforation or inflammation of an intra- abdominal organ, known as secondary bacterial peritonitis. In a small retrospective analysis, secondary peritonitis represented Primary prophylaxis 4.5% of all peritonitis in cirrhotic patients.42 This should be Primary prophylaxis is a controversial area and broad recom- suspected in those who have localised abdominal symptoms or mendations are not straightforward. In 2016 the National organisms on ascitic culture or in those with inadequate response offering
