Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


local policy and patient management and, in addition, primary prophylaxis is offered to patients considered at high 14 Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: Guidelines risk, as defined by an ascitic protein count <1.5 g/dL. However, is suspected. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: it is important that the potential risks and benefits and existing weak) uncertainties are communicated to patients. ► Patients presenting with gastrointestinal bleeding and under- It is expected that a large ongoing multicentre UK trial (Euro- lying ascites due to cirrhosis should receive prophylactic pean Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials Data- antibiotic treatment (cefotaxime has been widely studied base Registration Number: 2019-000581-38) to investigate the but the antibiotic should be chosen based on local data) efficacy of long- term co- trimoxazole compared with placebo as to prevent the development of SBP. (Quality of evidence: primary prevention for SBP may deal with these uncertainties. strong, Recommendation: strong) ► Patients who have recovered from an episode of SBP should be considered for treatment with norfloxacin (400 mg once Secondary prophylaxis daily), ciprofloxacin (500 mg once daily, orally) or co-t ri- In patients who survive an episode of SBP, the cumulative recur- moxazole (800 mg sulfamethoxazole and 160 mg trimeth- rence rate at 1 year is approximately 70%.33 Probability of oprim daily, orally) to prevent further episode of SBP. survival at 1 year after an episode of SBP is 30–50% and falls to (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) 25–30% at 2 years.66 67 There is only one randomised, double- ► Primary prophylaxis should be offered to patients consid- blind, placebo-c ontrolled trial of norfloxacin (400 mg/day) in ered at high risk, as defined by an ascitic protein count <1.5 patients who had a previous episode of SBP68; treatment reduced g/dL. However, it is important that the potential risks and the probability of recurrence of SBP from 68% to 20%. A recent benefits and existing uncertainties are communicated to systematic review with meta-a nalysis concluded that rifaximin patients. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) may be effective for both primary and secondary SBP prophylaxis compared with systemically absorbed antibiotics and compared DIETARY SALT RESTRICTION with no intervention.69 However, additional prospective studies There is little evidence to support salt restriction in patients are required before a change in clinical practice can be recom- with cirrhosis in absence of ascites. In patients with cirrhosis and mended. It has been suggested
