Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


diagnosis of SBP and this can be performed sectional survey79 indicated that only about a third of cirrhotic either by manual microscopy or using automated counts, patients were compliant with salt restriction, with an additional based on flow cytometry for counting and differentiating 45% incorrectly stating that they were. Based on these data, cells. (Quality of evidence: moderate; Recommendation: patients with cirrhosis and ascites should have a moderately salt strong) restricted diet, with daily salt intake of no more than 5–6.5 g ► Ascitic fluid culture with bedside inoculation of blood (87 mmol–113 mmol sodium). This translates to a no added salt culture bottles should be performed to guide the choice diet with avoidance of precooked meals. An ongoing systematic of antibiotic treatment when SBP is suspected. (Quality of review is assessing the role of salt restriction in patients with evidence: moderate, Recommendation: strong) ascites due to cirrhosis.83 ► Immediate empirical antibiotic therapy should be deter- mined with due consideration of context of SBP (commu- nity acquired or healthcare associated), severity of infection Recommendations and local bacterial resistance profile. Cefotaxime has been ► Patients with cirrhosis and ascites should have a moderately widely studied, but choice of antibiotic should be guided by salt restricted diet with daily salt intake of no more than local resistance patterns and protocol. (Quality of evidence: 5–6.5 g (87 mmol–113 mmol sodium). This translates to moderate; Recommendation: strong) a no added salt diet with avoidance of precooked meals. ► A second diagnostic paracentesis at 48 hours from the start (Quality of evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) of treatment to check the efficacy of antibiotic therapy ► Patients with cirrhosis and ascites should receive nutritional should be considered in those who have apparently inad- counselling on the sodium content in the diet. (Quality of equate response or where secondary bacterial peritonitis evidence: weak; Recommendation: strong) Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 15 Guidelines DIURETICS are 400 mg and 160 mg respectively,92 97 98 100 these are rarely Diuretics remain the main stay in management of ascites, though achieved.88 96 In the largest study until now, which recruited benefit.47 Secondary aldosteronism plays a major role in renal diuretic units (one unit being 40 mg furosemide and 100 mg sodium retention in patients with cirrhosis.84 Spironolactone is a spironolactone) varied from 2.5+0.2 to 2.7+0.3.101 specific pharmacological aldosterone antagonist, acting primarily Based on evidence from an earlier RCT, it
