Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


if serum sodium is cirrhosis and ascites and hypovolaemic hyponatraemia. <125 mmol/L. Hypervolaemic hyponatraemia is more common in cirrhosis, A number of studies (which include four RCTs and a retro- occurring owing to non-o smotic hypersecretion of vasopressin spective cohort study) have assessed role of intravenous (IV) and enhanced proximal nephron sodium reabsorption with human albumin solution (HAS) in patients with hyponatraemia impaired free water clearance, both being caused by effective (online supplemental table 4).121–126 These studies did not hypovolaemia.47 129 Impaired free water clearance is observed in strictly stratify patients as having hypovolaemic hyponatraemia about 60% of patients with cirrhosis.130 and mostly included those with Child C cirrhosis and refrac- Hypervolaemic hyponatraemia requires a negative water tory ascites undergoing LVP. There were differences in baseline balance.47 Many hepatologists do recommend fluid restriction serum sodium levels, use of diuretics, and degree of salt and of between 1 and 1.5 L/day in presence of severe hyponatraemia fluid restriction. Therefore not unsurprisingly results have been (serum sodium <125 mmol/L). However, there are few data conflicting. An earlier meta-a nalysis that included three of the to support the level of serum sodium at which to initiate fluid above RCTs123–125 reported that use of IV HAS versus no IV HAS restriction and how much fluid to restrict. It is sodium restric- reduced occurrence of hyponatraemia (3.9% vs 16.5%) but did tion and not fluid restriction that results in weight loss as fluid not affect mortality.127 A later meta-a nalysis (IV HAS vs no IV passively follows the sodium.62 113 131 Although fluid restriction HAS) which included only two RCTs123 124 found no beneficial may be helpful in preventing further decrease in serum sodium, effects on hyponatraemia or mortality.128 In the retrospective it only rarely improves it. This is because on a practical level, cohort study among hospitalised patients with hyponatraemia fluid restriction to <1 L /day is not tolerated.129 Water restriction (only 42% requiring inpatient LVP), those receiving IV HAS should be reserved for those who are clinically hypervolaemic Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 17 Guidelines with severe hyponatraemia (serum sodium <125 mmol/L) with require diuretic discontinuation or dose reduction. (Quality normal serum creatinine and not currently receiving diuretics. of evidence: low; Recommendation: weak) These recommendations are based on our consensus and consis- ► Hypovolaemic hyponatraemia during diuretic therapy tent with our earlier guidelines.132 It is also our consensus that should be
