Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


drained to dryness in a single session as rapidly as possible over weeks of midodrine therapy.143 Though larger RCTs are needed 1–4 hours assisted by gentle mobilisation of the cannula or turning to confirm these findings, it may be appropriate to consider use the patient onto their side, if necessary. After the paracentesis, the of midodrine in refractory ascites on a case-b y-c ase basis. patient should lie on the opposite side for 2 hours if there is leakage of any remaining ascitic fluid, and/or a suture (ideally purse- string) inserted around the site of drainage. These steps help to minimise Recommendations the risk of ascitic fluid leakage. ► In patients with the first presentation of moderate ascites spironolactone monotherapy (starting dose 100 mg, increased to 400 mg) is reasonable. In those with recurrent Adverse events severe ascites, and if faster diuresis is needed (for example, A systematic review of adverse events that can result from a para- if the patient is hospitalised), combination therapy with centesis reported an overall rate of significant bleeding ranging spironolactone (starting dose 100 mg, increased to 400 mg) from 0% to 2.7%, ascitic fluid leak in 0% to 2.35%, perforation and furosemide (starting dose 40 mg, increased to 160 mg) is in 0.83%, residual catheter tip fragment in 0.41% and death in recommended. (Quality of evidence: moderate; Recommen- 0% to 17% among studies that were heterogeneous.18 In a retro- dation: strong) spective study published in abstract form, of consecutive 3116 ► All patients initiating diuretics should be monitored for ultrasound guided LVPs, the mean international normalised adverse events. Almost half of those with adverse events ratio (INR) was 2.1 (range 1.0–7.0) and MELD score 24 (range 18 Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: Guidelines Figure 4 Anatomical landmarks for the safe performance of paracentesis [A] and performance of ascites drainage in patients with large ascites [B]. 6–40) for inpatients, and 1.5 (range 1‐5–5) and 16 (range Recommendations 5–40) for outpatients, respectively. With no patients receiving ► Patients should give informed consent for a therapeutic or fresh frozen plasma (FFP) before the procedure, a total of six diagnostic paracentesis. (Quality of evidence: low; Recom- patients (0.19%) had post‐LVP bleeding requiring blood trans- mendation: strong) fusion (one inpatient, five outpatients) and one required angiog- ► Ultrasound guidance should be considered when available raphy with embolisation of a bleeding abdominal wall vessel. No during LVP to
