Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


HAS is more expensive than alternatives the HAS group had weekly medical professional contact when and is in worldwide shortage, therefore it should be prescribed IV albumin was administered which could possibly have caused a according to recommended guidance based on the available confounding effect by improving standard of care in this group. evidence.174 There have been no cost- effectiveness analyses in In the MACHT186 study, a double-b lind, placebo-c ontrolled the UK. trial, patients with advanced cirrhosis (MELD score 17–18) Until further studies are undertaken to compare efficacy of awaiting liver transplantation received outpatient fortnightly albumin against clinically available artificial plasma expanders, treatment with midodrine and albumin. This slightly suppressed we would recommend that albumin remains the preferred vasoconstrictor activity but did not prevent complications of plasma expander when paracentesis is undertaken. Albumin (as cirrhosis or improve survival. However, only nine patients were 20% or 25% solution) should be infused after paracentesis of treated for the entire year, the median length of treatment was >5 L is completed at a dose of 8 g albumin/L of ascites removed. only 80 days and the mortality rate in both arms was very low 20 Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: Guidelines due to patients undergoing timely liver transplantation. Perhaps, (PTFE)- covered stents has significantly increased the long-t erm therefore, a greater dose of albumin or longer duration of treat- patency of the stent to 92% at 1 year and 89% at 2 years.202–204 ment is required to benefit patients and should be targeted at TIPSS controls ascites better than LVP. Patients treated with those who are not close to receiving a liver transplant. TIPSS are more likely to be free of recurrent ascites than those Di Pascoli et al190 most recently published outcomes of a study treated with LVP at 12 months.205 However, the impact of TIPSS of 45 patients with refractory ascites undergoing regular LVP who on survival is less consistent. The initial trial by Lebrec et al194 accepted 20 g twice weekly albumin plus diuretics and sodium showed a better survival with LVP mainly due to the detrimental restriction versus 25 patients who did not (non- randomised, effect of TIPSS in Child- Pugh C patients. The subsequent three single centre, not blinded). Cumulative incidence of mortality studies did not show any difference in survival between TIPSS was 41.6% in the albumin group versus 65.5% in the standard of
