Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


single centre, not blinded). Cumulative incidence of mortality studies did not show any difference in survival between TIPSS was 41.6% in the albumin group versus 65.5% in the standard of and LVP,197–199 whereas the most recent three studies have shown care group. Albumin- treated patients had a lower probability of improved survival with TIPSS.200–202 In the two meta-a nalyses hospitalisation. There were no differences in the number of LVPs of the six trials using bare stent grafts, Bai et al205 reported an performed. Follow-u p was 400 days in the albumin group and improved transplant- free survival with TIPSS but this was limited 318 in the standard of care group. Although the study was non- to patients with recurrent ascites and not refractory ascites in the randomised (patient choice to treatment arm) it does provide other study.206 All the six trials with bare metal stents consis- some additional evidence that using albumin in a longer-t erm tently showed that TIPSS resulted in higher incidence of hepatic outpatient setting may be beneficial, as in the ANSWER study, encephalopathy than with LVP. even in patients with very advanced disease. Two older studies PTFE- covered stents are now standard of care, and hence the support the use of outpatient albumin therapy in decreasing results of the historical RCTs using bare stents are less relevant. hospital admissions and LVP requirement with conflicting results Only the most recent RCTs compared PTFE-c overed stent with on mortality.187 189 LVP in patients with recurrent ascites. It demonstrated improved We expect these studies to stimulate further investigation to 1- year survival with TIPSS without any increased incidence of determine whether long- term albumin administration is feasible, hepatic encephalopathy.202 efficacious and cost- effective in patients with cirrhosis and ascites TIPS has also been shown to improve the quality of life and within the NHS. Further research is required to determine which nutritional status in patients with refractory ascites,207–209 but patients could benefit most from treatment, which seems to be the improvement was dependent on the resolution of ascites. those with less advanced disease who could receive treatment for at least 12 months. At present it is not possible to recommend TIPSS technique the use of outpatient albumin administration in patients with A controlled study comparing TIPSS with 8 mm and 10 mm ascites due to cirrhosis. covered stent was stopped early as the 8 mm stent was not effec-
