Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


rate of patients with ment of ascites, including LVP and TIPSS perioperatively, could serum bilirubin >50 µmol/L or platelet count of <75×109/L reduce the risk of wound dehiscence and recurrence of hernia.234 was only 31.2% compared with 73.1% in patients with serum bilirubin <50 µmol/L and platelet count of >75×109/L. The Recommendations exact survival rate quoted here has to be interpreted cautiously ► Suitability and timing of surgical repair of umbilical hernia as earlier patients in the cohort were treated with a bare metal should be considered in discussion with the patient and stent before the introduction of a PTFE- covered stent. Hypo- multidisciplinary team involving physicians, surgeons and natraemia has also been shown to be related poor survival anaesthetists. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: following TIPSS,223 but subsequent studies have not reproduced strong) this finding.221 224 Up to 50% of patients with decompensated HEPATIC HYDROTHORAX outcome in these patients. However, the direct impact of sarco- Hepatic hydrothorax (HH) is accumulation of transudative penia on outcomes following TIPSS is unclear. Sarcopenia has fluid in the pleural space in the absence of cardiac, pulmonary been shown to be independently associated with development of or pleural disease, affecting approximately 5–12% of patients post- TIPSS encephalopathy, but this study included patients with with advanced liver disease.235 The first-l ine management of refractory ascites and uncontrolled variceal bleeding.225 A recent hydrothorax is based on controlling ascites with diuretics and/ retrospective study published in abstract form on patients under- or LVP as discussed previously. However, pleural effusion can going TIPSS for refractory ascites reported no impact of sarco- persist despite successful treatment of ascites, defined as refrac- penia on outcomes after TIPSS.226 Furthermore, they reported tory hydrothorax.47 an improvement in muscle mass following TIPSS insertion. Therapeutic thoracentesis is required to provide symptom- Although increasing age has been associated with poorer atic relief from dyspnoea but the effect is transient. Repeated survival following TIPSS,215 227 228 the mean age in these studies procedures increase the risks of complications, including pneu- was between 54 and 57 years. Patients above the age of 70 were mothorax, bleeding and pleural infection.236 TIPSS has been generally excluded from the previously mentioned RCTs. There suggested either as a definitive treatment or as a bridge to is a lack of data in the literature for clinical outcome following transplantation in patients with refractory hydrothorax. Meta- TIPS in older patients (>70 years). Interestingly,
