Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


as a bridge to is a lack of data in the literature for clinical outcome following transplantation in patients with refractory hydrothorax. Meta- TIPS in older patients (>70 years). Interestingly, functional analysis of six retrospective studies with a total of 198 patients disability as measured by patient- reported activities of daily reported a response rate of 56%.237 Mortality within 45 days living predicts post- TIPSS mortality adjusted for MELD score.229 of TIPSS placement was 18%, mainly related to older age and The management of hepatic encephalopathy after TIPSS is the severity of liver disease. However, without any data on beyond the scope of this document and is discussed in the recent comparison with standard treatment, it is difficult to interpret BSG/BASL TIPSS guidelines. the impact of TIPSS on survival. It is also worth noting that only one of these studies reported on patients treated with PTFE- Recommendations covered stents.238 In patients with contraindications to TIPSS or liver transplant, a permanent indwelling pleural catheter can be ► TIPSS should be considered in patients with refractory considered in conjunction with the patient and the multidisci- ascites. (Quality of evidence: high; Recommendation: strong) plinary team taking into account the infection risk. ► Caution is required if considering TIPSS in patients with age >70 years, serum bilirubin >50 µmol/L, platelet count <75×109/L, MELD core ≥18, current hepatic encephalop- Recommendation athy, active infection or hepatorenal syndrome. (Quality of ► TIPSS should be considered in patients with HH after discus- evidence: moderate; Recommendation: strong) sion with the multidisciplinary team. (Quality of evidence: low; Recommendation: strong) MANAGEMENT OF UMBILICAL HERNIA IN PATIENTS WITH ► In patients with HH who are not undergoing a TIPSS and/ ASCITES or a liver transplant evaluation, alternative palliative inter- In the cirrhotic patient, the incidence of abdominal wall hernia is ventions should be considered. (Quality of evidence: low; 16% and reaches 24% in the presence of ascites; more than half Recommendation: strong) of these are umbilical hernias.230 These progressively enlarge and are prone to complications, including ulceration of the NON-SELECTIVE BETA-BLOCKERS AND ASCITES overlying skin, incarceration, strangulation, and rupture. Non- The portal pressure- lowering effects of non-s elective beta- operative management of complicated hernias with antibiotics blockers (NSBB) have been known to be beneficial in patients and dressing changes might result in mortality rates in the range with ascites for three decades. Lebrec’s group demonstrated back of 60–88%.231 On the other hand,
