Guidelines
KEYWORDS: ascites, patients, cirrhosis, albumin, liver, paracentesis, evidence, refractory, quality, study, sbp, treatment, sodium, refractory ascites, recommendation


related to the device occurred in up to 39% of tory ascites due to malignancy, including NICE medical tech- Aithal GP, et al. Gut 2021;70:9–29. doi: 23 Guidelines allow drainage of small amounts of ascites 2–3 times a week at ► Large RCT of long- term carvedilol versus no carvedilol in home. Potential advantages over LVP include symptom- guided patients with refractory ascites without large oesophageal drainage and avoidance of repeated hospitalisations. A recent varices should be carried out. systematic review on LTAD in cirrhosis showed that the majority ► Role of TIPSS in the management of hepatic hydrothorax of patients could be managed in the community.280 should be compared with other therapeutic interventions. Results from a recent feasibility RCT comparing palliative ► The cost- effectiveness and the effect of automated low-f low LTAD with LVP in refractory ascites due to cirrhosis have just ascites pumps on the quality of life of patients with refrac- been published (REDUCe study).281 In this 3- month study, tory ascites should be evaluated. 36 patients were randomised, 19 to LVP and 17 to LTAD. All ► Effectiveness and safety of long-t erm abdominal drains patients received prophylactic antibiotics for the study duration. should be assessed in RCTs for the palliative care of patients ascitic drains for LTAD versus LVP groups were 0 (0, 1) versus 4 (3, 7), respectively. Only two patients allocated to LTAD required Author affiliations cellulitis/leakage occurred in 41% (7/17) in the LTAD vs 11% (2/19) in the LVP group; peritonitis incidence being 6% (1/17) Nottingham, Nottingham, UK nity/hospital/social care ascites-r elated costs were lower in the UK £843 (603, 1060), respectively. Qualitative data (currently only School, Brighton, UK care pathway.281 Hospitals NHS Trust, Brighton, UK The REDUCe study demonstrates feasibility, with preliminary 7Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK evidence of LTAD acceptability, effectiveness and safety and as a palliative intervention for refractory ascites in cirrhosis. Acknowledgements We are grateful to Shani Steer, voluntary peer mentor, Brighton for her involvement and review of these guidelines. We wish to thank the BSG Liver Section for support and internal review of the guideline. We are grateful to Recommendations BASL for review and endorsement of this guideline. We also thank Peuish Sugathan ► Patients with refractory ascites who are not undergoing eval- and Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust for providing data on the underlying uation for liver transplant should be offered a
