Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


for drug interactions, and patient preferences. In elderly patients without pre-existing ASCVD one should estimate the patient’s risk of developing ASCVD events and in conjunction with the general principles described above discuss with the patient a treatment plan. Determining the coronary calcium score can be helpful if there is uncertainty regarding the appropriate decision. If the decision is to treat our goal in primary prevention patients is often an LDL-C < 100mg/dL but in high-risk patients our goal may be an LDL-C < 70mg/dL. Elderly patients with ASCVD should be treated with lipid lowering drugs to reduce ASCVD unless there are contraindications. At a minimum our goal is an LDL-C < 70mg/dL but we would prefer an LDL-C < 55mg/dL if they can be achieved with a statin + ezetimibe. In very high-risk patients our goal is an LDL-C < 55mg/dL and adding a PCSK9 inhibitor may be required to achieve these levels in some patients. Age per se should not be used to withhold therapy with lipid lowering drugs that can reduce the risk of ASCVD events. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Due to a decreasing birth rate and a longer life expectancy the population is getting older. According to the US census in 2020 there were approximately 50 million people between 65 and 84 years of age (14.9% of the total population) and approximately 6 million between 85 and 99 years of age (1.89% of the total population). The number of Americans ages 65 and older is projected to increase to 82 million by 2050 (23% of the total population). World-wide there are 703 million people aged 65 or older, which is projected to reach 1.5 billion by 2050 (1 in 6 people). It is well recognized that atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) increases with age and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly. In addition to an increased risk of coronary artery disease there is more than a doubling of the prevalence of peripheral arterial disease, cerebrovascular disease, and abdominal aortic aneurism with each decade of life ( 1 ). Unfortunately, the elderly (≥ 75 years of age) have not been well represented in lipid lowering cardiovascular outcome trials. The definition of elderly is arbitrary. In this chapter we will define elderly as greater than 75 years of age because both
