Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


relatively high 10-year risk (14.1%). Using the SCORE estimator ( figure 1 ) for a fatal CVD event it is also apparent that many older individuals, particularly males, are at high risk even when they are non-smokers with an excellent total cholesterol and blood pressure. For example, a 70-year-old male, non-smoker with a total cholesterol of 160mg/dL and systolic BP of 120 mmHg still has a 13% 10-year risk of death from CVD. WHY ARE OLDER INDIVIDUALS AT HIGHER RISK FOR ASCVD? It is widely recognized that atherosclerosis begins early in life and slowly progresses ultimately resulting in clinical manifestations later in life ( 21 ). Numerous studies have demonstrated the presence of atherosclerosis in young individuals ( 22 - 27 ). In the Bogalusa Heart Study autopsies were performed on 204 young people 2 to 39 years of age ( 22 , 28 ). In the coronary arteries fatty streaks were very common (50 percent at 2 to 15 years of age and 85 percent at 21 to 39 years of age). More advanced raised fibrous-plaque lesions in the coronary arteries were present in 8 percent of individuals 2 to 15 years of age and 69 percent of individuals 26 to 39 years of age. The extent of the atherosclerotic lesions correlated positively with BMI, systolic and diastolic BP, total cholesterol, LDL-C, and triglyceride levels and negatively with HDL-C levels. The extent of the atherosclerotic lesions was greatest in individuals who had multiple risk factors. The Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth [PDAY] study examined the effect of risk factors for atherosclerosis in 1079 men and 364 women 15 through 34 years of age who died due to accidents, homicide, or suicide ( 23 , 29 ). Atherosclerosis of the aorta and right coronary artery was measured and increased with age, LDL-C levels, glycohemoglobin levels, BMI, and smoking while HDL-C levels were negatively associated with the extent of fatty streaks and raised lesions in the aorta and right coronary artery. Finally, in a study of US service members (mean age 25.9 years; range 18-59 years; 98.3% male) who died of combat or unintentional injuries (n= 3832) the effect of risk factors on coronary atherosclerosis was determined ( 27 ). Atherosclerosis prevalence was increased by age, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and obesity. Taken together these studies clearly demonstrate that atherosclerosis begins early in life with the prevalence increasing with age and the
