Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


Atherosclerosis prevalence was increased by age, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and obesity. Taken together these studies clearly demonstrate that atherosclerosis begins early in life with the prevalence increasing with age and the extent and onset of lesions is influenced by risk factors, including dyslipidemia. Moreover, the presence of risk factors early in life is associated with an increase in atherosclerosis later in life ( 30 - 32 ). A meta-analysis that included 4380 participants from 4 prospective studies that collected cardiovascular risk factor data during childhood (age 3 to 18 years) and measured carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) in adulthood (age 20 to 45 years) reported that total cholesterol, triglycerides, BP, and BMI measured in childhood were predictive of elevated CIMT in adults ( 33 ). Additionally, increased LDL-C and/or decreased HDL-C during adolescence predict an increase in CIMT later in life ( 34 ). Importantly, an increased total cholesterol or BP early in life also predicted an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease later in life ( 35 - 38 ). Genetic studies have further illustrated the key role of risk factors and duration of exposure to the risk factor as key variables determining the time when clinical manifestations of ASCVD occur. In patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) LDL-C are markedly elevated and cardiovascular events can occur early in life. Greater than 50% of untreated patients with homozygous FH develop clinically significant ASCVD by the age of 30 and cardiovascular events can occur before age 10 in some patients ( 39 ). In patients with heterozygous FH LDL-C levels are elevated but not to the levels seen with homozygous FH and cardiovascular events occur later in life but still at a relatively younger age. Untreated males with heterozygous FH have a 50% risk for a fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction by 50 years of age whereas untreated females have a 30% chance by age 60 ( 39 ). Conversely, individuals with genetic variants in PCSK9, HMG-CoA reductase, LDL receptor, NPC1L1, or ATP citrate lyase that lead to a decrease in LDL-C levels have a reduced risk of developing cardiovascular events ( 40 , 41 ). The relationship between genetic disorders that alter LDL-C levels and the time to develop clinical cardiovascular events is illustrated in figure 2 . The figure clearly illustrates that the age when one clinically manifests ASCVD depends on the level of LDL-C. With very high LDL-C levels
