Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


events is illustrated in figure 2 . The figure clearly illustrates that the age when one clinically manifests ASCVD depends on the level of LDL-C. With very high LDL-C levels clinical events occur early in life and with low LDL-C levels events will occur at an older age leading to the concept of LDL years. Figure 2. Relationship between cumulative LDL-C exposure and age of developing cardiovascular disease. (from ( 41 )). The degree and duration of other risk factors also seems to play a role in when the clinical manifestations of ASCVD are expressed. For example, for cigarette smoking, cigarettes/day, smoking duration, and pack-years all increase the risk of cardiovascular disease ( 42 ). Interestingly smoking fewer cigarettes/day for a longer duration was more deleterious than smoking more cigarettes/day for a shorter duration ( 42 , 43 ). Additionally, while smoking cessation lowers the risk of ASCVD events an increased risk persists for decades after smoking cessation ( 44 ). These observations suggest that the effect of smoking is related to the number of cigarettes smoked and the duration of the smoking (i.e., pack years). Similarly, in patients with diabetes glycemic control and duration of diabetes influences the development of ASCVD complications ( 45 - 48 ). At any given age, a 10-year longer diabetes duration was associated with a 1.1-1.5-fold increased risk of stroke and 1.5-2.0-fold increased risk of MI ( 45 ). Thus, ASCVD begins early in life and progresses until it leads to clinical events such as a myocardial infarction or stroke later in life. The age that one develops clinical manifestations of ASCVD is dependent on the severity of individual risk factors, the number of risk factors, and the duration of exposure to the risk factors. Elderly individuals have a long exposure to risk factors so even when the risk factors are relatively modest the cumulative effects can be sufficient to result in clinical ASCVD events. This explains why age is such a key variable in determining the risk of developing an ASCVD event. DOES LIPID LOWERING REDUCE EVENTS IN THE ELDERLY Below we discuss lipid lowering drug studies that report the effect on cardiovascular outcomes that are relevant to clinical decisions in elderly individuals. For additional and more detailed information on lipid lowering cardiovascular outcome studies see the Endotext chapters on “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs” and “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 49 , 50 ). Statins
