Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


in the combination therapy group and 9.9% of the patients in the high-intensity statin monotherapy group (non-inferior). Non-inferiority was observed in patients with baseline LDL-C levels < 100mg/dL and >100mg/dL ( 63 ). In the RACING trial 574 participants (15.2%) were aged ≥75 years and there was no difference in the primary endpoint between the combination therapy group and the high-intensity statin monotherapy group in these elderly participants ( 64 ). However, in participants ≥75 years of age moderate-intensity statin with ezetimibe combination therapy was associated with lower rates of drug related intolerance with drug discontinuation or dose reduction (2.3% vs 7.2%; P = 0.010). This study demonstrates that moderate intensity statin plus ezetimibe was non-inferior to high-intensity statin therapy with regards to cardiovascular death, major cardiovascular events, or non-fatal stroke. The lower prevalence of discontinuation or dose reduction caused by intolerance to the study drug was seen with combination therapy indicating that using a moderate intensity dose of a statin plus ezetimibe is a useful strategy in patients that do not tolerate high intensity statin therapy or where there are concerns about statin toxicity with high doses. PCSK9 Inhibitors FOURIER TRIAL The FOURIER trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of evolocumab vs. placebo in 27,564 patients with ASCVD and an LDL-C level of 70 mg/dL or higher who were on statin therapy ( 65 ). The primary end point was cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina, or coronary revascularization and the key secondary end point was cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke. The median duration of follow-up was 2.2 years. Baseline LDL-C levels were 92mg/dL and evolocumab resulted in a 59% decrease in LDL levels (LDL-C level on treatment approximately 30mg/dL). In this trial 6233 of the participants were > 69 years of age and the decrease in LDL was similar in participants > 69 years of age and younger individuals ( 66 ). A 14% reduction in the primary endpoint (HR 0.86; 95% CI 0.74–0.99) and a 18% reduction in the secondary endpoint (HR 0.82; 95% CI 0.69–0.98) was observed in the participants > 69 years of age, which was similar to the decreases seen in younger individuals ( 66 ). The effect of treatment with evolocumab on the primary and secondary endpoint in specific age groups is shown in table 3 ( 66 ). These results demonstrate that lowering LDL-C with a PCSK9
