Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


determined the effect of adding extended-release niacin (2000mg/day) combined with laropiprant, a prostaglandin D2 receptor antagonist, to statin therapy on ASCVD events in patients with pre-existing vascular disease ( 71 ). Unfortunately, both of these trials failed to demonstrate a decrease in ASCVD events with the addition of niacin to statin therapy. The absence of benefit and increased side effects from niacin therapy has markedly reduced enthusiasm for treating patients with niacin to reduce ASCVD event. For additional details on these two studies and other niacin cardiovascular outcome studies see the Endotext chapter “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 49 ). The ACCORD-LIPID Trial was designed to determine if the addition of fenofibrate to aggressive statin therapy in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease or at high risk for developing cardiovascular disease would result in a further reduction in cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 2 diabetes ( 72 ). The PROMINENT trial determined whether pemafibrate, a new selective PPAR-alpha activator, in patients on statin therapy with diabetes and pre-existing cardiovascular disease or at high risk for developing cardiovascular disease would reduce cardiovascular events ( 73 ). Disappointingly, neither trial demonstrated benefits from adding a fibrate to statin therapy. For additional details on these two studies and other fibrate ASCVD outcome studies see the Endotext chapter “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 49 ). Thus, there is currently little enthusiasm for adding either niacin or a fibrate to statin therapy to reduce ASCVD events. One should recognize that like all studies these trials have limitations, that are discussed in detail in reference ( 49 ), and it is possible that future trials could resurrect the use of niacin and/or fibrates for decreasing ASCVD. Omega-3-Fatty Acids (Fish Oil) Numerous studies have determined the effect of low dose fish oil (< 1 gram per day) on ASCVD and found that they do not consistently reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease ( 49 ). Described below are ASCVD outcome studies that have used higher doses. JAPAN EPA LIPID INTERVENTION STUDY (JELIS) JELIS was an open label study without a placebo in patients with total cholesterol levels > 254mg/dL with cardiovascular disease (n= 3,664) or without cardiovascular disease (n=14,981) who were randomly assigned to be treated with 1800 mg of EPA (Vascepa) + statin (n=9,326) or statin alone (n= 9,319) with a 5-year follow-up ( 74 ). The primary endpoint was any major coronary event, including sudden cardiac death,
