Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


was a composite of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, coronary revascularization, or unstable angina requiring hospitalization which occurred in 12.0% of individuals treated with omega-3 CA vs. 12.2% treated with corn oil (HR 0.99; P = .84). There were no significant differences between the treatment groups with regard to the risk of the individual components of the primary end point over the 3-4 years of the study. Thus, in contrast to the JELIS and REDUCE-IT trials the STRENGTH trial did not demonstrate a benefit of treatment with a mixture of omega-3-fatty acids (EPA + DHA). OMEMI TRIAL The OMEMI trial was a randomized trial of 1.8 grams per day of omega-3-fatty acids (930 mg EPA and 660 mg DHA) (n= 505) vs. corn oil placebo (n= 509) in patients aged 70 to 82 years with a recent myocardial infarction (2-8 weeks) ( 77 ). Baseline LDL-C was approximately 76mg/dL, HDL-C was 49mg/dL, and TGs 110mg/dL. The primary endpoint was a composite of nonfatal myocardial infarction, unscheduled revascularization, stroke, all-cause death, and heart failure hospitalization after 2 years of follow-up. The primary endpoint occurred in 21.4% of patients on omega-3-fatty acids vs. 20.0% on placebo (HR 1.08; P=0.60). TGs levels decreased 8.1% in the omega-3-fatty acid group and increased 5.1% in the placebo group (between group difference 13.2%; P<0.001) while changes in LDL-C were minimal in both groups. Thus, similar to the STRENGTH trial no benefits on cardiovascular disease were observed with EPA + DHA treatment. SUMMARY 1) High dose EPA (JELIS and REDUCE-IT) reduced ASCVD outcomes while high dose EPA+DHA (STENGTH and OMEMI) did not decrease ASCVD outcomes. 2) The decrease in TG levels is not a major contributor to the beneficial effect of high dose EPA as the combination of high dose EPA+DHA lowers TG levels to the same degree as EPA alone without benefit. Additionally, the JELIS trial only lowered TG levels by 5% but nevertheless reduced ASCVD events. It is likely that the beneficial effects of EPA seen in the JELIS and REDUCE-IT trials are multifactorial with TG lowering making only a small contribution to the decrease in cardiovascular disease. Other actions of EPA, such as decreasing platelet function, anti-inflammation, decreasing lipid oxidation, stabilizing membranes, etc. could account for or contribute to the reduction in ASCVD events ( 78 ). 3) Whether EPA has special properties that resulted in the reduction in ASCVD events in
