Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


etc. could account for or contribute to the reduction in ASCVD events ( 78 ). 3) Whether EPA has special properties that resulted in the reduction in ASCVD events in the REDUCE-IT trial or there were flaws in the trial design (i.e., the use of mineral oil as the placebo) is uncertain and debated. It should be noted that in the REDUCE-IT trial LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels were increased by approximately 10% in the mineral oil placebo group ( 75 ). Additionally, Apo B levels were increased by 7% (6mg/dL) by mineral oil ( 75 ). Finally, an increase in hsCRP (20-30%) and other biomarkers of atherosclerosis (oxidized LDL-C, IL-6, IL-1 beta, and lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2) were noted in the mineral oil group ( 75 , 79 ). In the STRENGTH trial there were no differences in LDL-C, Non-HDL-C, HDL-C, Apo B, or hsCRP levels between the treated vs. placebo groups ( 76 ). Whether EPA has special properties compared to DHA leading to a reduction in cardiovascular events or the mineral oil placebo resulted in adverse changes increasing ASCVD in the placebo resulting in an artifactual decrease in the EPA group is debated ( 80 , 81 ). Ideally, another large randomized ASCVD trial with EPA ethyl ester (icosapent ethyl) (Vascepa) using a placebo other than mineral oil would help resolve this controversy. In the meantime, clinicians will need to use their clinical judgement on whether to treat patients with modest elevations in TG levels with EPA (icosapent ethyl; Vascepa) balancing the potential benefits of treatment vs. the potential side effects. Summary of Lipid Lowering Drug Studies The above results clearly demonstrate that lowering LDL-C levels with statins, ezetimibe, or PCSK 9 monoclonal antibodies will reduce ASCVD events in elderly patients (≥ 75 years of age) with pre-existing cardiovascular disease. In elderly patients without cardiovascular disease (primary prevention) the available data does not definitively demonstrate a decrease in ASCVD events with statin or ezetimibe therapy but is suggestive of a benefit (note there are no primary prevention trials with PCSK9 inhibitors). Additional data is required to determine if bempedoic acid and icosapent ethyl reduce ASCVD events in patients ≥ 75 years of age. Studies in Progress Studies are currently underway to provide definitive information on whether statin therapy is beneficial as primary prevention in the elderly. STAREE ( NCT02099123 ) is a multicenter randomized trial in Australia of atorvastatin
