Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


underway to provide definitive information on whether statin therapy is beneficial as primary prevention in the elderly. STAREE ( NCT02099123 ) is a multicenter randomized trial in Australia of atorvastatin 40mg vs. placebo in adults ≥ 70 years of age without cardiovascular disease and PREVENTABLE ( NCT04262206 ) is a multicenter randomized trial in the USA of atorvastatin vs. placebo in adults ≥ 75 years of age without cardiovascular disease ( 82 , 83 ). Other trials in the elderly that are in progress include SCOPE ( NCT03770312 ) which is a multicenter randomized trial in Korea of low intensity vs. high intensity statin therapy in adults 76-85 years of age without CVD and SITE (Statins In The Elderly) ( NCT02547883 ) which is a trial in France of patients ≥ 75 years of age on statin therapy who will be randomized to continue statin therapy or stop statin therapy. SIDE EFFECTS OF LIPID LOWERING DRUGS In this section we will describe the potential side effects of lipid lowering drugs with an emphasis on side effects likely to be seen in the elderly. Elderly patients may be more susceptible to side effects due to decreased renal function, decreased drug metabolism by the liver, polypharmacy leading to drug interactions, and co-morbidities. For a detailed discussion of the side effects of lipid lowering drugs see the Endotext chapters entitled “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs” and “Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 49 , 50 ). Statins An umbrella review of meta-analyses of observational studies and randomized controlled trials examined 278 unique non-CVD outcomes from 112 meta-analyses of observational studies and 144 meta-analyses of RCTs and found that the only adverse effects associated with statin therapy were the development of diabetes and muscle disorders ( 84 ). For a detailed discussion of the side effects of statin therapy a scientific statement from the American Heart Association provides a comprehensive review ( 85 ). DIABETES After many years of statin use it was recognized that statins increase the risk of developing diabetes. In a meta-analysis of 13 trials with over 90,000 subjects, there was a 9% increase in the incidence of diabetes during follow-up among subjects receiving statin therapy ( 86 ). All statins appear to increase the risk of developing diabetes. In comparisons of intensive vs. moderate statin therapy, Preiss et al observed that patients treated with intensive statin therapy had a 12% greater risk of developing
