Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


cardiovascular disease in older subjects (age 70-82) ( 51 ). In this trial cognitive function was assessed repeatedly and no difference in cognitive decline was found in subjects treated with pravastatin compared to placebo ( 51 , 93 ). In the Heart Protection Study over 20,000 patients were randomized to simvastatin 40mg or placebo and again no significant differences in cognitive function was observed between the statin vs. placebo group ( 94 ). Additionally, a Cochrane review examined the effect of statin therapy in patients with established dementia and identified 4 studies with 1154 participants ( 95 ). In this analysis no benefit or harm of statin therapy on cognitive function could be demonstrated in this high-risk group of patients. Thus, randomized clinical trials do not indicate a significant association between statins and cognitive function. MUSCLE The most common side effect of statin therapy is muscle symptoms and many patients will discontinue the use of statins due to muscle symptoms. These can range from life threatening rhabdomyolysis, which is very rare, to myalgias, which are a common complaint ( 96 ). The risk of serious muscle disorders due to statin therapy is very small, particularly if one is aware of the potential drug interactions that increase the risk. In a case-control study with a cohort of 252,460 new users of lipid-lowering medications in U.S. health plans 21 cases of rhabdomyolysis were compared to 200 controls without rhabdomyolysis ( 97 ). Statin users >65 years of age had four times the risk of hospitalization for rhabdomyolysis than those under age 65. The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists analyzed individual participant data on the development of muscle symptoms from 19 double-blind trials of statin versus placebo with 123,940 participants and four double-blind trials of a more intensive vs. a less intensive statin regimen with 30,724 participants ( 98 ). After a median follow-up of 4.3 years 27.1% of the individuals taking a statin vs. 26.6% on placebo reported muscle pain or weakness representing a 3% increase greater than placebo (risk ratio- 1.03; 95% CI 1.01-1.06) ( Table 5 ). The specific muscle symptoms caused by statin therapy, myalgia, muscle cramps or spasm, limb pain, other musculoskeletal pain, or muscle fatigue or weakness were similar to those caused by placebo. The slight increase in muscle symptoms in the statin treated individuals was manifest in the first year of therapy but in the later years muscle
