Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


mg/dL compared to baseline. Approximately 3.8% of patients treated with bempedoic acid had BUN levels that doubled vs. 1.5% in the placebo group and about 2.2% of patients treated with bempedoic acid had creatinine values that increased by 0.5 mg/dL vs. 1.1% in the placebo group (package insert). Renal function returned to baseline when bempedoic acid was discontinued. In the CLEAR Outcomes trial renal impairment was increased in the bempedoic acid group (11.5% vs.8.6%) as was the change from baseline creatinine (0.05±0.2 mg/dL vs. 0.01±0.2 mg/dL) ( 69 ). Omega-3-Fatty Acids At very high doses, omega-3-fatty acids can inhibit platelets and prolong bleeding time. However, at the recommended doses this has not been a major clinical problem but nevertheless when patients are on anti-platelet drugs one should be alert for the possibility of bleeding problems (Package Inserts for Lovaza, Vascepa, and Epanova). In the REDUCE-IT trial serious bleeding events occurred in 2.7% of the patients in the icosapent ethyl group and in 2.1% in the placebo group (P=0.06) ( 75 ). There were no fatal bleeding events in either group and the rates of hemorrhagic stroke, serious central nervous system bleeding, and serious gastrointestinal bleeding were not significantly higher in the EPA group than in the placebo group. In the STRENGHT trial any bleeding events and major bleeding events were similar in the omega-3 fatty acid group and placebo group ( 76 ). A recent review found no evidence for discontinuing the use of omega-3 fatty acid treatment before invasive procedures or when given in combination with other agents that affect bleeding ( 112 ). An increase in new-onset atrial fibrillation was observed in the REDUCE-IT trial in the patients treated with icosapent ethyl 4 grams/day (5.3% vs. 3.9%) and in the STRENGTH trial in the patients treated with omega-3-fatty acids (2.2% vs 1.3%) CURRENT GUIDELINES AND LDL-C GOALS This section discusses guidelines as they pertain to elderly patients. 2018 AHA/ACC/Multi-Society Report The following summarizes the 2018 AHA/ACC guidelines ( 2 ). PRIMARY PREVENTION For individuals >75 years of age, randomized controlled trials of statin therapy do not provide strong evidence for benefit, so clinical assessment of risk status in a clinician–patient risk discussion is needed for deciding whether to continue or initiate statin treatment. In individuals ≥ 75 years of age with an LDL-C level of 70 to 189mg/dL, initiating a moderate-intensity statin may be reasonable. Goal is to
