Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


continue or initiate statin treatment. In individuals ≥ 75 years of age with an LDL-C level of 70 to 189mg/dL, initiating a moderate-intensity statin may be reasonable. Goal is to reduce LDL-C by 30-49% (note these guidelines recommend percent reduction rather than absolute LDL-C goals). In individuals ≥ 75 years of age it may be reasonable to stop statin therapy when functional decline (physical or cognitive), multimorbidity, frailty, or reduced life-expectancy limits the potential benefits of statin therapy. A shared decision-making process between clinicians and patients that individualizes decisions is indicated, with regular periodic reassessment. Determining coronary artery calcium (CAC) score will help in determining which patients will benefit the most. For older adults with CAC scores of zero, the likelihood of benefits from statin therapy does not outweigh the risks. Limiting statin therapy to those with CAC scores greater than zero, combined with clinical judgment and patient preference, could provide a valuable awareness with which to inform shared decision-making. SECONDARY PREVENTION In patients ≥75 years of age with clinical ASCVD, it is reasonable to initiate moderate- or high-intensity statin therapy after evaluation of the potential for ASCVD risk reduction, adverse effects, and drug–drug interactions, as well as patient frailty and patient preferences. The goal of moderate statin therapy is to reduce LDL-C by 30-49% and the goal of high-intensity statin therapy is to reduce LDL-C by ≥ 50%. In very high-risk patients, a goal of an LDL-C < 70mg/dL and non-HDL-C < 100mg/dL is reasonable. In patients ≥75 years of age who are tolerating high-intensity statin therapy, it is reasonable to continue high-intensity statin therapy after evaluation of the potential for ASCVD risk reduction, adverse effects, and drug-drug interactions, as well as patient frailty and patient preferences. PATIENTS WITH DIABETES In patients ≥ 75 years of age with diabetes mellitus and who are already on statin therapy, it is reasonable to continue statin therapy. In patients ≥ 75 years of age with diabetes mellitus without cardiovascular disease it may be reasonable to start moderate statin therapy after a clinician-patient discussion of the potential benefits and risks of therapy. The goal is to decrease LDL-C by 30-49%. 2019 ESC/EAS Guidelines The following summarizes the 2019 ESC/EAS guidelines ( 3 ). Treatment with statins is recommended for older people with ASCVD in the same way as for younger patients. Treatment with statins is recommended for primary prevention, according to the level
