Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


Treatment with statins is recommended for older people with ASCVD in the same way as for younger patients. Treatment with statins is recommended for primary prevention, according to the level of risk, in older people aged ≤ 75 years. Initiation of statin treatment for primary prevention in older people aged >75 years may be considered, if at high-risk or above. It is recommended that the statin is started at a low dose if there is significant renal impairment and/or the potential for drug interactions, and then titrated upwards to achieve LDL-C treatment goals. In patients at very-high risk in primary or secondary prevention the goal is a 50% reduction in LDL-C and an LDL-C < 55mg/dL. In patients at high risk in primary or secondary prevention the goal is a 50% reduction in LDL-C and an LDL-C < 70mg/dL. The ESC/EAS criteria for very high risk and high risk are shown in table 6 . Table 6. ESC/EAS Criteria for Very-High Risk and High Risk for ASCVD Events View in own window Very High Risk Documented ASCVD or unequivocal on imaging DM with target organ damage or at least three major risk factors, or early onset of T1DM of long duration (>20 years) Severe CKD (eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) A calculated SCORE ≥ 10% for 10-year risk of fatal CVD Familial Hypercholesterolemia with ASCVD or with another major risk factor High Risk Markedly elevated single risk factors, in particular LDL-C >190 mg/dL or BP ≥ 180/110 mmHg Patients with Familial Hypercholesterolemia without other major risk factors Patients with DM without target organ damage, with DM duration ≥ 10 years, or another additional risk factor Moderate CKD (eGFR 30-59 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) A calculated SCORE ≥ 5% and <10% for 10-year risk of fatal CVD. Our Approach Our approach is based on concepts taken from both the ACC/AHA and ESC/EAS guidelines (i.e., we try to utilize the best ideas from each guideline). There are several general principles regarding lipid lowering therapy that should be considered in deciding who to treat ( 113 ). The higher the LDL-C level the greater the benefit of lowering LDL-C. The greater the decrease in LDL-C the greater the benefit. The higher the absolute risk of ASCVD the greater the benefit of lowering LDL-C. Additional factors that need to be considered, particularly in elderly patients, include Life expectancy. Competing non-cardiovascular disorders. Risk of
