Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


absolute risk of ASCVD the greater the benefit of lowering LDL-C. Additional factors that need to be considered, particularly in elderly patients, include Life expectancy. Competing non-cardiovascular disorders. Risk of drug side effects. Potential for drug interactions. Patient preferences. PRIMARY PREVENTION Given the absence of definitive outcome trials demonstrating the benefit of decreasing LDL-C levels in patients ≥ 75 years of age without cardiovascular disease one must use clinical judgement in deciding who to treat. It should be recognized, as discussed in detail earlier, that the available evidence suggests that decreasing LDL-C will reduce ASCVD events in the elderly. Our approach is to determine ASCVD risk and then balance the risk with competing factors such as life expectancy, non-cardiovascular disorders, potential for drug interactions, and patient preferences. We use the approach described below to determine risk. Step 1- Calculate the 10-year risk of an ASCVD event using the AHA/ACC pooled cohort equation. In Europe one can use the SCORE OP risk prediction algorithms ( 114 ). This will provide an estimate of the risk of the patient having an ASCVD event/death. Step 2- To gain further insight on the risk of ASCVD one can determine if patient has any risk enhancing factors ( tables 7 and 8 ). This can help further stratify the patient’s risk. Step 3- If after discussion with the patient, you and/or the patient is uncertain on the level of risk and the appropriate treatment plan obtaining a coronary calcium score (CAC) can be helpful. A CAC score of zero indicates low risk for ASCVD and allows one to not start statin therapy ( 2 ). Note that a CAC score of zero in cigarette smokers, patients with diabetes mellitus, those with a strong family history of ASCVD, and possibly chronic inflammatory conditions such as HIV, may still be associated with a substantial 10-year risk ( 2 ). Following these steps, we can estimate the risk for ASCVD events and in conjunction with the general principles described above discuss with the patient a treatment plan. If the decision is to treat our goal is often an LDL-C < 100mg/dL and non-HDL-C < 130mg/dL but in high-risk patients our goal may be an LDL-C < 70mg/dL and non-HDL-C < 100mg/dL. Table 7. Risk-Enhancing Factors View in own window Family history of premature ASCVD (males, age <55 y; females, age <65 y) Primary hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C ≥160mg/dL; non-HDL-C ≥190mg/dL
