Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


Lifestyle The lifestyle changes described below are recommended for all adults and are not specific for elderly individuals or for individuals with cardiovascular disease. The lifestyle changes recommended will lower lipid levels and are likely to reduce the risk of ASCVD . EXERCISE There is little debate that exercise is beneficial and that all individuals should be physically active. It is recommended that individuals participate in at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity (for example 30 minutes 5 times per week) or 75 minutes per week of vigorous-intensity physical activity ( 115 , 116 ). Additionally, it is recommended that individuals participate in 2 days per week of muscle-strengthening activity ( 116 ). Because of the loss of muscle mass with aging it is very important to incorporate resistance training into the exercise program of elderly individuals. A meta-analysis of exercise in the older individuals (>60 years of age) found that aerobic exercise decreased triglyceride and LDL-C levels and increased HDL-C levels while resistance exercise decreased LDL-C levels ( 117 ). Exercise also increases fitness and helps with weight loss. It should be noted that many elderly individuals may have substantial medical and social barriers to participating in exercise programs. Comorbidities, such as osteoarthritis, may limit exercise tolerance and make exercise challenging. Older individuals should be encouraged to be as active as possible. DIET For a detailed discussion of the effect of diet on lipids, lipoproteins and ASCVD see the Endotext chapter entitled “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels ( 118 ). There is general agreement on what constitutes a healthy diet and a brief summary of the Guidelines for Americans 2020-2025 is shown in table 11 and the guidelines from the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association are shown in table 12 . Table 11. Guidelines for Americans 2020-2025 View in own window Recommend Limit Vegetables of all types—dark green; red and orange; beans, peas, and lentils; starchy; and other vegetables Added sugars—Less than 10 percent of calories per day Fruits, especially whole fruit Saturated fat—Less than 10 percent of calories per day Grains, at least half of which are whole grain Sodium—Less than 2,300 milligrams per day Dairy, including fat-free or low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese, and/or lactose-free versions and fortified soy beverages and yogurt as alternatives Alcoholic beverages—Adults can choose not to drink or to drink in moderation by
