Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


or low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese, and/or lactose-free versions and fortified soy beverages and yogurt as alternatives Alcoholic beverages—Adults can choose not to drink or to drink in moderation by limiting intake to 2 drinks or less in a day for men and 1 drink or less in a day for women Protein foods, including lean meats, poultry, and eggs; seafood; beans, peas, and lentils; and nuts, seeds, and soy products Oils, including vegetable oils and oils in food, such as seafood and nuts Full guideline is available at DietaryGuidelines.gov. Table 12. ACC/AHA Dietary Recommendations to Reduce Risk of ASCVD ( 115 ) View in own window 1. A diet emphasizing intake of vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and fish is recommended 2. Replacement of saturated fat with dietary monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats can be beneficial 3. A diet containing reduced amounts of cholesterol and sodium can be beneficial 4. As a part of a healthy diet, it is reasonable to minimize the intake of processed meats, refined carbohydrates, and sweetened beverages 5. As a part of a healthy diet, the intake of trans fats should be avoided A summary of the effect of individual dietary constituents on lipid and lipoprotein levels is shown in table 13 ( 118 ). This table summarizes the results of numerous randomized trials examining the effect of dietary manipulations on lipid and lipoprotein levels. Table 13. Summary of the Effect of Dietary Constituents on Lipid and Lipoproteins View in own window SFA Increase LDL-C and modest increase HDL-C MUFA and PUFA Decrease LDL-C TFA Increase LDL-C and decrease HDL-C Cholesterol Increase LDL-C Carbohydrates Increase TGs, increase greater with simple sugars particularly fructose Fiber Decrease LDL-C Phytosterols Decrease LDL-C SFA= saturated fatty acids, MUFA= monounsaturated fatty acids, PUFA= polyunsaturated fatty acids, TFA= trans fatty acids. There is a huge literature describing the effect of diet on the risk of ASCVD and this literature is often conflicting and controversial ( 118 ). Several well recognized investigators have discussed the limitations of the information linking various diets and dietary constituents and the risk of disease ( 119 , 120 ). The major problem is that almost all of the information is based on observational studies and well conducted randomized trials measuring important ASCVD outcomes are very rare. Observational studies can demonstrate associations but do not definitively indicate that there is a cause-and-effect relationship. Unrecognized confounding variables
