Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


well conducted randomized trials measuring important ASCVD outcomes are very rare. Observational studies can demonstrate associations but do not definitively indicate that there is a cause-and-effect relationship. Unrecognized confounding variables can result in false associations. Some of the more recent randomized dietary trials that have examined the effect of diet on ASCVD events are described below. For a discussion of other studies see reference ( 118 ). The PREDIMED trial employing a Mediterranean diet (increased monounsaturated fats) reduced the incidence of major ASCVD events ( 121 ). In this multicenter trial, carried out in Spain, over 7,000 patients at high risk for developing ASCVD were randomized to three diets (primary prevention trial). A Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil, a Mediterranean diet supplemented with mixed nuts, or a control diet. The average age of participants in this trial was 67. In the patients assigned to the Mediterranean diets there was 29% decrease in the primary end point (MI, stroke, and death from ASCVD). Subgroup analysis demonstrated that the Mediterranean diet was equally beneficial in patients < 70 and ≥ 70 years of age. The Mediterranean diet resulted in only a small but significant increase in HDL-C levels and a small decrease in both LDL-C and TG levels, suggesting that the beneficial effects were not mediated by changes in lipids ( 122 ). The CORDIOPREV study and the Lyon Diet Heart Study were randomized trials that demonstrated that a Mediterranean diet reduces ASCVD events in patients with cardiovascular disease (secondary prevention) ( 123 , 124 ). Unfortunately, these studies did not have a sufficient number of patients > 70 years of age for analysis of the effect of the diet in older patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease. The results of these three randomized trials indicate that following a Mediterranean type diet reduces ASCVD. It is likely that the beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet on ASCVD is mediated by multiple mechanisms with alterations in lipid levels making only a minor contribution. LIPID LOWERING DRUGS Current guidelines and lipid lowering goals are discussed in the guidelines section above. In this section we will focus on clinical decisions regarding the use of lipid lowering drugs. To maximize benefits of lipid lowering therapy we think it is important to achieve LDL-C goals. Elderly Patients on Lipid Lowering Therapy In elderly patients on lipid lowering therapy, we usually continue therapy if they are tolerating
