Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


we think it is important to achieve LDL-C goals. Elderly Patients on Lipid Lowering Therapy In elderly patients on lipid lowering therapy, we usually continue therapy if they are tolerating the medications without side effects. We will periodically check a lipid panel to make sure that they are achieving the goals of therapy. If not, we will adjust the lipid lowering medications to achieve the desired LDL-C goals. We will make changes in therapy if circumstances change. For example, if a patient develops metastatic cancer and is transferred to palliative or Hospice care we will stop the lipid lowering therapy. Similarly, if a new drug is required the current lipid lowering drugs may need to be changed to avoid drug interactions. Thus, in most patients continuing lipid lowering therapy is appropriate. Primary Prevention in Elderly Patients In elderly patients we usually initiate therapy using moderate-intensity statin therapy if therapy is indicated as discussed above. We typically use either atorvastatin 10-20mg or rosuvastatin 5-10mg. Our reason for using these statins is that if one needs to lower LDL-C further we can just increase the dose of the statin and not need to start a new statin. In certain circumstances we might use another statin to avoid drug interactions (for example in a patient living with HIV we might use pitavastatin). After 6-12 weeks on statin therapy, we check a lipid panel and if the patient is having any medication side effects. If the LDL-C is not at goal we will either increase the statin dose or if we feel that the patient is at risk for statin toxicity add ezetimibe 10mg instead. In a healthy elderly patient at high risk for ASCVD (for example high LDL-C, diabetes, and hypertension) we do not hesitate to use high-intensity statin therapy (atorvastatin 40-80mg and rosuvastatin 20-40mg) plus ezetimibe 10mg to achieve the LDL-C goal. Secondary Prevention in Elderly Patients Unless than is a contraindication we frequently start these patients on high-intensity statin therapy. After 6-12 weeks on statin therapy, we check a lipid panel and if the patient is having any medication side effects. We will often add ezetimibe as studies have shown that the greater the lowering of LDL-C the greater the reductions in ASCVD events. Additionally, ezetimibe is generic (i.e. inexpensive) and doesn’t typically cause side effects. We will use PCSK9 inhibitors following the principle that the higher the LDL-C and the
