Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


in ASCVD events. Additionally, ezetimibe is generic (i.e. inexpensive) and doesn’t typically cause side effects. We will use PCSK9 inhibitors following the principle that the higher the LDL-C and the greater the risk of ASCVD events the greater the cost effectiveness of using expensive PCSK9 inhibitors. Mixed Hyperlipidemia In patients with mixed hyperlipidemia (elevated LDL-C and triglyceride levels) Initial drug therapy should also be a statin unless triglyceride levels are greater than 500-1000mg/dL. If triglycerides are > 500-1000mg/dL initial therapy is directed at lowering triglyceride levels ( 49 , 125 ). In addition to lowering LDL-C levels, statins are also effective in lowering triglyceride levels particularly when the triglycerides are elevated. If LDL-C is not lowered sufficiently ezetimibe is a reasonable next step. The approach to the patient whose LDL-C levels are at goal but the triglycerides and non-HDL-C are still elevated is not clearly defined. As discussed above studies have failed to demonstrate that adding a fibrate or niacin reduces ASCVD events. The REDUCE-IT trial has demonstrated that icosapent ethyl (Vascepa) decreases ASCVD events in this patient population but as discussed in detail above the results of this study are debated because the mineral oil placebo increased LDL-C. non-HDL-C, hsCRP, and other biomarkers associated with an increased risk of ASCVD events. It is debated by various experts whether the beneficial effect seen in this study was due to the positive effects of icosapent ethyl or to negative effects of the placebo. Clinicians will need to use their clinical judgement on whether to treat patients with elevations in TG and non-HDL-C levels with icosapent ethyl balancing the potential benefits of treatment vs. the potential side effects. In making this decision in our elderly patients it is worth noting that in participants <65 years of age the primary end point was reduced by 35% (HR 0.65; 95% CI 0.54–0.78) while in participants ≥ 65 years of age the primary end point was reduced by 18% (HR 0.82; 95%CI 0.70–0.97; P Value for Interaction 0.06). Information on patients ≥ 75 years of age is not available. Patients with Statin Intolerance Statin intolerance is frequently due to myalgias but on occasion can be due other issues, such as increased liver or muscle enzymes, cognitive dysfunction, or other neurological disorders. The percentage of patients who are “statin intolerant” varies greatly but in clinical practice a significant number of patients have difficulty taking statins. It
