Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


cognitive dysfunction, or other neurological disorders. The percentage of patients who are “statin intolerant” varies greatly but in clinical practice a significant number of patients have difficulty taking statins. It can be difficult to determine if the muscle symptoms that occur when a patient is taking a statin are actually due to the statin or are unrelated to statin use. The first step in a “statin intolerant patient” is to take a careful history of the nature and location of the muscle symptoms and the timing of onset in relation to statin use to determine whether the presentation fits the typical picture for statin induced myalgias. The characteristic findings with a statin induced myalgia are shown in table 14 and findings that are not typical for statin induced myalgia are shown in table 15 . The disappearance of symptoms within a few weeks of stopping statins and the reappearance after restarting statins is very suggestive of the symptoms being due to true statin intolerance. An on-line tool (htpp://tools.acc.org/statinintolerance/#!/) and an app produced by the ACC/AHA are available. This tool characterizes patients based on 8 criteria into possible vs. unlikely to have statin induced muscle symptoms ( table 16 ). Table 14. Characteristic Findings with Statin Induced Myalgia View in own window Symmetric Proximal muscles Muscle pain, tenderness, weakness, cramps Symptom onset < 4 weeks after starting statin or dose increase Improves within 2-4 weeks of stopping statin Cramping is unilateral and involves small muscles of hands and feet Same symptoms occur with re-challenge within 4 weeks Table 15. Symptoms Atypical in Statin Induced Myalgia View in own window Unilateral Asymmetric Small muscles Joint or tendon pain Shooting pain, muscle twitching or tingling Symptom onset > 12 weeks No improvement after discontinuing statin Table 16. Diagnosis of Statin Associated Muscle Symptoms View in own window Symptom timing Symptom type Symptom location Sex Age Race/ethnicity CK elevation > 5 times the upper limit of normal Known risk factors for statin induced muscle symptoms and non-statin causes of muscle symptoms One should also check a CK level but this is almost always in the normal range. If the CK is not elevated and the symptoms do not suggest a statin induced myalgia one can often reassure the patient and continue statin therapy. This is often successful and studies have shown that many patients that stop taking statins due to “statin induced myalgia” can
