Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


can often reassure the patient and continue statin therapy. This is often successful and studies have shown that many patients that stop taking statins due to “statin induced myalgia” can be successfully treated with a statin ( 50 ). If the CK is elevated it should be repeated after instructing the patient to avoid exercise for 48 hours. Also, the CK levels should be compared to CK levels prior to starting therapy if available. If the CK remains elevated (3x upper limit of normal) the statin should be discontinued. Similarly, if the CK is normal but the symptoms are suggestive of a statin induced myalgia the statin should also be discontinued. The next step is to determine if one can identify reversible factors that could be increasing statin toxicity (hypothyroidism, drug interactions). If none are identified the next step after the myalgias have resolved is to try a low dose of a different statin that is metabolized by a different pathway (for example instead of atorvastatin, which is metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway, rosuvastatin, which has a different pathway of metabolism). Because statin side effects are dose related, a low dose of a statin may often be tolerated. One can also try several different statins as sometimes a patient may tolerate one statin and not others. A meta-analysis has shown that every other day administration of statins is as effective as daily administration in lowering lipid levels and therefore is a very reasonable strategy ( 126 ). In some instances, using a long-acting statin (rosuvastatin or atorvastatin) 1-3 times per week can work (we usually start with once per week and then slowly increase frequency as tolerated) ( 127 ). In these circumstances (low doses or 1-3 times per week) the reduction in LDL-C may not be sufficient but one can use combination therapy with other drugs such as ezetimibe, bempedoic acid, or PCSK9 inhibitors to achieve LDL-C target goals. If after trying various approaches a patient still has myalgias and is unable to tolerate statin therapy one needs to utilize other approaches to lower LDL-C levels. We typically use the ezetimibe and bempedoic acid combination pill (Nexlizet), which can lower the LDL-C level by approximately 40%, which is often sufficient ( 128 ). If needed one could add a PCSK9 inhibitor to further decrease LDL-C. CONCLUSION ASCVD is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in elderly patients. In
