Evaluation and Treatment of Dyslipidemia in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: statin, patients, risk, age, cardiovascular, ldl-c, ascvd, therapy, pubmed, years, events, levels, disease, trial, statin therapy


sufficient ( 128 ). If needed one could add a PCSK9 inhibitor to further decrease LDL-C. CONCLUSION ASCVD is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in elderly patients. In elderly patients with pre-existing ASCVD randomized clinical trials have shown that lipid lowering drug therapy with statins, ezetimibe, and PCSK9 inhibitors reduce ASCVD events. Thus, most elderly patients with ASCVD should be treated with lipid lowering drugs unless there are contraindications such as limited life expectancy, competing non-cardiovascular disorders, high risk of drug interactions or drug side effects. In elderly patients without ASCVD if they are already taking lipid lowering drugs and if they are tolerating the medications without side effects continuing therapy is usually reasonable as long as the clinical circumstances have not changed. In elderly patients not on lipid lowering therapy and without cardiovascular disease studies have suggested that lipid lowering therapy is beneficial but further studies are required to definitively demonstrate benefit. In these patients one needs to determine the patient’s risk for ASCVD events and then discuss the potential benefits and side effects with the patient to make a shared decision on whether to initiate therapy. Age per se should not be used to withhold therapy with lipid lowering drugs that can reduce the risk of ASCVD events. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by grants from the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. The authors would like to thank Dan Streja, the original author of this chapter, who provided the framework for this updated chapter. REFERENCES 1. Savji N, Rockman CB, Skolnick AH, Guo Y, Adelman MA, Riles T, Berger JS. Association between advanced age and vascular disease in different arterial territories: a population database of over 3.6 million subjects. J Am Coll Cardiol 2013; 61:1736-1743 [ PubMed : 23500290 ] 2. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, Braun LT, de Ferranti S, Faiella-Tommasino J, Forman DE, Goldberg R, Heidenreich PA, Hlatky MA, Jones DW, Lloyd-Jones D, Lopez-Pajares N, Ndumele CE, Orringer CE, Peralta CA, Saseen JJ, Smith SC, Jr., Sperling L, Virani SS, Yeboah J. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol: A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2019; 139:e1082-e1143 [ PMC free article : PMC7403606 ] [ PubMed : 30586774 ] 3. Mach F, Baigent C, Catapano AL, Koskinas KC, Casula M, Badimon L,
