Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale
KEYWORDS: heart, right, failure, cor pulmonale, cor, pulmonale, heart failure, pulmonary, right heart, ventricular, left, cause, patients, hypertension, cardiac


Right heart failure is defined by the clinical syndrome of systemic venous congestion with or without low cardiac output, secondary to right ventricular dysfunction. The most common cause of right heart failure is increased afterload caused by left heart failure. Cor pulmonale is right ventricular (RV) enlargement and eventual failure secondary to a lung disorder that causes pulmonary artery hypertension. Findings include peripheral edema, neck vein distention, hepatomegaly, and a parasternal lift. Diagnosis of right heart failure is clinical and by echocardiography and cardiac MRI. Treatment is directed at the cause. Pathophysiology of Right Heart Failure Right heart or right ventricular (RV) failure is the failure of the right side of the heart to pump blood adequately through the pulmonary vasculature at a normal central venous pressure. Right heart failure often involves right ventricle systolic dysfunction, dilation, or both. In the case of right heart failure secondary to left heart failure, elevated left heart filling pressure is transmitted retrograde through the pulmonary vasculature, resulting in pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular pressure overload, which can be exacerbated by the development of tricuspid valve regurgitation. Tricuspid regurgitation is typically functional in the setting of either right ventricular enlargement, or right atrial enlargement, often exacerbated by the presence of atrial fibrillation. Sleep apnea is common in patients with chronic heart failure, particularly central sleep apnea. The presence of both central and obstructive sleep apnea can exacerbate right heart failure. Cor Pulmonale Cor pulmonale is right heart failure caused by pulmonary hypertension secondary to lung disease, which can include: Loss of capillary beds (eg, due to bullous changes in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD] or thrombosis in pulmonary embolism) Vasoconstriction caused by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or both Increased alveolar pressure (eg, in COPD, during mechanical ventilation) Medial hypertrophy in arterioles (often a response to pulmonary hypertension due to other mechanisms) Pulmonary hypertension increases afterload on the RV, resulting in a cascade of events that is similar to what occurs in LV failure, including elevated end-diastolic and central venous pressure and ventricular hypertrophy and dilation. Demands on the RV may be intensified by increased blood viscosity due to hypoxia-induced polycythemia. Rarely, RV failure affects the LV if a dysfunctional septum bulges into the LV, interfering with filling and thus causing diastolic dysfunction. Cor pulmonale results from a disorder of the lung or its vasculature; it does not refer to right ventricular (RV) enlargement secondary to left
