Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale
KEYWORDS: heart, right, failure, cor pulmonale, cor, pulmonale, heart failure, pulmonary, right heart, ventricular, left, cause, patients, hypertension, cardiac


filling and thus causing diastolic dysfunction. Cor pulmonale results from a disorder of the lung or its vasculature; it does not refer to right ventricular (RV) enlargement secondary to left ventricular (LV) failure, a congenital heart disorder (eg, ventricular septal defect), or an acquired valvular disorder. Cor pulmonale is usually chronic but may be acute and reversible. Primary pulmonary hypertension (ie, not caused by a pulmonary or cardiac disorder) is discussed elsewhere. Etiology of Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale The most common cause of right heart failure is left heart failure (1). Isolated right heart failure can be caused by right-sided congenital or acquired valvular disease, right-sided myocardial infarction, restrictive cardiomyopathy, pericardial disease, right-heart specific cardiomyopathy such as arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, or obstructive sleep apnea. Cor pulmonale Acute cor pulmonale has few causes. Chronic cor pulmonale is usually caused by COPD, but there are several less common causes (see table Causes of Cor Pulmonale). In patients with COPD, an acute exacerbation or pulmonary infection may trigger RV overload. In chronic cor pulmonale, risk of venous thromboembolism is increased. TABLE Causes of Cor Pulmonale Acuity Condition Massive pulmonary embolization Acute Injury due to mechanical ventilation (most commonly in patients with ARDS) Chronic COPD* Extensive loss of lung tissue due to surgery or trauma Chronic, unresolved pulmonary emboli 2/7 Acuity Condition Pulmonary veno-occlusive disorders Systemic sclerosis Pulmonary interstitial fibrosis Kyphoscoliosis Obesity with alveolar hypoventilation Neuromuscular disorders involving respiratory muscles Idiopathic alveolar hypotension * COPD is the most common cause of chronic cor pulmonale. ARDS = acute respiratory distress syndrome; COPD = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Symptoms and Signs of Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale In RV failure, the most common symptoms are peripheral edema and fatigue. Sometimes patients feel a sensation of fullness in the abdomen or neck. Hepatic congestion can cause right upper quadrant abdominal discomfort, and stomach and intestinal congestion can cause early satiety, anorexia, and abdominal bloating. Less specific heart failure symptoms include cool peripheries, postural light-headedness, nocturia, and decreased daytime micturition. Skeletal muscle wasting can occur in severe biventricular failure and may reflect some disuse but also increased catabolism associated with increased cytokine production. Significant weight loss (cardiac cachexia) is an ominous sign associated with high mortality. In older adults, presenting concerns may be atypical, such as confusion, delirium, falls, sudden functional decline, nocturnal urinary incontinence, or sleep disturbance. Coexisting cognitive impairment and depression may
