Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale
KEYWORDS: heart, right, failure, cor pulmonale, cor, pulmonale, heart failure, pulmonary, right heart, ventricular, left, cause, patients, hypertension, cardiac


high mortality. In older adults, presenting concerns may be atypical, such as confusion, delirium, falls, sudden functional decline, nocturnal urinary incontinence, or sleep disturbance. Coexisting cognitive impairment and depression may also influence assessment and therapeutic interventions and may be worsened by the HF. Signs of RV failure include: Nontender peripheral pitting edema (digital pressure leaves visible and palpable imprints, sometimes quite deep) in the feet and ankles Enlarged and sometimes pulsatile liver palpable below the right costal margin Abdominal swelling and ascites Visible elevation of the jugular venous pressure, sometimes with large a or v waves that are visible even when the patient is seated or standing (see figure Normal Jugular Vein Waves) In severe cases of heart failure, peripheral edema can extend to the thighs or even the sacrum, scrotum, lower abdominal wall, and occasionally even higher. Severe edema in multiple areas is termed anasarca. Edema may be asymmetric if patients lie predominantly on one side. Large v waves in the jugular veins are usually indicative of significant tricuspid regurgitation which is often present in RV failure. A paradoxical increase in the jugular venous pressure during inspiration (Kussmaul sign) is indicative of impaired right ventricular filling and can occur in severe RV failure as well as restrictive cardiomyopathy, constrictive pericarditis, and severe tricuspid regurgitation. With hepatic congestion, the liver may be palpably enlarged or tender, and hepatojugular or abdominal- jugular reflux may be detected (see Approach to the Cardiac Patient). Precordial palpation may detect the left parasternal lift of RV enlargement, and auscultation may detect the murmur of tricuspid regurgitation or the RV third heart sound (S3) along the left sternal border; both findings are augmented upon inspiration. Cor pulmonale Cor pulmonale is initially asymptomatic, although patients usually have significant symptoms (eg, dyspnea, exertional fatigue) due to the underlying lung disorder. Later, as RV pressures increase, physical signs commonly include a left parasternal systolic lift, a loud pulmonic component of the second heart sound (S2), and murmurs of functional tricuspid and pulmonic insufficiency (regurgitation). Later, an RV gallop rhythm (S3 and fourth [S4] heart sounds) augmented during inspiration, distended jugular veins (with a dominant a wave unless tricuspid regurgitation is present), hepatomegaly, and lower-extremity edema may occur. Diagnosis of Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale Clinical suspicion Echocardiography and cardiac MRI Electrocardiogram Measurement of natriuretic peptide levels Sometimes right heart catheterization Right heart failure is a clinical diagnosis, composed
