Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale
KEYWORDS: heart, right, failure, cor pulmonale, cor, pulmonale, heart failure, pulmonary, right heart, ventricular, left, cause, patients, hypertension, cardiac


Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale Clinical suspicion Echocardiography and cardiac MRI Electrocardiogram Measurement of natriuretic peptide levels Sometimes right heart catheterization Right heart failure is a clinical diagnosis, composed of supportive symptoms and physical examination findings. Cardiac imaging, particularly echocardiography and cardiac MRI, is used to confirm right ventricular dysfunction, including dilatation and impaired systolic function. Both imaging modalities can 4/7 identify previously undiagnosed structural, functional, and congenital abnormalities. Right atrial enlargement and functional tricuspid valve regurgitation are also supportive findings. Echocardiography can assess RV systolic pressure but is often technically limited by the lung disorder; Cardiac MRI can quantitatively assess RV size and function. Right heart catheterization may be required for confirmation. Electrocardiography can identify arrhythmia as well as subtle findings of right ventricle hypertrophy and dilation and right atrial or ventricular dilation. Measurement of brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal-pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP) levels can support the diagnosis of heart failure as well as track clinical response over time. Cor pulmonale Cor pulmonale should be suspected in all patients with one of its causes. Chest radiograph shows RV and proximal pulmonary artery enlargement with distal arterial attenuation. ECG evidence of RV hypertrophy (eg, right axis deviation, QR wave in lead V1, and dominant R wave in leads V1 to V3) correlates well with degree of pulmonary hypertension. However, because pulmonary hyperinflation and bullae in COPD cause realignment of the heart, physical examination, radiographs, and ECG may be relatively insensitive. Cor Pulmonale (Echocardiogram) Treatment of Right Heart Failure and Cor Pulmonale Treatment of cause Treatment of right heart failure consists of identifying and treating the underlying cause. When the cause is left heart failure, guideline-directed treatment strategies for left heart failure apply. Pulmonary arterial hypertension, congenital heart disease, acquired valvular disease, pericardial disease, cardiomyopathy, and other causes are treated per standard of care. 5/7 In patients with acute or critical illness, careful attention to preload, as well as afterload and contractility are the main approaches (1). Cautious diuresis, inotropic support with agents such as milrinone, and pulmonary vasodilation (in the absence of contraindications) may be helpful. Symptoms may be managed with loop diuretics. Otherwise, there are no evidence-based targeted pharmacologic or other forms of therapies (2). If peripheral edema is present chronically, diuretics may seem appropriate, but they should be used cautiously because small decreases in preload may result in hypotension. Pulmonary vasodilators (eg, hydralazine, calcium channel blockers, nitrous
