Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


ABSTRACT Lifestyle therapies are important in helping to reduce risk of premature cardiovascular disease. A family-centered, behavioral approach to lifestyle modification is generally the most successful approach for children and adolescents. A registered dietitian nutritionist plays a pivotal role in implementing therapeutic lifestyle changes, uniquely trained to fully assess the child's nutrition status as well as outlining practical strategies to obtain the desired behavioral changes. For all children and adolescents one year of age and older, the Cardiovascular Health Integrated Lifestyle Diet (CHILD-1 diet) is the first step in helping achieve the goal of a healthy lifestyle. Key to this initial dietary recommendation is restricting saturated fat intake to <10% of daily calorie intake and reducing cholesterol consumption to <300 mg/day. Those unable to achieve the desired goals while following a CHILD-1 diet should be advanced to the CHILD-2 diet after a three-month trial. The CHILD-2 diet includes further restriction of saturated fat and cholesterol. In addition to the CHILD-2 diet, supplementation with plant sterol and stanol esters, water-soluble psyllium fiber, or omega-3 fatty acids may help a child achieve the desired lipid goals. Nutrition recommendations vary according to age, and parents/caregivers should be counseled accordingly. Each individual age range provides unique challenges, making ongoing nutrition counseling an important part of maintaining modifications in those following a lipid-lowering diet. Regular follow-up visits with appropriate monitoring of the child's understanding of, and satisfaction with, the diet, test results, readiness to change, and growth parameters is important for continued success. The use of motivational interviewing during visits is frequently helpful in enhancing knowledge, maintaining interest, identifying barriers, and setting short- and long-term goals. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . ROLE OF MEDICAL NUTRITION THERAPY IN PEDIATRIC DYSLIPIDEMIA The National Lipid Association (NLA), American Heart Association (AHA), and American College of Cardiology (ACC) all regard lifestyle therapies as an important component in helping reduce risk of premature cardiovascular disease, alone or in conjunction with pharmacotherapies ( 1 - 4 ). Research of cardiovascular disease risk reduction has shown improper diets, especially those with excess energy intake, to be major contributors to hypercholesterolemia and obesity in children and adolescents ( 5 ). Counseling of those at risk of premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) focuses on ( 1 ) altering diet composition; ( 2 ) increasing physical activity; ( 3 ) calorie reduction for
