Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


of those at risk of premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) focuses on ( 1 ) altering diet composition; ( 2 ) increasing physical activity; ( 3 ) calorie reduction for weight loss in those who are overweight and obese; ( 4 ) global reduction of risk factors associated with metabolic syndrome; and ( 5 ) cessation/avoidance of tobacco use ( 1 ). A behavioral approach to lifestyle modification provided by a registered dietitian nutritionist has been identified as the most consistently effective approach to evoke dietary change ( 5 ). In the pediatric population, both the child and family should be engaged in counseling efforts. NUTRITION ASSESSMENT Prior to providing recommendations for lipid-lowering diets, it is important to gather a comprehensive assessment of the child’s current nutritional status and the entire family's readiness to change. Identification of a family’s current healthcare beliefs and practices, nutritional status, and eating patterns can be a valuable resource in estimating future success in implementing and sustaining therapeutic lifestyle changes. Growth charts, if available, should be reviewed to determine nutrition risks such as malnutrition or obesity. Anthropometric measures of note include the child's age- and sex- appropriate height, weight, body mass index (BMI), and BMI Z-score. Although generally not formally assessed, the body weight and body mass index of the parent/caregiver as well as other family members should also be taken into account. Food insecurity or financial barriers to diet modification should also be addressed, including use of the food assistance programs such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), National School Lunch Program (NSLP), and food pantries. This allows modification of dietary recommendations to better align with child and family needs. A diet recall or discussion regarding typical daily dietary intake is generally the most useful information to determine areas of dietary improvement ( 6 ). Special attention should be paid to the child’s main sources of meals, frequency of eating meals outside of the home, between-meal snacks, and baseline level of physical activity. Identifying use of nutritional supplements, herbal remedies, and dietary restrictions is also important, as these may affect baseline and follow-up lipid levels. NUTRITION INTERVENTIONS Dietary Guidelines CHILD-1 (STEP 1 DIET) The CHILD-1 diet ( Table 1 ) is the first step in diet modification for all children 1 year of age and older, including those with a family history of early
