Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


CHILD-1 diet ( Table 1 ) is the first step in diet modification for all children 1 year of age and older, including those with a family history of early cardiovascular disease, obesity, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, primary hypertension, or exposure to smoking at home. Parameters of this diet include restricting total fat intake to 25-30% of daily calories, saturated fat intake to less than 10% of daily calories, and limiting daily cholesterol intake to 300mg or less ( 5 ). Polyunsaturated fatty acids should constitute up to 10% of daily caloric intake, while targeting a monounsaturated fatty acid intake of 10-15% of daily caloric intake ( 5 ). Trans fats should be avoided as they have been shown to increase LDL-C as well as decrease HDL-C. Common sources of saturated and unsaturated fats are outlined in Table 2 . Reduction of sugar-sweetened beverage intake should be encouraged, as this has been associated with decreased obesity measures ( 5 ). In addition, a daily dietary fiber intake of at least the child’s age + 5g for young children and up to 14g per 1000 calories for older children should be encouraged ( 7 ). The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends at least 1 hour of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity daily for children 5 years and older ( 8 ). This diet has shown to decrease total cholesterol and LDL-C, while lowering the incidence of obesity and insulin resistance. The CHILD-1 diet has been shown to be safe and effective, and may decrease LDL-C by an average of 12% from baseline values. Any resulting decrease in body weight for those who are overweight or obese may also increase levels of HDL-C and decrease triglyceride concentrations ( 9 ). TABLE 1. EVIDENCE-BASED DIET FOR CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS: CHILD-1 View in own window Birth to 6 months All babies should be exclusively breastfed until 6 months of age. Donor breast milk or iron-fortified infant formula may be utilized if maternal breastmilk is unavailable or contraindicated. No supplemental food is recommended. 6 to 12 months Breastfeeding should be continued until at least 12 months of age while gradually adding solids; transition to iron-fortified infant formula until 12 months if if maternal breastmilk is unavailable or contraindicated. Fat intake should not be restricted unless medically indicated. No sweetened beverages should be offered; Limit other beverages to 100% fruit juice (≤4oz/day); Encourage water. 12 to 24 months
