Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


to the CHILD-2 diet should be recommended ( Table 3 ). Parameters of the CHILD-2 diet include further restriction of saturated fat intake to less than 7% of daily calories and a decrease in daily cholesterol intake to 200mg or less. This diet may be further modified, if necessary, to more specifically address elevated LDL-C, non-HDL-C, and elevated triglycerides (TG). Table 3. Evidence-Based Nutrition Recommendations for Pediatric Dyslipidemia View in own window Nutrition Recommendations for LDL-Lowering Indication: Children and adolescents with familial hypercholesterolemia or persistent hypercholesterolemia. Refer to a registered dietitian nutritionist for family-centered medical nutrition therapy. Dietary fat: Total fat 25-30% of daily kcal intake Saturated fat ≤7% daily kcal intake Avoid trans fats Monounsaturated fat ~10% daily kcal intake Cholesterol <200mg/day Familial hypercholesterolemia patients may benefit from plant sterol and stanol esters up to 2g/day as a replacement for usual dietary fat sources. Water-soluble fiber psyllium can be added to the CHILD-2 diet at a dose of 6g/day for children 2-12 years of age, and 12g/day for children ≥12 years of age. Encourage at least 1 hour of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity daily while limiting sedentary screen time to <2 hours/day. Nutrition Recommendations for TG-Lowering Indication: Children and adolescents with hypertriglyceridemia or persistent hypertriglyceridemia. Refer to a registered dietitian nutritionist for family-centered medical nutrition therapy. Dietary fat: Total fat 25-30% of daily kcal intake Saturated fat ≤7% daily kcal intake Avoid trans fats Monounsaturated fat ~10% daily kcal intake Cholesterol <200mg/day Reduce sugar intake. Replace simple carbohydrates with complex carbohydrates. Avoid sugar-sweetened beverages. Increase dietary fish to increase omega-3 fatty acid intake. Omega-3 fatty acid supplementation can be added at 1-4g/day for TG >200-499mg/dL. The CHILD-2 LDL lowering diet places additional emphasis on dietary fiber intake and use of plant sterol/stanol esters, as appropriate. Dietary fiber, specifically soluble fiber intake, may help further reduce LDL-C. Supplemental water-soluble psyllium fiber may be added, though efficacy of supplementation varies in published trials. In children and adolescents with familial hypercholesterolemia, plant sterol and stanol esters may be safely incorporated at 2g/day to enhance LDL-C lowering effects ( 5 ). (See the nutrition supplementation section of this chapter for more information on supplemental therapies). The CHILD-2 TG-lowering diet may be utilized in children and adolescents with moderate hypertriglyceridemia. Dietary recommendations should encourage choosing complex carbohydrates, limiting simple carbohydrates, and restricting dietary fat intake. Sugar sweetened beverages should be discouraged. If overweight or obese,
