Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


and adolescents with moderate hypertriglyceridemia. Dietary recommendations should encourage choosing complex carbohydrates, limiting simple carbohydrates, and restricting dietary fat intake. Sugar sweetened beverages should be discouraged. If overweight or obese, a gradual weight loss should be encouraged ( 5 ). Omega-3 supplementation may be beneficial in those with TG >200-499 mg/dL. (See Omega-3 supplementation section below). In children and adolescents with severe hypertriglyceridemia or familial hypertriglyceridemia, the CHILD-2 TG-lowering diet, as well as restriction as low as 10-15% daily calories from fat, may be helpful in lowering TG and avoiding pancreatitis. It is imperative these children and adolescents be closely followed by a registered dietitian nutritionist to ensure all essential fatty acid and micronutrient needs are met, as well as maintaining a proper balance of calories from carbohydrates, fat, and protein ( 10 , 11 ). NUTRITION SUPPLEMENTATION Plant Sterol and Stanol Esters Children and adolescents who have been unable to achieve lipid-lowering goals with dietary modification alone may utilize plant sterol and stanol esters for further LDL-C lowering. Recommended dose for children 2 years of age and older is 2g/day as a replacement for usual fat sources ( 5 ). As long-term studies on effectiveness have not been completed, plant sterol and stanol supplementation should be reserved for children and adolescents who do not achieve the desired LDL-C and non-HDL-C goals with diet modification alone ( 1 ). Therapeutic doses of plant sterol and stanol esters can be achieved through fortified foods or nutrition supplements, and appear to have increased efficacy when administered throughout the day rather than in a single dose ( 12 , 13 ). Omega-3-Fatty Acids In children and adolescents with fasting triglyceride levels >200-499 mg/dL, a trial of CHILD-2 TG-lowering diet and increased intake of fatty fish or omega-3 fatty acid supplementation may be beneficial ( 3 ). When increasing fatty fish in the diet, seafood choices high in EPA and DHA, but low in mercury are recommended ( 5 ). While research into the effects of fish oil supplementation is limited in the pediatric population, no safety concerns have been identified as yet. In adults, omega-3 supplementation has been shown to lower triglycerides by 30-40%, though some may cause an increase in LDL-C ( 14 - 18 ). Therapeutic doses of omega-3 fish oils are 1-4 g/day of the active ingredients (EPA+DHA). If fish-oil supplementation is utilized, prescription formulas are recommended rather than over-the-counter
