Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


14 - 18 ). Therapeutic doses of omega-3 fish oils are 1-4 g/day of the active ingredients (EPA+DHA). If fish-oil supplementation is utilized, prescription formulas are recommended rather than over-the-counter fish-oil capsules, which are not FDA regulated ( 3 , 18 ). Psyllium Fiber This water-soluble fiber can be added to the CHILD-2 LDL-lowering diet to aide in lowering total and LDL-C cholesterol. While evidence for efficacy of psyllium fiber is insufficient for specific recommendation, many studies show significant reductions in total and LDL cholesterol when psyllium fiber is added to a CHILD-2 LDL-lowering diet. Recommended doses are 6 g/day for children 2-12 years; 12 g/day for children 12 years and older. ( 5 ) Soluble fiber has been shown to be well-tolerated and safe for hypercholesterolemic children and adolescents 2 years of age and older ( 20 - 22 ). AGE-BASED NUTRITION RECOMMENDATIONS Birth to 12 Months Fat plays a pivotal role in brain development, and should not be restricted in children <12 months, unless medically necessary. If implementing, it is imperative that a knowledgeable and experienced dietitian nutritionist be involved in the child's care. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), Surgeon General’s Office, and World Health Organization (WHO) recommend that all babies be exclusively breastfed until 6 months of age ( 6 ). Breastfeeding should be continued until at least 12 months of age, with gradual addition of supplemental foods to the child’s diet. Iron-fortified formula may be utilized until 12 months of age if breastfeeding is reduced or discontinued. No sugar-sweetened beverages should be offered, and 100% fruit juice should be limited to 4 oz or less daily. While extensive diet modification is not recommended at this age, previous studies have shown repeated dietary counseling, beginning as early as 7 months of age, decreases lipid risk factors of premature coronary heart disease (CHD) in children ( 23 ). 12-24 Months The 2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends a diet consisting of 30-40% calories from fat for children aged 1-3 years ( 7 ). Toddlers with family history of heart disease and hypercholesterolemia may transition to milk with reduced fat at 12 months of age to decrease saturated fat intake. This should be done only if the overall diet consistently supplies 30% daily calories from fat. Diets with less than 30% daily calories from fat should only be utilized when medically indicated and closely followed by a registered
