Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


diet consistently supplies 30% daily calories from fat. Diets with less than 30% daily calories from fat should only be utilized when medically indicated and closely followed by a registered dietitian nutritionist. Nutrient-rich table foods should be offered, while avoiding concentrated sweets and trans fats ( 5 ). Sugar-sweetened beverages should be avoided, while limiting 100% fruit juice consumption to 4 oz or less daily and encouraging water intake ( 5 ). 2-10 Years At this age, focus should be placed on introducing a wide variety of vegetables, fruits, lean proteins, and complex carbohydrates. Dietary recommendations include a total fat intake of 25-30% of daily calorie intake, limiting saturated fats, and avoiding trans fats ( 5 ). As milk is a main source of saturated fat at this age, fat-free unflavored milk is recommended. Intake of sugar-sweetened beverages should be limited or avoided, limiting 100% fruit juice to 4 oz or less daily, and encouraging water intake. For children with persistent elevations in LDL-C, the CHILD-2 diet described earlier in this chapter may be utilized ( 5 ). This age presents unique challenges due to selective eating habits and increased consumption of foods prepared at day care facilities and school. The AHA notes that, at this age, regular breakfast consumption begins to decrease, while there is often an increase in foods prepared away from home, increased percent daily calories from snack foods, and an increased consumption of foods that are fried and of low-nutrient value ( 24 ). Families should be counseled on choosing nutritionally-dense foods, and encouraging dietary fiber intake (age + 5g daily). Physical activity with limited sedentary time should be encouraged, with a goal of at least 1 hour of moderate-to-vigorous activity daily for children 5 years and older ( 7 ). 10-21 Years Recommendations for this population are similar to children 2-10 years of age. Dietary recommendations remain the same with 25-30% of daily calorie intake from fat, limiting saturated fat to 8-10% of daily calories, and avoiding trans fats. The CHILD-2 diet can be utilized for children and adolescents with persistent elevations in LDL-C and TG ( 5 ). Intake of fat-free unflavored milk and water should be encouraged, while limiting or avoiding sugar-sweetened beverages. 100% fruit juice should also be limited to 4 oz or less daily. Foods high in dietary fiber are encouraged with a goal of 14g fiber per 1000 calories (
