Nutritional Management of Pediatric Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: intake, fat, daily, diet, children, dietary, adolescents, age, children adolescents, pubmed, child-, day, nutrition, fiber, recommendations


100% fruit juice should also be limited to 4 oz or less daily. Foods high in dietary fiber are encouraged with a goal of 14g fiber per 1000 calories ( 7 ). At this age, many children consume meals or snacks at school, after-school programs, restaurants, convenience stores, or vending machines. There is often an increase in choosing foods at home that require minimum preparation. Identifying a child’s main sources of nourishment is helpful in the counseling process ( 24 ). Family-centered education is helpful as parental role modeling is important to establish healthy eating at younger ages. As children and adolescents mature, education may be focused on maintaining healthy habits, such as eating breakfast daily, choosing a healthy lunch, and limiting fast food intake ( 5 ). Special considerations should also be made regarding the approach to discussions on weight and disordered eating patterns ( 3 ). MONITORING AND EVALUATION After the initial visit and nutritional counseling, it is recommended that children, adolescents, and their parent/caregiver continue to meet frequently with specially trained cardiovascular disease risk reduction healthcare professionals, including a lipid specialist and registered dietitian nutritionist to monitor the child's progress and efficacy of the lipid-lowering diet. Growth charts and updated laboratory studies should be reviewed with each visit to guide subsequent recommendations for diet modification or supplementation. In children and adolescents who are overweight or obese, moderate, gradual weight reduction has been shown to improve dyslipidemia and decrease insulin resistance. Regular follow-up visits, tracking growth, and evaluating the child’s and family’s readiness to change can help guide the dietitian nutritionist in providing appropriate and timely counseling. A family-centered approach, transitioning to a patient-centered focus in late adolescence, helps ensure the recommended therapeutic lifestyle changes are followed throughout life stages ( 3 ). REFERENCES 1. Jacobson TA, Maki KC, Orringer CE, et al. National Lipid Association Recommendations for patient-centered management of dyslipidemia: Part 2. J Clin Lipidol. 2015; 9 :S1–S122. [ PubMed : 26699442 ] 2. Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014; 63 25 Pt B:2889–934. [ PubMed : 24239923 ] 3. Williams L, Baker-Smith CM, Bolick J, et al. Nutrition interventions for youth with dyslipidemia: a National Lipid Association
