Case Report
KEYWORDS: dysphagia, whiplash, nerve, neck, hematoma, oropharyngeal, patient, swallowing, injury, oropharyngeal dysphagia, cervical, cord, prevertebral, injuries, normal


kg prior; albumin, 1.8 g/dL vs. 3.8 g/dL) as- edged although uncommon cause of oropharyngeal dysphagia, sociated with extreme lassitude and marked functional decline whiplash-associated cranial nerve injury and anatomical changes and dependence. Dysphagia was suspected 3 weeks after the na- of the oropharynx with dysphagia have been rarely reported sogastric tube was removed, but the full investigations took sev- . In view of the patient’s associated vocal cord paralysis and eral months to obtain. The swallowing examinations were per- dysphonia (vagus nerve), dysgeusia (glossopharyngeal nerve, va- ders and were done 5 to 6 months after discharge. The investiga- geal muscle innervated by the vagus), a combined stretch-in- tions confirmed oropharyngeal dysphagia with normal tongue duced lower cranial nerve injury, possibly on the exit of these and lip function, a normal gag reflex, no dysarthria, or focal py- nerves through the jugular foramen, seems likely. Patients may ramidal signs, but hoarseness and right vocal cord paralysis on develop dysphagia after cervical surgery, but unlike our patient, laryngoscopy. Fiberoptic endoscopic examination of swallowing their dysphagia is isolated and usually improves over 6 months; (FEES) demonstrated food pooling in the valleculae, regurgita- severe dysphagia is rare (e.g., 6 of 186 patients, 3.2%) . Thus, scopic evaluation with liquid barium and wet bread confirmed need to be aware of the unusual but highly disabling association the FEES findings and also revealed failed relaxation of the upper of misleadingly “simple” whiplash injury with acute respiratory esophageal sphincter with a normal esophageal phase. Eventual- failure and subsequent significant impairment of swallowing, ly, after various oral intake manipulations failed, a nasogastric phonation, and taste. 116 www.jtraumainj.org Schattner et al. Complicated whiplash NOTES Am Acad Orthop Surg 2007;15:596–606. 2. Anagnostara A, Athanassopoulou A, Kailidou E, Markatos A, Ethical statements Eystathidis A, Papageorgiou S. Traumatic retropharyngeal Informed consent for publication of the research details and clin- hematoma and prevertebral edema induced by whiplash in- ical images was obtained from the patient’s next of kin. jury. Emerg Radiol 2005;11:145–9. 3. Scharitzer M, Pokieser P, Wagner-Menghin M, Otto F, Ek- Conflicts of interest berg O. Taking the history in patients with swallowing disor- The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare. ders: an international multidisciplinary survey. Abdom Radi- ol (NY) 2017;42:786–93. Funding 4. Spieker MR. Evaluating dysphagia. Am Fam Physician None. 2000;61:3639–48. 5. Helliwell M, Robertson JC, Todd GB, Lobb M. Bilateral vocal Author contributions cord paralysis due to
