Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


can be considered as a firewall to 2. Characteristics of MAIT cells prevent the infection invasion into the systemic circulation. When infected with various pathogens, MAIT cells express a semi-invariant TCR-α chain the liver innate cells secrete variety of cytokines, (made of an invariant Vα7.2-Jα33 in humans and forming the first line of defense. With the progress of Vα19-Jα33 in mice) and a limited TCRβ chain . In the diseases, the acquired immune cells play a 1993, Porcelli et al. found that αβCD4-CD8-T cells dominant role in anti-infectious diseases. In humans, existed in peripheral blood of healthy volunteers and MAIT cells are widely distributed in the body, selectively expressed invariant TCR α chain . One especially in liver which constitute up to 10-50% of T of them called iNKT cells, which was composed of cells. MAIT cells can be activated by riboflavin Vα24 and Jα18 gene fragments (Vα14 and Jα18 in Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 461 mice). The other one was composed of Vα7.2 and Jα33 cells were markedly diminished . However, their gene fragments (V α 19 and J α 33 in mice). In 1999, application in different disease models still requires Tilloy et al. validated that the constant expression further experimental researches. of TCRα Vα7.2/Vα19-Jα33 resulted from a subset of The phenotype of MAIT cell is essential and certain T cells. Until 2003, Treiner et al. found this important to identify their function (Figure 1). The new T cell population originated from the intestinal previous researches have proved that MAIT cells mucosa, defined as the mucosal-associated invariant express PLZF, RORγt and T-bet transcription factor T cells. Once recognizing the nonclassical MHC class , consequently regulating the rapid effector IB molecule (MR1) presented by antigen presenting function. Besides, MAIT cells also possess a series of cells (APCs), they could produce a variety of specific homing receptors, such as CCR6, CXCR6 , cytokines, involving directly or indirectly in immune beta7-integrins, CXCR3 , which targets MAIT cells responses. to the liver, intestines and some inflammatory tissues. MAIT cells are important lymphocyte subsets, Moreover, MAIT cells express a series of innate representing 0.1-10% of total T cells . The most cytokine receptors such as IL-12R, IL-18R and IL-23R, common subset population of MAIT cells is CD8+ which is of great importance to respond to these effector memory phenotype. Double-negative MAIT cytokines in pathological conditions without TCR cells (CD4-CD8-) also
