Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


subset population of MAIT cells is CD8+ which is of great importance to respond to these effector memory phenotype. Double-negative MAIT cytokines in pathological conditions without TCR cells (CD4-CD8-) also hold a certain proportion. ligation. Notably, different modes of activation However, CD4+ MAIT cells are relatively rare . express distinct function phenotype. TCR-activated Notably, most CD8+ MAIT cells express the MAIT cells resembled Tc17 phenotype while homodimer CD8αα and only a few express CD8αβ cytokines-activated MAIT cells were similar to the Tc1 . MAIT cells are absent in germ-free mice. The phenotype . Most MAIT cells express the latest research explained possible mechanisms. It multidrug resistance transporter (ABCB1), which elucidated that vitamin B2 precursor derivatives efflux xenobiotics and are resistant to chemotherapy 5-OP-RU produced by commensal bacteria entered . Upon activation, MAIT cells secrete Th1 and thymus through mucosal barrier, and induced the Th17 cytokines, which is involved in infectious and maturation of MAIT cells through TCR signal . non-infectious inflammatory diseases . In Considering that exogenous 5-OP-RU could be addition, the recent study discovered the chronic captured and presented by thymic cells. It is of great stimulation promoted MAIT cells to produce Th2 Nevertheless, MAIT cells are rare in laboratory strains cytolytic capacity by secreting granzyme B and of mice (C57BL/6 and BALB/c). The proportion is perforin . However, the recent research also approximate to 0.6% of T cells in mice liver . proposed a new opinion that bacterial superantigens Recently, the soluble tetramerized MR1 molecules, turn MAIT cells against each other. Animal models refolded with 5-OP-RU Ag can be used to detect and human cells were used to confirm that MAIT cells MAIT cells in both blood and tissues [13-15]. became hyperreactive and exhausted when exposed Meanwhile, many experimental studies used the to bacterial superantigens. This exhaustion led to MAIT cell-deficient mice (MR1-/-) and the mice immunosuppression, which increased the risk of with high frequency of MAIT cell (Vα19TCRTg) [16, secondary opportunistic infections and caused fatal 17] to explore the possible mechanisms of different consequences . diseases. However, two models cannot completely As an innate immune cell, MAIT cells are represent human MAIT cells. Firstly, MAIT cells are playing a pivotal role in immune network. They similar in WT mice and humans. However, the promoted inflammatory monocyte differentiate into distribution of MAIT cells is lower compared in dendritic cells, as well as matured laboratory mouse strains with human.
