Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


WT mice and humans. However, the promoted inflammatory monocyte differentiate into distribution of MAIT cells is lower compared in dendritic cells, as well as matured laboratory mouse strains with human. Secondly, monocyte-derived and primary DCs, which helped MAIT cells exhibit different phenotype in the TCR coordinating the adaptive immune response. transgenic mice, which cannot reflect the normal During the phase of infection, MAIT cells were biology . The result of using transgenic mice to necessary for cytokine production and recruiting study MAIT cells still need to be further verified in activated CD4+ and CD8 +T cells . Moreover, human samples. Besides, the MR1-/- mice were not MAIT cells may help improve B-cell responses and completely absent . Moreover, MR1 restricted promote the reactivation and differentiation of T cells are more diverse than MAIT cells , so memory B cells . MR1-deficient mice are not exactly the same as The activation and function of MAIT cells could MAIT-deficient mice model. Recent research also be influenced by multiple factors. As we all know, discovered CAST/EiJ mouse strain which had more bacteria species activate MAIT cells in a MAIT cells and Traj33KO mice in which MAIT MR1-dependent manner . This process required Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 462 both intact bacterial to access an acidified endosomal and cytokines can efficiently and synergistically compartment and the help with APC through NF-kB activate human MAIT cells, including TL1A. Besides, or interferon signaling pathways . The study has the inhibition of TL1A can limit inflammation. verified bacteria resulted in the reduction of MAIT Interestingly, TCR-dependent triggering of MAIT cells . Furthermore, bacteria become opsonized cells can play an important role in tissue repair . with IgG and complement, which triggered TNF At the same time, another study also confirmed production of macrophages, thus enhancing the activated MAIT cells expressed a tissue repair MAIT cell responsiveness . A recent study phenotype in both human and mice . reported endosomal TLR9 participated in antigen It was interesting to note that most studies presentation process . Meanwhile, MR1 in discovered the obvious decrease in circulating MAIT different cell lines used an endocytic pathway to cells. However, the reason for this change is less clear. activate MAIT cells, independent of bacteria . Some studies found the peripheral MAIT cells were Cytokines also activated and stimulated MAIT age-related and changed with age [48-50]. The most proliferation . Particularly, some
