Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


independent of bacteria . Some studies found the peripheral MAIT cells were Cytokines also activated and stimulated MAIT age-related and changed with age [48-50]. The most proliferation . Particularly, some studies common explanation for the reduction was attributed demonstrated that MAIT cells respond to to the apoptosis . Controversially, some TLR8-mediated activation by inducing a strong researchers found that the decrease may be due to the immune response . In addition to the TLR8 cell exhaustion [52-54]. In addition, the specific agonist, some drugs, such as salicylate, regulated the microenvironment may ascribe to this change, activity of MAIT cells . Once activated, MAIT cells possibly through activation-induced cell death, such show their effector functions, including producing as microbial translocation, chronic inflammatory cytokines and inducing cytolysis. Sometimes these conditions . As well, with the tissue specimen, processes were accompanied with the increasing some researchers found that the circulating MAIT uptake of glucose . Furthermore, it was also cells may migrate to the inflamed tissues, with the reported that the mTORC1 signaling was relevant to upregulation of chemokine receptors . Besides, the glycolysis of MAIT cells, leading to altered MAIT the repetitive cytokine stimulation also led to the cell responses . The recent study discovered TCR decrease in MAIT cell frequencies . Figure 1. The characteristics of MAIT cell. MAIT cells are defined as CD3+CD161+Vα7.2+ lymphocytes. Most MAIT cells are CD8+T subset. The MR1-5-OP-RU and TCRβ can define MAIT cells. MAIT cells possess homing receptors CCR6, CXCR6, β7-integrins and CXCR3 to migrate to the liver, intestines and some inflammatory tissues. MAIT cells express cytokine receptors IL-12R and IL-18R, which can be activated by different cytokines. Meanwhile, MAIT cells have the multidrug resistance transporter (ABCB1). Once being activated, MAIT cells produce Th1 and Th17 cytokines, such as TNF-α,IFN-γ,IL-17. Meanwhile MAIT cells release granzyme B and perforin to kill the infected cells. This picture was adapted from the reference . Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 463 Recently, increasing studies focus on MAIT cells. 3. MAIT cells in liver diseases Some research has shown that MAIT cells played a protective role in various infections, such as bacteria Alcoholic liver disease , viruses . It was also demonstrated that Currently, Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) has MAIT cells were involved in tumors . gradually become one of main causes of chronic liver Meanwhile, flawed MAIT cells contributed to the disease . A latest research demonstrated
