Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


has MAIT cells were involved in tumors . gradually become one of main causes of chronic liver Meanwhile, flawed MAIT cells contributed to the disease . A latest research demonstrated that the progression of the pathogenesis in immune diseases level of consumption which can reduce the health loss . Interestingly, MAIT cells also played a is zero by analysis for the Global Burden of Disease necessary role in metabolic diseases and Study . The basic stages of alcoholic liver disease parasitic diseases . include liver inflammation, hepatocyte regeneration Due to the large amount of MAIT cells in the disorder and translocation bacteria . We human liver, mounting evidence suggested that concluded that one of the major functions of MAIT MAIT cells played complex roles in regulating cells is to inhibit bacteria. Riva et al. explored the different liver disease. Jeffery et al. found the relationship between liver, intestinal immunity and phenotype and role of MAIT cells in various the effect of MAIT cells in ALD. They emphasized that etiological chronic liver diseases, and analyzed the it was more evident in severe alcoholic hepatitis localization of MAIT cells in liver, which proved (SAH) patients with severe bacterial infection, MAIT cells mainly concentrated in the bile ducts, accompanying with the obvious reduction in MAIT portal tracts and hepatic sinusoids . Hence, other cells. In addition, they also confirmed that it was fecal researches also examined the distribution of MAIT bacteria that induced functional impairments and cells with liver samples, demonstrating MAIT cells reduction of MAIT cells from ALD. However, they preferentially resided in portal tracts other than in the just put attention to the SAH and ARC patients; we parenchyma . Besides, MAIT cells were associated can’t imagine what changes would happen in the with liver fibrosis. Some studies found MAIT cells patients involving binge drinking, alcoholic fatty liver could accumulate in fibrotic septate in diseased livers and chronic drinking without liver disease. Besides, . MAIT cells in the liver may be induced the depletion of circulating MAIT cells contributed to apoptosis. Meanwhile they may redistribute in the the caspase-dependent apoptosis in this article. What liver. Therefore, it is not yet uncertain what changes about other programmed or accidental cell death MAIT cells may happen in liver. elucidating this phenomenon? Figure 2. MAIT cells in different liver diseases. In alcoholic liver disease, gut bacterial directly affect the function of MAIT cells. In
