Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


receptor;PD-1: programmed cell death 1;TIM3: T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containg; ↑increase↓decrease- comparable; compared with blood or tissue from healthy individuals or with unaffected tissues. Meanwhile, we could summarize that short- reported that MAIT cells can express higher levels of term drinking abstinence had no effect in MAIT cell exhaustion marker PD-1, not observing an increase in levels. Nevertheless, Wei Li et al. explored that apoptotic of MAIT cells in AH patients. long-term alcohol abstinence partially reversed MAIT In addition to their antibacterial functions, MAIT cell abnormalities. However, the residual MAIT cells cells are a profibrogenic immune cell population . in alcoholic hepatitis (AH) patients were highly This research showed that both blood MAIT cells and activated with high levels of activation markers CD69, liver MAIT cells reduced in the alcoholic cirrhosis. CD38, HLA-DR. Unlike the previous study, Wei Li This is different from the previous study which found Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 465 that intrahepatic MAIT cells in ALD were not deleted. relationship between the distribution and function of Pushpa Hegde demonstrated that intrahepatic MAIT MAIT cells with lipid metabolism may become new cells accumulated in the fibrotic septa . In vivo and research directions. vitro experiments validated the profibrogenic Considering that NAFLD encompasses a series properties of MAIT cells. Furthermore, their findings of disorders, such as diabetes, obese, hyperlipidemia, suggested that activated MAIT cells promoted the we also put our insight into the roles of MAIT cells in transformation of hepatic myofibroblasts to a the metabolic disease. Rouxel et al. explained the proinflammatory phenotype, characterized by cytotoxic and regulatory roles of MAIT cells in type 1 increasing production of IL-8 and IL-6. diabetes. They highlighted the MAIT cells are of These studies opened a new direction on the importance in the maintenance of gut integrity and fields of MAIT cells. Bin Gao et al. confirmed the effect on anti-islet autoimmune response. By MAIT cells likely exerted an important role in analyzing MAIT cells in patients, they deemed controlling the bacterial infection though MAIT cells circulating MAIT cells as a new biomarker of had defects in the frequency and function among ASH progression in T1D. Besides, the animal research patients. He also suggested that there are more confirmed the effect of MAIT cells was distinct in the aspects to explore. We can study the intrahepatic and pancreas and the gut mucosa. In pancreas, MAIT cells gut
