Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


more confirmed the effect of MAIT cells was distinct in the aspects to explore. We can study the intrahepatic and pancreas and the gut mucosa. In pancreas, MAIT cells gut MAIT cells in SAH patients in detail. Then, we can correlated with the diseases progress. They could relate the gut-liver axis with MAIT cells. Finally, we produce granzyme B and IFN-γ, which directly killed can also study bacteria how to affect MAIT cells in β-cells and aggravated the diseases. In contrary, ALD patients. In addition to these thoughts, we need MAIT cells showed their friendly side in the intestine. to make some researches to investigate the MAIT cells could secret IL-17A and IL-22 to increase characteristics of MAIT cells in patient at different the tight-junction proteins. Therefore, it still needs to stages of ALD disease. We should learn more about investigate the regulatory mechanism of MAIT cells in the relationship between the MAIT cells and the diabetes. Nowadays, increasing attention has been immune network in the liver. paid to the study of dysbiosis of the microbiome and bacterial overgrowth in patients with NAFLD. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease Importantly, MAIT cells participate in the protection It is reported that 25% adult has non-alcoholic of intestinal barrier. Besides, they are related to the fatty liver disease (NAFLD) . NAFLD is also a gut dysbiosis. So, it will be promising to make a chronic inflammation associated with a high-fat diet further research on the link between MAIT cells with and an imbalance in intestinal microbial homeostasis. the gut microbiota in NAFLD patients. As well, NAFLD is generally closely related to Autoimmune liver disease metabolic diseases, most patients have insulin resistance as well as lipid metabolism disorder. Autoimmune immune liver disease (AILD) is Lately, YM. Li et al. indicated that MAIT cells characterized by chronic inflammation in the liver may have a positive effect on NAFLD patients which is caused by autoimmune response. AILD through producing regulatory cytokines including contains autoimmune hepatitis (AIH), primary biliary IL-4 and IL-10, resulting in anti-inflammatory cholangitis (PBC), primary sclerosing cholangitis and macrophage polarization. MAIT cells regulate any overlap syndrome between the three diseases. immune response and reduce the liver inflammation. AIH targets hepatocytes and is mainly related to In their study, they found high free fatty acids could hepatocyte injury. The objective of autoimmune increase MR1 expression in Kupffer cells. The number attack of PBC and PSC are
