Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


In their study, they found high free fatty acids could hepatocyte injury. The objective of autoimmune increase MR1 expression in Kupffer cells. The number attack of PBC and PSC are bile duct epithelial cell, of MAIT cells in the liver positively correlated with which are characterized by cholestasis. However, NAFLD activity score. As well, there was a connection those diseases are all accompanied by inflammation between the circulating MAIT cells frequency and and fibrosis . clinical parameters relevant to the metabolic diseases. Böttcher et al. found that MAIT cells were Comparing with the MAIT cell deficient MCD mice, depleted in both peripheral blood and liver tissue in we confirmed MAIT cells can alleviate inflammation. AILD patients. Meanwhile, intrahepatic MAIT cells However, what accompanied is that MAIT cells may tended to decrease with increasing fibrosis stage. The contribute to the liver fibrosis . It is necessary to decrease was associated with long-term exposure to assess the advantages and disadvantages of MAIT cytokines and bacterial antigens, which cells in NAFLD patients. Meanwhile, we found MAIT down-regulated the T-bet and EOMEs, resulting in cells attenuated lipid deposition in the liver. cell exhaustion. Meanwhile, activated MAIT cells Interestingly, MAIT cells could accumulate in the could secrete IL-17A, which induced HSC adipose tissue among obese patients . The proliferation. Renand et al. put their attention on Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 466 Type 1 Autoimmune Hepatitis. They found the they discovered peripheral MAIT cells significantly circulating MAIT cells may recruit to the reduced and produced less granzyme B and IFN-γ, inflammatory liver, dominantly accumulating in the which correlated with the levels of CD69 expression. portal tract. They also summarized the granzyme B However, in another study by Boeijen , MAIT expression by MAIT cells correlated with the fibrosis. cells were not depleted in blood of chronic hepatitis B Setsu et al. focused on the PBC patients. MAIT patients. This discrepancy may be attributed to many cells were obviously reduced, along with expressing factors. The possible causes may include the number lower levels of activation markers CD69 and IL-7 of patients in the experimental group, the different receptor. The cytokine productions of MAIT cells also phase of disease and the limitation of individual were impaired. After ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) difference. We still need a long-term and treatment, the aforementioned changes were not fully comprehensive study. However, Yong et al. also recovered, which may account
