Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


impaired. After ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) difference. We still need a long-term and treatment, the aforementioned changes were not fully comprehensive study. However, Yong et al. also recovered, which may account for the persistent indicated that the decrease may be driven by inflammation in the liver. Jiang et al. discovered HBV-induced chronic immune activation. The high the increase in MAIT cells in liver tissues among PBC expression of PD-1 on MAIT cells could predict patients. They also verified that abnormalities of plasma HBV-DNA levels. The study also gave us circulating MAIT cells from PBC patients can be another direction to further investigate, on which we attenuated after 6 months of UDCA treatment. can block co-inhibitory molecule expression in order Importantly, they connected the effect of MAIT cells to restore function of MAIT cells. with cholic acid, which is essential in the pathological Hepatitis C infection is also a research hotspot. mechanism of PBC. The cholic acid could stimulate Bolte et al. analyzed chronic HCV infection IL-7 expression in hepatocytes through activation of patients during antiviral therapy. The frequency of FXR. The increasing IL-7 induced phosphorylation of MAIT cells in both blood and liver were decreased STAT5 in MAIT cells, which enhanced cytokine before the therapy. The decrease of MAIT cells were production. Seth et al. assessed the effect of MAIT related to chronic inflammation in the liver, which cells on PSC, which is known for the injury of bile was caused by chronic HCV infection. After 4 weeks ducts. They explored the MAIT cells in human bile later of antiviral therapy, the frequency of hepatic ducts through biliary brush samples, which obtained MAIT cells increased with the decrease of hepatic from endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreato- inflammation. However, the change of circulating graphy (ERCP). They confirmed an obvious increase MAIT cells was undiscovered. Additionally, MAIT in MAIT cells. However, they did not further evaluate cells in the liver were associated with the decrease in the function of MAIT cells in bile duct. In agreement their activation status and cytotoxic effector function with previous reports, they found MAIT cells were by 4 weeks antiviral therapy. Besides, MAIT cells also lost from circulation and presented an activated and expressed a high level of degranulation marker impaired phenotype. CD107a. However, the ability to respond to E. coli According to these scientific researches, we can stimulation in chronic HCV infection decreased, conclude MAIT cells were depleted in
