Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


impaired phenotype. CD107a. However, the ability to respond to E. coli According to these scientific researches, we can stimulation in chronic HCV infection decreased, conclude MAIT cells were depleted in the circulating which demonstrated that their defense mechanisms blood and showed an activated and impaired against bacterial infection was impaired. Likewise, phenotype. However, the change in intrahepatic Hengst et al. reported the phenotype and function MAIT cells was controversial. Also, in the context of of MAIT cells in chronic HCV patients who were immune liver diseases, are there any other effects observed within IFN-free therapy. However, they just except antimicrobial and profibrogenic effects? Maybe collected the blood sample. They confirmed MAIT we should focus more on the mechanism of immune cells were severely reduced and nonreversible with responses and cholestasis with MAIT cells. It is IFN-free therapy. Also, the higher expression of important to explore the mechanism they granzyme B, HLA-DR, PD-1 and CD69 represented communicate with each other. the activated and exhausted phenotype. Importantly, the impaired response to MR1-dependent was once Viral hepatitis again confirmed. Lately, there were also some articles Chronic hepatitis B virus infection is a major about how HCV/HIV co-infection impacted MAIT antiviral cytokine. Intrahepatic MAIT cells are the of MAIT cells, including frequency and cytokine most important innate effector cells secreting production. Interestingly, the latest research on the IFN-γ. Many researches concentrated on the relationship between MAIT cells and HIV- and/or production of IFN-γ and granzyme B of MAIT cells in HCV-infected patients found that the mono- and co- chronic viral liver diseases. Yong et al. viral infection caused dysbiosis, which hampered the investigated HBV DNA+ and HBV DNA- patients, antibacterial function of MAIT cells. They also Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 467 suggested the reduction of MAIT cells in the blood angiogenesis and progression. Besides, they may ascribe to the down-regulation of CD161 . co-cultured MAIT cells from healthy people PBMC, Meanwhile, some experts focused their attention on peritumor liver tissues and tumor-infiltrating with HDV infection . In their experiment, in both HCC cells. They concluded that normal MAIT cells peripheral blood and liver, MAIT cells dramatically could induce apoptosis of HCC cells, but their ability declined. impaired in tumor environment. So, the future In conclusion, MAIT cells showed impairment of researches need to concentrate on how to modify immune response function. In parallel to the MAIT cells to exert the anti-tumor
