Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


the future In conclusion, MAIT cells showed impairment of researches need to concentrate on how to modify immune response function. In parallel to the MAIT cells to exert the anti-tumor efficiency. In reduction of MAIT cells, the increasing IL-12 and addition to the primary liver cancer, the hepatic IL-18 may contribute to the MAIT cell activation, loss metastases are also an intractable problem in clinics. and cell death. Therefore, we should demand further Except the surgical resection, the immunotherapy investigation to make sure what real roles do the opens up a new direction of treatment. Shaler et al. MAIT cells play. Whether MAIT cells can be a new observed the frequency of MAIT cells were less therapeutic target by enhancing the release of IFN-γ. abundant in hepatic metastases of colorectal Liver cancer carcinoma, while the function of MAIT cells were impaired as well. Besides, dysfunction of MAIT cell is Liver cancer, especially hepatocellular not related to chemotherapy, for the high expression carcinoma, is the fourth cause of cancer-related deaths of MDR-1. worldwide . All kinds of chronic diseases may According to above results, we propose MAIT eventually develop into liver cancer. The occurrence cells provide a new therapeutic target for the and development of liver cancer involves a variety of treatment of cancer. The mechanisms of MAIT cells complex mechanisms. Among different mechanisms, involved in cancer progression need to be further the role of cannabinoid Receptor1 (CB1R) cannot be studied. More basic studies are needed to figure out ignored . The upregulation of cancer- MAIT cells agonist. It is of great importance to promoting FOXM1 gene by CB1R was via a combine MAIT cells with chemotherapeutic agents. G i/o /CAMP/CREBP pathway. Then FOXM1 can induce IDO2 expression and activation, which could 4. Conclusion upregulate Treg cells and proangiogenic genes. From the previous studies, infinite possibilities However, the management of liver cancer is difficult of MAIT cells have been discussed. However, due to and complex. The treatment includes surgical the lack of liver samples, it is still unclear about the resection, transplantation, percutaneous local changes and function of intrahepatic MAIT cells. We ablation, transarterial embolization, radiotherapy and cannot make the unified conclusion on how MAIT systemic pharmacological treatment . Just as the cells change in chronic liver injury and what research in CB1R, the tumor immune mechanisms they participate in. Still, there are many microenvironment and the inflammatory state in liver
