Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 460
KEYWORDS: cells, mait, mait cells, liver, cell, il-, disease, immune, diseases, liver disease, patients, chronic, study, blood, ifn-


the cells change in chronic liver injury and what research in CB1R, the tumor immune mechanisms they participate in. Still, there are many microenvironment and the inflammatory state in liver cell types in the liver including hepatocytes, liver contribute to the progression of the diseases. Recently, sinusoidal endothelial cells, NK cells and so on. There increasing studies focused on the tumor is a complex immune network. It is also a challenge immunotherapy, which control and remove tumors. for us to consider MAIT cells how to communicate Furthermore, immunotherapy can restart and with different cell types and change with the changing maintain the tumor-immune cycle and restore the cells in the context of liver diseases. Considering the normal anti-tumor immune response. MengDuan et distribution of MAIT cells, they can exert its different al. focused on the relationship between effects on different organs. It will be interesting to get hepatocellular carcinoma and MAIT cells, trying to some insight into crosstalk between different organs, reveal new approaches for cancer. They found that such as gut-liver axis, fat-liver axis. In different kinds high density of tumor-infiltrating MAIT cells may be of acute and chronic liver diseases, liver associated with unfavorable outcomes in HCC inflammation, immune disorders and microbiome patients. In their study, they demonstrated MAIT cells dysbiosis can aggravate the progression of the were depleted in the tumor samples and expressed disease. MAIT cell as an important member of higher levels of immune checkpoints, such as PD-1, immune cells, they can play important roles in the which proved the reduction of MAIT cells contributed above-mentioned situation. We also need to to the immune exhaustion rather than apoptosis. In distinguish whether MAIT cells in liver are our the context of tumor microenvironment, friends or foes. Therefore, it is of great importance to tumor-derived MAIT cells secreted less IFN-γ, IL-17 understand how to balance the advantages and and granzyme B, perforin, but they secreted more disadvantages of MAIT cells. Some researches focus IL-8, which is of great importance in promoting tumor on the fundamental research of MAIT cells activation. Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2020, Vol. 16 468 We can learn that TLR8 agonists and salicylate can Tilloy F, Treiner E, Park S H, et al.. An invariant T cell receptor alpha chain defines a novel TAP-independent major histocompatibility activate MAIT cells. Besides, with the discovery of cell complex class Ib-restricted alpha/beta T cell subpopulation in mammals.
