Acute Limb Ischemia
KEYWORDS: limb, acute, ischemia, limb ischemia, acute limb, pain, treatment, thrombolysis, findings, patients, given, thrombolytic, severe, approximately, catheter


Peripheral arteries may be acutely occluded by a thrombus, an embolus, aortic dissection, or acute compartment syndrome. Acute limb ischemia may result from: Rupture and thrombosis of an atherosclerotic plaque Embolus from the heart or thoracic or abdominal aorta Aortic dissection Acute compartment syndrome Symptoms and signs are sudden onset in an extremity of the 5 P’s: Pain (severe) Pallor Paresthesias (or anesthesia) Poikilothermia (coldness) Pulselessness Outcomes are best with early diagnosis, but pain, generally the earliest symptom, is nonspecific. However, the pain of acute limb ischemia can be out of proportion to physical findings. Thus, acute limb ischemia should be considered in patients at risk (eg, with known or suspected peripheral artery disease) who have limb pain disproportionate to physical findings, particularly if onset is sudden. The occlusion can be roughly localized to the arterial bifurcation just distal to the last palpable pulse (eg, at the common femoral bifurcation when the femoral pulse is palpable; at the popliteal bifurcation when the popliteal pulse is palpable). Severe cases may cause loss of motor function (paralysis is often considered the sixth P of acute limb ischemia). After 6 to 8 hours, muscles may be tender when palpated. 1/3 Pearls & Pitfalls Consider acute limb ischemia in patients at risk who have sudden pain out of proportion to physical findings. Cholesterol Embolization Diagnosis of acute limb ischemia is typically based on clinical findings. Immediate angiography is required to confirm location of the occlusion, identify collateral flow, and guide therapy. Treatment Embolectomy, thrombolysis, or bypass surgery Treatment of acute limb ischemia consists of thrombectomy or embolectomy (catheter or surgical), thrombolysis (systemic or catheter-directed), or lower extremity bypass surgery. In addition to the clinical expertise available in the local environment, the decision to do surgical thromboembolectomy vs thrombolysis is based on the severity of ischemia, the extent or location of the thrombus, and the general medical condition of the patient (1). A thrombolytic (fibrinolytic) medication, especially when given by intra-arterial catheter infusion, is most effective for patients with acute arterial occlusions of < 2 weeks and intact motor and sensory limb function (ie, a salvageable limb) (1, 2). Tissue plasminogen activator is most commonly used. A catheter is introduced and directed to the occluded area, and the thrombolytic medication is given at a rate appropriate for the patient’s size and the extent of thrombosis. Treatment is usually continued for 4 to 24 hours, depending
