Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


ABSTRACT Obesity constitutes a worldwide epidemic with prevalence rates which are increasing in most Western societies and in the developing world. By 2025, if this trend continues, the global obesity prevalence will reach 18% in men and exceed 21% in women. Furthermore, it is now well-established that obesity (depending on the degree, duration, and distribution of the excess weight/adipose tissue) can progressively cause and/or exacerbate a wide spectrum of co-morbidities, including type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, reproductive dysfunction, respiratory abnormalities, psychiatric conditions, and even increase the risk for certain types of cancer. This chapter presents an overview of these links focusing on the most common obesity-related co-morbidities. Introduction During the past few decades, the prevalence rates of obesity [defined as body mass index (BMI) over 30 kg/m 2 ] have been increasing at a rapid pace in both Western societies and the developing world (1), reaching 641 million adults being obese in 2014 [266 million men and 375 million women], compared to 105 million adults in 1975 [34 million men and 71 million women] (2). Notably, if this trend persists, the global obesity prevalence is predicted to rise to 18% in men and surpass 21% in women by 2025 (2). Overall, obesity can be considered a chronic relapsing and progressive disease (3) and a leading risk factor for global deaths. Furthermore, alarming trends of weight gain have also been documented for children and adolescents, undermining the present and future health status of the population (4-7). To highlight the related threat to public health, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared obesity a global epidemic, also stressing that in many cases it remains an under-recognized problem of the public health agenda (1, 8, 9). Depending on the degree and duration of weight gain, obesity can progressively cause and/or exacerbate a wide spectrum of co-morbidities, including type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), hypertension, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease (CVD), liver dysfunction, respiratory and musculoskeletal disorders, sub-fertility, psychosocial problems, and certain types of cancer ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Co-Morbidities Associated with Overweight and Obesity. These chronic diseases have been shown to have strong correlations with BMI, and closely follow the prevalence patterns of excessive body weight in all studied populations (10, 11). Notably, the risk of developing a number of obesity-related co-morbidities rises exponentially with increasing BMI over 30 kg/m 2 , which is further associated with a
