Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


studied populations (10, 11). Notably, the risk of developing a number of obesity-related co-morbidities rises exponentially with increasing BMI over 30 kg/m 2 , which is further associated with a graded increase in the relative risk of premature death, primarily from CVD (9, 10, 12). For individuals with BMI between 25 and 29.9 kg/m 2 (pre-obesity) the risk of premature mortality is weaker and appears to be influenced mainly by fat distribution ( Figure 2 ). Indeed, fat accumulation intra-abdominally and subcutaneously around the abdomen (central, abdominal, visceral, android, upper body or apple-shaped obesity) is associated with higher risk for cardiometabolic diseases, independent of BMI (13, 14). On the other hand, fat accumulation in the subcutaneous regions of hips, thighs and lower trunk (gluteofemoral, peripheral, gynoid, lower body or pear-shaped obesity) is considered less harmful or even protective against cardiometabolic complications (13, 15-17). Figure 2. Relationship Between Body Mass Index (BMI) and Mortality (data from Calle et al . NEJM 1999 (12) ). Notably, individuals of certain ethnic backgrounds, regardless of the country of residence, are predisposed to central/abdominal obesity and more vulnerable to obesity-related complications (18-21). Indeed, studies in South Asian, Japanese, and Chinese populations have demonstrated significantly higher risk for insulin resistance, T2DM and CVD compared to matched overweight/obese Caucasians (22-24). Accordingly, rigorous cut-off points have been proposed for weight management among these populations, diagnosing obesity with BMI thresholds as low as 25 kg/m 2 and defining central obesity based on ethnicity specific cut-off values of waist circumference (22-27). In any case, obesity should be recognized by the treating physician as a key risk factor for the health of the patient, and appropriate weight loss treatments should be offered to patients with obesity, independently of other related co-morbidities (28-30). Weight management is crucial and should be suggested promptly even when these individuals are otherwise healthy ( e.g. metabolically healthy patients with obesity) to prevent and/or delay the onset of obesity-related complications. Interestingly, recent advances in treatment options for CVD risk factors and acute coronary syndromes are now offering improved cardio-protection outcomes and appear to prolong life expectancy in patients with obesity. Indeed, epidemiologic data support the notion that, in developed societies increasing numbers of these patients are expected to live more than previously predicted, despite failing to reduce their excessive body weight (31, 32). As such, it is estimated that growing and progressively ageing populations in Western societies
