Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


to live more than previously predicted, despite failing to reduce their excessive body weight (31, 32). As such, it is estimated that growing and progressively ageing populations in Western societies will continue to develop an increasing burden of obesity-related disease, including complications (e.g. chronic liver disease, respiratory or mobility problems) which were previously under-diagnosed or under-expressed due to earlier mortality (expansion of obesity-related morbidity) (31, 33, 34). Subsequently, the economic impact of obesity on health care costs is profound and will continue to increase, while the additional indirect costs (e.g. absence from work, reduced productivity and disability benefits) are also substantial. National surveys in the UK have shown that obesity is directly responsible for almost 7% of the overall morbidity and mortality, with a direct cost to the Neational Health System (NHS) that currently exceeds five billion pounds per year and could potentially rise to more than nine billion pounds by 2050 (35-37). Childhood obesity also poses a significant burden due to a spectrum of complications both in the short term and later in life, highlighting the need for early intervention and prevention of obesity in children and adolescents (5, 38, 39). It should be noted that the absolute BMI is not an appropriate screen index to identify children with elevated body fat mass since BMI normative values differ based on age and gender. Hence, in the pediatric population BMI should be plotted on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s percentile curves to identify the corresponding BMI percentile category (www.cdc.gov/growthcharts) [obesity in children and adolescents will be reviewed in detail in the EndoText chapter dedicated to Pediatric Obesity]. O besity-Related Co-morbidities Resulting from Fat distribution and Function Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Diabetes mellitus constitutes a rather diverse group of metabolic disorders which are characterized by hyperglycemia (e.g. type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, gestational diabetes, maturity onset diabetes of the young, drug-induced diabetes, diabetes secondary to pancreatic damage) (40). Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) comprises up to 90% of all diagnosed diabetic cases in adults and is typically associated with presence of various degrees of obesity. Depending on ethnicity, age and gender, 50-90% of T2DM patients exhibit a BMI over 25 kg/m 2 , while patients with BMI over 35 kg/m 2 are almost 20 times more likely to develop T2DM compared to individuals with BMI in the normal range (18.5-24.9 kg/m 2 for Caucasians) (40, 41).
