Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


anthropometric indices of central obesity (e.g. waist circumference, waist-to-height ratio and the visceral adiposity index) are utilized to better assess the obesity-related risk of T2DM and CVD (61-63). The higher cardiometabolic risk associated with central fat distribution is attributed to a combination of factors, relating mainly to a more deleterious adipocyte secretory profile in these fat depots. Indeed, visceral adipose tissue is more lipolytic (decreased insulin-mediated inhibition of the hormone-sensitive lipase and increased catecholamine-induced lipolysis) causing a greater flux of free fatty acids (FFA) into the portal circulation with lipotoxic effects, primarily in the liver and skeletal muscle (64, 65). Additionally, adipocytes in visceral fat depots exhibit increased secretion of pro-inflammatory adipokines (e.g. tumor necrosis factor-α and intrerleukin-6) and decreased secretion of adiponectin, hence, leading to decreased insulin sensitivity and activation of pro-inflammatory pathways in the adipose tissue, liver, and skeletal muscle (66, 67). Hormonal changes either at the systemic level of various neuroendocrine axes (e.g. chronic mild hypercortisolemia and dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, as seen in chronic stress) or at the local level of the visceral adipose tissue (e.g. increased conversion of cortisone to cortisol via type 1 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 11β-HSD1, in fat depots) may increase lipogenesis and thus contribute to adverse metabolic consequences of central obesity (68-70). It should be noted that, insulin resistance in patients with obesity leads to chronic compensatory hyperinsulinemia, which in turn may promote further weight gain (71). On the other hand, it is interesting that acute and short-term increases of circulating insulin levels can even reduce liver fat accumulation, at least in mice (72). This concept may contribute to the documented beneficial effects of dietary protein and certain insoluble cereal fibers which induce a short-term surge in insulin secretion (73-75). Several studies indicate that both dietary protein and cereal fiber intake are associated with beneficial effects on blood glucose regulation and body fat distribution in the long-term (76-86). With high protein diets, this appears to be mainly related to increased satiety and weight loss (86, 87). Intake of insoluble cereal fiber appears to improve insulin sensitivity and the risk of developing T2DM, with the only moderate weight loss involved unlikely being the driving factor (84, 85, 88, 89). Indeed, in an 18 week randomised controlled isoenergetic trial in 111 overweight or obese subjects, whole-body insulin sensitivity markedly improved with the intake of a diet high in cereal fiber (85). Interestingly, existing data
