Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


week randomised controlled isoenergetic trial in 111 overweight or obese subjects, whole-body insulin sensitivity markedly improved with the intake of a diet high in cereal fiber (85). Interestingly, existing data also indicate that high protein intake in sedentary, at-risk subjects who typically fail to lose weight in the longer term regardless the diet (90) could have adverse effects on insulin resistance and T2DM risk. Of note, Wang et al. have investigated the metabolite profiles in 2,422 normoglycemic subjects who were followed for 12 years, with 201 of the subjects having developed T2DM (91). Five branched-chain and aromatic amino acids (isoleucine, leucine, valine, tyrosine, and phenylalanine) showed highly-significant associations with the future development of T2DM, with replication of the results in an independent, prospective cohort (91). The authors proposed amino acid profiling as a potential predictor for future diabetes, but a potential causal link between dietary protein intake and future diabetes cannot be excluded. Despite the widely claimed beneficial effects, there is increasing evidence that longer term high intake of both animal and total protein may have detrimental effects on insulin resistance (85, 86, 92-99), diabetes risk (100, 101) and the risk of developing CVD (102, 103). This could be especially detrimental in pre-diabetic subjects with obesity who already have impaired insulin secretion and may be resistant to the anabolic response to high protein intake (104), thus lacking several potentially important compensatory mechanisms for protein-induced worsening of insulin resistance (86). Furthermore, obese patients are typically sedentary, with potential additional unfavourable effects on protein-regulated mTOR/S6K1 signaling and the development of insulin resistance, as suggested by studies in rodents (105). Finally, whereas in elderly people low protein intake may have detrimental effects, recent studies have linked high protein intake to cancer risk and overall mortality in younger individuals (below the age of 65 years) (103). Given this evidence, further research is clearly needed before high protein diets should be widely proposed as a safe tool for weight loss in sedentary subjects with obesity that typically fail in long-term weight maintenance after an initial diet-induced weight loss and are already at high-risk of developing T2DM. Overall, in chronic hyperinsulinemia a vicious cycle is formed, where fat accumulation causes generalized insulin resistance (insulin resistance in adipose tissue, liver and skeletal muscle) combined with increased insulin secretion and vice versa . Decreased insulin sensitivity in adipose tissue is crucial for initiating and fuelling this vicious cycle
