Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


adipose tissue, liver and skeletal muscle) combined with increased insulin secretion and vice versa . Decreased insulin sensitivity in adipose tissue is crucial for initiating and fuelling this vicious cycle (106, 107). Normally, insulin-mediated inhibition of hormone-sensitive lipase in adipocytes decreases FFA release from fat depots, leading to lower FFA plasma concentrations, inhibition of hepatic glucose production and increased muscle glucose uptake. However, in T2DM uninhibited lipolysis in insulin-resistant adipocytes causes persistently increased circulating FFA levels. In turn, this leads to reduced peripheral glucose utilization, increased hepatic glucose production and decreased insulin sensitivity in the liver and skeletal muscle (108, 109). Thus, adipocytes play a crucial role in the overall regulation of glycemia in T2DM, although the adipose tissue glucose uptake is less than 5% of the total glucose disposal (107). In the liver, insulin regulates the hepatic glucose production rate by activating specific enzymes which induce glycogenesis and suppressing enzymes involved in gluconeogenesis. Hepatic insulin resistance can be defined as the failure of insulin to adequately suppress hepatic glucose production and is associated with fasting hyperglycemia in T2DM (110). Notably, the lipogenic actions of insulin do not appear to be compromised in insulin-resistant states, as will be further discussed in the following section of this chapter about obesity and fatty liver disease. Under normal fasting conditions, circulating levels of insulin are low and fasting hepatic glucose production matches the basal glucose utilization (equal gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis rates). In T2DM, the fasting glucose production in the liver is increased due to hepatic insulin resistance despite compensatory hyperinsulinemia (107). Overall, the absolute amount of hepatic glucose production is moderately increased in T2DM patients compared to that of healthy controls, but is inadequately suppressed relative to the raised concentrations of glucose and insulin (111). This increased fasting hepatic glucose production exhibits a linear correlation with the degree of fasting hyperglycemia and is caused primarily by accelerated glucose synthesis through the gluconeogenic pathway (112). On the other hand, insulin resistance in skeletal muscle fuels postprandial hyperglycemia in T2DM, since skeletal muscles are responsible for most of the glucose disposal after meals. Decreased insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscles of T2DM patients causes impaired insulin-stimulated glucose uptake which is both reduced and delayed (113). This postprandial under-utilization of glucose by skeletal muscles is superimposed on increased hepatic glucose production rates, thus, compounding the magnitude and duration of postprandial hyperglycemia. Although necessary, insulin resistance alone is
