Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


postprandial under-utilization of glucose by skeletal muscles is superimposed on increased hepatic glucose production rates, thus, compounding the magnitude and duration of postprandial hyperglycemia. Although necessary, insulin resistance alone is not sufficient for T2DM development since the pancreas has the capacity to adapt by accordingly increasing both beta-cell mass and insulin secretion. Due to these compensatory mechanisms, normoglycemia can be maintained despite reduced insulin sensitivity in the periphery. Thus, inadequate insulin secretion is a crucial component of the T2DM pathophysiology (107). Obesity contributes to beta-cell decompensation and impaired insulin secretion through the related insulin resistant state and various glucotoxic and lipotoxic effects on the pancreas. Lipotoxicity can cause beta-cell dysfunction depending on the degree of exposure to FFA and on the underlying genetic predisposition for T2DM. In vitro , prolonged exposure of beta-cells to high FFA concentrations increases FFA oxidation and causes accumulation of intracellular metabolites (e.g. citrate and ceramide) which impair glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and promote apoptosis (107, 114). Clinical studies have also confirmed that sustained high FFA plasma levels can impair insulin secretion in predisposed individuals (115). On the other hand, pharmacological inhibition of lipolysis in non-diabetic individuals with strong family history of T2DM can improve insulin secretion (116). Similarly, glucotoxicity can impair beta-cell function depending on the duration and degree of hyperglycemia. In vitro , prolonged beta-cell exposure to high glucose concentrations causes glucose desensitization, impairs insulin gene transcription and induces apoptosis (107). Clinical studies have also reported that reduced beta-cell sensitivity to glucose plays a predominant role in patients with impaired glucose tolerance (117, 118). Finally, it should be emphasized that both the insulin resistant state in obesity and the related acquired beta-cell defects can be restored, at least in part, with weight loss and good glycemic control. Indeed, several studies have reported that even modest weight loss ( e.g. weight loss achieved by lifestyle interventions, including diet and exercise to increase physical activity) is important for T2DM prevention, significantly reducing the risk and delaying the onset of the disease (14, 119-127). Obesity-Related Inflammatory and Procoagulant State: Link to CVD and Metabolic Syndrome Following the recognition of adipocytes as endocrine cells, research has further focused on studying the links between obesity-related complications and the development of a chronic low-grade inflammatory state in obesity. As such, it became evident that weight gain progressively promotes sub-clinical inflammation in patients with obesity, which is mainly attributed to secretion of
