Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


a chronic low-grade inflammatory state in obesity. As such, it became evident that weight gain progressively promotes sub-clinical inflammation in patients with obesity, which is mainly attributed to secretion of various pro-inflammatory factors, including adipokines/cytokines and chemokines (e.g. leptin, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β) (128-140). The pro-inflammatory nature of adipose tissue is heightened in proportion to fat accumulation and exhibits positive correlations with increasing BMI and especially with visceral adiposity (65, 130-133, 141). Thus, central obesity appears to trigger and exacerbate an inflammatory cascade that initially evolves within fat depots. Over time, this exerts systemic effects, since enhanced adipose tissue secretion of pro-inflammatory adipokines persists for as long as the excess abdominal fat mass is maintained. Compiling evidence suggests that this obesity-related activation of pro-inflammatory signaling pathways is linked to key CVD risk factors (e.g. insulin resistance and T2DM), as well as to atherosclerosis and thrombosis (59, 142-146). Indeed, NLRP3 inflammasome activation appears to be a key underlying mechanism/link between obesity-related chronic inflammation and insulin resistance (129). Obesity induces multiple constitutional alterations in the micro-environment and cellular content of adipose tissue depots, which collectively promote differentiation of pre-adipocytes, insulin resistance and pro-inflammatory responses (130-133). A closer look at the underlying molecular interplay unveils a vicious cycle between pre-adipocytes, mature adipocytes and macrophages, which reside in adipose tissue of patients with obesity ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Adipose Tissue and Low-Grade Inflammatory State in Obesity. TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor-α, MCP-1: monocyte chemotactic protein-1, IL-8: interleukin 8, IL-1: interleukin-1, IL-6: interleukin-6. Weight gain enhances both lipogenesis and adipogenesis inside fat depots, as well as secretion of pro-inflammatory adipokines and chemokines (e.g. monocyte chemotactic protein-1, MCP-1, and IL-8) into the circulation. In response to such chemotactic stimuli mononuclear cells are recruited from the circulation and transmigrate into adipose tissue depots, increasing the number of resident activated macrophages (147-149). In turn, this growing population of macrophages secretes cytokines, such as TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6, which can potentially aggravate the pro-inflammatory and insulin resistant profile of adipocytes; although there is also a body of literature suggesting that IL-6 does not cause insulin resistance (133, 150, 151). Thus, sustained fat accumulation establishes an unremitting local pro-inflammatory response within the expanding adipose tissue. This cascade progresses to a chronic low-grade generalized inflammatory state in obesity, mediated by persistent release of pro-inflammatory adipokines of adipocyte and/or macrophage origin and coupled with decreased adiponectin secretion (130-132, 152), with deleterious effects
