Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


chronic low-grade generalized inflammatory state in obesity, mediated by persistent release of pro-inflammatory adipokines of adipocyte and/or macrophage origin and coupled with decreased adiponectin secretion (130-132, 152), with deleterious effects on peripheral tissues and organs (e.g. liver, skeletal muscles, vascular endothelium). These effects promote hepatic and skeletal muscle insulin resistance, hypertension, atherosclerosis, hypercoagulability, thrombosis and enhanced secretion of acute-phase reactants (e.g. C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, haptoglobin) (130-133, 153). The procoagulant state in obesity is further characterized by increased levels of fibrinogen and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), which promote atherogenic processes and increase the related CVD risk (145, 154-157). Fibrinogen is synthesized by hepatocytes and holds a pivotal role in the coagulation cascade, being a major determinant of plasma viscosity and platelet aggregation, whilst also potentially playing a pro-inflammatory role in vascular wall disease (158). Expression of fibrinogen in the liver is up-regulated by IL-6 during the acute phase reaction, and various studies have documented an association between elevated fibrinogen levels and increasing BMI (159). Interestingly, fibrinogen has also been shown to predict weight gain in middle-aged adults (160). PAI-1 regulates the endogenous fibrinolytic system and constitutes the main inhibitor of fibrinolysis by binding and inactivating the tissue plasminogen activator, thus increased PAI-1 activity leads to decreased clearance of clots. Elevated PAI-1 levels have been associated with increased BMI, visceral adiposity and obesity-related cardiometabolic complications (145, 161-165). Enhanced adipose tissue expression of PAI-1 has been reported in obesity, particularly in visceral adipose tissue (166), while an inverse relationship was also demonstrated between PAI-1 activity and adiponectin in overweight and obese women (164, 165). It is also noteworthy that a putative integration of adipocytes into the innate immune system has been suggested, thus linking metabolic and inflammatory signaling pathways. Apart from their documented reciprocal interactions inside adipose tissue depots, the inherent similarities between adipocytes and macrophages are of particular interest (133, 167, 168). Although these cells clearly belong to distinct lines, they have a common ancestral origin from the mesoderm during early embryogenesis. Mature adipocytes differentiate from pluripotent mesenchymal stem cells which, under certain conditions, become committed to the adipocyte lineage and produce pre-adipocytes. Notably, pre-adipocytes appear to have the ability to differentiate into macrophages and to function as macrophage-like cells, developing phagocytic activity against microorganisms (169, 170). Furthermore, analysis of the adipocyte gene expression profile in obesity revealed striking resemblances to that of macrophages, with adipocytes expressing specific cytokine genes (e.g. IL-6,
