Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


activity against microorganisms (169, 170). Furthermore, analysis of the adipocyte gene expression profile in obesity revealed striking resemblances to that of macrophages, with adipocytes expressing specific cytokine genes (e.g. IL-6, TNF-α) which were typically associated to macrophages (171, 172). Finally, both pre-adipocytes and mature adipocytes express Toll-like receptors (TLRs) which are cardinal regulators of innate and adaptive immune responses and can be directly activated by both lipopolysacharide (LPS) and fatty acids (173). This advocates the hypothesis that the adipose tissue may also play a role as an immune organ (174), with potential implications for treatment of obesity-related complications. Identifying common initial inflammatory mechanisms could lead to therapeutic interventions that may inhibit at earlier stages the adipose-initiated pro-inflammatory cascade and, thus, prevent the onset of clinical complications. Indeed, therapeutic interventions to inhibit inflammatory pathways in obesity have shown promising results with beneficial effects on insulin sensitivity in mouse models and human trials (130). Metabolic Syndrome: Definitions and Quest for a Single Set of Diagnostic Criteria All the aforementioned findings support the notion that obesity-related pro-inflammatory pathways mediate deleterious cardiometabolic effects which can lead to clinical manifestations of the metabolic syndrome. In 1988, Reaven proposed the term “Syndrome X” to describe a constellation of metabolic abnormalities, including glucose intolerance, dyslipidemia and hypertension, which frequently cluster together revolving around insulin resistance (175). All these metabolic disorders are established independent CVD risk factors and their coexistence correlates with high CVD morbidity and mortality, an association that aptly led to the description of the syndrome as the “deadly quartet” (176). Since then, the term “Metabolic Syndrome” has been adopted to better illustrate this clustering of cardiometabolic risk factors, opening new opportunities for the study of their interrelationships (177, 178). Existing evidence on the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome, based on large US, European, and Australian cohorts, indicate that, depending on the applied definition, it affects over a quarter of the adult population in Western societies (179-181). Furthermore, meta-analysis data have shown that the metabolic syndrome is associated with a 2-fold increase in CVD outcomes and a 1.5-fold increase in all-cause mortality (182). Several prominent medical bodies/scientific societies, including the World Health Organization (WHO), the European Group for the Study of Insulin Resistance (EGIR), and the National Cholesterol Education Program-Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP-ATP III), have proposed different metabolic syndrome definitions to help identify individuals at high risk for cardiometabolic complications in clinical practice ( Figure
