Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


National Cholesterol Education Program-Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP-ATP III), have proposed different metabolic syndrome definitions to help identify individuals at high risk for cardiometabolic complications in clinical practice ( Figure 5 ) (183-185). However, these definitions applied diagnostic criteria that varied significantly, thus limiting comparability between studies and creating confusion regarding their use by clinicians (177). In order to address the need for widely accepted criteria that could be easily applied in different settings and ethnic populations, in 2005 the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) issued a consensus statement introducing a worldwide metabolic syndrome definition based on assessment of simple anthropometric and plasma measurements [waist circumference, blood pressure and plasma levels of triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and fasting glucose] ( Figure 5 ) (186). This consensus identified central obesity as the hallmark of the metabolic syndrome and the prerequisite component for its diagnosis. Furthermore, to increase the applicability in various ethnic groups, central obesity diagnosis in the IDF definition relies on waist circumference measurements, which puts into practice a set of ethnic-specific cut-off values. Thus, an approach was adopted to take into account the fact that individuals of specific ethnic origin (e.g. South Asians), regardless of their country of residence, are predisposed to central obesity and more susceptible to complications of visceral adiposity (20-24, 26). Overall, the IDF consensus was a targeted effort to offer a metabolic syndrome definition set on criteria that would be friendly to routine clinical practice and could be uniformly applied in different settings and patient groups. Moreover, the adopted rationale for this definition took into account the growing body of evidence which supported the crucial role of central obesity in the pathophysiology of insulin resistance and the metabolic syndrome. Of note, the published IDF consensus statement included a recommended “Platinum standard” list of additional criteria to be included in epidemiological and other research studies regarding the metabolic syndrome (186, 187). Assessment of multiple metabolic parameters was proposed, including markers of adipocyte function (leptin, adiponectin), inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, TNF-α, IL-6), and coagulation markers (PAI-1, fibrinogen), together with evaluation of fat distribution (visceral adiposity, liver fat), and precise measurements of insulin resistance, endothelial dysfunction, atherogenic dyslipidemia and urinary albumin. Incorporating these variables into comprehensive research on the pathophysiology of the metabolic syndrome components aimed to further advance the understanding of the underlying pathogenetic pathways/mechanisms. Figure 5. Different Definitions of the Metabolic Syndrome. It is also important
