Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


the pathophysiology of the metabolic syndrome components aimed to further advance the understanding of the underlying pathogenetic pathways/mechanisms. Figure 5. Different Definitions of the Metabolic Syndrome. It is also important to mention that, the waist circumference values in the IDF definition were proposed as initial guidelines based on available evidence and, thus, were accepted as neither complete nor definite (23, 186). Further epidemiological studies are still required in this field in order to offer additional data and contribute to identify more accurate cut-off points for waist circumference in various populations (e.g. Sub-Saharan Africans, South and Central Americans, Asian, Eastern Mediterranean and Middle East populations). Indeed, cut-off points of >85-90 cm for men and >80 cm for women have been suggested in Japan, while in China threshold values of >85 cm and >80 cm have been proposed in men and women, respectively, and slightly lower values in India (188-190). Figure 6. Criteria for clinical diagnosis of the metabolic syndrome from the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) and the American Heart Association/National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (AHA/NHLBI) and recommended waist circumference thresholds for abdominal obesity by organization (adopted from Alberti et al . Circulation 2009 (25)). In 2009, another attempt was made to resolve the differences between metabolic syndrome definitions, which resulted in a joint interim statement from the American Heart Association/National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (AHA/NHLBI) and the IDF (25). To harmonize the metabolic syndrome criteria, this statement accepted the previous five criteria of the IDF and ATP-III definitions and agreed that central obesity should not be a prerequisite for diagnosis, which instead should be confirmed by the presence of any 3 of the 5 accepted risk factors ( Figure 6 ). In this joint definition, central obesity is defined based on population- and country-specific thresholds of waist circumference with a recommendation that the IDF cut-offs should be used for non-Europeans, while either the IDF or the AHA/NHLBI cut-offs can be used for people of European origin until more data become available (Figure 6). The more recent metabolic syndrome definitions have contributed in setting more widely accepted diagnostic criteria for both research and clinical practice (25, 181, 186, 191). Despite these efforts, there has been significant debate and controversy as to whether the diagnosis of the metabolic syndrome adds more value compared to its individual components, especially in clinical decision making (177, 192-199). Indeed, based on a more recent report
