Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


to whether the diagnosis of the metabolic syndrome adds more value compared to its individual components, especially in clinical decision making (177, 192-199). Indeed, based on a more recent report of a WHO Expert Consultation the metabolic syndrome is considered useful mainly as an educational concept with limited practical utility as a diagnostic or disease management tool (198, 199). However, the metabolic syndrome diagnosis and its definitions are still applied in research studies and in clinical practice, whilst both traditional and technology supported lifestyle interventions are utilized for the treatment of the metabolic syndrome and its components (200). As such, it is important to stress that, in parallel to the risk conferred by a metabolic syndrome diagnosis, additional risk factors, such as age, gender, smoking, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) plasma levels and other obesity-related comorbidities (e.g. non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and obstructive sleep apnea), substantially increase the related CVD risk and must be comprehensively assessed and addressed in routine clinical practice, as will be further reviewed in the EndoText chapter dedicated to the metabolic syndrome and its treatment. Obesity and Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease The liver is the largest solid organ in adults, constituting 2-3% of the body weight and accounting for 25-30% of the total oxygen consumption. Normal hepatic function is essential for preserving metabolic homeostasis and a dynamic crosstalk exists between the liver and adipose tissue to regulate carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism. Obesity may cause hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia, as well as ectopic fat accumulation and insulin resistance in the liver. In turn, this can impair hepatic function and lead to a spectrum of abnormalities, ranging from elevation of circulating liver enzyme levels and steatosis to local inflammation (steatohepatitis), cirrhosis, liver failure and even liver cancer (201-208). The term non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now applied to describe this spectrum of hepatic abnormalities. The relationship between obesity and liver dysfunction has been noted in the literature since the first half of the past century (209). In 1980, the term non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) was introduced by Ludwig et al. to describe findings in 20 patients at the Mayo clinic exhibiting a non-alcohol related liver disease which was histologically similar to alcoholic hepatitis (210). Hepatocellular steatosis is the hallmark of the disease (triglyceride deposition in the liver higher than 5% of the total liver weight), and the presence of more than 5% of steatotic hepatocytes in a liver tissue
