Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


of the disease (triglyceride deposition in the liver higher than 5% of the total liver weight), and the presence of more than 5% of steatotic hepatocytes in a liver tissue section is now regarded as the minimum criterion for the histological diagnosis of NAFLD (211-213). This steatosis reflects ectopic fat deposition in the liver which is more frequently macrovesicular (one large intracellular fat droplet displacing the nucleus). Microvesicular steatosis (numerous small intracytoplasmic fat vesicles not displacing the nucleus) may also occur, but is less frequent and it can be underestimated due to limitations of routinely applied staining techniques (211-213). Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease pathology extends from steatosis to steatohepatitis and fibrosis. In 1999, Matteoni et al. proposed a histologic classification of NAFLD into four distinct types ( Figure 7 ) (214). Figure 7. Natural History of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) . A. Histological classification as proposed by Matteoni et al. (214). Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) represents the most severe form of NAFLD (NAFLD types 3 and 4) and can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). B. NAFLD activity score (NAS) proposed for histological scoring and staging of NAFLD in order to consistently assess the disease and compare outcomes of therapeutic interventions (adopted from Kleiner et al . Hepatology 2005 (206, 215)). Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis(NASH) corresponds to types 3 and 4 of this classification, representing the most severe histologic form of NAFLD. In addition to steatosis, NASH is characterized by various degrees of inflammation, hepatocyte injury and fibrosis which may gradually lead to cirrhosis (211-213). Subsequently, various scoring systems for grading and staging of NAFLD have been developed to assess the disease and compare outcomes of therapeutic interventions. The Pathology Committee of the NASH Clinical Research Network designed and validated a histological feature scoring system for the entire spectrum of NAFLD lesions and proposed the NAFLD activity score (NAS) which was developed as a tool to measure changes in NAFLD during therapeutic trials (Figure 7) (212, 213, 215). It must be noted that distinction between NASH and alcoholic hepatitis may be difficult at the histological level, and, thus, a detailed alcohol consumption history is always crucial when evaluating patients with suspected NAFLD in clinical practice (203). Indeed, according to the recent clinical practice guidelines for the management of NAFLD by the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL), the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD), and the
