Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


a “two-hit” process, but rather involves multiple interacting mechanisms occuring in parallel (208, 233, 243). Indeed, the pathogenesis of NAFLD appears to involve a complex interplay between genetic predisposition, environmental factors (e.g. diet composition, sedentary lifestyle, smoking), metabolic dysregulation (e.g. dyslipidemia, lipotoxicity and hyperglycemia) and other contributors, such as dysbiosis of the gut microbiota (201, 207, 208, 228, 233, 243-247). In the context of this chapter, we will briefly highlight crucial pathophysiologic processes linking obesity (especially central/visceral obesity) and obesity-related insulin resistance with NAFLD and its progression to NASH. Fat accumulation in adipose tissue depots is typically followed by ectopic fat deposition in the liver and skeletal muscle and by insulin resistance in these tissues. Although hepatic insulin resistance can develop independently as a result of increased hepatocyte triglyceride content, growing evidence indicates that this usually follows insulin resistance in adipose tissue (207, 208, 245). Thus, obesity-related insulin resistance can cause fatty liver and, vice versa, excessive intrahepatic fat accumulation may promote insulin resistance and weight gain (110). However, the lipogenic actions of insulin appear to remain uncompromised in insulin-resistant states; hence, de novo fatty acid synthesis is undeterred even in the presence of marked insulin resistance (e.g. hepatic transcription of the gene encoding SREBP-1c remains stimulated by both insulin and glucose; Figure 8 ). Insulin resistance induces decreased inhibition of lipolysis in adipocytes, as well as decreased inhibition of gluconeogenesis and increased lipogenesis in the liver. Thus, steatosis is closely associated with an overall enhanced hepatic influx of circulating FFA that have been released by insulin resistant adipocytes. Importantly, in central obesity visceral fat depots exhibit a higher lipolysis turnover creating an amplified direct supply of FFA to the liver via the portal vein, which can account for 20-30% of the total hepatic FFA influx (248). Moreover, there is also evidence that hepatic accumulation of previously stored body fat and saturated dietary fat may induce hepatic insulin resistance (249). Figure 8. Signaling Pathways Leading to Hepatic Triglyceride Accumulation in Insulin-Resistant States. In insulin sensitive states, insulin binds to its receptor and activates IRS1 and IRS2 which, via PKB/Akt, block gluconeogenesis (FOXO1) and fatty acid oxidation (FOXA2). In insulin resistance, the FOXA2 pathway may remain responsive to insulin when inhibition of FOXO1 is impaired, resulting in decreased fatty acid oxidation. In turn, elevated glucose activates both SREBP-1c and ChREBP, enhancing pancreatic insulin secretion (compensatory hyperinsulinemia). SREBP-1c blocks IRS2 signaling in
