Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


of FOXO1 is impaired, resulting in decreased fatty acid oxidation. In turn, elevated glucose activates both SREBP-1c and ChREBP, enhancing pancreatic insulin secretion (compensatory hyperinsulinemia). SREBP-1c blocks IRS2 signaling in the liver, further promoting hepatic glucose production, and probably counteracting the suppressive effect of SREBP-1c on gluconeogenic genes. Insulin, ChREBP and SREBP-1c also induce FASN and ACAC, leading to increased production of fatty acids. Thus, in insulin-resistant states hepatic triglycerides accumulate as a result of both reduced fatty acid oxidation and increased fatty acid production. Red arrows indicate the direction of changes in insulin-resistant states. ACAC: Acetyl-CoA carboxylase; ChREBP: carbohydrate response element-binding protein; FASN: fatty acid synthase; FOX: forkhead transcription factor; PKB: protein kinase B/Akt; SREBP: sterol response element-binding protein (adopted from Weickert et al . Diabetologia 2006 (110)). On the other hand, newly produced fat by the liver, as well as mono- and poly-unsaturated dietary fat are likely to have less deleterious or even beneficial effects, suggesting compartmentalization of fatty acid metabolism in hepatocytes (249). In the context of hepatic insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia can further increase the intrahepatic triglyceride content by stimulating de novo lipogenesis (DNL), impaired hepatic fatty acid oxidation and decreased VLDL efflux, while dietary fatty acids also contribute to steatosis ( Figure 9 ) (250, 251). Indeed, it has been shown that of the triacylglycerol accounted for in the liver of NAFLD patients approximately 60% originates from serum FFA, 26% from DNL, and 15% from the diet (250). Moreover, a positive correlation is reported between the degree of insulin resistance and steatosis (252). Furthermore, progression from steatosis to NASH and cirrhosis also appears connected to a diffusion of detrimental effects from adipose tissue depots to the hepatic cellular level (203-208). Indeed, NASH development in the steatotic liver involves increased hepatic insulin resistance and lipid peroxidation, in combination with local pro-inflammatory, oxidative stress, and endoplasmic reticulum stress responses. In obesity-related insulin resistance these pathways are triggered and fuelled by hyperleptinemia, hypoadiponectinemia and increased circulating concentrations of adipose-derived cytokines (e.g. TNF-α and IL-6). Intermittent exposure of the steatotic liver to this adverse adipokine profile increases hepatic insulin resistance and leads to mitochondrial dysfunction, inflammation, cell injury, apoptosis and fibrosis (203-208). Hepatocytes are also stimulated to locally secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines and factors (e.g. TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β). In addition, hepatic stellate cells and Kupffer cells are activated, while circulating inflammatory cells are chemo-attracted and infiltrate the liver (253,
