Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines and factors (e.g. TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β). In addition, hepatic stellate cells and Kupffer cells are activated, while circulating inflammatory cells are chemo-attracted and infiltrate the liver (253, 254). The outcome of these processes is a chronic pro-inflammatory state inside the liver, which bears resemblance to the low-grade inflammation within adipose tissue depots in obesity. Further research in the pathophysiology of NAFLD is required to fully clarify these underlying pathogenetic mechanisms, and lead to targeted therapeutic interventions which could either prevent steatosis or stop/delay progression to steatohepatitis. Figure 9. Free Fatty Acid (FFA) Circulation Through the Liver (adopted from Roden et al . Nat Clin Pract Endocrinol Metab 2006 (251) with data from Nielsen et al . J Clin Invest 2004 (248). Adipose tissue delivers approximately 80% of circulating FFA in the fasted state, reduced to 60% postprandially. In normal-weight persons dietary fat is responsible for the bulk of the portal supply to hepatic FFA, with the remaining proportion being derived mainly from subcutaneous fat. The contribution of FFA supplied from visceral adipose tissue increases in individuals with obesity, whereas a lower percentage of FFA is supplied from both subcutaneous fat depots and dietary fat. This could be important given that the source of FFA might be relevant for metabolic effects of hepatic lipid accumulation (reviewed in Weickert et al . Diabetologia 2006 (110)). FACoA: long-chain fatty acids bound to coenzyme A. Detailed description of the treatment options for NAFLD is beyond the scope of this chapter. Various position papers and clinical practice guidelines have been published by international and national scientific societies (216, 255). As such, EASL, EASD, and EASO have recently issued clinical practice guidelines for the management of NAFLD (216). It must be noted that, while several clinical trials are exploring the safety and efficacy of various agents for the treatment of NASH and hepatic fibrosis, no agent is specifically approved by regulatory agencies for NASH treatment (201, 216). Thus, weight loss remains vital for the management of NAFLD patients with obesity. Evidence suggests that weight loss of at least 3-5% of the body weight appears necessary to improve steatosis, while greater weight loss (up to 10%) may be required to improve necroinflammation (203). Therefore, pragmatic approaches should be discussed with NAFLD patients with overweight/obesity in order to adhere to lifestyle modifications combining dietary interventions and increased physical activity (e.g. aerobic exercise or resistance training),
