Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


pragmatic approaches should be discussed with NAFLD patients with overweight/obesity in order to adhere to lifestyle modifications combining dietary interventions and increased physical activity (e.g. aerobic exercise or resistance training), aiming to achieve and maintain a meaningful weight loss (201, 216). In addition to weight loss interventions, appropriate treatment for any coexisting metabolic syndrome manifestation (e.g. for T2DM, dyslipidemia and hypertension) should be also offered in order to both improve the underlying liver pathology, and to further address the associated high CVD morbidity and mortality. Obesity and Gallbladder Disease Gallbladder disease is a common gastrointestinal disorder in Western countries and cholelithiasis represents the most frequent hepatobiliary pathology, primarily with gallstones composed of cholesterol (approximately 80% of gallstones are cholesterol stones) (256, 257). The prevalence of gallstones reaches 10-20% in the adult population in developed countries and it is estimated that in the US alone more than 700,000 cholecystectomies are performed per year with annual costs of approximately 6.5 billion US dollars (257, 258). Female gender, increasing age, and family history are typical risk factors for gallstones, while the main modifiable risk factors include obesity, metabolic syndrome, and high caloric intake (257-260). Overall, cholelithiasis is strongly associated with being overweight and obese and a classic medical textbook mnemonic for gallstone risk factors is known as the " 4 Fs " (“ fat, female, fertile, and forty ”) (41, 260-265). The relative risk of gallstone formation rises as body weight increases, exhibiting a positive correlation with increasing BMI which is more pronounced when BMI exceeds 30 kg/m 2 (41, 261-263). In the Nurses’ Health Study women with BMI over 30 kg/m 2 had twice the risk of gallstones compared to non-obese women, while a 7-fold excess risk was noted in women with BMI over 45 kg/m 2 compared to those with BMI less than 24 kg/m 2 (263). Obesity and female gender remain risk factors for gallstone disease even in children and adolescents (266-268). Higher prevalence of cholelithiasis with increasing BMI is also reported in men; however, this association appears less potent and appears to depend more on abdominal fat accumulation than on body weight alone (262, 269, 270). Indeed, large prospective studies among US adults of both genders indicate that indices of central obesity (e.g. waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio) can predict the risk of gallstones and cholecystectomy independent of BMI (271, 272). In addition to a higher prevalence of cholesterol
