Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


of central obesity (e.g. waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio) can predict the risk of gallstones and cholecystectomy independent of BMI (271, 272). In addition to a higher prevalence of cholesterol gallstones, a study on gallbladder pathology in morbidly obese individuals has further documented significantly increased prevalence of cholecystitis and cholesterolosis (273). Interestingly, obesity may be also associated with inflammation and fatty infiltration of the gallbladder (fatty gallbladder disease, including cholecystosteatosis and steatocholecystitis), which results in abnormal wall structure and decreased gallbladder contractility (274, 275). Of note, it has been reported that NASH prevalence in patients with morbid obesity and gallbladder disease can be as high as 18%, with insulin resistance being more common in concurrent NASH and gallbladder disease (276). Moreover, another study reported cholelithiasis as an independent risk factor of NAFLD (277). Finally, obesity appears to increase both the risk of hospital admission and the length of hospital stay for gallbladder disease (278), as well as the conversion rate from laparoscopic cholecystectomy to open surgery in patients with symptomatic gallstone disease (279). Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the association between excess body weight and formation of cholesterol gallstones, focusing primarily on secretion of supersaturated bile and gallbladder stasis (256, 280-284). Thus, obesity is characterized by a high daily cholesterol turnover which is proportional to the total body fat mass and can result in elevated biliary cholesterol secretion (256, 280-282). This leads to supersaturation of the bile which becomes more lithogenic with high cholesterol concentrations relative to bile acids and phospholipids. Notably, in patients with obesity the bile also remains supersaturated for much longer periods of time and not only during the fasting state. Furthermore, obesity is associated with gallbladder hypomotility and stasis which predispose to gallstones formation. Increased fasting and residual volumes, as well as decreased fractional emptying of the gallbladder have also been reported in patients with obesity (285-288). Interestingly, hyperinsulinemia may cause both increased cholesterol supersaturation and gallbladder dysmotility (289-292). Rapid weight loss in patients with obesity is also associated with increased risk of gallstone formation (293-300). Of note, weight cycling has been also shown to increase the risk of cholecystectomy, independent of BMI (301). Increased bile lithogenicity during weight loss is potentially attributed to an enhanced flux of cholesterol through the biliary system, while low intake of dietary fat may further impair gallbladder motility and cause stasis (293, 294, 300). Thus, diets with moderate
