Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


an enhanced flux of cholesterol through the biliary system, while low intake of dietary fat may further impair gallbladder motility and cause stasis (293, 294, 300). Thus, diets with moderate levels of fat may reduce cholelithiasis risk by triggering gallbladder contractions and maintaining an adequate gallbladder emptying (293). A meta-analysis has also indicated that use of ursodeoxycholic acid can also prevent gallstone formation after surgical weight loss interventions (302). The increased risk of gallstone formation with rapid weight loss is of particular significance following bariatric surgery. It is suggested that patients with severe obesity undergoing bariatric surgery should be considered at high risk for developing gallstone disease independently of other risk factors (295-299). Indeed, a retrospective study regarding predictors of gallstone formation after bariatric surgery reported that weight loss exceeding 25% of the initial body weight was the only postoperative factor that helped in selecting patients for postoperative ultrasound surveillance and subsequent cholecystectomy once gallstones were identified (296). Another study comparing cholecystectomy cases after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, and gastric banding reported that the frequency of symptomatic gallstones did not differ significantly between the first two procedures, while it was significantly lower after gastric banding potentially due to lower and slower weight loss (298). Concomitant prophylactic cholecystectomy with bariatric procedures has been suggested in order to prevent postoperative gallstone formation (303, 304). However, there is no clinical consensus on this point, while a growing body of evidence suggests that concomitant cholecystectomy should not be routinely performed during bariatric surgery, but only in bariatric patients with symptomatic gallbladder disease or at a second stage after the bariatric operation in patients who had or developed asymptomatic gall stones (305-310). Gallstones are the major risk factor for biliary tract cancers and particularly for gallbladder cancer; however, gallbladder cancer is rare in Europe and North America reflecting the widespread and earlier adoption of cholecystectomy (high-risk areas remain mainly in South America and India where access to gallbladder surgery is still inadequate) (311-313). Subsequently, studies on the relationship between obesity and gallbladder cancer are limited. However, the available data are consistent in indicating that obesity is indeed associated with increased risk of gallbladder cancer, potentially attributed to higher risk of cholelithiasis and chronic inflammation (305, 311). Meta-analysis data that included eleven studies (three case-control and eight cohort studies with a total of 3288 cases) have also confirmed that excess body weight could be considered
