Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


with reciprocal relationships between obesity and psychological comorbidities, especially anxiety and depression. This can significantly contribute to male and female impairment in sexual functioning, which may manifest as decreased sexual desire, lack of sexual activity enjoyment, difficulties in sexual performance and avoidance of sexual encounters (338-340). Female Reproductive System and Obesity: In 1952, Rogers et al. first published a study documenting the relation of obesity to menstrual abnormalities (341). Since then it has become evident that, a close link exists between body weight and reproductive health in females from menarche to menopause and beyond ( Figure 10 ). Figure 10. Hormonal Changes and Clinical Manifestations of Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Gonadal (HPG) Axis Dysfunction in Females with Obesity. From an evolutionary perspective, menarche marks the beginning of the reproductive potential, which requires sufficient energy stores to facilitate pregnancy and lactation. Thus, it is not surprising that the onset of menstruation is closely related to the presence of a critical body fat mass (342-344). Of note, leptin links energy homeostasis to female reproductive function and appears to act as a metabolic gate to gonadotropin secretion, with minimum critical leptin levels and/or receptor signally being necessary to initiate and maintain the menstrual cycle (318, 319, 325, 328, 342, 345). Indeed, in female patients with anorexia nervosa low leptin levels are associated with amenorrhea and decreased LH and FSH, while regain of fat mass stimulates LH and FSH leading to resumption of menstrual function (345). Several epidemiological studies report a clear correlation between obesity and earlier puberty onset in girls with increased BMI (346-348). In Western societies, the age of pubertal maturation appears to be decreasing among girls in relation to increased prevalence rates of childhood and adolescent obesity (349, 350). However, this is often linked to decreased reproductive performance later in life and growing evidence suggests that weight gain can also lead to earlier ovarian failure and menopause (351, 352). Menstrual disturbances are the most common manifestation of HPG dysfunction in women with obesity, extending from dysmenorrhea and dysfunctional uterine bleeding to amenorrhea (318, 323, 353, 354). The degree of clinical manifestations is reported to have a strong correlation with BMI and appears related to body fat distribution, since central obesity commonly leads to more severe symptoms (323, 324, 353-355). Abnormal menstrual patterns in women with obesity are primarily attributed to altered androgen, estrogen and progesterone levels (Figure 10), whilst weight loss can restore menstrual regularity,
