Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


that men with obesity and prostate cancer should continue to be offered active surveillance as a management option, since their risk of competing mortality is higher compared to normal-weight men (402). Overall, the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms for the associations between obesity and prostate cancer are considered multifactorial, including changes in androgen levels, increased circulating adipokines, hyperinsulinemia and the low-grade chronic inflammation state in obesity (403, 405, 406, 414). Obesity, Stress and Psychiatric Co-Morbidities A growing body of evidence indicates that common psychological disorders, such as depression, anxiety and chronic stress, constitute risk factors for developing obesity, metabolic syndrome manifestations, and CVD (415-419). Indeed, prospective data from the Whitehall II cohort documented that common mental disorders increase the risk of obesity in a dose-dependent manner (more episodes of the disorder correlated with higher future obesity risk) (420). Moreover, the odds of obesity in the presence of mental disorders tend to increase with age (421). As such, in a large community-based cohort of elderly persons that was followed for 5 years, baseline depression was associated with increased abdominal fat accumulation independent of overall obesity, suggesting pathogenetic links between depression and central obesity (422). In addition, existing evidence indicates that prolonged and/or intense stress can lead to subsequent weight gain. In the Hoorn Study, enhanced visceral adiposity and higher probability of previously undiagnosed T2DM were associated to the number of major stressful life events during a 5-year preceding period (423). Chronic work-related stress has also been identified as an independent predictive factor for general and central obesity during midlife (424, 425). Interestingly, weight gain in female UK students during their first year at university was related to higher levels of perceived stress (426). On the other hand, epidemiologic data further support positive correlations between obesity and both depression and anxiety disorders risk (427, 428). These associations appear primarily concentrated among individuals with severe obesity and among females (429-434). The level of existing evidence on these associations is considered relatively moderate, since gender differences and multiple obesity-depression covariations (moderating/mediating factors) are probable, while a limited number of high-quality prospective studies have been published (435-439). However, the “jolly fat” hypothesis, associating obesity with decreased depression risk, should be revisited (440-443). Of note, a U-shaped quadratic relationship between BMI and depression can be proposed (444). In accord with epidemiologic data, there is also an increasing number of prospective, controlled studies reporting remission of depressive symptoms and
