Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


relationship between BMI and depression can be proposed (444). In accord with epidemiologic data, there is also an increasing number of prospective, controlled studies reporting remission of depressive symptoms and improved psychological functioning following weight loss through bariatric procedures (445-450). Thus, reversibility is noted regarding adverse effects of obesity on mental health. Conversely, it must be also highlighted that depressive and anxiety disorders are shown to have strong predictive value for reduced weight loss in patients with obesity even when surgical interventions are applied (451). Overall, obesity can be considered to hold a bi-directional association with psychological well-being, especially with chronic stress and mood disorders (416, 429, 435). This reciprocal relationship is complex and the underlying pathogenetic interplay has not been fully elucidated. Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain links between obesity and mental health in both directions, mainly focusing on over-activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathetic nervous system (SNS), as well as on the role of health risk behaviors ( Figure 12 ) (452-457). Figure 12. Reciprocal Relations Between Obesity (Mainly Visceral) and Stress. Chronic stress, manifested with depressive and/or anxiety symptoms, can induce prolonged activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathetic nervous system (SNS) which, together with health risk behaviors, can progressively lead to visceral obesity and vice versa (adopted from Kyrou et al . Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2009 (457)). As aforementioned, particularly central obesity induces an unremitting low-grade inflammatory state that is characterized by high plasma levels of pro-inflammatory adipokines (131, 132). This adverse adipokine profile (decreased adiponectin and increased TNF-α, IL-6, and leptin levels) can act as a persistent stress stimulus, leading to chronic hypercortisolemia and SNS activation which predispose to depression and anxiety (454, 458). Conversely, chronic stress and depression, associated with mild hypercortisolemia and increased sympathoadrenal activity, favor visceral fat accumulation and obesity (e.g. favoring enhanced appetite, insulin resistance and increased adipogenesis) (459-463). Interestingly, sleep disorders (e.g. chronic insomnia, inadequate sleep or poor sleep quality) are also shown to exhibit associations with dysregulated energy balance, obesity and T2DM, mediated through SNS activation and changes in circulating adipokines (e.g. leptin, TNF-α and IL-6) and gut hormones (e.g. ghrelin, glucagon) (464-467). Thus, a deleterious vicious cycle appears to be formed, where weight gain causes prolonged stress system activation (manifested with depression and/or anxiety and/or sleep disorders) and vice versa , mediated through hormonal and adipokine effects on multiple endocrine axes and the
