Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


gain causes prolonged stress system activation (manifested with depression and/or anxiety and/or sleep disorders) and vice versa , mediated through hormonal and adipokine effects on multiple endocrine axes and the central nervous system (457, 461, 462). Furthermore, obesity is associated with sedentary lifestyle and socioeconomic disadvantage which increase the risk of depression (468). In turn, over-nutrition, comfort eating, alcohol abuse, and low physical activity are common features of depression and anxiety disorders, promoting the development of obesity. Moreover, patients with obesity often experience obesity-related stigma and discrimination, which further contribute to clinical manifestations of depression and low self-esteem (427, 469). The aforementioned associations highlight the importance of assessing and treating psychiatric co-morbidity as part of weight management interventions (431, 451). In the context of a multidisciplinary approach, clinicians should also take into consideration that several widely prescribed antidepressants and antipsychotic agents can induce weight gain (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants, paroxetine, mirtazapine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, lithium, clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone) (470, 471). Obesity and Cancer Risk Compelling evidence over the past years indicates that obesity and obesity-related diabetes are associated with higher incidence of certain types of cancer (315, 316, 472-484). Indeed, excess adiposity is now considered a key cancer risk factor, so that obesity and physical inactivity are currently recognized among the most important modifiable risk factors for primary cancer prevention, together with tobacco use (316, 484, 485). In 2016, a working group of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) reassessed the preventive effects of weight control on cancer risk, reviewing the existing epidemiological evidence, as well as mechanistic data and studies in experimental animal models (315, 316). The special report on the findings of this IARC working group concluded that there is sufficient evidence that excess body fatness causes cancer of the esophagus (adenocarcinoma), gastric cardia, colon and rectum, liver, gallbladder, pancreas, breast (postmenopausal), corpus uteri (endometrium), ovary, kidney (renal-cell), meningioma, thyroid, and multiple myeloma (315, 316) (Figure 13). Moreover, according to this IARC working group, currently there is limited evidence to support this link for male breast cancer, fatal prostate cancer, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, whilst inadequate relevant evidence exists for squamous-cell carcinoma of the esophagus, and cancer of the gastric noncardia, extrahepatic biliary tract, lung, skin (cutaneous melanoma), testis, urinary bladder, and brain or spinal cord (glioma) ( Figure 13 ). In accord with what is noted for the majority of obesity-related co-morbidities, central obesity is
