Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


(cutaneous melanoma), testis, urinary bladder, and brain or spinal cord (glioma) ( Figure 13 ). In accord with what is noted for the majority of obesity-related co-morbidities, central obesity is identified as an independent, at least in part, predictor of increased cancer risk. Waist circumference correlates primarily with cancer of the endometrium, breast, colon, pancreas and liver, suggesting pathogenetic links between visceral adiposity and carcinogenesis at these sites/organs (486-488). Overall, the risk of cancer in adults appears to increase when BMI exceeds 22 kg/m 2 , and, thus, there is a cancer prevention recommendation regarding body adiposity from the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) and the American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR) to stay as lean as possible within the normal BMI range (recommended public health goal for a median BMI between 21 and 23 kg/m 2 in adults, depending on normal ranges for different ethnic populations) (489-491). Moreover, emphasis must also be placed on the increasing evidence supporting the impact of weight loss in reducing the obesity-related cancer risk (492-495). Of note, gender and ethnic differences appear to exist regarding the impact of obesity and weight gain on certain types of cancer. Thus, significantly stronger association is documented between BMI and colon cancer in males, whilst correlations between BMI and breast cancer risk appear more potent in the Asia-Pacific region compared to Europe, North America, and Australia (496, 497). Furthermore, the prospective, controlled Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study showed that bariatric surgery was associated with a reduction in the cancer incidence among women by 42%, while there was no effect on the cancer incidence among men (492, 494). In addition, the duration of obesity appears to be another significant parameter in the association between increased BMI and cancer risk, with data from the Women’s Health Initiative showing that a longer duration of overweight/obesity is associated with higher risk of developing several types of cancer (e.g. the risk of endometrial cancer increased by 17% for every 10-year increase in the duration of overweight in adulthood) (498). Accordingly, childhood obesity may also be associated with increased cancer risk and is suggested to have long-term consequences (e.g. increased risk of death from colon cancer), although further research is required to clarify the exact links between childhood obesity and different types of cancer (39, 499, 500). Figure 13. Level of evidence regarding the cancer -preventive effect of the absence of excess body fatness
