Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


exact links between childhood obesity and different types of cancer (39, 499, 500). Figure 13. Level of evidence regarding the cancer -preventive effect of the absence of excess body fatness according to cancer site/type, based on the special report of the 2016 working group of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). [Adopted from: International Agency for Research on Cancer Handbook Working Group. N Engl J Med. 2016 Aug 25;375(8):794-8. (315)]. In general, overweight and obesity also constitute adverse prognostic factors among cancer survivors (individuals who are living with a diagnosis of cancer or have recovered from the disease), associated with worse survival rates and increased recurrence risk for several types of cancer (489-491). Indeed, existing evidence links increased BMI with recurrence and compromised survival in women with breast cancer (501, 502). Furthermore, data on colon cancer survival suggest that patients with obesity have greater overall mortality and shorter disease-free survival intervals, although more evidence is required (503-506). Finally, as aforementioned, obesity appears associated to higher prostate cancer-specific mortality and risk of aggressive prostate cancer (403-409, 413). It is also interesting to note that, various studies have suggested an association between obesity and delayed cancer detection in clinical practice. This may be attributed either to weight-related barriers and patient delay (the period from first onset of symptoms to first medical consultation) or to greater difficulty in performing clinical examinations (e.g. examination of larger breasts in women with obesity or abdominal examination in central obesity) and diagnostic procedures (e.g. less accurate biopsy detection of prostate cancer in men with obesity due to larger size of the prostate) (404, 507-510). Furthermore, it is important to emphasize that the disease burden may be higher in patients with obesity and cancer due to increased risk for both cardiometabolic co-morbidity (e.g. T2DM and ischemic heart disease) and post-chemotherapy or postoperative complications. In addition to environmental factors and genetic predisposition, multiple mechanisms have been proposed to explain the epidemiologic associations between obesity and cancer (511-514). Insulin resistance and chronic compensatory hyperinsulinemia appear to play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of obesity-related carcinogenesis, which may vary depending on the cancer type/site ( Figure 14 ) (386, 483, 515-518). Figure 14. Overview of Proposed Mechanisms that Link Obesity and Increased Cancer Risk. Obesity, particularly central/visceral, causes insulin resistance and chronic compensatory hyperinsulinemia. Increased insulin levels have been shown to induce mitogenic effects and contribute to tumorigenesis
