Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


Link Obesity and Increased Cancer Risk. Obesity, particularly central/visceral, causes insulin resistance and chronic compensatory hyperinsulinemia. Increased insulin levels have been shown to induce mitogenic effects and contribute to tumorigenesis through activation of both the insulin receptor and the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) receptor. Hyperinsulinemia can also suppress the synthesis of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 1 (IGFBP-1) in the liver and locally in other tissues, while is also associated with reduced plasma IGFBP-2. In turn, this decrease in IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-2 levels leads to increased bio-availability of IGF-1 which promotes cellular proliferation and inhibits apoptosis through its receptor in several tissues (386, 483, 515, 519, 520). Increased levels of estrogens and androgens are also considered to mediate carcinogenic effects, particularly for endometrial and post-menopausal breast cancers. Circulating SHBG levels are markedly decreased in patients with central obesity and hyperinsulinemia due to suppression of SHBG synthesis in the liver by insulin. Thus, higher free sex-steroid levels are present in the circulation increasing the risk for hormone-sensitive gynecologic malignancies (333, 334, 337, 515). Enhanced metabolism of sex steroids within adipose tissue depots can further contribute to increased plasma levels of androgens and estrogens in obesity ( Figure 14 ) (332-334). Finally, existing evidence suggests that changes in circulating adipokines (e.g. hypoadiponectinemia and hyperleptinemia) and the chronic low-grade inflammatory state in obesity may also directly promote carcinogenesis (386, 483, 511-514, 517, 521). obesity-related co-morbidities due to mechano-physical effects The aforementioned co-morbidities are closely related to adipose tissue secretion of multiple adipokines, hormones and factors that induce deleterious autocrine, paracrine and endocrine effects. A second principal mechanism leading to obesity-related disease reflects increased physical burdens imposed by excess fat mass to various body sites (522). Indeed, enhanced local biomechanic stress due to accumulated fat and increased body weight (e.g. on the joints, respiratory tract, blood vessels or within the abdominal compartment) causes and/or exacerbates several co-morbidities which are common in patients with obesity, such as knee osteoarthritis, back pain, restrictive lung disease, obstructive sleep apnea, gastroesophageal reflux disease, hernias, and chronic venous insufficiency. Of note, even these complications are further aggravated by the adverse metabolic profile and chronic inflammatory state in obesity, amplifying the overall burden of the disease and creating a vicious cycle which can be effectively broken only by sustained weight loss. Obesity and Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most frequent joint disorder worldwide and one of the leading causes
