Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


the impact of bariatric surgery and subsequent weight loss on these conditions are still required (543, 544). The association of obesity with OA of weight-bearing joints is primarily attributed to repetitive over-loading during daily activities, which progressively causes cartilage destruction and damage to ligaments and other support structures (529, 530, 533, 545, 546). Abnormal gait, muscle weakness and alignment disorders may be further contributing factors for development of OA in patients with obesity. It is important to note that, increasing BMI is also associated with higher injury rates, including those related to falls, sprains/strains, joint dislocations and lower extremity fractures (547). In turn, joint injuries (e.g. meniscal ligament tears in the knee, fractures and dislocations) increase the risk of later developing OA in the injured joint (548). However, OA in non-weight-bearing joints (e.g. in the hand) and increased frequency of OA in women with obesity indicate that a metabolic/hormonal component may also link obesity to OA, in addition to biomechanic causes (549-551). Current evidence suggests that adverse hormonal and metabolic profiles in obesity (e.g. changes in leptin, adiponectin, TNF-α and IL-6, as well as hyperglycemia, lipid abnormalities and chronic inflammation) can play a role in the pathogenesis of OA. Indeed, increasing attention is now focused on the effects of leptin and the local dysregulation of adipokine production in osteoarthritic joints, while adipokines are also suggested as surrogate biomarkers for the severity of OA (529, 530, 533, 549-556). Obesity and the Skin Obesity is associated with several dermatologic conditions (557-562). Striae distensae (striae or stretch marks) is a common dermatosis in patients with obesity, representing linear atrophic plaques which are created due to tension and skin stretching from expanding fat deposits (557, 560, 561). Obesity-related striae are distributed primarily in the abdomen, breasts, buttocks, and thighs and pose more of a cosmetic problem. Clinically, these striae appear to be lighter, narrower, and less atrophic compared to striae in Cushing’s syndrome which are characterized by more intense (purple) color and inordinate breadth (> 1 cm) and depth. Acanthosis nigricans can be also noted in patients with obesity and hyperinsulinemia due to insulin resistance and is manifested with hyperpigmented, velvety, irregular plaques often in the folds of the back of the neck, axilla and groin, as well as on knuckles, extensor surfaces, and face (558, 560, 561). Skin tags are also commonly associated with hyperinsulinemia and acanthosis nigricans (557). Of note, women with
