Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


and groin, as well as on knuckles, extensor surfaces, and face (558, 560, 561). Skin tags are also commonly associated with hyperinsulinemia and acanthosis nigricans (557). Of note, women with obesity may also exhibit hirsutism and acne vulgaris as a result of both hyperandrogenism and hyperinsulinemia. Furthermore, weight gain is also associated with cellulite due to changes in the epidermis and dermis mostly in women and in areas such as the thighs, buttocks and abdomen. Due to excessive sweating and increased friction between skin surfaces, a number of skin infections are more frequent in obesity including oppositional intertrigo (inflammation-rash in body folds), candidiasis, candida folliculitis, folliculitis and less often cellulitis, erysipelas or fasciitis. Moreover, obesity is a risk factor for lower limb lymphedema, chronic venous insufficiency and stasis pigmentation, while wound healing tends to be slower in patients with obesity (557). Growing evidence also indicate that patients with obesity are at increased risk of inflammatory dermatoses, such as psoriasis (557, 560). Finally, although the currently available evidence has been regarded as inadequate by the 2016 IARC working group (315), there are data indicating the obesity may also be associated with increased risk of skin cancer (particularly malignant melanoma) (557, 560, 563). Obesity and the Respiratory System Increased body weight and fat accumulation in the abdomen and chest wall can have a significant impact on respiratory physiology leading to deterioration of pulmonary function, attributed primarily to increased mechanical pressure on the thoracic cage and trunk (564-567). Although the detrimental effects on conventional respiratory function tests are often modest until BMI exceeds 40 kg/m 2 , patients with obesity may exhibit reductions in lung volumes and respiratory compliance, as well as in respiratory efficiency (566-568). Severe obesity is associated with decreased total lung capacity (TLC), expiratory reserve volume (ERV) and functional residual capacity (FRC), as a result of mass loading, splinting and restricted decent of the diaphragm (564-568). Reduced FRC impairs the capacity to tolerate periods of apnea and represents the most consistently documented effect of obesity on respiratory function (568-570). Functional residual capacity can be reduced even in overweight individuals and declines exponentially with increasing BMI to the extent that it may approach residual volume (RV) (568, 570). On the other hand, RV is usually within the normal range in patients with obesity but can also be increased, suggesting concurrent obstructive airway disease and gas trapping (568-570). Forced expiratory volume in
