Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


hand, RV is usually within the normal range in patients with obesity but can also be increased, suggesting concurrent obstructive airway disease and gas trapping (568-570). Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) are also modestly affected in obesity and, thus, these spirometric variables frequently remain within normal limits in otherwise healthy adults and children with increased BMI (571, 572). However, both FEV1 and FVC exhibit a tendency to decrease with weight gain and improvements have been reported following weight loss (572-575). Longitudinal studies have aslo demonstrated an inverse association between BMI and FEV1 (576, 577). It is important to note that FEV1 is regarded as an independent predictor of all-cause mortality and a risk factor for CVD (e.g. ischemic heart disease and stroke) and lung cancer (578, 579). Furthermore, increasing BMI is related to an exponential decline in respiratory compliance, which is attributed primarily to reduced lung compliance due to increased pulmonary blood volume and to reductions in chest wall compliance due to local fat accumulation (580, 581). Decreased respiratory compliance is associated with FRC reductions and impaired gas exchange (569, 582). Conversely, total respiratory resistance is increased in severe obesity mainly due to increases in lung resistance (580, 581). These changes in respiratory compliance and resistance are more marked in the supine position and can affect the breathing pattern which becomes shallow and rapid. Overall, the work of breathing is enhanced and can lead to restricted maximum ventilatory capacity and respiratory muscle inefficiency with heightened demand for ventilation and relative hypoventilation during activity (566). The impact of obesity on respiratory function is generally greater in men compared to women, probably attributed to gender-related differences in fat distribution, highlighting the crucial role of central obesity (583-585). Indeed, indices of central/visceral adiposity are considered better predictors of respiratory function than body weight or BMI, whilst an inverse association exists between waist circumference and both FEV1 and FVC (585, 586). Data show that, on average, an increase in waist circumference of 1 cm is associated with reductions of 13 ml and 11 ml in FVC and FEV1, respectively, after adjustment for gender, age, height, weight and pack-years of smoking (585, 586). Adverse effects on the lungs caused by circulating adipokines and chronic inflammation in central obesity are also considered to mediate these heighten associations with respiratory dysfunction (567, 568). Obesity is further associated with a spectrum
