Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


caused by circulating adipokines and chronic inflammation in central obesity are also considered to mediate these heighten associations with respiratory dysfunction (567, 568). Obesity is further associated with a spectrum of distinct respiratory conditions, including obstructive sleep apnea, obesity hypoventilation syndrome, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (564, 587-592). Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a prevalent respiratory disorder in the general population, and is shown to be particularly common in men and women with obesity (593). Obstructive sleep apnea is characterized by recurrent episodes of temporary airflow cessation (apnea) or reduction (hypopnea) during sleep, which are caused by total or partial upper airway collapse and result in decreased oxygen saturation (repeated episodes of hypoxemia and hypercapnia) (587, 594). Airflow is restored with arousal, thus disrupting the normal sleep pattern and adversely affecting sleep quality. Subsequently, OSA can lead to various clinical manifestations including snoring, choking episodes during sleep, nocturia, restless and un-refreshing sleep, daytime fatigue and hypersomnolence, impaired concentration, hypertension, decreased libido, irritability and personality changes, while it is also distinctly associated with increased incidence of motor vehicle accidents. Screening for OSA can be performed through validated questionnaires (e.g. the Epworth Sleepiness Scale and the Berlin Questionnaire) (587, 595, 596), and is particularly important for the clinical practice in patients with obesity and/or other obesity-related cardiometabolic disease (e.g. in patients with T2DM or PCOS) (597, 598), while the diagnosis of OSA relies on polysomnography which remains the “gold standard” diagnostic method (587, 595, 596). By consensus, an apnea is defined as airflow cessation for at least 10 seconds and is classified as obstructive or central based on presence or absence of respiratory effort, respectively (599). Accordingly an episode of hypopnea is defined based on the presence of either (i) reduced airflow by ≥30% from baseline for at least 10 seconds with ≥4% desaturation from baseline or (ii) reduced airflow by ≥50% for at least 10 seconds with ≥3% desaturation or an arousal (599). OSA severity is usually defined by the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) which represents the number of apneas plus hypopneas per hour of documented sleep (mild OSA: AHI of 5 to 15; moderate OSA: AHI of more than 15 to 30; and severe OSA: AHI of more than 30 (600) However, it must be noted that AHI does not necessarily reflect the severity of clinical symptoms and use of other indices has also been suggested (e.g. based on hypoxemia)
