Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


(587, 594, 606, 607). Existing evidence suggests both direct genetic contribution to OSA susceptibility, as well as indirect genetic contribution implicated through obesity, craniofacial structure features, regulation of sleep and circadian rhythms, and neurological control of upper airway muscles (616). Overall, contributing factors for development of sleep-disordered breathing include older age, male gender, anatomically narrow upper airways, increased tendency for upper airway collapse, and variations in neuromuscular control of upper airway muscles and in ventilatory control mechanisms (587). Cervical fat deposition in obesity with fat deposits in the lateral wall of the pharynx may decrease the caliber of the upper airways and increase their collapsibility, mainly due to increased thickness of the lateral pharyngeal muscle wall (617-619). Furthermore, in patients with obesity impairment of the upper airway dilator muscles has been also suggested, with data showing increased genioglossus fatigability (620). Abdominal fat accumulation also leads to decreased longitudinal upper airway tension and increased upper airway collapsibility due to the aforementioned changes in respiratory function and lung volumes (564-568). Chronic intermittent hypoxia in OSA appears to increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and oxidative stress ( Figure 15 ). In addition, insulin resistance, circulating adipokines (e.g. leptin), pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g. IL-6 and TNF-α), are also considered to further aggravate OSA, particularly in central obesity (594, 606, 621-624). Finally, research has been recently focused on the role of increased SNS activity, which is thought to result from chronic intermittent hypoxia and disruption of normal sleep patterns (sleep fragmentation and recurrent arousals), on insulin resistance and HTN. In turn, insulin resistance promotes further central fat accumulation and CVD risk, which aggravate OSA, thereby forming a vicious cycle (625-627). Figure 15. Potential mechanisms linking weight gain, insulin resistance, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and hypertension in patients with obesity and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) (adopted from Arnarsdottir et al . Sleep 2009 (623)). Sustained weight loss (e.g. by lifestyle modification with diet and exercise) can significantly reduce the AHI and improve the clinical manifestations of OSA (594, 628). Promising results have been also reported from studies exploring the impact of bariatric surgery on OSA (628), with meta-analysis data showing that up to 85% of OSA patients may exhibit remission and complete resolution of sleep-disordered breathing (629). However, it is important to note that although weight reduction improves OSA, patients with severe obesity undergoing bariatric surgery should not necessarily expect to be cured of OSA following weight
