Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


However, it is important to note that although weight reduction improves OSA, patients with severe obesity undergoing bariatric surgery should not necessarily expect to be cured of OSA following weight loss. Indeed, another meta-analysis regarding the effect of bariatric-induced weight loss on measures of OSA demonstrated that the mean AHI after weight loss with bariatric procedures was consistent with moderately severe OSA (a pooled baseline AHI of 54.7 events per hour was reduced to a final value of 15.8 events per hour) (630). Nevertheless, a more recent systematic review performed to determine which of the common available bariatric procedures (i.e. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, gastric banding or biliopancreatic diversion) is the most effective for the treatment of OSA reported that all these procedures had significant beneficial effects on OSA (over 75% of the bariatric patients exhibited at least improvement), with biliopancreatic diversion being the most successful and gastric banding being the least successful in improving or resolving OSA (631). Interestingly, recurrence of OSA has been reported following initial improvements with weight loss even without concomitant weight regain (632). This can be attributed to variation in fat loss from different body sites with persisting fat deposition in the neck, and to other mechanisms which contribute to increased upper airway collapsibility independent of body weight (607). In clinical practice, physicians should also be reminded that the link between OSA and obesity is bi-directional, with untreated OSA predisposing to weight gain and obesity. Short sleep duration predicts future obesity and newly diagnosed OSA patients often experience a history of recent weight gain in the period preceding the diagnosis (633, 634). Finally, a significant proportion of OSA patients remains undiagnosed and this potentially poses an additional risk to bariatric surgery candidates, since OSA appears associated with higher risk of adverse outcomes occurring within 30 days after surgery (e.g. death, deep-vein thrombosis or venous thromboembolism, reintervention with percutaneous, endoscopic or operative techniques and failure to be discharged from the hospital within 30 days after surgery) (609, 635-638). Of note, it has been reported that OSA screening prior to bariatric surgery identifies an additional 25% of patients as having OSA; although, in this study, unscreened patients with severe obesity did not exhibit an increased incidence of cardiopulmonary complications after surgery compared to screened patients (639). To address this point for the clinical practice, in 2016 a consensus meeting was held in Amsterdam that issued a
