Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, risk, insulin, disease, diabetes, weight, liver, cancer, metabolic, patients, increased, fat, resistance, associated, body


of cardiopulmonary complications after surgery compared to screened patients (639). To address this point for the clinical practice, in 2016 a consensus meeting was held in Amsterdam that issued a consensus guideline that, based on the existing evidence, comprehensively addressed the issue of perioperative management of OSA in bariatric surgery (640). Conclusion In this chapter, we have discussed major disorders/diseases that are associated with obesity and are caused, at least in part, by adipose tissue accumulation. These include disturbances of glucose metabolism, manifestations of the metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, gallbladder disease, osteoarthritis, obstructive sleep apnea, and various types of cancer, as well as unfavorable outcomes regarding reproduction, stress levels, and psychiatric disorders. In clinical practice it should be noted that individuals with obesity often vary significantly regarding clinical manifestations of obesity-related morbidity, and it appears that patterns of lipid partitioning are a major determinant of their metabolic profile (65). Distribution of body fat plays an important role in this context (65, 641). As such, visceral accumulation of excess body fat is shown to be strongly associated with most of the obesity-related disorders including insulin resistance (642), and T2DM (643), as well as with all-cause mortality (644). On the other hand, increased subcutaneous fat depots can even have protective metabolic effects (645-647). Although not all previous studies have shown an independent effect of the subcutaneous abdominal fat on insulin sensitivity (646) and controversial findings have also been reported (648), data suggest that an expanded fat mass, particularly of subcutaneous adipose tissue, may function as a sink for glucose uptake and triglyceride accumulation resulting in compensatory improvement of insulin sensitivity (647). In agreement with this hypothesis, it has been shown that enabling a massive expansion of the subcutaneous adipose tissue mass in the ob/ob mouse model potently counteracts the development of insulin resistance associated with excess caloric intake (649). Importantly, evidence from rodent models of obesity and research into the genetic basis of human obesity have started to provide novel insight into the predisposition to weight gain and the pathophysiology of obesity-associated co-morbidity [rodent models of obesity and the genetics of obesity in humans will be reviewed in detail in the corresponding EndoText chapters]. In conclusion, obesity constitutes a complex, multifactorial disease associated with a wide spectrum of comorbidities due to both a deleterious endocrine/metabolic profile of the expanded/accumulated adipose tissue, and an increased physical burden imposed on various body
