Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


systematic reviews. ventions to improve nutrition,including breastfeeding promo- The interventions included vitamin A and zinc fortification tion and complementary feeding (chapter 56); insecticide- and supplementation,oral rehydration therapy,case manage- impregnated bednets (chapter 21); anthelmintic treatment ment for pneumonia,and supplementary feeding and growth (chapter 24); vaccinations (chapter 20); and micronutrient monitoring.Costs and effects were estimated at various levels supplementation (chapter 28). ofpopulation coverage and in various combinations. The results showed that a childhood package consisting of vitamin A and zinc supplementation,oral rehydration therapy, INTERVENTION COST AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS and case management of pneumonia was cost-effective com- pared with doing nothing in most settings but that including One ofthe rationales for developing the IMCI strategy was the supplementary feeding and growth monitoring was not cost- belief that treating the sick child in an integrated manner,by effective. Implementation of this combination at 50 percent building on interventions that had already been shown to be coverage was estimated to cost,in 2000 prices,approximately cost-effective,would result in gains in efficiency.Two types of US$4.10 per child (US$0.60 per capita) in poor African coun- questions can be asked from an economic perspective.First,is tries such as Tanzania. The cost-effectiveness was US$38 per treatingchildrenonthebasisoftheIMCIstrategycost-effective? DALY averted.Costs increase faster than the increase in cover- from routine practice to IMCI justify the additional costs US$12.10 per child under age five (US$1.80 per capita) to reach (ifany)? 95 percent coverage, with a resulting incremental cost- Onlyonepublicationhasreportedthecost-effectivenessof effectiveness ratio ofUS$60 per DALY averted. the IMCI strategy as a whole. Using a modeling exercise, the This study is important because it is one ofthe few that has WorldDevelopmentReport1993identifiedIMCIasbeingable specifically explored the cost-effectiveness ofundertaking com- to avert14percentof theglobalburdenof diseaseinchildren bined interventions in the same population,and the effect of under age five in resource-poor countries at a cost of only increasing coverage on costs.These absolutely critical questions US$1.60percapitaperyear,withacost-effectivenessofUS$30 for policy makers considering different intervention strategies toUS$100perdisability-adjustedlifeyear(DALY)averted.No are also critical to IMCI.However,the WHO study did not ana- detailsofthemethodsusedtoderivethoseestimatesareavail- lyze the same interventions included in the IMCI package,nor able(WorldBank1993).Itisnotclearifthecostsaretheaddi- did it evaluate the effect of moving from current practice to tionalcostsofmovingfromcurrentpracticetoIMCIorthecosts IMCI-based care. ofundertakingcareforchildrenunderagefiveusingIMCI,nor Some information on the effect of moving from current is it clear if the effectiveness is the additional effectiveness of practice is available from two studies in Kenya and Nigeria. changingcurrentpracticeorthetotaleffectofthepackage. Thosestudiescomparedthecosttotheprovideroftraditional Detailedstudiesofthecost-effectivenessofsomeofthecom- prescribing patterns with the costs of pharmaceuticals that ponents of IMCI are available. For example, oral rehydration wouldhaveresultedif theIMCIguidelineshadbeenfollowed therapy for diarrhea, case management
