Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


Kenya and Nigeria. changingcurrentpracticeorthetotaleffectofthepackage. Thosestudiescomparedthecosttotheprovideroftraditional Detailedstudiesofthecost-effectivenessofsomeofthecom- prescribing patterns with the costs of pharmaceuticals that ponents of IMCI are available. For example, oral rehydration wouldhaveresultedif theIMCIguidelineshadbeenfollowed therapy for diarrhea, case management for pneumonia, and strictly.InNigeria,thetraditionalprescribingmethodwasfive childhoodvaccinationshavebeenshowntobeverycost-effective timesmoreexpensive:US$1.44perchildvisitforpharmaceuti- when evaluated as separate interventions (see chapters 19,25, cals compared with US$0.29, using 1996 estimates and 26). It is likely that the combination of different sets of (Wammanda, Ejembi, and Iorliam 2003). In Kenya, also in childhood interventions,as proposed by IMCI,would also be 1996,thetraditionalmethodwasalmostthreetimescostlierper cost-effective,althoughthisdependsontherelationshipbetween child visit if the low-cost combination of drugs was assumed costsandeffectswhentheinterventionsareundertakenatthe (US$0.44) and similar if the high-cost combination was sametimeinthesamepopulation. assumed (US$0.16) (Boulanger, Lee, and Odhacha 1999). In No published studies of the extent and nature of efficiency Bangladesh,itwasestimatedthatstrictadherencetotheIMCI gains through integration were found. WHO has recently protocolcouldresultinUS$7millioninsavingsatthenational explored some of these gains for slightly different combina- levelsimplyfrommorerationaluseofdrugs—almost3percent 1180 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Cesar G. Victora, Taghreed Adam, Jennifer Bryce, and others (Khan,Ahmed,andSaha2000;Khan,Saha,andAhmed2002). been no increase in the provision ofunder-five interventions at These estimates were based on models and assumptions, the community level,as opposed to the facility level. sometimes using evidence from separate systematic reviews Cost data were collected for the start-up period of imple- addressing the costs and effects ofan intervention.It would be menting IMCI (from 1996 to 1997)—defined as the time from valuable if information on relative cost-effectiveness of differ- the national decision to implement IMCI to the time when ent combinations ofinterventions at variable levels ofcoverage IMCI started to be provided in health facilities—and for the could be derived from field studies rather than developed sole- maintenance ofchild health services in both types ofdistricts. ly by modeling.Such an approach would allow the use ofcom- Costs were estimated from the societal perspective and were to make the results more useful and generalizable to other and household levels.Costs at all these levels were summed to settings.In addition to answering questions related to the cost- obtain the total cost to the district of providing care for chil- effectiveness ofIMCI,itwouldclarifygainsthatcanbeobtained dren under age five.So that comparison could be made across fromdeliveringinterventionsatthesametimeaspartofaninte- districts,cost estimates were standardized to a hypothetical dis- gratedpackageratherthandeliveringtheminaverticalmanner. trict with a population of 50,000 children under age five.This This is one of the reasons the Multi-Country Evaluation of figure corresponds to a total population of around 300,000, IMCI Effectiveness, Cost, and Impact (MCE) was launched which is roughly the average district population for Tanzania.
