Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


the Multi-Country Evaluation of figure corresponds to a total population of around 300,000, IMCI Effectiveness, Cost, and Impact (MCE) was launched which is roughly the average district population for Tanzania. (Bryceandothers2004).Fivecountriesarecurrentlyparticipat- Estimates ofthe additional cost to the district ofimplementing ing in in-depth studies—Bangladesh (in 20 catchment areas), IMCI were based on the difference in cost of under-five care Brazil(in46municipalities),Peru(inall24departmentsinthe between the IMCI districts and the comparison districts, country),Tanzania(in4districts),andUganda(in10districts). which,at the time ofthe study,had not yet implemented IMCI Seven other countries—Bolivia, Cambodia, Kazakhstan, the (Adam and others 2004b). KyrgyzRepublic,Morocco,Niger,andZambia—wereassessed For 1999,the cost per child ofcaring for children under age fortheevaluationbutcouldnotbeincluded,mostlybecauseof five in IMCI districts was US$11.19,44 percent lower than in insufficientimplementationofIMCI. the comparison districts (US$16.09) (Adam and others 2004b). The overall objective of the MCE is to evaluate the actual The lower cost per child in IMCI districts was due to lower hos- changes associated with IMCI as it is implemented in different pitalization and administrative costs at the district level.There settings.All studies measured an identical set ofindicators and, was no statistically significant difference in costs incurred to with minor exceptions, used identical data collection tools treat children at primary care facilities and at the household (Bryce and others 2004).The remainder ofthis section presents level (figure 63.2). the main findings from two MCE countries, Tanzania and Brazil,for which evaluation results are currently available. 1999 US$ IMCI (US$11.19) MCE in Tanzania 7 Comparison (US$16.09) The MCE in Tanzania uses an observational design to compare 6 two districts where IMCI has been implemented since late 1997 (IMCI districts) with two districts where implementation began in 2002 (comparison districts). The four districts had 4 ventions (for example, EPI). Large numbers of governmental and nongovernmental health actors were also active in the dis- facility The two IMCI districts had engaged in activities designed to Level strengthen district management skills; the districts also had authority for priority setting and control over their health Source: Adam and others 2004b. Note: Standard district with 50,000 children under age five. budgets.These activities of national health sector reform had not started in the comparison districts at the time ofthe study. Figure 63.2 Cost Components of Under-Five Care per Child in a In the comparison districts,a high level of coverage of IMCI Standard District Integrated Management of the Sick Child | 1181 Hospitalcostswere2.5timeshigherinthecomparisondis- variation in the other parameters, only to the assumption tricts, not because of differences in the cost per
