Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


IMCI Standard District Integrated Management of the Sick Child | 1181 Hospitalcostswere2.5timeshigherinthecomparisondis- variation in the other parameters, only to the assumption tricts, not because of differences in the cost per under-five about rates of hospitalization. Therefore, if one assumes that pitalizedinthosedistrictsrelativetoIMCIdistricts(6percent difference in the cost ofunder-five care in the two types ofdis- inIMCIdistrictscomparedwith15percentincomparisondis- tricts.Otherwise,the costs in IMCI districts are lower than in tricts;t–test:p(cid:1)0.001).Therearetwopossibleexplanations: the comparison districts. (a)improvedqualityof careanddrugavailabilityforchildren In the IMCI districts,IMCI was implemented concurrently underagefiveatIMCIprimaryfacilitiesreducedtheneedfor with measures designed to strengthen district management, referral and subsequent admission to hospitals,or (b) factors such as evidence-based planning and expenditure mapping otherthanIMCI,suchasdifferencesinqualityorgeographical at district level ( accesstothehospitalsinthedifferentsettings,meantthatchil- TOPIC.html).In fact,it has been argued that the decision to dreninnon-IMCIdistrictsweremorelikelytoseekcareathos- implement IMCI in the study districts was a result ofthe intro- pitals. Given that IMCI training had only started one year duction of the evidence-based planning. It is not possible to beforedatacollectionofhospitaladmissions,thesecondpossi- separate the effects ofIMCI from district-strengthening meas- bilitymayhaveplayedabiggerroleinthisfinding.Evenifone ures.The findings ofthe MCE study in Tanzania,therefore,can takesthemostconservativeassumption—thatallthedifference be interpreted as the costs ofIMCI in the presence ofa strong wasduetootherfactors—andexcludesthehospitalcomponent health system with adequate managerial capacity. from the analysis,the total cost per under-five child in IMCI The US$11.20 cost per child of treating children under age districtswasstilllowerthanincomparisondistricts(6percent). five using IMCI in Tanzania translates into a per capita cost of The other important difference in costs between both types US$1.70,compared with US$2.30 for routine care.This finding of districts was found in costs incurred at the district level, is similar to previous per capita estimates of the cost of IMCI which were 50 percent higher in the comparison districts. in resource-poor countries (World Bank 1993).In addition,the These costs were mainly linked to more frequent trips for drug Tanzania evaluation had similar findings with respect to sav- distribution and general purpose supervision in comparison ings from drug costs to those expected based on previous stud- districts than in IMCI districts. ies (Khan, Saha, and Ahmed 2002; Wammanda, Ejembi, and Similar costs oftraining were observed in both types ofdis- Iorliam 2003;World Bank 1993). tricts during the study period. This finding was unexpected The effects of IMCI can be assessed in terms of changes in given the emphasis of IMCI on training,but a wide variety of intermediate outcomes, such as improved quality of care at preventive,curative,and administrative issues during the study in under-five mortality or DALYs averted.In the Tanzania eval- Management Information System forms. port in IMCI and comparison districts. The
