Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


age of less than five tality in four districts—two with and two without IMCI— years.The quality ofhealth care provided in the IMCI dis- over the two-year period starting in mid 2000. tricts was substantially higher than in the control districts Demographic surveillance systems were used to compare (see box 63.2).Over the following two years,mortality lev- under-five mortality rates in areas ofthe IMCI and control els became 13 percent lower in IMCI districts than in the districts.Adjustments for age (zero to one and one to four comparison areas, corresponding to a rate difference of years) and rainfall were made using Poisson regression 3.8 fewer deaths per 1,000 children per year.Stunting rates models. During the IMCI phase-in period (July 1999 to also became significantly lower in the IMCI districts. June 2000),under-five mortality levels were almost identi- Contextual factors,such as mosquito net use,all favored cal in IMCI and comparison districts,at about 27 deaths the comparison districts. Source: Armstrong Schellenberg and others 2004. presenting to the surveyed IMCI facilities were correctly man- evaluation found that IMCI-trained providers spent 1 minute aged, compared with 16 percent in the comparison facilities. and 26 seconds longer per consultation with under-five chil- When the information on costs and effectiveness are taken dren than untrained providers did. The difference was much together,the cost per child correctly managed is six times less greater when patient load was low but decreased as the number in IMCI districts (US$4.02) than in the comparison districts ofpatients a provider saw per day increased.This finding sug- (US$25.70) (Bryce and others forthcoming). gests that the system’s ability to absorb IMCI depends on cur- Some of the differences in costs might be due to factors rent capacity utilization.In terms of the assessment of quality care. What is clear, however, is that treating children using were shown to provide significantly better care than those who IMCI in Tanzania was no more costly—and probably less had not been trained (Amaral and others 2004; Gouws and costly—than treating children using routine care.At the same others 2004). (See “Lessons about Implementation Success time,it resulted in higher quality ofcare.To the extent that this andFailure”later in this chapter for additional results on qual- cost-effective—it costs less (or at least no more) and results in These results are important for policy development relating providers spend additional time to provide better child health services,using IMCI as the basis ofpart oftheir current activi- MCE in Brazil
