Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


in These results are important for policy development relating providers spend additional time to provide better child health services,using IMCI as the basis ofpart oftheir current activi- MCE in Brazil ties. In this study, the mean number of consultations per Brazil is another MCE site where IMCI is being implemented provider per day was 34,and 95 percent of the providers had Bank and based at first-level government facilities. IMCI introduce IMCI relatively easily throughout the country with- implementation started in 1996 and is moving ahead in the out encountering capacity constraints in terms of provider whole country, particularly in the northeast regions. IMCI time. In areas with high patient loads, however, it would be training is targeted at FHP team members. important to explore whether it is possible to maintain high The MCE in Brazil was carried out in four states, all in quality of care under IMCI in those areas and what the alter- northeast Brazil, the poorest area of the country. In total, 23 natives should be (Adam and others 2004,forthcoming). municipalities with both FHP and IMCI were compared with matched municipalities with FHP but without IMCI. Early Summary of MCE Results results from one component of the evaluation—the time and motion study—provide useful insights. After controlling for The available results from the MCE so far show that costs Integrated Management of the Sick Child | 1183 districts with IMCI than with routine case management. Proportion of children (percent) Quality ofcare was higher,and a 13 percent reduction in mor- 100 First source of care from an appropriate provider tality was also found in the IMCI districts in the study period. 90 Antibiotics for probable pneumonia This finding strongly suggests that IMCI is a cost-effective Antimalarials for fever intervention compared with routine care,as it costs less and is more effective in saving children’s lives. In Brazil,the MCE study also showed improved quality of 60 careforchildrenunderagefiveafterhealthworkersweretrained 50 inIMCI.Theresultsalsoshowedthatstafftimeconstraintswere unlikely to limit the application of IMCI,because,in settings withlowcaseloads,healthworkerscouldbeexpectedtousethe available excess capacity to provide better care for children 20 under age five. Assuming that primary health facilities will 10 experience savings on drug costs similar to those observed in Tanzaniaandpreviousmodelingstudies,onecouldalsoargue Most Very Poor Less Least poor poor poor poor thatIMCIisagoodvalueformoneyintheBraziliansetting. Socioeconomic status Source: Victora and others 2003, based on data taken from Schellenberg and Equity Issues others 2003. Some of the equity implications related to care seeking and Figure 63.3 Proportions of
