Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


Source: Victora and others 2003, based on data taken from Schellenberg and Equity Issues others 2003. Some of the equity implications related to care seeking and Figure 63.3 Proportions of Children, by Socioeconomic Quintiles, treatment have also been evaluated in the four rural districts Who Were Brought to an Appropriate Provider and Who Received Correct Care, in Rural Tanzania included in the IMCI evaluation in Tanzania (Schellenberg and others 2003;Victora and others 2003).The MCE analysis found no association between sex and any indicator ofmorbidity,care vary markedly,even within an apparently homogeneous rural seeking, case management, or compliance with treatment or population.This observation agrees with data on mortality and workers treat boys and girls similarly (Schellenberg and others others 2003). There is no evidence yet showing whether the 2003).This finding is in accordance with that of Gwatkin and introduction of IMCI has reduced or increased this type of others (2000). Similarly, there were no statistically significant inequality. associations between socioeconomic status and reported prevalence of fever, diarrhea, severe diarrhea, or pneumonia. the lowest socioeconomic status quintile as in the highest LESSONSOFEXPERIENCE (t-test:p(cid:2)0.0093),suggesting that referral care is more readily accessible to the wealthy. The IMCI strategy was thoroughly evaluated from its onset. Positive associations were observed between socioeconomic Only two years after the first health worker training course took status and care seeking from an appropriate provider (a quali- place,the MCE was launched (Bryce and others 2004).MCE fied health worker practicing allopathic medicine) for fever researchers visited 12 countries and carried out in-depth stud- without cough or diarrhea,for care seeking for episodes per- ies in five of those. The MCE and the more recent Analytic ceived as severe,and for using an appropriate provider as the Review of IMCI (DFID and others 2003),which included vis- first source of care. This finding is illustrated in figure 63.3, its to six countries,provide the background for this section. which puts households into five wealth categories.The poorest group was at least 25 percent less likely to have sought care than Institutions and Programs the least poor.Among the children who sought care,antibiotic use for probable pneumonia was less than half as common IMCI introduction was highly successful. As of December among the poorest than among the least poor.Also,children in 2002,WHO’s global monitoring team reported that IMCI had the lowest socioeconomic group were halfas likely to have been been introduced in 109 countries (see given antimalarials as those in the
