Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


nurses providing child care were CommissiononMacroeconomicsandHealth(Hansonandoth- trained after seven years ofIMCI implementation (Huicho and ers 2001),theteamsdescribedshortcomingsinthreeareas:com- others 2005). Therefore, levels of training coverage in most munityandhouseholdissues,healthservicedeliveryissues,and countries appear to be low. issuesrelatedtohealthsectorpolicyandstrategicmanagement. Community and Household Issues. Coverage levels for effec- Lessons about Implementation Success and Failure tive interventions to improve child survival are remarkably low Both the MCE (Bryce and others 2004) and the Analytic in most developing countries.A review ofthe 42 countries that Review of IMCI that were carried out in 2002–3 (DFID and account for 90 percent ofglobal child deaths showed that only others 2003) confirm that IMCI has been highly successful in two out ofnine key interventions reached more than halfofall motivating managers and health workers. The training pro- children (Bryce and others 2003). This finding agrees with Box 63.2 Improving the Use of Antimicrobials through IMCI Case-Management: Findings from the MCE Antimicrobialdrugs,includingantibioticsandantimalari- IMCIaresignificantlymorelikelythanthosereceivingcare als,areanessentialchildsurvivalintervention.Promptand fromworkersnotyettrainedinIMCItoreceivecorrectpre- correctprovisionofdrugstochildrenunderagefivewho scriptionsforantimicrobialdrugs,toreceivethefirstdose needthemcansavelives.Ensuringthatthesedrugsarenot ofthedrugbeforeleavingthehealthfacility,tohavetheir prescribedunnecessarilyandthatthosewhoreceivethem caregiversadvisedonhowtoadministerthedrug,andto complete the full course can slow the development of havecaregiverswhoareabletodescribecorrectlyhowto antimicrobialresistance.Analysisofdatacollectedthrough givethedrugathomeastheyleavethehealthfacility.IMCI observation-basedsurveysatrandomlyselectedfirst-level trainingisaneffectiveinterventiontoimprovetherational healthfacilitiesinBrazil,Tanzania,andUgandashowsthat useof antimicrobialdrugsforsickchildrenvisitingfirst- children receiving care from health workers trained in levelhealthfacilitiesinlow-andmiddle-incomecountries. Source: Gouws and others 2004. Integrated Management of the Sick Child | 1185 those of the MCE, showing that the third component of current rate of training,several decades will be needed before IMCI—improving family and community practices—was full coverage is reached (Huicho and others 2005). Similar poorlyimplemented.Atthegloballevel,UNICEFwasprimarily results were observed in Uganda (J.Nsungwa-Sabiti,personal in charge of developing this component (see communication). childinfo.org/eddb/imci/practices.htm), and at the country Staff turnover is also a major problem. In Peru, between zations (NGOs). Coverage with these community-based pro- already been rotated since their training (Huicho and others grams tended to be patchy.In Peru (Huicho and others 2005) 2005).In Tanzania,where staffing patterns appear to be quite and Tanzania,the districts that were selected for implementa- stable in comparison with the situation in other countries, tion ofthe community component were not the same as those 23 percent of trained staff had moved within three years of the ministry ofhealth with WHO support.This precluded any Problems with turnover were also observed in Bolivia,Brazil, possible synergy at the district level between improved quality and Niger.These health workers did not necessarily leave gov- including those aimed at improving care seeking and compli- not be continually delivered to the same target population over ance with health workers’advice. time. All the countries that were visited,however,have a number Another relevant issue mentioned in
