Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


and compli- not be continually delivered to the same target population over ance with health workers’advice. time. All the countries that were visited,however,have a number Another relevant issue mentioned in several countries was of programs and projects that deliver child survival interven- that of low staff motivation,which was often associated with part ofthe key IMCI family practices,but they are being deliv- ers fell dramatically in 2001 after the government discontinued ered in an uncoordinated manner by national, international, cost-sharing schemes that were used to supplement drug sup- and nongovernmental organizations in limited geographical plies and health worker salaries at the facility level (Burnham areas.The low population coverage of these projects makes it and others 2004).In Cambodia and Tanzania,salary levels are unlikely that they will ever result in a substantial effect on a so low that health workers need other sources of income to larger scale. The notable exceptions are the EPI programs, maintain their families.Issues related to human resources are which,despite some recent evidence offalling coverage (Bryce addressed in greater detail in chapter 71. and others 2003), still reach the vast majority of children in Poor supervision was a major issue in all countries that developing countries. werevisited.IMCI recommends regular supervisory visits that On the basis of the experience obtained in these countries, should include systematic observation and feedback on case it appears that those key family practices that are most likely to management.In Peru,the average number of supervisory vis- be synergistic with facility-based IMCI—improved care seek- its was 0.19 per facility per year (Huicho and others 2005).In worker advice—are among those least likely to be supported by ducted in 2000 found that none of the facilities in the study existing programs.Existing programs seem to favor biological area had received a supervisory visit,including observation of interventions such as vaccines, micronutrient supplementa- case management, within the previous six months (S. E. tion,and insecticide-treated materials. Arifeen,personal communication).Common reasons given by The present criticism of community IMCI should not be health workers for erratic supervision activities are shortages of general,which can often be highly successful.These interven- Problems with referral were also common. The Urgent tions are covered in chapter 56. Referral category in figure 63.1 requires immediate referral to ahospital.In several countries (Bangladesh,Cambodia,Niger, restricted in nearly all countries to training health workers in lack of funds for travel and hospitalization-related expenses. the improved management of care for young children. Even For example, in
