Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


restricted in nearly all countries to training health workers in lack of funds for travel and hospitalization-related expenses. the improved management of care for young children. Even For example, in a Tanzania survey, only 5 of 13 children In countries such as Peru,Brazil,and Uganda,after an ini- (Schellenberg and others 2003).Also,in some countries hospi- tial sharp increase in the number of health workers who were tal staff members who had not been trained in IMCI were trained, budgetary and other restrictions led to a decrease in reluctant to admit children with danger signs identified the number of training courses being offered. In Peru, about through the IMCI algorithm.This situation highlights the need 10 percent of all eligible health workers in the public sector for reinforcing training of referral-level health workers using were trained after seven years of implementation. At the IMCI guidelines. 1186 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Cesar G. Victora, Taghreed Adam, Jennifer Bryce, and others Another important limitation, observed in Bangladesh, action to prevent nurses from being trained in using antibiotics Cambodia,Niger,andUganda,isthelowuseof publicsector for life-threatening conditions. This obstruction succeeded under-the-tableuserfees,perceivedpoorquality,lackofdrugs, trained nurses performed as well as doctors in managing sick andsoon).Forexample,usingMinistryofHealthdocumentsin children (Amaral and others 2004).In Morocco,IMCI-trained Niger,theauthorsestimatedthattheaverageannualnumberof nurses are also unable to prescribe antibiotics because of cen- attendancesbychildrenunderagefivewas0.5.InBangladesh, tral regulations. only8percentofchildrenwhowereillweretakentoaqualified A particular challenge came to light when the MCE team provider(S.E.Arifeen,personalcommunication).Inthepres- visited Cambodia and Niger and the Analytic Review team enceofsuchlowutilizationrates,itisunlikelythathealthwork- visited Mali. These countries have high levels of under-five ertrainingcanhaveaneffectonmortalityrates,unlesssimulta- mortality and thus the greatest need for IMCI.They also have neouscommunityactivitiesimprovecare-seekingpractices. weak health systems and low utilization rates and are therefore Although equipment and vaccines that are needed for IMCI having difficulty implementing IMCI successfully. Just as for delivery were available in most countries visited,availability of individuals, the inverse care law—which suggests that those drug supplies varied from country to country.Shortages were who most need high quality care are the least likely to get it— reported in Cambodia and Zambia,and other countries,such seems to also apply to countries . as Peru and Tanzania,reported that essential IMCI drugs were However, there is a possibility that IMCI (or other mostly available. approaches to managing sick children) might help strengthen Health Sector Policy and Strategic Management Issues. as the Analytic Review team observed in regard to drug and directlyrelatedtohealthsectorissues.Inaddition,issuesrelated worker motivation through IMCI in the Arab Republic of to higher-level policy and management may also represent
