Chapter
KEYWORDS: imci, health, child, countries, care, management, children, districts, tanzania, costs, mce, workers, integrated, cost, percent


improve health systems support for child health care and system to achieve and sustain population-level coverage. to promote key family practices at the community level. Countries with weak health systems will require creative Integration was expected to further improve coverage levels approaches to intervention delivery in the short term at the and the cost-effectiveness of child survival interventions rela- same time that health systems are strengthened as a long-term tive to their delivery through separate vertical programs. strategy.The poorest strata ofthe population are also the need- IMCI case-management training was repeatedly shown to iest in terms ofhealth care and the hardest to reach.The chal- improvethequalityofcaredeliveredinfirst-levelhealthfacili- lenge of improving equity is not unique to IMCI or to child ties,andthecostingdatareviewedabovesuggestthatitcandoso survival; it affects virtually every intervention and delivery atsimilarorlowercoststhanthoseof existinghealthservices. strategy.Unless equity considerations become a key part ofpol- increase in costs. widen instead of narrow inequity gaps (Victora and others Nevertheless,community IMCI interventions only reached 2003). meager population coverage in the countries studied,and even A continuing challenge is how to raise and sustain the stand- health worker training was never effectively scaled up in most ing ofchild survival in the international agenda.The more than countries as a result of health system constraints. The major 10 million annual deaths of children under age five—more effect on child survival that was initially expected as a result of than 20 deaths per minute—represent twice the number of Integrated Management of the Sick Child | 1189 deaths attributable to AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis com- Childhood Illness Strategy: Lessons for the Evaluation of Public 406–15. back on the public health and development agenda is an essen- Burnham,G.M.,G.W.Pariyo,E.Galiwango,and F.Wabwire-Mangen. tial developmental step in the process ofrefining country-level 2004.“Discontinuation of Cost-Sharing in Uganda.” Bulletin of the and global child health strategies.Only through taking stock of World Health Organization82 (3):187–95. ble,integrated program be developed that will improve child Programmes in Developing Countries: From Targeting Diseases to Targeting People.”Bulletin ofthe World Health Organization78 (10): survival in particular and child health in general. 1234–45. (United Nations Children’s Fund),World Bank,USAID (U.S.Agency ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Organization).2003.The Analytic Review of Integrated Management of Childhood Illness Strategy (Final Report). Geneva: World A substantial portion of this chapter is based on early results Health Organization. from the Multi-Country Evaluation of IMCI Effectiveness, New_Publications/IMCI/ISBN_92_4_159173_0.pdf. Cost,and Impact.The MCE is funded by the Bill & Melinda Gouws,E.,J.Bryce,J.P.Habicht,J.Amaral,G.Pariyo,J.A.Schellenberg, Gates Foundation and is supported by technical assistance and O.Fontaine.2004.“Improving Antimicrobial Use among Health Workers
