NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


Author Manuscript Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. Published in final edited form as: Sci Transl Med. 2011 November 16; 3(109): 109ra115. doi:. Treatment and Prevention of Urinary Tract Infection with Orally Active FimH Inhibitors Corinne K. Cusumano1,2, Jerome S. Pinkner1,2, Zhenfu Han3, Sarah E. Greene1,2, Bradley A. Ford2,4, Jan R. Crowley5, Jeffrey P. Henderson2,5, James W. Janetka3,*, and Scott J. Hultgren1,2,* St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. Abstract Chronic and recurrent urinary tract infections pose a serious medical problem because there are few effective treatment options. Patients with chronic urinary tract infections are commonly treated with long-term prophylactic antibiotics that promote the development of antibiotic- resistant forms of uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC), further complicating treatment. We developed small–molecular weight compounds termed mannosides that specifically inhibit the FimH type 1 pilus lectin of UPEC, which mediates bacterial colonization, invasion, and formation of recalcitrant intracellular bacterial communities in the bladder epithelium. Here, we optimized these compounds for oral bioavailability and demonstrated their fast-acting efficacy in treating chronic urinary tract infections in a preclinical murine model. These compounds also prevented infection in vivo when given prophylactically and strongly potentiated the activity of the current standard of care therapy, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, against clinically resistant PBC-1 UPEC bacteria. These compounds have therapeutic efficacy after oral administration for the treatment of established urinary tract infections in vivo. Their unique mechanism of action—targeting the pilus tip adhesin FimH—circumvents the conventional requirement for drug penetration of the outer membrane, minimizing the potential for the development of resistance. The small–molecular weight compounds described herein promise to provide substantial benefit to women suffering from chronic and recurrent urinary tract infections. *To whom correspondence should be addressed. (S.J.H.); (J.W.J.). SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL www.sciencetranslationalmedicine.org/cgi/content/full/3/109/109ra115/DC1 Fig. S1. Minimal degradation of compound 6 occurs after oral gavage. Author contributions: C.K.C., J.S.P., Z.H., B.A.F., J.W.J., and S.J.H. conceived and planned the study. C.K.C., J.S.P., and S.E.G. performed the experiments. Z.H. synthesized the mannosides. J.R.C. and J.P.H. performed MS analysis of the mannosides, and TMP- SMZ. C.K.C. and S.J.H. wrote the paper. All authors discussed the results and commented on the manuscript. Competing interests: Washington University holds a patent (WO 2011/050323 A1) on the mannoside compounds reported in this paper. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Antibiotics typically target essential metabolic pathways
