NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


holds a patent (WO 2011/050323 A1) on the mannoside compounds reported in this paper. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Antibiotics typically target essential metabolic pathways or factors required for cellular integrity and are broadly active against many different species of bacteria. Although these traditional antibiotics have led to significant improvements in human health and arguably have markedly increased the longevity of the human population, escalating bacterial resistance to traditional antibiotics and the lack of significant effort to develop new antibiotics threaten to reverse these pioneering advances. The latter has been described as an perturb the normal beneficial gut microbiota, leading to a domination of opportunistic pathogens (2–4). The negative selection imposed on the normal microbiota by antibiotics may ultimately change the healthy state of the individual, resulting in an increased risk of opportunistic or recurrent infections. Thus, in this era when multidrug-resistant strains of uropathogens are spreading globally (5), there is a high and expanding need for new therapeutics that can treat and prevent infections or that can potentiate the efficacy of currently available antibiotics. More than 15 million women suffer from urinary tract infections (UTIs) annually in the United States, with an estimated cost exceeding $2.5 billion (6). Uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) is the causative agent for more than 85% of all UTIs (7), which have become more difficult to treat as a result of increasing antimicrobial resistance to standard of care therapy (8) and high recurrence rates (9). Resistance of UPEC to the commonly prescribed antibiotic trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) has risen in the past decade, and thus, therapy has increasingly required the use of last-line antibiotics such as fluoroquinolones (10), leading to increased treatment costs and an associated rise in multidrug resistance (11, 12). For example, 90% of bacteriuric E. coli strains from patients subjected to a 1-month prophylactic regimen of TMP-SMZ were TMP-SMZ–resistant compared to only 28% in a control group treated with cranberry juice (13). Elevated resistance rates were also observed for amoxicillin and ciprofloxacin. Thus, UTI is becoming one of the most visible manifestations of increasing Gram-negative antibiotic resistance (14). UPEC are capable of colonizing all parts of the urinary tract including the urethra, ureters, kidney, and bladder (in both extracellular and intracellular niches) and urine. Further, UPEC can cause acute, chronic persistent, and recurrent infection (15, 16). Acute infections begin when UPEC introduced into the urinary tract use type 1
