NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


and intracellular niches) and urine. Further, UPEC can cause acute, chronic persistent, and recurrent infection (15, 16). Acute infections begin when UPEC introduced into the urinary tract use type 1 pili tipped with the FimH adhesin to bind specifically to mannosylated receptors on the luminal surface of mammalian bladder epithelial cells (17–19). This process facilitates both the colonization and the invasion of bacteria into uroepithelial cells (20–23). Bladder epithelial cells are known to expel UPEC out of the cell and back into the lumen of the bladder as part of a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)–dependent innate defense (24). However, a single bacterium escaping into the cytoplasm can replicate rapidly into 104 to 105 bacteria that then aggregate in a type 1 pilus– dependent manner to found a clonal intracellular bacterial community (IBC) within the epithelial cell. This process allows UPEC to gain a foothold in the urinary tract protected from host defenses and antibiotics (17, 20, 22, 25–32). IBCs are transient in nature. After their maturation, bacteria disperse from the IBC, become filamentous, and spread to IBCs and bacterial filamentation were found in the urine of women with UPEC UTI (33). Host defense mechanisms eliminate most of the bacteria from the bladder, causing a population bottleneck (16). Mechanisms by which bacteria survive bottlenecks—in the case of UTI, the ability to escape into the cytoplasm of the uroepithelial cell and clonally expand to perpetuate the infection—are ideal targets for therapeutics (34). FimH is essential for invasion, IBC formation, and the ability of bacteria to colonize the bladder in chronic Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript consistent with its critical role in human UTI (35, 36). For these reasons, therapeutic agents targeting FimH have been developed. The mannose-binding pocket of FimH is composed of amino acid residues that are invariant in all strains of E. coli. Mutations in these residues disrupt mannose binding and attenuate virulence (36, 37). The x-ray crystal structures of FimH bound to α- -mannose, and D mannose derivatives, called mannosides (37–39), were used to rationally design biphenyl FimH inhibitors with excellent cellular potency and low molecular weight (38). Despite these advances, there have been no reports on the ability of any such compounds to be able to treat an established UTI when delivered orally. Here, we first investigated the potency of compounds 1 to
