NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


no reports on the ability of any such compounds to be able to treat an established UTI when delivered orally. Here, we first investigated the potency of compounds 1 to 6, reported in (38), for in vitro biofilm inhibition and then their bioavailability and efficacy in treating and preventing UTI in a preclinical murine model of chronic cystitis. We then set out to optimize these biphenyl compounds to have increased potency for the treatment and prevention of chronic UTI when delivered orally. We hypothesized that such compounds would potentiate the antimicrobial effects of TMP-SMZ even against a clinically resistant bacterial strain. RESULTS Compounds 1 to 6 block type 1 pilus–dependent biofilm formation in vitro Functional activity of compounds 1 to 6 in vitro was previously assessed in hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) assays. Structures and EC values (38), which >90 represent the effective compound concentration where greater than 90% of hemagglutination is abrogated, are shown in Fig. 1A. We used biofilm inhibition assays (Fig. 1, B to E) to test the ability of 1 to 6 to block biofilm formation and disrupt preformed biofilms to prioritize and select compounds for further in vivo evaluation. E. coli biofilm formation in Luria broth (LB) at room temperature on polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is dependent on type 1 pili (40), and therefore, we used these conditions to determine the efficacy of compounds 1 to 6 to prevent type 1 pilus–dependent biofilms. The median inhibitory concentration (IC ) values for compounds 1 to 3 and 6 were all in the low micromolar range, but compound 6 showed the best activity with an IC of 0.74 µM (Fig. 1B). We could not test compounds 4 and 5 in the biofilm assay because of their insolubility. To evaluate the ability of the compounds to inhibit previously existing biofilms, we grew biofilms for 24 hours, added the compounds, and then evaluated the biofilm density 16 hours later. The compounds inhibited biofilm development under these conditions (Fig. 1C). Confocal microscopy revealed that compound 6 disrupted preformed biofilms (Fig. 1, D and E), likely explaining in part the results in Fig. 1C. Furthermore, preformed biofilms treated with compound 6 lacked continuity and the tall mushroom-like structures observed in untreated biofilms (Fig. 1, D and E). These data suggest that compounds 1 to 6 directly affect both initial cell adhesion and the interbacterial interactions necessary for biofilm persistence. Compound 6 displays oral bioavailability
