NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


D and E). These data suggest that compounds 1 to 6 directly affect both initial cell adhesion and the interbacterial interactions necessary for biofilm persistence. Compound 6 displays oral bioavailability Compounds 4 and 6 were the most potent in the in vitro hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) (38), a measure of inhibition of FimH function. However, we reasoned that the methyl ester present in compound 4 would likely be unstable for oral administration as a result of hydrolysis to carboxylic acid 5. We found that the acid 5 was 13-fold less potent than the ester 4 in the HAI assay, suggesting that using esters would be a poor prodrug strategy (41). Compound 6, in which the ester is replaced with an amide, is not only equipotent to compound 4 in the HAI assay but is also stable to hydrolysis and has increased solubility. Therefore, compound 6 was selected as our lead compound for initial in vivo evaluation. Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Pharmacokinetic studies with compound 6 were performed in mice after intraperitoneal injection and oral gavage at several doses and time points. After intraperitoneal administration, concentrations of compound 6 in the urine were quantified at several time points with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrometry (MS). Doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg resulted in concentrations of 1 mM compound 6 in the urine 30 min after treatment (Fig. 2A). Eight hours after administration of compound 6 (10 mg/kg), levels remained near the biofilm IC (0.74 µM), which we used as a predictor of effective concentrations against our target FimH. Subsequently, we evaluated the mouse pharmacokinetics of compound 6 given orally at several concentrations up to 200 mg/kg. Compound 6 (100 mg/kg) yielded a three times higher concentration than the intraperitoneal dose (10 mg/kg) 8 hours after administration, demonstrating the oral bioavailability of compound 6. The only detectable metabolism of compound 6 was hydrolysis of the glycosidic bond (yielding -mannose and the phenol) but >95% of drug D was excreted in the urine unchanged (fig. S1); furthermore, no apparent toxicity was observed up to a dose of 200 mg/kg as measured by observable physiological changes and survival. Compound 6 treats an established UTI To determine the therapeutic potential of compound 6 for treating chronic UTIs, we adapted a preclinical murine model. Clinically, UTI ranges from acute
