NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


survival. Compound 6 treats an established UTI To determine the therapeutic potential of compound 6 for treating chronic UTIs, we adapted a preclinical murine model. Clinically, UTI ranges from acute resolving infection to chronic and/or recurrent UTI (42, 43). Similarly, the outcome of UTI in C3H/HeN mice ranges from self-limiting to long-lasting chronic cystitis. Chronic cystitis was characterized by persistent, high-titer bacteriuria [>104 colony-forming units (CFU)/ml], high-titer bacterial bladder burdens ≥2 weeks after infection, chronic inflammation, and urothelial necrosis (15). Bacteria present in the bladders of chronically infected mice primarily exist extracellularly and express type 1 pili (15). Thus, C3H/HeN mice were infected with 1 × 107 CFU of UTI89, and mice developing chronic cystitis were identified by the presence of persistent urine titers of >106 CFU of UTI89 for 2 weeks after infection. Mice with chronic UTI were treated orally 2 weeks after infection with compound 6 at a single dose of 100 or 50 mg/kg to evaluate the ability of compound 6 to treat chronic UTI. Within 6 hours of treatment, we observed a three-log drop in bacterial titers, suggesting that compound 6 is effective in treating a chronic, long-lasting infection (Fig. 2B). For comparison, mice with chronic UTI were treated with TMP-SMZ (54 and 270 µg/ml, respectively), and bacterial concentrations in the bladder were determined 6 hours later. Although there was a significant drop in the bacterial titers of the TMP-SMZ–treated mice compared to phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)–treated mice, the drop was significantly less than that seen in mice treated with compound 6 (50 mg/kg) (Fig. 2B). The higher potency of compound 6 than TMP-SMZ 6 hours after treatment is likely a result of the therapeutic action of the compound against FimH/type 1 pili to detach bacteria from tissue, causing their near instantaneous elimination by urine flow and innate defenses. Compound 6 prevents infection Because compound 6 successfully treated chronic cystitis in our mouse model, we tested whether it could also prevent a UTI when used as prophylactic therapy. Women suffering from chronic and recurrent UTIs are often given TMP-SMZ prophylactically to alleviate recurrence, but opposition to this TMP-SMZ regimen is rapidly expanding (8). To mimic the administering it to mice either intraperitoneally or orally 30 min before infecting with UTI89. At 6 hours after infection, bladders were removed and total bacterial CFU were quantified. In both the intraperitoneally and the orally treated cohorts, we observed Sci Transl
