NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


infecting with UTI89. At 6 hours after infection, bladders were removed and total bacterial CFU were quantified. In both the intraperitoneally and the orally treated cohorts, we observed Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript significantly fewer bacterial CFU, demonstrating the efficacy of compound 6 in reducing overall UPEC colonization of the bladder (Fig. 3A). In the acute stages of infection, the ability of UPEC to invade the bladder tissue and rapidly replicate intracellularly into IBCs facilitates their quick expansion in numbers in the face of a robust immune response and micturition (28). Thus, elimination and/or prevention of this intracellular niche would likely prevent UPEC from persisting in the bladder. To test this, we evaluated the effect of compound 6 on IBC formation as before. Mice were given compound 6 either intraperitoneally or orally 30 min before infecting with UTI89, and 6 hours after infection, bladders were processed for IBC enumeration. The results showed that prophylactic therapy with compound 6 prevented IBC formation (Fig. 3B). We also treated the bladders ex vivo with gentamicin to determine whether compound 6 blocks UPEC invasion into the bladder tissue. Gentamicin kills extracellular UPEC but is unable to penetrate tissue, and thus, intracellular bacteria survive treatment (27). Consistent with the IBC data, we found that in the compound 6–treated mice, ex vivo gentamicin treatment of the bladders eliminated all CFU, suggesting that compound 6 prophylaxis prevented bacterial invasion into the bladder tissue (Fig. 3C). In bladders from untreated mice, 103 to 104 CFU remained after gentamicin treatment, likely a result of intracellular localization of the bacteria (Fig. 3C). Confocal microscopy of bladders from the untreated cohort showed robust IBC formation (Fig. 3D), whereas IBCs were absent or only rarely seen in the compound 6–treated mouse bladders. However, bacteria were observed in the bladder luminal compartment from the compound 6–treated mice, albeit significantly reduced in numbers (Fig. 3E), possibly reflecting the waning of compound 6 concentrations after the single dose. These results demonstrate that compound 6 prevents bacterial invasion into the bladder tissue and significantly reduces infection in the bladder. Compound 6 potentiates antibiotic activity The first-line treatment of choice for UTI has been a 3-day course of TMP-SMZ (80 and 400 mg, respectively), which concentrates in the urine (44). Thus, we hypothesized that by preventing bacterial invasion into the bladder tissue,
