NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


has been a 3-day course of TMP-SMZ (80 and 400 mg, respectively), which concentrates in the urine (44). Thus, we hypothesized that by preventing bacterial invasion into the bladder tissue, compound 6 may result in antivirulence synergism with TMP-SMZ and may curtail or circumvent the problem of TMP-SMZ resistance by causing UPEC exposure to TMP-SMZ concentrations sufficient for killing even strains that are clinically resistant to TMP-SMZ. Mice given TMP-SMZ (54 and 270 µg/ml, respectively) for 3 days were infected with either UTI89 or the TMP-SMZR strain PBC-1. Mice were intraperitoneally treated with compound 6 with a dose of 100 mg/kg 30 min before bacterial inoculation. A control group of untreated animals was used for comparison. After inoculating mice with UTI89 or PBC-1, bacterial CFU were quantified at 6 hours after infection. Treatment with TMP-SMZ alone resulted in a significantly reduced bacterial load in the UTI89-infected mice but had no effect on PBC-1 because it is resistant to TMP-SMZ (Fig. 4). Upon treatment with compound 6 alone, there was a significant drop in bacterial load of both strains in the bladder, showing that it is effective against different strains of UPEC that cause UTI. In the dual-treatment group, bacterial CFU were significantly reduced compared to compound 6 alone or TMP-SMZ alone for both strains, and the effect was most pronounced for PBC-1 (Fig. 4). The presence of compound 6 had no effect on growth or killing efficiency of either strain during growth in vitro in the presence or absence of TMP-SMZ. Therefore, the ability of compound 6 to potentiate TMP-SMZ’s activity in preventing infection by the TMP-SMZR strain PBC-1 indicates that the compound 6 effect is specific to the in vivo infection. On the basis of growth curves, we determined that the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of TMP and SMZ was 256 and 1280 µg/ml, respectively, for PBC-1 and 0.05 and 0.25 µg/ml, respectively, for UTI89. Using quantitative HPLC-MS, we determined the concentration of TMP in the urine of mice to be 9.95 ± 4.36 mg/ml and SMZ to be 67.17 ± 32.51 µg/ml after 3 days of treatment with Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript TMP (54 µg/ml) and SMZ (270 µg/ml) in the drinking water, respectively. These results indicate that by preventing bacterial invasion of bladder epithelial cells, compound 6 compartmentalizes the microbes to
