NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


TMP (54 µg/ml) and SMZ (270 µg/ml) in the drinking water, respectively. These results indicate that by preventing bacterial invasion of bladder epithelial cells, compound 6 compartmentalizes the microbes to the bladder lumen, thus exposing them to TMP-SMZ concentrations well above the MIC of PBC-1, resulting in bacterial cell death. It is likely that during current standard treatment, TMP-SMZ reaches tissue concentrations above the MIC needed for UTI89 killing but fails to reach tissue concentrations needed for killing PBC-1. Thus, in the absence of compound 6, residence of PBC-1 in the intracellular niche likely protected it from antibiotic killing. Compounds 7 to 10 show improved pharmacokinetics and efficacy in vivo Although compound 6 was effective in vivo, we sought to develop compounds with improved pharmacokinetics, in particular those with increased cell permeability, better oral bioavailability, and better bladder tissue penetration. Although renal clearance is desirable for UTI therapeutics, the inherent polarity of mannose and the mannoside derivatives and other sugar-derived compounds often limits their cellular permeability. We therefore sought to increase their hydrophobicity (logD). In a rat plasma pharmacokinetic intravenous study (n = 3), compound 6 when given at 3 mg/kg had moderate clearance (Cl = 26.6 ml/min per kg) but a very short half-life (t = 0.4 hour) of less than an hour and low volume of 1/2 distribution (V = 0.17 liter). Mice given 6 intraperitoneally at 10 mg/kg or orally at 100 dss mg/kg showed high renal clearance to the urine, which could explain the short half-life of 6 seen in the rat. The low volume of distribution indicated poor tissue exposure with limited bioavailability, highlighting the need to improve the pharmacokinetics of these compounds. Computational modeling suggested that substitution at the biphenyl ring ortho position of compound 3 directly attached to mannose (38) could lead to improved binding to FimH. Therefore, we synthesized analogs of monoamide 3 with ortho-substituted methyl, trifluoromethyl, and chloro (41, 45, 46) groups to increase hydrophobicity and, at the same time, the metabolic stability of the glycosidic bond to acidic hydrolysis in the gut and by mannosidases. The compounds were evaluated for their activity in the HAI assay, and we discovered that all substitutions increased their potencies (Fig. 5A). ortho-Chloro compound 7 inhibited hemagglutination with a potency of 125 nM, which is 10 times better than matched pair 3, whereas the ortho-methyl analog 8 was even more active (HAI = 62 nM).
