NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


inhibited hemagglutination with a potency of 125 nM, which is 10 times better than matched pair 3, whereas the ortho-methyl analog 8 was even more active (HAI = 62 nM). Substitution with a trifluoromethyl group yielded the most potent analog 9 with an HAI = 32 nM. We also developed diamide 10, which is substantially more active than previously reported mannoside FimH inhibitors, with an HAI = 8 nM. This level of potency corresponds to a 50-fold improvement over lead compound 6. We next tested the optimized compounds for mouse oral pharmacokinetics (Fig. 5B) and found that at a dose of 50 mg/kg, compounds 8 and 10 yielded the highest concentrations in urine at 6 hours after administration, with 8 displaying levels equivalent to those produced by compound 6 (100 mg/kg), suggesting that it has increased oral bioavailability compared to 6. Because of their enhanced potency and improved pharmacokinetics, we tested compounds 8 and 10 in our chronic infection mouse model. C3H/HeN mice with chronic cystitis at 2 weeks after infection were treated with 6, 8, or 10. Treatment with 8 and 10 significantly reduced CFU by four logs in the bladder within 6 hours of treatment (Fig. 5C). Although 10 is eight times more potent in vitro than compound 8, when given orally at 50 mg/kg compound 8 showed better efficacy in vivo. Compound 8 reduced bacterial CFU in the bladder almost 100 times better than did compound 6 at the identical dose of 50 mg/kg and was more effective than compound 6 at the dose of 100 mg/kg. Thus, a combination of increased FimH inhibition and improved pharmacokinetics for the ortho-substituted compounds 8 and 10 (relative to 6) enables increased exposure in the bladder and urine, resulting in antibacterial efficacy with significant reduction of chronic cystitis within 6 hours of treatment. However, by 24 hours after treatment with compound 8, bacterial CFU began Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript to increase, although they remained significantly lower than PBS-treated mice (Fig. 5D). Oral treatment of infected mice with three doses every 8 hours of compound 8 prevented the increase of CFU 24 hours after the initial treatment compared to PBS- or single dose–treated mice. These data suggest that continual treatment may achieve long-lasting effective treatment of chronic UTI. Although in most cases rapid renal drug
