NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


initial treatment compared to PBS- or single dose–treated mice. These data suggest that continual treatment may achieve long-lasting effective treatment of chronic UTI. Although in most cases rapid renal drug clearance is undesired, this is an attractive feature of these compounds for UTI therapy where targeting of drug to the bladder is beneficial. These proof-of-principle experiments have identified optimized compound 8 as a promising lead preclinical candidate for the oral treatment and prevention of recurrent UTIs. DISCUSSION UTIs are often a major problem throughout the life span of women, particularly when the infection becomes chronic, recurrent, or recalcitrant to treatment because of pathogenic mechanisms or antibiotic resistance. Multidrug-resistant uropathogens are becoming more concern (47). Thus, there is a need to design new therapeutic candidates that can be translated to the clinic to improve the lives of women suffering from this often-chronic disease. Herein, we describe the synthesis and therapeutic efficacy in a mouse model of orally active small-molecule FimH antagonists and demonstrate their potential for treating established chronic UTIs and potentiating antibiotic treatment of a resistant bacterial infection. Our mannoside compounds block the FimH-mediated binding of UPEC to host epithelial mannosylated receptors and prevent UPEC adherence and invasion into the bladder epithelium, thus ultimately preventing the formation of IBCs, which has the potential to mitigate the severity and frequency of recurrence (22, 36, 48). Their mechanism of action is to inhibit the function of the extracellular FimH pilus tip adhesin, which does not require the compound to cross the bacterial outer membrane for efficacy, thus circumventing the development of resistance because of porin mutations or efflux. The compounds described here are orally bioavailable and have potent, fast-acting efficacy in treating chronic cystitis. A single dose of compound 6 resulted in a significant reduction in bacterial colonization 6 hours after treatment in chronically infected mice. The optimized compound 8 was significantly more efficacious in treating chronic cystitis than compound 6, which reduced chronic cystitis significantly better than did the standard treatment of TMP- SMZ. By extension, the more potent compounds 8 and 10 are likely to be even more effective than 6 relative to TMP-SMZ. Further, enhanced efficacy is derived from three doses of compound 8 given in a 24-hour period, which reduces colonization of the bladder to near-undetectable levels. Currently, treatment of UTI typically requires a 3- to 10-day course of antibiotics or, in the case of chronic cystitis, daily
