NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


which reduces colonization of the bladder to near-undetectable levels. Currently, treatment of UTI typically requires a 3- to 10-day course of antibiotics or, in the case of chronic cystitis, daily prophylaxis. Also, addition of compound 6 to TMP-SMZ for treatment augmented TMP-SMZ activity as evidenced by a significant reduction in bacterial counts in the bladder over that produced by compound 6 alone or TMP-SMZ alone, even when the strain was clinically resistant to TMP-SMZ. Thus, if clinically translatable to humans, these mannoside compounds have the potential to shorten the standard course of treatment and/or increase the efficacy of TMP-SMZ, resulting in fewer treatment failures. Prophylactic use of the compounds discussed here was also effective in vivo at preventing UTI in a mouse model. Compound 6 prevented UPEC from invading bladder epithelial cells and thus prevented IBC formation, which is thought to be important for prolonged administration could benefit specific patient populations such as sexually active women with Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript a propensity for UTI (49), the elderly, and possibly catheterized patients. Greater than 1 million catheter-associated UTIs are diagnosed annually with an estimated cost exceeding $600 million, of which UPEC cause about 30% (50–52). Whether prophylactic delivery of mannoside could reduce the incidence of catheter-associated UTIs is the subject of future research. Treatment failures for chronic and recurrent UTIs, especially those related to antibiotic resistance, continue to impose a significant burden of morbidity and decreased quality of life. A recent study demonstrated that 17 antibiotics capable of killing the virulent cystitis isolate, UTI89, in vitro or in tissue culture, are ineffective in eliminating UTI89 from the bladder tissue during in vivo infection (9). UPEC were protected from even highly membrane-permeable antibiotics such as quinolones. Thus, by harboring antibiotic-tolerant bacteria, IBCs or quiescent intracellular reservoirs (53) could provide a reservoir of surviving pathogens responsible for relapsing or non–antibiotic-responsive infection (54). We reasoned that our mannoside compounds, which prevent these intracellular bacteria, and/ or prevent their recurrence, would potentiate efficacy of existing antibiotics. We have UPEC: one that is broadly antibiotic-susceptible and one that carries a common but clinically troublesome form of antibiotic resistance. We demonstrated that administration of the mannoside compounds described here resulted in reduced intracellular bladder colonization of UPEC and sensitized a TMP-SMZ–resistant strain, presumably by prolonging exposure to antibiotic levels in
