NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


demonstrated that administration of the mannoside compounds described here resulted in reduced intracellular bladder colonization of UPEC and sensitized a TMP-SMZ–resistant strain, presumably by prolonging exposure to antibiotic levels in the urine above its MIC. These results highlight the importance of the intra-cellular pathway in bacterial persistence. In addition to escaping the immune system in their intracellular niche, bacteria are also able to evade exposure to antibiotics as highlighted by the clinically TMP-SMZ–resistant strain. Translated to clinical practice, mannosides could be a cost-effective treatment that lowers the antibiotic resistance rate, which is currently as high as 30% in some studies (55). This could also have the benefit of reducing the use of fluoroquinolones and decreasing resistance. In our animal models, compounds 6 and 8 are effective as a treatment against UTI, and their oral availability represents a major step toward advancing these compounds into clinical trials and drug development. Further, preclinical lead optimization studies of these compounds are currently focused on improving their oral bioavailability in addition to increasing compound exposure in plasma and the bladder tissue to facilitate less frequent dosing. MATERIALS AND METHODS Bacterial strains UTI89 is a prototypical cystitis isolate of serotype O18:K1:H7. PBC-1 is a TMP-SMZR strain of serotype OX13:K1:H10 isolated from a 59-year-old asymptomatic female with a history of recurrent UTI and diagnosis of primary biliary cirrhosis. Synthesis of mannosides General synthesis, purification, and analytical chemistry procedures—Starting materials, reagents, and solvents were purchased from commercial vendors unless otherwise noted. 1H NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) spectra were measured on a Varian 300-MHz NMR instrument. The chemical shifts were reported as d ppm (parts per million) relative to TMS with residual solvent peak as the reference unless otherwise noted. The following abbreviations were used to express the multiplicities: s = singlet; d = doublet; t = triplet; q = quartet; m = multiplet; br = broad. HPLC purifications were carried out on a Gilson GX-281 with Waters C18 5 µM, 4.6 × 50 mm and Waters Prep C18 5 µM, 19 × 150 mm reverse- phase columns, eluted with a gradient system of 5:95 to 95:5 acetonitrile/water with a buffer consisting of 0.05% trifluoroacetic acid. Purity and structure identification studies were Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript performed using liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LCMS) with electrospray ionization (ESI) for detection. All reactions were monitored
