NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, compound, nih-pa, nih-pa author, pubmed, infection, mice, treatment, compounds, bacterial, manuscript nih-pa, bladder, hours


in PBS; Molecular Probes) to stain the bladder luminal surface. Bladders were rinsed with PBS, mounted with ProLong Gold antifade reagent (Invitrogen), and examined with a Zeiss LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope under a 63× objective. SYTO9 and WGA were excited at 488 and 594 nm, respectively. Gentamicin protection assay To enumerate bacteria present in the intracellular versus extracellular compartments, we aseptically harvested the bladders at 6 hours after infection. The bladders were then bisected twice and washed three times in 500 ml of PBS each. The wash fractions were pooled, lightly spun at 500 rpm for 5 min to pellet exfoliated bladder cells, serially diluted, and plated onto LB agar to obtain the luminal fraction. The bladders were treated with gentamicin (100 µg/ml) for 90 min at 37°C. After treatment, the bladders were washed twice with PBS to eliminate residual gentamicin, homogenized in 1 ml of PBS, serially diluted, and plated onto LB agar to enumerate the CFU in the intracellular fraction. Antibiotic treatment Mice were given TMP-SMZ oral suspension solution in the drinking water at a concentration of 54 and 270 µg/ml, respectively. Water was changed daily for 3 days before inoculation with UTI89. Mice remained on TMP-SMZ during the infection. To determine TMP-SMZ concentration in the urine, we collected urine after 3 days of TMP-SMZ treatment and quantified it by LC-MS after addition of sulfisoxazole as an internal standard. Sci Transl Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 June 27. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Growth curve An overnight culture of PBC-1 was diluted 1:1000 in LB in the presence or absence of TMP-SMZ and/or compound 6. The highest concentration of TMP-SMZ used was 512 and 2560 µg/ml, respectively. Twofold dilutions of TMP-SMZ were performed. Compound 6 was added at 100 µM. Growth curves were performed in a 96-well plate at 37°C with A readings taken every 30 min for 8 hours. The MIC was calculated as the lowest concentration of antibiotic that prevented growth of the bacterial strain. Statistical analysis Observed differences in bacterial titers and IBC numbers were analyzed for significance with the nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test (Prism; GraphPad Software). A P value of less than 0.05 was considered significant. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Acknowledgments We thank K. Dodson for discussions and scrutiny of the manuscript and S. Chen for his experimental insight.
