Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


these algorithms to confirm the extent of the benefit seen in the studies. It is uncertain whether the HeartInsight algorithm can detect early signs of worsening heart failure. There is also no evidence to show how well CIEDs that use HeartInsight reduce heart failure events. HeartInsight may be better at predicting worsening heart failure and reducing hospitalisations than CIEDs without algorithms, so more research is recommended. More research is also recommended for HeartInsight, HeartLogic and TriageHF in people at risk of developing heart failure because there is very limited evidence in this population. CorVue collects only intrathoracic impedance data, while the other algorithms monitor additional factors. Clinical trial evidence suggests that CorVue fails to detect some signs of worsening heart failure and has a high rate of false-positive alerts (alerts that are not followed by a heart failure event). So CorVue is not recommended for use in the NHS. 2 Heart failure algorithms Clinical need and practice 2.1 Heart failure is a clinical syndrome caused by any structural or functional cardiac disorder that impairs the heart's ability to efficiently pump blood around the body. The most common symptoms of heart failure are breathlessness, fatigue and oedema. Conditions that can cause heart failure include: • coronary heart disease • high blood pressure • heart rhythm or valve abnormalities and • conditions affecting the heart muscle (cardiomyopathies and myocarditis). Around 920,000 people in the UK were living with heart failure in 2018 with an estimated 200,000 new diagnoses each year. Heart failure mainly affects people over 65, with an average age at diagnosis of 77. 2.2 Cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) are recommended as treatment options for some people who have or are at high risk of heart failure. The different types of CIEDs are pacemakers, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, and cardiac resynchronisation therapy devices. 2.3 Remote monitoring is the ability for a CIED to communicate wirelessly with a remote monitoring system. People who have CIEDs must be followed up by hospitals for regular technical reviews of how their device is working. They may also have scheduled appointments, during which the clinical events recorded by the device are monitored. There is a lot of variation in clinical practice and the frequency of these follow-up visits varies according to the person's condition. NICE's guideline on diagnosis and management of chronic heart failure in adults recommends that reviews are offered every 6 months for people
