Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


follow-up visits varies according to the person's condition. NICE's guideline on diagnosis and management of chronic heart failure in adults recommends that reviews are offered every 6 months for people whose condition is stable, but clinical experts highlighted that in practice most people would have a review annually. Sometimes clinical reviews are only triggered if the person with the CIED reports worsening symptoms. 2.4 Some CIEDs have algorithm-based remote monitoring incorporated in the device. Heart failure algorithms analyse and collate different clinical data recorded by the device to detect gradual worsening of heart failure. The system can send alerts to healthcare professionals to prompt a review of the stored data. This enables proactive investigation into the cause of the suspected decompensation, potentially before the person even feels symptomatic. This could ensure that people have appropriate treatment as early as possible, reducing the number of unnecessary hospital visits. The interventions There are 4 heart failure algorithms that were identified as relevant for inclusion in this assessment. Each algorithm is only compatible with specific CIEDs manufactured by the same company that makes the algorithm. CorVue (Abbott Medical) 2.5 The CorVue algorithm works with the Merlin.net Patient Care Network (PCN) platform, and is intended for remotely monitoring for the early signs of heart failure in people who have compatible CIEDs. The CorVue algorithm collects intrathoracic impedance data from the CIED and transmits it to the Merlin.net PCN platform via the mobile app (myMerlinPulse). It does this using Bluetooth and an internet or mobile network connection to generate an alert. Or, instead of using the app-based smartphone transmitter, the company can provide a remote monitoring unit (Merlin@Home) that connects via Wi-Fi, mobile or landline connection. Healthcare professionals can view the data transmitted by the device on the Merlin.net PCN platform. Access to Merlin.net and the mobile transmitter is provided as part of the CIED, and the CorVue algorithm comes free of charge with the CIED devices. 2.6 The CorVue algorithm automatically calculates the mean daily impedance (from 12 daily measurements). It also collects reference impedance data based on the previous 12 to 14 days, which changes continuously based on new impedance readings. If a consistent drop of daily impedance values is detected (13 or 14 consecutive days in congestion) then a congestive event is reported and detected during device check-up. Patient alerts can be activated via remote monitoring if the person wishes. HeartInsight (Biotronik)
