Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


14 consecutive days in congestion) then a congestive event is reported and detected during device check-up. Patient alerts can be activated via remote monitoring if the person wishes. HeartInsight (Biotronik) 2.7 HeartInsight is a predictive algorithm designed to monitor for early signs of worsening heart failure in people with compatible CIEDs. The algorithm works with the BIOTRONIK Home Monitoring system. The HeartInsight algorithm combines the following 7 parameters into 1 composite score (calculated daily): • atrial burden • heart rate variability • general activity • thoracic impedance • heart rate • heart rate at rest and • premature ventricular contractions. 2.8 HeartInsight triggers an alert to healthcare professionals (via text message, email or both) once the prespecified threshold is exceeded for 3 consecutive transmissions (normally 3 consecutive days), indicating higher risk of worsening heart failure. The threshold is customisable. Upon receipt of an alert, a healthcare professional logs on to the Home Monitoring Service Centre website to review and assess the alert. 2.9 The system includes the handheld CardioMessenger device, which transmits data automatically and daily from the CIED to the BIOTRONIK Home Monitoring system via a mobile phone network. Access to HeartInsight has a one-off cost of £450 per person. Standard Home Monitoring is a separate cost. HeartLogic (Boston Scientific) 2.10 HeartLogic is a diagnostic algorithm designed to monitor for early signs of worsening heart failure in people with compatible CIEDs. It works with the Latitude NXT Patient Management System. Measurements including heart sounds, thoracic impedance, respiration, heart rate and activity are collected by the implanted device. The HeartLogic algorithm then combines these into 1 composite index that indicates decompensation. Boston Scientific's HeartLogic and Latitude NXT Patient Management System work together to provide advanced monitoring and management capabilities for people with heart failure who have CIEDs. The system has daily data transfers to the clinical team. The transmitter can use a mobile phone connection or an internet connection to relay the data. The system is configured to send an alert to a healthcare professional when the index is over a set threshold (customisable by a healthcare professional). Healthcare professionals need to log on to the LATITUDE NXT website to receive alerts. Secondary notification of alerts may be through email or text message. Access to HeartLogic has a one-off cost of £3,650 per person, but discounts may be offered based on purchase volume. TriageHF (Medtronic) 2.11 TriageHF is an alert-based
