Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


or text message. Access to HeartLogic has a one-off cost of £3,650 per person, but discounts may be offered based on purchase volume. TriageHF (Medtronic) 2.11 TriageHF is an alert-based algorithm used with CareLink remote monitoring. It is a monitoring system for identifying and managing an increased risk of heart failure or worsening heart failure in people with CIEDs. When TriageHF is used within a structured heart failure clinical care pathway it is called TriageHF Plus. TriageHF is hosted on the Medtronic CareLink network for collaborative management of heart failure between clinical teams. The algorithm monitors the following parameters: • atrial tachycardia • atrial fibrillation burden • ventricular rate during atrial tachycardia or atrial fibrillation • OptiVol fluid index (which tracks changes in thoracic impedance over time) • general activity • night ventricular rate • heart rate variability • percent of ventricular pacing • treated ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation and • defibrillator shocks. CareLink uses a plug-in monitor or a smartphone app for transmitting data. Using a mobile or landline connection, data is transmitted from the CIED to the CareLink network where it can be accessed by healthcare professionals. Data can be transmitted: • manually, if a person notices symptoms • automatically, based on TriageHF algorithm alert triggers, or • by scheduled transmission, based on a predefined date to replace a routine check. For each day the data is transmitted, the TriageHF algorithm generates a daily risk status of a heart failure event occurring in the next 30 days (low, medium or high risk). This is based on the maximum daily risk status for the previous 30 days. A heart failure management report is generated on the daily risk status. The CareLink network sends an alert for people who have high-risk score so that they can be contacted for a telephone consultation. Access to TriageHF and CareLink remote monitoring has a yearly cost of £100 per person. The comparator Conventional remote monitoring of heart failure in people with CIEDs 2.12 Standard care for monitoring heart failure in people who have CIEDs is periodic reviews of device function with a cardiac physiologist or cardiologist. A person will also have ad hoc reviews of symptoms with a GP, specialist nurse, cardiologist or a heart failure team. The number and timing of the reviews varies in practice depending on the person's symptoms (see section 2.3). The organisation of heart failure monitoring pathways
