Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


or a heart failure team. The number and timing of the reviews varies in practice depending on the person's symptoms (see section 2.3). The organisation of heart failure monitoring pathways varies in practice between different trusts, and even between different hospitals. 3 Committee discussion The diagnostics advisory committee looked at evidence on algorithm-based remote monitoring of heart failure in people with cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs). Evidence was considered from several sources, including an external assessment report and an overview of that report. Full details are in the project documents for this guidance. Patient considerations 3.1 Wider availability of algorithm-based remote monitoring may allow greater access to care for people who are less able to attend in-person appointments (because of costs associated with travel, poor public transport, time taken from work, physical impairments, or anxiety). An alert may be followed by an initial telephone call to determine whether in-person follow up is needed. This could reduce the number of unnecessary in-person clinic visits. 3.2 The patient expert explained that CIEDs provide a sense of security to people because they know that their condition is being managed. With conventional remote monitoring, an unscheduled review would only be triggered if the person reports worsening symptoms. Algorithm-based remote monitoring provides reassurance to people because they know that alerts are transmitted automatically and reviewed by a healthcare professional, potentially before they experience symptoms. This could prevent people being admitted to hospital and improve their quality of life. But the committee acknowledged that, for some people, false-positive alerts (when an alert is triggered but there are no signs of decompensation) may cause unnecessary anxiety. The committee recommended more research on people's experiences with having heart failure algorithms activated on their CIEDs. Clinical effectiveness Prognostic accuracy 3.3 The committee noted that the heart failure algorithms needed to be considered independently of each other because they are each unique and have different alert rates and levels of accuracy. Each of the heart failure algorithms collects different data types to monitor decompensation or predict a person's risk status. The committee noted that CorVue collects only intrathoracic impedance data, while the other algorithms monitor additional factors (see sections 2.5 to 2.11). The committee noted that the prognostic accuracy of CorVue may be affected by the collection of only 1 data type. 3.4 For the heart failure event endpoint defined by the Framingham Heart Study, CorVue had a sensitivity of
