Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


CorVue may be affected by the collection of only 1 data type. 3.4 For the heart failure event endpoint defined by the Framingham Heart Study, CorVue had a sensitivity of 68%. For endpoints related to hospitalisation, clinic visits and changes to treatment, sensitivity ranged from 20% to 61.9%. This suggests that people who are experiencing decompensation may not have an alert triggered using CorVue. Clinical experts noted that heart failure algorithms should have a high sensitivity. This is to ensure that people with early signs of a heart failure event can be identified, assessed and have treatment if necessary, and so people are not missed. False positives were also considered to be high in all studies reporting this outcome. All studies were also assessed by the external assessment group (EAG) as being at a high risk of bias, with a key concern being the analysis methods. The committee concluded that CorVue cannot accurately predict heart failure events. 3.5 Evidence from a single published study suggested that, at the nominal threshold of 4.5, HeartInsight had 65.5% sensitivity and 86.7% specificity for the endpoint of first post-implant heart failure hospitalisation. For the endpoint of heart failure hospitalisation, outpatient intravenous intervention or death, HeartInsight had 54.8% sensitivity and 86.5% specificity. The positive predictive value was reported as 7.7%, indicating that there is a high probability that an alert is a false positive. This study was also assessed by the EAG as being at a high risk of bias, with a key concern being the analysis methods. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether HeartInsight can accurately predict heart failure events. 3.6 Using the study endpoint of worsening heart failure, HeartLogic showed sensitivity ranging from 70% to 100%, and specificity ranging from 61% to 93%. False positives and unexplained alert rates were generally low in 6 studies. Statistically significant associations were observed between being in alert and hospitalisations, length of hospital stay, rate of heart failure events and rate of emergency care visits. All studies reporting prognostic accuracy data for HeartLogic were assessed by the EAG as being at a high risk of bias with the analysis methods being a key concern. The committee also considered data from a study that was published after the EAG's review was complete. Singh et al. (2024) evaluated HeartLogic in 1,458 people. For the endpoint of detecting heart failure events, HeartLogic demonstrated sensitivity of 74.5% and false-positive
