Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


after the EAG's review was complete. Singh et al. (2024) evaluated HeartLogic in 1,458 people. For the endpoint of detecting heart failure events, HeartLogic demonstrated sensitivity of 74.5% and false-positive rate of 1.48 alerts per patient-year. The committee concluded that while there are some concerns regarding the quality of the prognostic accuracy data, it is likely that HeartLogic can predict heart failure events. 3.7 Using the study endpoint of worsening heart failure in people with a 'high-risk' status, TriageHF demonstrated sensitivity ranging from 87.9% to 98.6% and specificity ranging from 59.4% to 63.4%. The false-positive rate was reported in 1 study and was considered to be low. Most studies reporting prognostic accuracy data were assessed by the EAG as being at a high or unclear risk of bias. A key concern was the analysis methods, and some of the studies were only available as abstracts that contained limited information. The committee concluded that while there are some concerns regarding the quality of the prognostic accuracy data, it is likely that TriageHF can predict heart failure events. False-positive or unexplained alerts 3.8 The committee noted that heart failure algorithms are intended to be used to support review of heart failure data by healthcare professionals, and should not be used in isolation to make treatment decisions. This is because events other than heart failure decompensation can sometimes trigger an alert. For example, viral respiratory illnesses can increase a person's intrathoracic impedance, which could cause an alert to be triggered even if the person has no decompensation. In a study this would be classed as a false-positive alert. The committee noted that these alerts and the follow up with a person would still be valuable because a non-heart-failure clinical event may still require intervention. 3.9 Some studies reported high rates of false-positive alerts. But the committee noted that all alerts would be reviewed alongside other clinical information and discussed with the person before a treatment decision is made. So the committee considered that unnecessary treatment arising from false-positive alerts is unlikely and so harms from over treatment when using heart failure algorithms are expected to be low. 3.10 The committee discussed the impact that the number of false positives could have on service burden. Specialist committee members indicated that this burden is low in their experience, because initial interaction following an alert is usually via phone call rather than in-person. The committee concluded
