Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


burden. Specialist committee members indicated that this burden is low in their experience, because initial interaction following an alert is usually via phone call rather than in-person. The committee concluded that more research should be done on the rate of false-positive alerts. Intermediate and clinical outcomes CorVue 3.11 Shapiro et al. (2017) showed a statistically significant reduction in hospitalisations for people using the CorVue algorithm. But, this study was assessed by the EAG as being at a substantial risk of confounding because the comparator was people with no implanted device having home care. So the reduction in hospitalisations reported in the study could be because of the CIED rather than the CorVue algorithm. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether use of CorVue can reduce hospitalisations. HeartInsight 3.12 No evidence was identified that compared the HeartInsight algorithm with no algorithm use. HeartLogic 3.13 Evidence suggests that using the HeartLogic algorithm instead of conventional remote monitoring, provides statistically significant reductions in: • hospitalisations • the rate of heart failure events • the length of hospital stays and • emergency or urgent care visits. The 2 key comparative studies that were used in cost-effectiveness modelling both had small sample sizes; Treskes et al. (2021) included 68 people and Feijen et al. (2023) included 161 people. This raised concerns regarding the statistical power of these studies to detect the effects of heart failure algorithms. These studies were also assessed by the EAG as being at serious risk of bias. The committee concluded that while there are concerns regarding the quality of the comparative evidence for HeartLogic, it is likely that HeartLogic can reduce heart failure events compared with no algorithm use. TriageHF 3.14 For TriageHF, comparative evidence was limited to 1 study, Ahmed et al. (2024). This is a real-world, UK study of 758 people. This study reported a statistically significant reduction in hospitalisation with TriageHF compared with no algorithm use. Ahmed et al. was assessed by the EAG as being at a critical risk of bias because of risks of confounding and selection bias. The committee concluded that while there are concerns regarding the quality of the comparative evidence from Ahmed et al., it is likely that TriageHF can reduce heart failure events compared with no algorithm use. Failure rates 3.15 CIEDs may fail to transmit data if there are technical problems or connectivity issues, including internet problems, or if they
