Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


failure events compared with no algorithm use. Failure rates 3.15 CIEDs may fail to transmit data if there are technical problems or connectivity issues, including internet problems, or if they are out of range of the transmission device. The committee noted that failure rates in the studies appear to be high, but it is difficult to separate transmission failure due to technical issues from transmission failure due to connectivity issues. If data transmission is missed, each algorithm has built-in retry mechanisms that will attempt transmission again. Healthcare professionals will be notified if a person's data transmission is missed for a number of weeks. The companies commented that they pay stringent attention to device failures and always follow up on these. High failure rates reported in Debski et al. (2020) have been addressed by ensuring that devices are correctly programmed and that local protocols are in place. The committee concluded that they have no concerns regarding transmission failure, because systems are in place to manage and resolve this. Cost effectiveness A pairwise analysis approach was used 3.16 A pairwise analysis approach was taken to estimating cost effectiveness. This was because of the lack of data comparing algorithms and because the comparator for each algorithm is a brand-specific CIED that is not using the heart failure algorithm. The EAG explained that the comparator costs differ for each pairwise analysis because different data sources were used to derive model inputs. For HeartLogic and TriageHF, evidence on hospitalisation rates was available, so different rates were used for these 2 interventions and their comparators. Because of the lack of evidence for CorVue and HeartInsight, no difference in hospitalisation was assumed between these heart failure algorithms and their comparators. The hospitalisation rate for these 2 algorithms and their comparators was assumed to be an average of the rates used for HeartLogic and TriageHF. Model structure 3.17 The EAG used comparative hospitalisation data to model the impact of heart failure algorithms rather than using prognostic accuracy data and a linked evidence approach. False-positive alerts were indirectly captured in the model for HeartLogic and TriageHF because study results on the number of unscheduled visits would be impacted by false-positive alerts. For CorVue and HeartInsight, no published data was available on unscheduled visits, so it was assumed that there was no difference in the number of unscheduled visits between these heart failure algorithms and their comparators. This may underestimate
