Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


was taken from Ahmed et al. (2024), which indicates a 58% lower rate of hospitalisations in the intervention group. These inputs resulted in the technologies being dominant (less costly and more effective than standard care) in the deterministic model base case. The committee noted that post hoc or subgroup analyses from these publications show that reductions in hospitalisations were smaller in some subgroups than in the overall study populations. For example, an analysis by Ahmed et al. that was limited to data collected before the onset of the COVID-19 in the UK, gave a hospitalisation incidence rate ratio of 0.69, indicating a 31% lower rate of hospitalisations in the intervention group. The committee also recalled the concerns regarding the quality of the comparative evidence for HeartLogic (see section 3.13) and TriageHF (see section 3.14) and noted that the risk of confounding may impact the reliability of the results from these studies. But, only small reductions in hospitalisations are needed for HeartLogic and TriageHF to be cost effective in the EAG's model. So the committee concluded that HeartLogic and TriageHF are likely to be cost-effective uses of NHS resources. Potential uncaptured benefits 3.21 There was a lack of evidence for the impact of heart failure algorithms on heart- failure-related mortality rates and health-related quality of life. In the EAG's deterministic base-case model, conservative assumptions were made that there is no difference in heart-failure-related mortality rates between heart failure algorithms and their comparators. The committee noted that if there was an improvement in mortality or if health-related quality of life is greater when using heart failure algorithms, then there would be gains in QALYs. These potential benefits could not be captured in the model because of the lack of evidence. Modelling of scheduled visits 3.22 The base case modelled 2 scheduled visits per year, in the intervention and comparator arms. In clinical practice, people who have stable heart failure would likely only have 1 scheduled visit per year. Other people may also only have 1 visit because of capacity issues. The EAG modelled 2 additional different scenarios for the intervention arms: no scheduled follow-up visits per year and 1 scheduled follow-up visit per year. These scenario analyses did not impact the direction of the model results. Modelling of unscheduled visits 3.23 In the EAG's base-case model it was assumed that all alerts are reviewed and followed by an unscheduled, in-person follow-up visit.
