Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


of the model results. Modelling of unscheduled visits 3.23 In the EAG's base-case model it was assumed that all alerts are reviewed and followed by an unscheduled, in-person follow-up visit. In practice, alerts may be followed by an initial remote interaction (such as a phone call) to determine whether an in-person visit is necessary. Scenarios were modelled in which it was assumed that 25% and 50% of alerts initially require non-face-to-face follow up. The committee agreed that the base-case scenario and scenario analyses were reasonable. Scenarios were also done in which the base-case number of interactions in the intervention arm was doubled and quadrupled. The committee agreed that this assumption was reasonable. This was because the overall number of interactions is likely to be increased in the heart failure algorithm arm because of healthcare professionals reviewing alerts and following up with people remotely or in-person. Unscheduled emergency visits to an emergency department or primary care settings were not modelled. The committee noted that the number of emergency visits is expected to be lower for people with heart failure algorithms because alerts are intended to be triggered before the person experiences symptoms. More data is needed on people without a diagnosis of heart failure 3.24 There was very limited evidence in people who have a CIED and do not have a diagnosis of heart failure but are at high risk of new onset acute heart failure. One study for TriageHF reported that a proportion of people in the cohort did not have a prior diagnosis of heart failure. But results were not reported separately for each population and so could not be used by the EAG to model the population of people at risk of heart failure. The committee agreed that data is needed on the prognostic accuracy and clinical impact of using heart failure algorithms in this population. Collection of registry data 3.25 The committee noted that the evidence available for HeartLogic and TriageHF suggests that they can accurately detect the signs of worsening heart failure that could lead to hospitalisation or an unscheduled clinic event. The evidence also suggests that HeartLogic and TriageHF can reduce the number of heart failure events compared with conventional remote monitoring. But there are some concerns about the quality of the evidence for these algorithms and the size of the effects that could be seen. 3.26 To confirm the extent of the benefit seen
