Heart failure algorithms for remote monitoring in people with cardiac implantable
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, people, committee, data, algorithms, heartlogic, monitoring, triagehf, algorithm, alerts, remote, failure algorithms, corvue


some concerns about the quality of the evidence for these algorithms and the size of the effects that could be seen. 3.26 To confirm the extent of the benefit seen in the studies, companies should work with the NHS to collect registry data for HeartLogic and TriageHF on: • hospitalisation rates • heart-failure-related mortality rates • rates of emergency department or primary care visits • patient-reported outcomes. Equalities Heart failure algorithms could reduce inequalities 3.27 Algorithm-based remote monitoring systems are ideally positioned to reduce inequalities in access to healthcare. The committee heard that many people, particularly those from ethnic minority groups and lower socioeconomic backgrounds, do not seek medical assistance until they need to attend emergency services. Heart failure algorithms could benefit these people, because signs of decompensation would be detected and healthcare professionals automatically alerted, before the person needs to seek emergency assistance. For this reason, people who are unable to advocate for themselves or who have less awareness of their symptoms would also benefit from heart failure algorithms. Algorithm-based remote monitoring could also benefit people who are less mobile or people who live in remote areas. This is because following an alert, initial follow up may be a phone call to determine if an in-person follow up is necessary. This will reduce the need for unnecessary travel to hospital appointments. Digital inclusion 3.28 Apart from the technologies that can use a landline to send data, access to technologies for remote monitoring may be restricted in some populations because of internet requirements. This may mean that older people, people from lower socioeconomic groups and people in rural areas could be less able to use algorithm-based remote monitoring because they do not have access to a Wi-Fi connection. The committee noted that the technology is incorporated into the person's CIED and does not need the person to engage directly with the technology themselves. People may feel confined to their home to ensure their data is transmitted 3.29 All of the algorithms can transmit data using Wi-Fi, and some using a landline connection. If people are not in range of a connection, their data will not be transmitted until they are in range. This may cause anxiety for some people when leaving their home, because they do not want to risk transmission of an important alert being missed or delayed. Ensuring equitable access to heart failure algorithms 3.30 The committee discussed
