Tricuspid Stenosis
KEYWORDS: tricuspid, stenosis, tricuspid stenosis, right, patients, skin, mitral, valve, symptoms, mitral stenosis, venous, rheumatic, discomfort, severe, cardiac


Tricuspid stenosis (TS) is narrowing of the tricuspid valve orifice that obstructs blood flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle. Almost all cases result from rheumatic fever. Symptoms include a fluttering discomfort in the neck, fatigue, cold skin, and right upper quadrant abdominal discomfort. Jugular pulsations are prominent, and a presystolic murmur is often heard at the left sternal edge in the fourth intercostal space and is increased during inspiration. Diagnosis is by echocardiography. TS is usually benign, requiring no specific treatment, but symptomatic patients may benefit from surgery. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) Tricuspid stenosis is almost always due to rheumatic fever; tricuspid regurgitation is almost always also present, as is rheumatic mitral valvulopathy (usually mitral stenosis). Rare causes of tricuspid stenosis include systemic lupus erythematosus, right atrial myxoma, congenital malformations, and metastatic tumors. The right atrium becomes hypertrophied and distended, and sequelae of right heart disease–induced heart failure develop but without right ventricular (RV) dysfunction; the RV remains underfilled and small. Uncommonly, atrial fibrillation occurs. Symptoms and Signs of Tricuspid Stenosis Patients with mild tricuspid stenosis have no symptoms. The only symptoms of severe tricuspid stenosis are fluttering discomfort in the neck (due to giant a waves in the jugular pulse), fatigue and cold skin (due to low cardiac output), and right upper quadrant abdominal discomfort (due to an enlarged liver). The primary visible sign is a giant flickering a wave with gradual y descent in the jugular veins. Jugular venous distention may occur, increasing with inspiration (Kussmaul sign). The face may become darker or flushed (a purple, red or pink skin tone in patients with light skin, or a deeper skin tone in patients with dark skin), and scalp veins may dilate when the patient is recumbent (suffusion sign). Hepatic congestion and peripheral edema may occur. Auscultation Soft opening snap Mid-diastolic rumble with presystolic accentuation On auscultation, tricuspid stenosis is often inaudible but may produce a soft opening snap and a mid- diastolic rumble with presystolic accentuation. The murmur becomes louder and longer with maneuvers that increase venous return (exercise, inspiration, leg-raising, Müller maneuver [forced inhalation across a closed airway]) and softer and shorter with maneuvers that decrease venous return (standing, Valsalva maneuver). Findings of tricuspid stenosis often coexist with those of mitral stenosis and are less prominent. The murmurs can be distinguished clinically (see table Distinguishing the Murmurs of Tricuspid Stenosis and
