Tricuspid Stenosis
KEYWORDS: tricuspid, stenosis, tricuspid stenosis, right, patients, skin, mitral, valve, symptoms, mitral stenosis, venous, rheumatic, discomfort, severe, cardiac


Findings of tricuspid stenosis often coexist with those of mitral stenosis and are less prominent. The murmurs can be distinguished clinically (see table Distinguishing the Murmurs of Tricuspid Stenosis and Mitral Stenosis ). Diagnosis of Tricuspid Stenosis Echocardiography Diagnosis of tricuspid stenosis is suspected based on history and physical examination and confirmed by Doppler echocardiography showing an elevated pressure gradient across the tricuspid valve. Two- dimensional echocardiography shows thickened leaflets with reduced movement and right atrial (RA) enlargement. Severe tricuspid stenosis is characterized by: Mean forward gradient across the valve > 5 mm Hg (1, 2) ECG may show RA enlargement out of proportion to RV hypertrophy and tall, peaked P waves in inferior leads and V1. Chest radiograph may show a dilated superior vena cava and RA enlargement, indicated by an enlarged right heart border. Liver enzymes are elevated because of passive hepatic congestion. Cardiac catheterization is rarely indicated for evaluation of tricuspid stenosis. When catheterization is indicated (eg, to evaluate coronary anatomy), findings include elevated RA pressure with a slow fall in early diastole and a diastolic pressure gradient across the tricuspid valve. Treatment of Tricuspid Stenosis Diuretics and aldosterone antagonists Rarely valve repair or replacement Evidence to guide treatment of tricuspid stenosis is scarce. Patients with symptoms who are not undergoing valve replacement or repair should receive a low-salt diet, diuretics, and aldosterone antagonists. Patients with severe tricuspid stenosis should undergo intervention if they are symptomatic or if cardiac surgery is being performed for other reasons. Percutaneous balloon tricuspid commissurotomy might be considered for severe TS in patients who cannot undergo surgical repair but only if there is no accompanying tricuspid regurgitation. Key Points Tricuspid stenosis is almost always due to rheumatic fever; tricuspid regurgitation and mitral stenosis are often also present. Heart sounds include a soft opening snap and a mid-diastolic rumble with presystolic accentuation; the murmur becomes louder and longer with maneuvers that increase venous return (eg, exercise, inspiration, leg-raising) and softer and shorter with maneuvers that decrease venous return (standing, Valsalva maneuver). Treatment includes diuretics and aldosterone antagonists; surgical repair or replacement is rarely needed.
