Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


ABSTRACT Diabetes is the most common cause of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) in the US and other developed countries. Diabetic nephropathy is a chronic condition characterized by a gradual increase in urinary albumin excretion, blood pressure levels and cardiovascular risk, and declining glomerular filtration rate (GFR), which can progress to ESKD. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is common among patients with diabetes, and it develops in approximately 50% of the patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and 30% of those with type 2 diabetes (T2D). Patients with diabetes should be screened for CKD annually. Screening should include both albuminuria measurements and estimates of GFR. The kidney structural changes of diabetic nephropathy are unique to this disease, and closely correlate with kidney function. Multiple factors are associated with CKD in diabetes, and patients with diabetes often require multiple therapies aimed at prevention of progressive CKD and its associated co-morbidities and mortality. Management of cardiorenal risk factors, including lifestyle modifications (diet, exercise, and stop smoking), glucose, blood pressure and lipid control, use of agents blocking the renin angiotensin aldosterone system and use of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with T2D and other agents with proven renal or cardiovascular benefit are the cornerstones of therapy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION AND EPIDEMIOLOGY Diabetes and its complications are a substantial public health problem. In 2021, 10% of the global population (about 537 million adults) were living with diabetes ( 1 ). It is estimated that by 2045 this will rise to 784 million ( 1 ). Moreover, in a large proportion of patients, diabetes is undiagnosed. The estimates for the increased number of adults with diabetes vary largely according to the geographic region, going from a predicted 13% increase in Europe to a predicted 129% increase in Africa in the next 25 years ( 1 ), including a 24% increase in North America and Caribbean. It is estimated that over one in ten (37.3 million) Americans have diabetes, and one in three adult Americans (96 million Americans) have prediabetes (https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/library/features/diabetes-stat-report.html). While in populations of European origin, nearly all children and adolescents have type 1 diabetes (T1D), in certain populations (e.g., Japan), type 2 diabetes (T2D) is more common than T1D in this age group. Although the incidence of T1D is also increasing around the globe ( 2 , 3 ), the rapid increase
