Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


diabetes (T2D) is more common than T1D in this age group. Although the incidence of T1D is also increasing around the globe ( 2 , 3 ), the rapid increase in the incidence of T2D among children and adolescents is alarming, and it has been linked to increased obesity rates and physical inactivity in this group. Diabetes is associated with increased mortality and morbidity, and it is the main cause of incident end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) in the US and other developed countries ( 4 ). In the US alone, diabetes is responsible for more than 47% of the new ESKD cases. This is in large part due to T2D as most patients with diabetes have T2D rather than T1D. However, the proportion of individuals starting kidney replacement therapy due to diabetes varies significantly, ranging from 13% in China to 66% in Singapore ( 4 ). The likelihood of a patient with diabetes developing chronic kidney disease (CKD) is about 40% for patients with T1D and 30% for those with T2D, while the likelihood of a patient with diabetes developing ESKD is lower than that, as a large proportion of these die prematurely, especially from cardiovascular causes, before progressing to ESKD. ESKD is devastating to the individual and of enormous financial and social consequences. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Diabetic nephropathy is a chronic condition that develops over many years. It is characterized by a gradual increase in urinary albumin excretion, blood pressure levels, and cardiovascular risk, declining glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and eventual ESKD. Diabetic nephropathy is associated with characteristic histopathological features ( 5 , 6 ). About 25 to 50% of individuals with T1D ( 7 , 8 ) and 45-57% of those with T2D ( 9 - 12 ) have progressively declining GFR with no or minimal albuminuria. Non-albuminuric renal impairment was the predominant phenotype among youth with T1D ( 13 ) and also among patients with T2D ( 14 ) in Italy, and a strong predictor of mortality ( 15 ). T1D patients with non-albuminuric CKD were older ( 8 , 16 ) at evaluation and at T1D onset ( 16 ), were more often female ( 8 , 16 ), had lower HbA1c ( 8 , 16 ), total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglyceride levels ( 8 ), and serum uric acid levels ( 8 , 16 ), had higher estimated GFR (eGFR) ( 8 ), were less often hypertensive (
