Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglyceride levels ( 8 ), and serum uric acid levels ( 8 , 16 ), had higher estimated GFR (eGFR) ( 8 ), were less often hypertensive ( 8 , 16 ) and less likely to have retinopathy ( 8 , 16 ) or to smoke ( 8 , 16 ) than patients with albuminuric CKD ( 14 , 15 , 17 , 18 ). HbA1c and blood pressure levels were higher and HDL-cholesterol was lower among non-albuminuric youth with type 1 diabetes and CKD as compared to patients with normal renal function ( 13 ). T2D patients with non-albuminuric CKD were also older ( 19 ), more often female ( 10 , 11 , 19 ), non-smokers ( 10 , 11 ), Caucasian or Asian ( 10 ), had shorter diabetes duration ( 11 ), lower HbA1c ( 11 ), total cholesterol ( 12 ), LDL-cholesterol ( 12 ), triglyceride ( 11 , 12 ), and systolic blood pressure levels ( 11 , 12 ), higher eGFR ( 12 , 19 ), and less often had retinopathy ( 11 , 12 ) or a history of cardiovascular disease ( 11 ) than T2D patients with albuminuric CKD. CKD in people with diabetes can be the result of diabetic nephropathy, other associated conditions such as hypertensive renal disease and obesity-related glomerulopathy, or other renal diseases, such as IgA nephropathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, acute tubular necrosis, membranous nephropathy, among others ( 13 - 15 ). The frequency of other renal diseases depends, among others, on the prevalence of these conditions in the background population (see Excluding Other Causes of Kidney Disease below). SCREENING, DIAGNOSIS, STAGES, AND MONITORING Diabetic kidney disease, or CKD in diabetes, is diagnosed by measurements of kidney function. CKD diagnosis and staging in diabetes follows the same criteria as for patients without diabetes. In the clinical setting, CKD is classically diagnosed by estimates of GFR and measurements of urinary albumin. A decreased GFR indicates loss of filtration capacity, while an elevated albuminuria indicates that an abnormal (elevated) proportion of the albumin filtered by the kidneys is being eliminated in the urine, indicating changes in barrier selectivity. Screening Multiple guidelines recommend annual CKD screening of patients with diabetes, starting about 5 years after diagnosis in patients with T1D and at diagnosis in patients with T2D ( 20 - 22 ). Screening tests should include both albuminuria measurements
