Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


diabetes, starting about 5 years after diagnosis in patients with T1D and at diagnosis in patients with T2D ( 20 - 22 ). Screening tests should include both albuminuria measurements and estimates of GFR. ALBUMINURIA Albuminuria screening should be undertaken when the person is free from acute illness and in reasonably stable glucose control, as acute illnesses and acute hyperglycemia can transiently increase albuminuria. Albuminuria may also increase in the upright posture and with exercise, thus measurements are best made in an early-morning urine sample; however, a spot urine sample is acceptable if there is no alternative. Because of the high day-to-day variation in urinary albumin excretion, if the first sample is abnormal, further samples should be obtained, ideally within 1–3 months. At least two out of three measurements should be abnormal before a diagnosis of albuminuria is made. First-morning void urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) measurement is the test of choice, as it is less cumbersome than timed urine collections and has lower day-to-day variability as compared to other methods ( 23 ). GFR In the clinical setting, GFR is estimated using equations that include patients’ age, sex, and serum creatinine. Serum creatinine should be measured annually, using an accredited assay standardized to the recommended isotope dilution mass spectrometry reference method (IDMS-traceable). Most laboratories currently calculate the eGFR using the serum creatinine CKD-EPI equation (https://www.mdcalc.com/ckd-epi-equations-glomerular-filtration-rate-gfr). Race is now optional on this equation, as its inclusion may or may not provide more precise estimates of GFR. The CKD-EPI equation estimates measured GFR more accurately than previous equations, particularly when GFR levels are greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( 24 ). The CKD-EPI equation also categorizes risk of mortality and ESKD more accurately than the previous MDRD equation in a wide range of populations, including those with diabetes ( 25 , 26 ). In elderly patients and in those with obesity, it has been suggested that equations based on creatinine lack precision, particularly in situations where weight loss is significant, as muscle mass usually changes without changes in eGFR ( 27 ). Although there are data suggesting that GFR estimations based on cystatin C measurements may be slightly more precise than those based on serum creatinine ( 28 ), there is no agreement that cystatin C-based estimates are superior to creatinine-based GFR estimates ( 29 , 30 ). Moreover, cystatin-C measurements are not interchangeable among laboratories, and not routinely available in
