Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


Classification and prognosis of chronic kidney disease by estimated glomerular filtration rate and albuminuria. Source: Reprinted by permission from Macmillan Publishers Ltd: Kidney International, Levin A, Stevens PE ( 21 ), copyright 2014. Monitoring Kidney Disease Once urinary albumin excretion is abnormal, the ACR should be measured every 3 months and eGFR every 3–6 months, depending on the CKD stage ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Risk of progression by intensity of coloring (green, yellow, orange, red, deep red). The numbers in the boxes are a guide to the frequency of monitoring (number of times per year). These are general parameters only based on expert opinion and must take into account underlying comorbid conditions and disease state, as well as the likelihood of impacting a change in management for any individual patient. CKD, chronic kidney disease; GFR, glomerular filtration rate. Source: Reprinted by permission from American Diabetes ( 252 ). EXCLUDING OTHER TREATABLE CAUSES OF KIDNEY DISEASE Excluding other causes of kidney disease is especially important among patients who do not follow the classical course of diabetic nephropathy disease progression. Diabetic nephropathy is a chronic disease, thus if acute decline in GFR is present, other causes should be sought. Other causes of kidney dysfunction should also be considered if proteinuria is present before 5 years of T1D duration, in the presence of active urinary sediment (acanthocytes, cellular casts, etc.), and if there are signs or symptoms of other systemic diseases. Retinopathy may or may not be present in patients with T2D and diabetic nephropathy. The frequency of other kidney diseases will also depend on the frequency of specific diseases (IgA nephropathy, for example) in the background (non-diabetic) population. Urinalysis, ultrasound of the kidney tract, measurement of autoantibodies and immunoglobulins, and kidney biopsy may help clarify the diagnosis. Studies evaluating the frequency of other kidney diseases in patients with diabetes indicate that the frequency of other diseases varies depending on the policy and on the reasons for a kidney biopsy ( 33 - 35 ). When kidney biopsies are done for research purposes, the frequency of other kidney disease is extremely low among patients with T1D without CKD ( 36 , 37 ) and in Pima Indians with T2D ( 38 ). STRUCTURAL KIDNEY LESIONS IN DIABETES In patients with T1D, glomerular lesions can be demonstrated after diabetes has been present for a few years, while in T2D they can be
