Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


). STRUCTURAL KIDNEY LESIONS IN DIABETES In patients with T1D, glomerular lesions can be demonstrated after diabetes has been present for a few years, while in T2D they can be present at diagnosis, probably reflecting delayed diagnosis. The changes in kidney structure caused by diabetes are specific, creating a pattern not seen in any other kidney disease. The severity of these diabetic lesions correlates with functional abnormalities (decreased GFR and albuminuria) ( 5 , 6 , 36 ) and it is also related to diabetes duration, glycemic control, and genetic factors. These later relationships are not precise and are in line with the marked variability in diabetic nephropathy susceptibility among patients with diabetes (see Relationships between Kidney Structure and Function below). Light Microscopy Renal hypertrophy, the earliest renal structural change in T1D, is not reflected in any specific light microscopy findings. In some patients, glomerular structure may remain normal or near normal for many decades, while others develop progressive disease. Early changes often include arteriolar hyalinosis, thickening of the glomerular basement membrane (GBM), and diffuse mesangial expansion ( 5 , 6 , 36 ). In about 40-50% of patients developing proteinuria, areas of extreme mesangial expansion called Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules, or nodular mesangial expansion can be observed. Although Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules are diagnostic of diabetic nephropathy, they are not necessary for severe renal dysfunction to develop. Global glomerulosclerosis can also be observed, especially with progressive disease ( Figure 3 ). Atubular glomeruli and glomerulotubular junction abnormalities can also be present in proteinuric patients with T1D ( 39 , 40 ). Tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis, common to most chronic renal disorders, can be present at later stages. Figure 3. Light microscopy photographs of glomeruli in sequential kidney biopsies performed at baseline and after 5 and 10 years of follow-up in a long-standing normoalbuminuric type 1 diabetic patient with progressive mesangial expansion and renal function deterioration. A. Note the diffuse and nodular mesangial expansion and arteriolar hyalinosis in this glomerulus from a patient who was normotensive and normoalbuminuric at the time of this baseline biopsy, 21 years after diabetes onset [Periodic Acid Schiff (PAS) X 400]. B. 5-year follow-up biopsy showing worsening of the diffuse and nodular mesangial expansion and arteriolar hyalinosis in this now microalbuminuric patient with declining GFR (PAS X 400). C. 10-year follow-up biopsy showing more advanced diabetic glomerulopathy in this now proteinuric patient with further reduced GFR. Note also
