Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


this now microalbuminuric patient with declining GFR (PAS X 400). C. 10-year follow-up biopsy showing more advanced diabetic glomerulopathy in this now proteinuric patient with further reduced GFR. Note also the multiple small glomerular probably efferent arterioles in the hilar region of this glomerulus (PAS X 400), and in the glomerulus in Fig. 3A above. Source: Reprinted with permission from National Kidney Foundation. Pathogenesis and Pathophysiology of Diabetic Nephropathy. Caramori ML, Mauer M. Primer on Kidney Diseases, 5th Edition, Greenberg A, et al., Copyright 2009 ( 253 ). Immunofluorescence Immunofluorescence findings include linear GBM and tubular basement membrane, as well as Bowman’s capsule, increased staining IgG (mainly IgG4), and albumin staining. The intensity of staining is not related to the severity of the underlying lesions. Electron Microscopy Using morphometric techniques, the first measurable diabetic nephropathy change is thickening of the GBM, which can be detected as early as 1 and 1/2 to 2 and 1/2 years after onset of type 1 diabetes ( 6 , 41 - 44 ) ( Figure 4 ). Tubular basement membrane thickening can also be detected, and it parallels GBM thickening ( 45 ). Increase in the relative area of the mesangium becomes measurable by 4-5 years ( 6 , 36 , 42 ). Immunohistochemical studies indicate that these changes in mesangium, GBM, and tubular basement membrane represent expansion of the intrinsic extracellular matrix components at these sites, likely including types IV and VI collagen, laminin, and fibronectin. Foot processes (podocyte) changes can be observed by electron microscopy, and the severity of these abnormalities has been associated with kidney function ( 46 , 47 ). Changes in fenestrated endothelium have also been described in diabetes ( 47 ). Interstitial expansion is common to many kidney diseases. Early on in diabetes, interstitial expansion is associated with cellular alterations, while later in the disease process, when GFR is already reduced, there is increase in fibrillar collagen in the interstitium ( 48 ). Figure 4. Electron microscopy photographs of mesangial area in normal control (A) and in type 1 diabetic patient (B) [X 3,900]. Note the increase in mesangial matrix and cell content, the glomerular basement membrane thickening and the decrease in the capillary luminal space in the diabetic patient (B). Source: Reprinted with permission from National Kidney Foundation. Pathogenesis and Pathophysiology of Diabetic Nephropathy. Caramori ML, Mauer M. Primer on Kidney Diseases, 5th Edition, Greenberg A, et
