Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


diabetic patient (B). Source: Reprinted with permission from National Kidney Foundation. Pathogenesis and Pathophysiology of Diabetic Nephropathy. Caramori ML, Mauer M. Primer on Kidney Diseases, 5th Edition, Greenberg A, et al., Copyright 2009 ( 253 ). While about 30% of patients with T2D and microalbuminuria who have had a kidney biopsy performed for research rather than clinical reasons had the classical diabetic nephropathy lesions described above, 41% have disproportionally severe interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy while the remaining 29% had minimal lesions with normal or near normal glomerular structure ( 49 ) ( Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Light microscopy photographs of glomeruli of patients with type 1 (A) and type 2 diabetes (B-D). A. Diffuse and nodular mesangial expansion and arteriolar hyalinosis in this glomerulus from a microalbuminuric type 1 diabetic patient [Periodic Acid Schiff (PAS) X 400]. B. Normal or near normal renal structure in this glomerulus from a microalbuminuric type 2 diabetic patient (PAS X 400). This photograph was kindly provided by Dr. Paola Fioretto. C. Changes "typical" of diabetic nephropathology (glomerular, tubulo-interstitial and arteriolar changes occurring in parallel) in this renal biopsy from a microalbuminuric type 2 diabetic patient (PAS X 400). D. “Atypical" patterns of injury, with absent or only mild diabetic glomerular changes associated with disproportionately severe tubulo-interstitial changes. Note also a glomerulus undergoing glomerular sclerosis (PAS X 400). Source: Reprinted with permission from National Kidney Foundation. Pathogenesis and Pathophysiology of Diabetic Nephropathy. Caramori ML, Mauer M. Primer on Kidney Diseases, 5th Edition, Greenberg A, et al., Copyright 2009 ( 253 ). RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN KIDNEY STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION In type 1 diabetes, the relationships between kidney structure and function are strong ( 5 , 50 , 51 ). Mesangial fractional volume and GBM width are inversely correlated with GFR, and directly correlated with albuminuria ( 5 , 51 ) and blood pressure ( 51 , 52 ). Importantly, GBM width is a strong independent predictor of progression to clinically advanced kidney disease among normoalbuminuric patients with T1D ( 53 ). Among these patients, global glomerular sclerosis ( 53 , 54 ) and interstitial expansion ( 53 , 55 ) are present and are additional independent predictors of GFR loss ( 53 ). Although increases in podocyte foot process width also correlates with albuminuria increases in T1D ( 56 - 58 ), our studies in patients with T1D who had no clinical manifestations of CKD
