Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


in podocyte foot process width also correlates with albuminuria increases in T1D ( 56 - 58 ), our studies in patients with T1D who had no clinical manifestations of CKD at time of their research kidney biopsies indicate that podocyte parameters did not predict long-term progression to clinical CKD ( 59 ). RISK FACTORS Many factors are associated with CKD in diabetes. Associations may be with both albuminuria and GFR or with one measurement only. Factors that influence the initial development of kidney disease may not be the same as factors influencing progression. Duration of diabetes is one of the strongest risk factors for diabetic nephropathy, particularly in T1D. Glucose Control Glucose control is an important risk factor for the development and progression of diabetic nephropathy. Data from multiple observational and intervention studies in both T1D and T2D support this view ( 60 ). There is a strong positive association between HbA1c and incident CKD (eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), independent of other risk factors, and present even in the absence of albuminuria ( 61 ). Greater variability in HbA1c is independently associated with albuminuria and diabetic nephropathy ( 62 - 64 ), and variability in blood glucose levels as detected by continues glucose monitoring (CGM) has also been associated with complications ( 65 , 66 ). Blood Pressure Blood pressure is critical in the development and progression of diabetic kidney disease. The excess prevalence of hypertension in T1D is confined to those with nephropathy ( 67 ). In young people with moderately elevated albuminuria, changes in blood pressure are subtle, perhaps manifesting only as reduced nocturnal diastolic blood pressure dipping ( 68 ). Once severely increased albuminuria is present, frank hypertension is present in 80% of patients, and is almost universal in ESKD. Variability in systolic and diastolic blood pressure independently predicts the development of albuminuria in T1D ( 62 ). In T2D, the link between hypertension and kidney disease is less striking, perhaps due to the fact that hypertension is very common among these patients, present in 70-80% of the patients with T2D at the time of diagnosis. Almost all patients with moderately elevated albuminuria or worse have hypertension. In people with diabetic nephropathy, variability in systolic blood pressure is independently associated with the development of ESKD in patients with T1D ( 62 ) and T2D ( 69 ). Other Metabolic Factors Blood lipids, including triglycerides (
