Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


blood pressure is independently associated with the development of ESKD in patients with T1D ( 62 ) and T2D ( 69 ). Other Metabolic Factors Blood lipids, including triglycerides ( 70 , 71 ), are associated with the development and progression of nephropathy, although the lipid phenotype alters as nephropathy progresses ( 72 - 74 ). Current smoking predicts the development of albuminuria ( 75 ). Insulin resistance increases the risk of albuminuria and rapid eGFR decline in patients with T1D ( 76 ) and of albuminuria in those with T2D ( 77 ). Individuals with T1D or T2D and nephropathy are more likely to have the metabolic syndrome ( 78 , 79 ). Uric acid predicts the development of severely increased albuminuria ( 80 ) and decline in GFR as well as cardiovascular events ( 81 ). Probably this association is not causal as a reduction in uric acid by treatment with allopurinol could not slow GFR decline in patients with T1D ( 17 ). Hyperfiltration Hyperfiltration is common at onset of T1D and it is also present in some individuals at T2D diagnosis. GFR often returns to normal as glucose is controlled, but it may remain elevated in certain individuals. Whether individuals with persistent hyperfiltration are at increased diabetic nephropathy risk remains controversial ( 82 - 85 ). Sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) were introduced to lower glucose in T2D and have been demonstrated to slow progression of kidney disease (see below). A marked effect on hyperfiltration in T1D with SGLT2i was suggested to reflect lowering of intraglomerular hypertension and to support lowering of hyperfiltration as an important kidney protective measure ( 86 ). On the other hand, the results in T2D were less clear ( 87 ). Genetic Factors Genetic factors influence susceptibility to diabetic nephropathy ( 85 , 86 ). If one sibling with T1D has nephropathy, the risk for the second sibling is increased 4–8 fold compared with siblings where neither have nephropathy ( 88 ). The clustering of conventional cardiovascular risk factors and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in people with diabetic nephropathy also occurs in their parents ( 89 , 90 ). This suggests that the genetic susceptibility to nephropathy also influences the associated CVD. Research kidney biopsies in siblings with T1D also demonstrated heritability in the severity and patterns of renal lesions ( 91 ). Sodium-hydrogen antiport activity ( 92 ) and mRNA
