Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


growth factors ( 117 ), periodontitis ( 118 ), and serum bilirubin levels ( 119 , 120 ). Obstructive sleep apnea ( 121 ) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are both independently associated with diabetic nephropathy ( 122 , 123 ). Circulating levels of tumor necrosis factor-α receptor 1 are independently associated with the cumulative risk of ESKD in T1D and T2D ( 124 - 126 ). CO-MORBIDITIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPLICATIONS The prognosis for people with diabetes and CKD is much poorer than for those without CKD. Both albuminuria and eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( Figure 6 and 7 ) contribute independently and synergistically to the increased all-cause and cardiovascular risk ( 127 - 131 ). Figure 6. Declining glomerular filtration rate is associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in individuals with and without diabetes. (A, B) All-cause mortality. (C, D) Cardiovascular mortality. Panels A and C use one reference point (diamond, eGFR of 95 mL/min per 1.73 m2 in the no diabetes group) for both individuals with and without diabetes to show the main effect of diabetes on risk. Panels B and D use separate references (diamonds) in the diabetes and no diabetes groups to assess interaction with diabetes specifically. Hazard ratios were adjusted for age, sex, race, smoking, history of cardiovascular disease, serum total cholesterol concentration, body-mass index, and albuminuria (log albumin-to-creatinine ratio, log protein-to-creatinine, or categorical dipstick proteinuria [negative, trace, 1+, ≥2+]). Blue and red circles denote p<0.05 as compared with the reference (diamond). Significant interaction between diabetes and eGFR is shown by x signs. eGFR=estimated glomerular filtration rate. Reproduced from Fox et al. 2012 ( 254 ), Copyright 2012, with permission from Elsevier. Figure 7. Increasing albuminuria is associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in individuals with and without diabetes. (A, B) All-cause mortality. (C, D) Cardiovascular mortality. Panels A and C use one reference point (diamond, ACR of 5 mg/g in the no diabetes group), for both individuals with and without hypertension to show the main effect of diabetes on risk. Panels B and D use separate references (diamonds) in the diabetes and no diabetes groups to assess interaction with diabetes specifically. Hazard ratios were adjusted for age, sex, race, smoking, history of cardiovascular disease, serum total cholesterol concentration, body-mass index, and estimated glomerular filtration rate. Blue and red circles denote p<0.05 as compared with the reference (diamond). Significant interaction between diabetes and ACR
