Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


nephropathy and associated with both albuminuria and declining GFR ( 144 ). Autonomic neuropathy, diagnosed by loss of nocturnal blood pressure dipping, occurs frequently ( 145 , 146 ) and predicts kidney function decline ( 147 ). PREVENTION AND TREATMENT Although multiple strategies are now available to slow diabetic nephropathy progression, prevention of kidney disease remains crucial. The risk of developing diabetic nephropathy is particularly reduced by achievement and maintenance of good blood glucose and blood pressure control ( 22 ). A guideline on management of diabetes in CKD from Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) emphasize management of cardiorenal risk factors lifestyle factors (diet, exercise, and stop smoking), glucose, blood pressure, and lipids including blockade of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system and in T2D SGLT2 inhibition ( Figure 8 ) ( 148 ). Figure 8. Putative promoters of progression of diabetic nephropathy. Source: Reproduced from Fox et al. 2012 ( 254 ), Copyright 2012, with permission from Elsevier. Glucose Control GLUCOSE CONTROL IN T1D Among the participants in the DCCT who initially had normoalbuminuria, the relative risk reduction for development of moderately elevated albuminuria was 39% and for grade A3 (macroalbuminuria or proteinuria) 54% in those allocated to the intensively treated group compared with those in the conventionally managed group over the 6.5-year study ( 149 ). Mean achieved HbA1c was 7.0% and 9.1%, respectively. There is no HbA1c threshold below which risk is not reduced ( 150 ). In the open follow-up of the DCCT cohort, the EDIC study, HbA1c in the previously intensive and conventional treatment groups became similar, ~8.0%. Despite this, the incidence of moderately and severely increased albuminuria grades ( 151 ), eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , and ESKD ( 151 ) were significantly reduced in those who had previously received intensive management, as summarized in Table 3 . These results are supported by an observational study of individuals with T1D and CKD stages 1–3 with severely increased albuminuria at baseline ( 152 ). The cumulative risk of ESKD after 15 years was significantly lower in those whose HbA1c improved compared with those whose HbA1c remained stable or deteriorated. Hence improving glucose control significantly reduces the risk of development and progression of all stages of diabetic nephropathy in T1D. The beneficial effects extend far beyond the actual period of good glucose control, a phenomenon termed “metabolic memory.” In highly selected patients undergoing serial kidney
