Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


of diabetic nephropathy in T1D. The beneficial effects extend far beyond the actual period of good glucose control, a phenomenon termed “metabolic memory.” In highly selected patients undergoing serial kidney biopsies after successful pancreas transplantation, kidney structural changes regressed after 10 but not 5 years ( 153 ). Thus, prolonged periods of “normoglycemia” are necessary to reverse kidney structural changes. It has been suggested that not only mean glycemic level as reflected by HbA1c, but also time in target glycemic range is important for the development of renal complications ( 154 ). In a small, study insulin pump therapy was associated with less variability compared to multiple daily insulin injections, and the reduced variability and improved time in range contributed to decline in albuminuria in T1D with increased albuminuria, beyond change in HbA1c ( 65 ). Table 3. Kidney Benefits of Intensive Insulin Therapy Demonstrated by the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Cohort. View in own window Parameter Duration of observation (years) Conventional insulin therapy Intensive insulin therapy Moderately elevated albuminuria 8 15.8% 6.8% Severely increased albuminuria 8 9.4% 1.4% eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 22 46 ( n ) 24 ( n ) ESKD 22 16 ( n ) 8 ( n ) n, Number. eGFR estimated glomerular filtration rate; ESKD, end-stage kidney disease. Source: Data from ( 142 , 145 ). GLUCOSE CONTROL IN T2D In the UKPDS, although the mean achieved HbA1c in the intensively managed group was 7.0% compared with 7.9% in the less strictly managed group, there was a 30% reduction in the relative risk of developing moderately or severely increased albuminuria after 9–12 years ( 155 ). No threshold of HbA1c and risk was observed, suggesting that the lower the HbA1c, the lower is the risk of nephropathy ( 156 ). In the open follow-up of the UKPDS cohort, HbA1c was similar in the previously intensively and conventionally managed groups after 1 year ( 157 ). Despite this, microvascular risk remained lower, confirming the “metabolic memory” seen in the DCCT/EDIC study. In the ADVANCE study, the HbA1c achieved in the intensively managed group was 6.5%, compared with 7.3% in the standard care group ( 158 ). In the intensive group there was a 9% relative risk reduction in new-onset moderately elevated albuminuria, a 30% reduction in the development of severely increased albuminuria, and a 65% reduction in ESKD over
