Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


group there was a 9% relative risk reduction in new-onset moderately elevated albuminuria, a 30% reduction in the development of severely increased albuminuria, and a 65% reduction in ESKD over 5 years ( 159 ). The ACCORD study also demonstrated significant reductions in new onset moderately and severely increased albuminuria and of ESKD with intensive glucose management ( 160 ). Progression of albuminuria was reduced and regression increased. However, in those with CKD at baseline, the risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality was significantly increased in the intensive glucose management group ( 161 ). Hence the kidney benefits of extremely tight glucose control were outweighed by the excess mortality. A less intensive HbA1c target in individuals with T2D and duration > 10 years seems sensible. GLUCOSE CONTROL IN ESKD Most ( 162 - 164 ) but not all ( 165 ) observational studies have demonstrated increasing all-cause and cardiovascular mortality with increasing HbA1c in people with diabetes on kidney replacement therapy. Some also showed a U-shaped relationship, with mortality increasing at low HbA1c levels ( 162 , 164 , 166 ). However, there have been no studies that demonstrated improved survival in patients with ESKD with improving glucose control. Among patients undergoing kidney transplant, improved allograft survival was demonstrated in patients with more strict blood glucose control ( 167 ). Glucose Lowering Medications and Organ Protection SGLT2 INHIBITORS For over twenty years renin angiotensin system (RAS) blockade was the only recommended treatment for diabetic nephropathy. After many unsuccessful attempts in developing new therapies the first success has been with SGLT2 inhibitors. When initially tested for safety in cardiovascular outcome trials, empagliflozin showed not only a benefit on the primary endpoint major adverse cardiovascular events ( 168 ) but also a significant benefit on hospitalization for heart failure was also observed. In addition, a reduction in incident or worsening nephropathy occurred (HR 0.61; 95% CI, 0.53 to 0.70) ( 169 ). These findings were confirmed in cardiovascular outcome trials with canagliflozin, dapagliflozin and ertugliflozin ( 170 ). Importantly the benefits on kidney outcomes were independent of baseline eGFR from <45 ml/min/1.73m2 to >90 ml/min/1.73m2 and also independent of urinary albumin creatinine ratio <30mg/g, 30-300 or >300 mg/g ( 171 ). The first study with hard renal endpoints (end stage kidney disease, significant loss of renal function) as primary endpoint using a SGLT2 inhibitor was CREDENCE showing a major benefit on renal
