Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


RECEPTOR AGONISTS For some long-acting glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP1-RA) (liraglutide, semaglutide, and dulaglutide) the cardiovascular outcome trials in type 2 diabetes demonstrated cardiovascular benefits, in subjects with already existing atherosclerotic CVD ( 180 ). The benefit on CVD outcomes was also demonstrated in CKD populations and thus GLP1-RA are recommended in the treatment of T2D with diabetic nephropathy when metformin and SGLT2 inhibition cannot control glucose ( Figure 10 ). Studies also demonstrated positive kidney effects as secondary endpoints, mostly driven by reductions in albuminuria, but also some potential effects on eGFR. A kidney benefit was supported by the AWARD 7 study with dulaglutide in T2D with CKD although the primary endpoint was glycemic control ( 182 ). Semaglutide is being tested in the FLOW study (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03819153 ) to determine whether it will confer benefits on hard renal and cardiovascular outcomes among participants with T2D when compared to placebo. Figure 10. Antihyperglycemic Therapies in Patients with Diabetes and CKD Source KDIGO guideline on management of diabetes in CKD Source: Reproduced with permission from Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) ( 172 ). Blood Pressure Control Rigorous blood pressure control improves the prognosis in diabetic nephropathy dramatically. Conservative estimates suggest that good blood pressure management doubles the time taken from first appearance of severely increased albuminuria to need for kidney replacement therapy, from a mean of 9 to 18 years. Improved management in moderately elevated albuminuria may prevent progression and promote regression normoalbuminuria. Blood pressure and blood glucose lowering effects are independent of one another but have synergistic effects ( 183 , 184 ). In contrast to glucose “metabolic memory,” the benefits of blood pressure reduction are lost rapidly when control deteriorates ( 157 ). TYPE 1 DIABETES RAS inhibitors do not prevent moderately elevated albuminuria in normotensive people with T1D ( 37 , 185 , 186 ). There is also no evidence that control of hypertension in T1D and normoalbuminuria prevents progression of albuminuria and decline in kidney function. However, it seems highly likely. Once moderately or severely increased albuminuria is present, inhibition of the RAS is the backbone of therapy, because it reduces intraglomerular pressure. A meta-analysis summarized the effects of ACE inhibitors in people with T1D and moderately elevated albuminuria ( 187 ). The odds ratio for progression to severely increased albuminuria was reduced by ACE inhibition to 0.35, and for regression to normoalbuminuria it increased
