Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


and moderately elevated albuminuria ( 187 ). The odds ratio for progression to severely increased albuminuria was reduced by ACE inhibition to 0.35, and for regression to normoalbuminuria it increased to 3.07, compared with placebo treatment. After 2 years of treatment, the mean reduction in albumin excretion was 50.5% with ACE inhibition and it was greatest in those with highest baseline levels. However, the response to treatment plateaued with time, suggesting that treatment delays, rather than prevents, progression. Addition of an ACE inhibitor to non-ACE inhibitor antihypertensive therapy reduced the risk of a doubling of the serum creatinine by 48% and the composite end-point of death, need for dialysis or kidney transplantation, by 50%, in people with T1D and with severely increased albuminuria and hypertension ( 188 ). Both benefits were independent of blood pressure. In short-term studies, the effects of angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) on blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion were similar to those of ACE inhibitors in T1D and severely increased albuminuria ( 189 ). For a similar reduction in blood pressure, there is a greater reduction in protein excretion using ACE inhibitors compared with other classes of antihypertensive agents ( 190 ). This may be beneficial, as the passage of protein across the glomerular filtration barrier may accelerate the progression of nephropathy ( 191 ). Animal data show that this is due to preferential reduction in intraglomerular pressure with ACE inhibitors due to a dilatation of the efferent vessels ( 192 ). An effect on the filtration barrier has also been suggested ( 193 ). RAS inhibitors should be offered to all individuals with T1D and albuminuria, regardless of blood pressure. The dose should be titrated up to the maximum recommended or tolerated, to obtain maximal antiproteinuric effect. If blood pressure remains > 125/75 mmHg on maximum dose of RAS inhibitor, antihypertensive therapy should be intensified. Lower blood pressure reduces the rate of decline of GFR from 10–12 mL/min/year untreated to <5 mL/min/year ( 194 ). Regression from severely to moderately increased albuminuria can be achieved, with the fall in GFR reduced to <1 mL/min/year ( 71 ). The choice of agent should be made on an individual basis, as there is no evidence in T1D that any one add-on agent is better than any other. Often multiple agents are needed in CKD stage 3 and beyond. TYPE 2 DIABETES Control of hypertension reduces the risk
