Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


that any one add-on agent is better than any other. Often multiple agents are needed in CKD stage 3 and beyond. TYPE 2 DIABETES Control of hypertension reduces the risk of developing moderately or severely increased albuminuria ( 195 - 198 ). There may be a particular benefit of RAS inhibition in prevention of nephropathy ( 199 - 201 ) but lowering blood pressure sufficiently is the key. Achieved blood pressure in these studies was generally ~140/80 mmHg, but most guidelines now suggest a blood pressure target of 130/80 mmHg in T2D ( 20 , 21 ). As with T1D, there is good evidence in T2D that inhibition of the RAS should be the backbone of therapy if albuminuria is elevated. RAS blockade reduces progression of moderately elevated albuminuria to severely increased albuminuria ( 196 , 202 ) and increases regression to normoalbuminuria ( 202 ). The benefits are at least partly independent of blood pressure lowering. In more advanced diabetic nephropathy, RAS inhibition with ARB reduces progression, defined as doubling of serum creatinine, ESKD, or death ( 203 , 204 ). Hence people with T2D and moderately or severely increased albuminuria should be prescribed a RAS inhibitor, titrated to the maximum tolerated dose ( 205 ). Hyperkalemia is common in individuals with T2D and nephropathy taking an ARB and is associated with increased risk of kidney failure ( 206 ). General steps to lower potassium such as dietary advice, diuretics, discontinuation of other medications or dietary supplements which might be increasing potassium levels, or potassium binders should be considered before stopping RAS blockade ( 179 ). Introduction of a RAS inhibitor often leads to an acute decline in GFR, which then stabilizes. Individuals with the greatest initial fall in GFR have the slowest subsequent decline in kidney function ( 207 ). Most people with T2D and albuminuria will require additional antihypertensive therapy. The choice of additional agents should be made on an individual basis, with diuretics and calcium channel blockers often being appropriate. In resistant hypertension with preserved renal function mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists may be useful ( 208 ). In the UKPDS, there was no blood pressure level below which risk of developing moderately elevated albuminuria or beyond increased, i.e., no “J” shape ( 209 ). The ADVANCE study explored the effects of reduction of blood pressure below the currently recommended targets of 130/80 mmHg in individuals with normal
