Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


i.e., no “J” shape ( 209 ). The ADVANCE study explored the effects of reduction of blood pressure below the currently recommended targets of 130/80 mmHg in individuals with normal or moderately increased albuminuria and 125/75 mmHg in those with severely increased albuminuria ( 210 ). Over 4 years, the risk of kidney events was reduced by 21%, mainly because of reduced risk of developing moderately or severely elevated albuminuria. However, an achieved systolic blood pressure below 120–130 mmHg was associated with increased mortality and ESKD ( 211 ). Therefore, extremely tight blood pressure control should be avoided. DUAL BLOCKADE OF THE RAS Addition of an ARB to an ACE inhibitor ( 212 , 213 ) or of the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren to an ARB reduces blood pressure and albuminuria more than each agent individually. However, in the longer term, dual blockade increases the risk of hyperkalemia, hypotension, and acute, irreversible kidney failure ( 214 - 217 ). Hence dual blockade is not recommended. MINERALOCORTICOID RECEPTOR ANTAGONISM Prevention of diabetic nephropathy was attempted in the PRIORITY trial including T2D with normoalbuminuria. High risk for progression to CKD/moderately elevated albuminuria was identified with a urinary proteomic based risk score (CKD-273). High risk individuals were randomized to spironolactone or placebo, and although the biomarker predicted progression of kidney disease, spironolactone was not able to reduce progression compared to placebo over three years ( 218 ). Short term studies in established diabetic nephropathy revealed ~30% reduction in albuminuria with the steroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) spironolactone or eplerenone ( 219 ). Preventing over activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor reduces inflammation and fibrosis, but due to potassium problems, diabetes with kidney disease became a contraindication for these agents. Non-steroidal MRAs have been developed and may cause less potassium issues. The non-steroidal MRAs esaxerenone and finerenone reduced moderately elevated albuminuria in T2D in short term studies with a good safety profile with very little hyperkalemia ( 220 , 221 ). This led to two large studies testing finerenone in T2D with CKD. FIDELIO-DKD tested finerenone on a background or RAS blockade with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) or ARB and included 5734 subjects with relatively advanced CKD and T2D (UACR ≥30–≤5000 mg/g, eGFR ≥25–<75 mL/min/1.73 m 2 and the primary endpoint (kidney failure, sustained decrease of eGFR ≥40% or kidney death) was reduced with a hazard rate (HR) 0.82 (95%CI 0.73-0.93, p=0.001). The
