Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


low-protein diet targeting 0.8 g protein/kg body weight/day compared to usual diet ( 233 ). Protein intake should not be restricted to less than 0.7 g protein/kg body weight/day because of concerns about malnutrition in ESKD. In line with recommendations for the general population a protein intake of 0.8 g protein/kg body weight/day is recommended for diabetes and CKD, except for people on peritoneal dialysis where a higher intake (1.0-1.2 g protein/kg body weight/day is recommended ( 179 ). Lipids In diabetic nephropathy lipid lowering medications are recommended to reduce the risk for CVD. There is some evidence that lipid-lowering agents are beneficial to the kidney. In a post hoc analysis of the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study, the rate of decline of eGFR was significantly less in those individuals taking atorvastatin 10 mg daily compared with placebo. Fibrates also reduce albuminuria, although they reversibly increase serum creatinine ( 234 ). Cardiovascular Risk—Other Factors Smoking increases the likelihood for development of diabetic nephropathy as discussed above. There have been no good trials of smoking cessation. However, smoking cessation should clearly be encouraged. There are no studies in diabetic kidney disease with aspirin evaluating long term benefits although short term studies suggest no effect on urinary albumin excretion or GFR ( 235 ). In many individuals with established CVD or high risk for CVD aspirin should be considered for prevention of cardiovascular events. There is an increased risk for atrial fibrillation in diabetes and in CKD, and higher morbidity and mortality associated with thromboembolic events including stroke in diabetes with atrial fibrillation ( 236 ). In diabetes with atrial fibrillation anticoagulation is often recommended, and direct oral anticoagulants are usually preferred compared to vitamin K antagonists. In addition to a reduced risk for bleeding and similar or better effects on reducing risk for thrombosis, observational studies suggest reduction in progression of CKD. Thus, a recent study using a health claim database included patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and diabetes that newly initiated rivaroxaban (N=10,017) or warfarin (N=11,665) ( 237 ). Patients were matched using propensity scores. In comparison to warfarin, rivaroxaban was associated with lower risks of acute kidney injury events (HR: 0.83; 95% CI, 0.74 to 0.92) and development of stage 5 CKD or need for hemodialysis (HR: 0.82; 95% CI, 0.70 to 0.96) ( 237 ). The mechanism could be reduced vascular calcification but needs to be confirmed in randomized
