Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


5 CKD or need for hemodialysis (HR: 0.82; 95% CI, 0.70 to 0.96) ( 237 ). The mechanism could be reduced vascular calcification but needs to be confirmed in randomized controlled trials. Weight Loss In a trial comparing intensive lifestyle intervention with diabetes support and education in T2D, individuals randomized to intensive lifestyle modification were less likely to develop CKD over 8 years ( 238 ). The effect was partly attributable to reductions in body weight, HbA1c, and systolic blood pressure. Low carbohydrate, Mediterranean, and low-fat diets have similar beneficial effects on change in eGFR and albuminuria over 2 years ( 239 ). In individuals with T2D who have undergone bariatric surgery, moderately and severely increased albuminuria regresses to normoalbuminuria ( 240 ). Similar benefits were described in a 5-year study in severely obese adolescents with and without T2D ( 241 ). FURTHER MANAGEMENT OF CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE STAGE 3 OR POORER Monitoring Anemia and Bone Chemistry In progressive CKD from stage 3 onwards, bone chemistry, full blood count, and iron stores should be assessed every 3–6 months. Monitoring Glucose Control Red blood cell and protein turnover are abnormal in CKD, making the interpretation of HbA1c, glycated albumin, and fructosamine results difficult, particularly in subjects with CKD 4+. Thus, more reliance should be placed on self-monitoring of blood glucose and continuous glucose monitoring, particularly if treatment can cause hypoglycemia ( 179 ). With declining kidney function, it is important to be aware of the increased risk for hypoglycemia. The glycemic target may have to be increased to avoid hypoglycemic episodes ( 179 ) and glucose lowering agents may have to be changed or have their dose adjusted ( Table 5 ). There are several explanations for this: a) the kidney is important for the metabolism of many glucose lowering medications and this function is impaired in advanced CKD; b) the kidney contributes to total endogenous glucose production by approximately 30% which declines with loss of kidney function; c) in advanced CKD acidosis affects the liver’s ability to produce glucose and compensate for failing kidney gluconeogenesis, and malnutrition and muscle wasting contributes to the risk for hypoglycemia; d) people with diabetic nephropathy are often older, have longer diabetes duration, and more frequently suffer from comorbidities, especially cardiovascular disease, and are thus more likely to be on multiple medications with can have potential interactions with glucose lowering medications ( 242 ). Table
