Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


frequently suffer from comorbidities, especially cardiovascular disease, and are thus more likely to be on multiple medications with can have potential interactions with glucose lowering medications ( 242 ). Table 5. Glucose-Lowering Agents in Chronic Kidney Disease View in own window Drug Comment Metformin Risk of accumulation and possibly lactic acidosis Caution when eGFR <45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 Stop when eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 Sulfonylureas Glibenclamide, gliclazide, and tolbutamide predominantly renally excreted; may need to reduce dose Meglitinides ~10% excreted via kidney; usually safe Thiazolidinediones Predominantly hepatic metabolism; use may be limited by fluid retention Dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors Dose may need to be reduced in some agents Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists Few data when eGFR <15 mL/min/1.73 m 2 Sodium–glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors Protect kidney and heart down to eGFR>25, but ineffective at reducing glucose at eGFR <45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 Insulin Excreted by kidney; may need to reduce dose and/or switch to shorter-acting preparations Metformin and its metabolites are excreted mainly by the kidney. In kidney failure, they accumulate and inhibit lactate oxidation. Metformin should therefore be used cautiously in those with eGFR <45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , and stopped completely when eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( 243 ). The sulfonylureas glibenclamide, gliclazide, and tolbutamide are excreted predominantly by the kidneys and accumulate in CKD. Their dose, and indeed the dose of any sulfonylurea, may need to be reduced as CKD progresses. Only ~10% of the meglitinides, repaglinide and nateglinide, are excreted by the kidneys, making them suitable alternative agents. The thiazolidinediones, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, are predominantly metabolized in the liver. However, their use in ESKD may be limited by fluid retention. Insulin is also excreted by the kidney so that reduced dosage, and perhaps a switch to shorter acting preparations, may be required. The dose of some but not all DPP-4 inhibitors and GLP-1 receptor agonists may need to be reduced as kidney function deteriorates. The SGLT-2 inhibitors become less effective at decreasing glucose levels as GFR falls. Anemia Anemia is common in people with diabetes and CKD stage 3 or poorer ( 244 ). Full investigation of iron deficiency anemia may be needed to exclude a non-kidney cause. Those with anemia have a higher mortality, higher rates of hospital admission with heart failure, and poorer quality of life. Iron stores should be repleted with oral or parenteral iron as necessary, and erythropoietin replacement commenced
