Diabetic Kidney Disease
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, kidney, type, patients, diabetic, type diabetes, nephropathy, albuminuria, disease, risk, free, pmc free, pmc, renal


mortality, higher rates of hospital admission with heart failure, and poorer quality of life. Iron stores should be repleted with oral or parenteral iron as necessary, and erythropoietin replacement commenced if indicated. In the TREAT trial it was investigated if treatment of anemia in T2D with CKD would improve renal or cardiovascular outcome, but the trial showed no benefit ( 245 ). When to Refer to Nephrology Patients who begin dialysis as an emergency do less well than those in whom treatment is planned ( 246 ). Referral to nephrology should be made when eGFR is declining rapidly (>5 mL/min/1.73m 2 /year or when eGFR is <30-45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . This allows structured physical and psychological preparation for kidney replacement therapy. Earlier referral may be necessary in particular circumstances ( Table 6 ). The need for kidney replacement therapy should be discussed with all patients and those who wish it should have access. People without significant comorbidities will usually be offered transplantation. Full cardiovascular assessment and treatment are essential before transplantation. Table 6. Indications for Referral to Nephrology View in own window Diagnosis uncertain Hypertension difficult to control Fluid overload Anemia unresponsive to oral iron Abnormal bone chemistry (calcium, phosphorus, PTH) eGFR 30–45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 Nephrotic syndrome eGFR fall > 5 mL/min/1.73 m 2 per year Organization of Care Structured care, delivered by trained specialists working with clear protocols with specific, multiple treatment goals for all the variables described above, reduces the incidence of moderately elevated albuminuria ( 247 , 248 ) and provides greater kidney and cardiovascular benefits than routine care for individuals with T2D and CKD ( 179 , 249 , 250 ). Progression to ESKD or death, need for laser therapy for management of retinopathy, and cardiovascular endpoints including stroke and heart failure are all reduced by such multifactorial interventions ( 251 - 254 ). When structured intensive multifactorial intervention targeting lifestyle factors (diet, exercise, smoking) and heart and kidney risk factors (blood glucose, blood pressure, lipid management) compared to usual care was started already in T2D with moderately elevated albuminuria, long-term follow-up of the Steno-2 study demonstrated that eight years of intervention translated into almost 8 years of extended median survival ( Figure 11 ) ( 251 ). Figure 11. Steno-2 post-trial: Twenty-one years sustained effect of intensive multifactorial intervention compared to standard of care for 8 years targeting lifestyle and heart and kidney
