|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


exercise models offer valuable insights into the effects MASLD but also elevates the overall quality of life for ofphysicalexerciseonliverhealth,metabolism,andthe individuals afflicted with chronic liver diseases and liver potential for treating liver diseases. Understanding the transplantation.Physicalexercisealsoameliorates impactsofdifferentexercisemodalitiesonliverdisease systemic metabolic disorders like obesity and type 2 is crucial for developing effective therapeutic strategies diabetes,bothofwhichcanexacerbateliverinjury. and promoting overall liver well-being. In this review, we summarize the protective roles of The intensity of physical exercise is assessed physicalexerciseinliverdiseases.Wediscussphysical through absolute and relative intensity. Absolute inten- exercisemodalitiesandhowphysicalexerciseprevents sity is measured in metabolic equivalent of task (MET) andmanagesliverdiseases.Furthermore,wedelveinto units, representing the energy expended during the physical exercise’s role in mitigating acute and chronic exercise. Moderate-intensity activities range from 3 to liver inflammation and its potential in managing liver 5.9 MET, while vigorous-intensity activities are 6 or cancer. This exploration underscores the vital role of higher. In contrast, relative intensity assesses effort physicalexerciseinliverdiseasesandadvocatesforits to an individual’s capacity. Intensity is a critical factor incorporation into liver disease prevention and man- when considering physical exercise for patients with agement strategies. liver diseases. For instance, Keating et al showed that the minimum effective dose of exercise to improve hepatic steatosis was 135 minutes of moderate-inten- PHYSICAL EXERCISE MODALITY, sity aerobic exercise per week and that increasing the INTENSITY, AND DURATION intensityofexercise(includingHIITapproaches)hadno additional benefit for hepatic steatosis. It is essential to Physical exercise is mainly comprised of aerobic and tailor physical exercise considering absolute and resistance training, each with different benefits and relative intensity to maximize benefits based on precautions for liver diseases. Aerobic exercise effec- individual fitness levels. tively reduces body weight, glycosylated hemoglobin Determining the appropriate exercise duration is A1c,bloodpressure,andserumcholesterollevels.[23–25] equally important. Our group found that liver ischemia/ However, it can induce fatigue and discomfort, poten- reperfusion(I/R)injurydecreasedwithexerciseduration tially leading to poor long-term compliance, especially and was lowest after 4 weeks of preoperative exercise for individuals with lower cardiorespiratory fitness compared with sedentary mice. However, extended levels. Resistance exercise, which entails muscle preoperativeexerciseperiodsbeyond4weeksupto16 contractions against external resistance to boost weeks offered no further hepatic protection. More- muscle strength, bone density, and endurance, has over, for those in poor physical condition, the recom- beenshowntoprovidesignificantbenefitsinaddressing mendation is to initiate exercise with 20-minute ses- dyslipidemia, hypertension, and insulin resistance, sions and progressively increase the duration by offering metabolic advantages with relatively lower 5–10 minutes every 1–2 weeks. energy expenditure; however, limited access to appro- In conclusion, careful selection of physical exercise priate equipment
