|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


role in insulin sensitivity, weeks,significantlyimprovedthefunctionofisletβ-cells anddisturbancesinAKTsignalingpathwaysmayresult and effectively reduced insulin resistance in mice. in insulin resistance. Moreover, Diniz and col- These improvements were associated with the leagues have shown that treadmill running for 60 min- activation of the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4)-mediated utes per day, 5 days per week for 8 weeks, can extracellular signal–regulated kinase/AMP-activated attenuate the progression of HFD-induced hepatic protein kinase (AMPK) signaling pathway, which plays steatosis and inflammation. This improvement is acrucialroleinregulatinginsulinsensitivityandglucose achieved through activating the AMPK-peroxisome metabolism. The research conducted by Zhang and proliferator–activated receptor alpha (PPAR-α) signal- colleagues demonstrated that 60 minutes per day, ing pathway and PPAR-gamma (PPAR-γ) signaling 5 days per week for 8 weeks of swimming training pathways, leading to the amelioration of insulin resist- effectively improved hepatic insulin resistance induced ance in obese mice. by a high-fat diet (HFD) in male Sprague-Dawley rats HIIT has been shown to reduce insulin resistance throughTGF-β–activatedkinase1-dependentsignaling. and hepatic glucose production. Castaño et al The improvement in insulin sensitivity was attributed to revealed that HIIT can alter the microRNA profile of multiple factors, including the enhancement of proteins circulating exosomes in mice. This alteration leads to ubiquitin-specific protease 4, dual-specificity phospha- increased expression of miR-133a and miR-133b in tases 14, and a reduction in the phosphorylation of plasma, which, in turn, downregulates the insulin- critical signaling molecules such as TGF-β–activated regulating transcription factor forkhead box O1 in the | 918 HEPATOLOGY liver, ultimately contributing to the attenuation of insulin Skeletal muscle is critical in absorbing and using resistance. These findings underscore exercise- FFAs for energy during exercise. Physical exercise induced molecular adaptations’ significance in alleviat- enhances FFA utilization by skeletal muscle and ing hepatic insulin resistance. promotes mitochondrial energy production, leading to more efficient utilization of FFAs. Exercise improves musclecells’responsivenesstoinsulin,leadingtomore Regulate lipid homeostasis efficientabsorption and utilizationof glucose for energy production. This process, coupled with the indirect The liver is vital in regulating lipid homeostasis and is effectsonFFAmetabolism,contributestotheburningof the primary organ for fatty acid metabolism. Excess stored fat. Consequently, physical exercise improves glucose ingested is converted into fatty acids by the body’s overall energy metabolism efficiency. hepatocytes through a series of enzymatic reactions collectively known as de novo lipogenesis. These newly synthesized fatty acids can be stored in the liver Immunomodulation astriglyceridesortransportedtoadiposetissueforlong- term storage. Failure to transport or use these fatty Hepatic inflammation is a critical factor in the develop- acids promptly can result in their
