|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


stored in the liver Immunomodulation astriglyceridesortransportedtoadiposetissueforlong- term storage. Failure to transport or use these fatty Hepatic inflammation is a critical factor in the develop- acids promptly can result in their accumulation in the ment and progression of liver diseases. Physical liver, leading to the development of metabolic exerciseispivotalinregulatingthehepaticinflammatory dysfunction–associated steatohepatitis (MASH). response by modulating key cytokines and signaling Physicalexerciseinvolvesthecomplexphysiological pathways, which emerges as a potent modulator of process significantly affecting lipogenesis and lipolysis immune cell infiltration within the liver and the tumor (Figure 1). Increasing energy expenditure is one of the immune microenvironment,[69–71] effectively reducing primarymechanismsthroughwhichexerciseinfluences hepatic inflammatory response (Figure 2). this process. During aerobic exercise, lipase In the acute hepatic injury model, our group has enzymes in the body are activated, leading to the shown that 60 minutes per day, 5 days per week for 4 hydrolysis of triglycerides into glycerol and free fatty weeks of aerobic preoperative exercise regimen signif- acids (FFAs). Hormones, such as epinephrine and icantly attenuates liver injury and inflammation from norepinephrine, further stimulate lipolysis. This ischemia and reperfusion in mice. We found that process increases the release of FFAs into the exercise specifically drives KCs toward an anti-inflam- bloodstream, serving as an energy source. Hepatic matory phenotype with trained immunity through meta- lipolysis is a complex metabolic process that relies on bolic reprogramming. In the context of acute liver several critical regulatory enzymes to control the injury induced by N-galactosamine and lipo- release of fatty acids from stored triglycerides. In polysaccharide, a median of 45 days of voluntary addition, fatty acid oxidation and autophagy are long-distance running has been found to alter the involved in this intricate cellular mechanism. intrahepatic immunophenotype, which reduces the Physical exercise can decrease de novo lipogenesis number of intrahepatic CD4+ T cells, B lymphocytes, and increase the fatty acid β-oxidation and autophagy. and macrophages, thereby leading to a change of In addition, exercise can further regulate lipid hepatic microenvironment that is less susceptible to metabolism by enhancing insulin sensitivity. acute liver injury in mice. AMPK-dependent pathway plays a central role in In MASH, treadmill training for 60 minutes per day, exercise-mediated lipid metabolism. Zou et al demon- 5 days per week for 12 weeks has shown the capacity stratedthatswimmingexercisefor4hoursperday,5days to attenuate hepatic inflammation, liver steatosis, and per week for 12 weeks decreased de novo lipogenesis fibrosis by inhibiting the hepatic accumulation of bone andpromotedliverlipophagyandfattyacidβ-oxidationby marrow-derived macrophagesand PD-1+ CD8+ Tcells
