|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


mizes their posttransplant recovery, ultimately contrib- cytotoxic capabilities of NK cells. The efficacy of T uting to an improved long-term quality of life following cells in recognizing and eliminating cancer cells is transplantation. paramount in preventing tumor growth and forms the basis of current immunotherapy. During exercise, higher levels of metabolites such as lactate released EXERCISE IN CARDIOGENIC LIVER into the bloodstream from skeletal muscle enhance the DISEASE effectorprofileofCD8+Tcells.Inresponsetoexercise, activated CD8+ T cells in mice adapt their central Other conditions leading to liver injury, including carbonmetabolism.TransferringtrainedmouseCD8+T cardiogenic liver disease triggered by myocardial cells into untrained tumor-bearing animals produces a infarction, may benefit from exercise. Treadmill running more potent antitumor effect. for 60 minutes per day, 5 days per week for 6 weeks has the potential to effectively mitigate liver injury by promoting the anti-inflammatory phenotype of hepatic EXERCISE IN LIVER I/R INJURY macrophages, attenuating myocardial infarction- induced hepatic inflammation, enhancing the expres- Liver I/R injury is a complex and multifaceted acute sion of fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 inflammation liver disease that occurs when the blood protein, and activating the PI3K/protein kinase B supply to the liver is temporarily interrupted and signaling pathway in the liver of myocardial infarction- restored. This process may occur in various clinical afflicted mice. situations, such as liver surgery, trauma, or liver transplantation. Ischemia is the initial phase that leads to hypoxia in liver tissue, resulting in cellular EXERCISE IN MASLD damage and metabolic disturbances. Subsequently, during thereperfusionphase,tissue damage isexacer- MASLDisindeedoneofthemostprevalentchronicliver bated due to the release of ROS and inflammatory disorders worldwide, affecting up to 25% of the global mediators. This phenomenon leads to severe hepatic population. This condition encompasses a range of dysfunctionand,inextremecases,multiorganfailure. histological features, including hepatic steatosis, hepa- The pathophysiology of hepatic I/R injury involves a tocyte ballooning, hepatic lobular inflammation, and complex interplay of various cellular and molecular liver fibrosis. Approximately 4% of individuals with mechanisms. It is, therefore, an essential area of simple steatosis and over 20% of those with MASH | PHYSICALEXERCISEINLIVERDISEASES 921 are expected to develop cirrhosis during their fitnessbecauseitimprovesMASLDwithlowerintensity lifetime. MASLD is a complex multifactorial disease and less energy consumption. In addition, a meta- whose exact pathogenesis is not fully understood. regression analysis from 17 studies (373 exercising Insulin resistance and liver steatosis may represent participants) revealed a significant negative correlation the first hit for the liver. However, it is important to between the duration of exercise
