|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


exercising Insulin resistance and liver steatosis may represent participants) revealed a significant negative correlation the first hit for the liver. However, it is important to between the duration of exercise and the reduction in note that steatosis, or fat accumulation in the liver, is IHTG (β = −0.27 [95% CI: −0.35 to −0.19], p < 0.001). typically an early event in MASLD and does not This suggests that as the duration of exercise necessarily progress to MASH. Additional stresses are increases, the reduction in IHTG becomes more required to induce MASH onsets, such as oxidative pronounced. Specifically, compared with shorter high- stress, lipotoxicity, inflammation, subsequent stimula- intensity exercise, continuous moderate-intensity proto- tion of hepatocyte death, tissue regeneration, and cols commonly exhibit a more significant decrease in fibrogenesis. IHTG in those patients with MASLD. The study A large amount of evidence derived from clinical revealed no statistically significant distinctions among studies of MASLD supports the vital role of physical the 3 levels of aerobic exercise regimens regarding exercise in improving histological parameters and decel- reducing intrahepatic lipid content. The results demon- erating the progression of the disease. This includes its stratedthatevenminimalengagementinexerciseledto ability to enhance insulin resistance, reduce hepatic a noticeable reduction in intrahepatic lipid levels. steatosis, and attenuate hepatic inflammation. For These findings highlight the importance of developing atcharoenwitthaya et al reported moderate-intensity may yield the most significant benefits for IHTG aerobicexerciseorresistancetrainingfor60minutesper reduction in patients with MASLD. day,5timesperweekfor12weeks,coupledwithdietary Although the FDA has approved Rezdiffra (resme- modifications equally reduced intrahepatic fat and subs- tirom)asthefirstdrugtreatmentforpatientswithMASH tantially improved underlying insulin resistancein individ- with moderate to advanced liver scarring (fibrosis), uals diagnosed with MASLD. It is worth noting that the lifestyle modification, including physical exercise, effectiveness of exercise in combating hepatic insulin remains generally recommended as a first-line therapy resistancevariesbasedonthedurationoftheintervention. for all patients with MASLD. In line with this Hari et al discovered that short-term (7 d) treadmill recommendation, the American Gastroenterological trainingconsistingof60minutesperdayat80%–85%of Association recommends that all patients with MASLD maximalheartrateincreasedperipheralinsulinsensitivity should engage in regular physical activity with a target by34%inpatientswithradiographicallyconfirmedMASLD of150–300minutesofmoderate-intensity(3–6MET)or (>5% intrahepatic lipid content). Another meta-analysis 75–150 minutes of vigorous-intensity (more than 6 that included 26 randomized clinical trials showed that MET) aerobic exercise per week. Resistance training short-termexerciseinterventions,lasting<12weeks,have can be complementary to aerobic exercise but not a shown efficacy in reducing specific insulin resistance replacement (Figure 3). markerssuchasfastingbloodglucoseandthehomeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance. Interestingly, an RCT indicated that combining moderate-intensity EXERCISE IN
