|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


aerobic exercise but not a shown efficacy in reducing specific insulin resistance replacement (Figure 3). markerssuchasfastingbloodglucoseandthehomeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance. Interestingly, an RCT indicated that combining moderate-intensity EXERCISE IN PORTAL aerobic exercise (60 min per day, 5 times per week for HYPERTENSION 12 wks) with alternate-day fasting has been shown to reduceinsulinresistanceinadultswithMASLD.However, Portal hypertension (PH) is defined as abnormally high this combined approach does not significantly enhance blood pressure within the portal vein system, primarily insulin resistance improvements compared to exercise causedbycirrhosisandotherportalveinobstructions,such alone.Theseclinicalfindingsunderscorethetherapeu- asPVT.PHcanleadtoseriouscomplicationssuchas tic potential of physical exercise as a potent tool in ascites,varicealbleeding,splenomegaly,andanelevated combattinginsulinresistanceinMASLD. riskofspontaneousbacterialperitonitisorotherinfections, exercise reduces IHTG levels, which is independent of standard for the diagnosis of PH is the HVPG. An HVPG weight loss.[24,108–110] A systematic review has com- value exceeding 5 mm Hg indicates the presence of PH, pared the therapeutic effects of aerobic and resistance whileavalueabove10mmHgdenotesclinicallysignificant exercises on hepatic steatosis in MASLD. They found portal hypertension. This latter threshold is considered that both aerobic and resistance exercise improved clinically significant because it marks the point at which hepatic steatosis to a similar extent, with common complicationsofPHbegintodevelop.TreatmentofPH parameters of duration, frequency, and training period focusesonreducingportalpressure,preventingcomplica- (40–45 min/session, 3 times/week for 12 wks). tions, and managing symptoms. This approach mainly However, resistance exercise may be more feasible includes the medication (nonselective beta-blockers), the for patients with MASLD with poor cardiorespiratory TIPS,andpericardialdevascularization. | 922 HEPATOLOGY 150 min/w 30 min/session; Moderate intense 30-60 min/session; 3 times/w; or 75 min/w 5 times/w 8–12w Vigorous intense Mild to Moderate intense Moderate intense Aerobic exercise Aerobic exercise Aerobic exercise MASLD Cirrhosis HCC Resistance exercise Resistance exercise Resistance exercise Complementary but not 8–15 times/set, 2 sets; a replacement 2 times/w, 8–12w Moderate intense FIGURE 3 Aerobicexercise(upper)andresistanceexercise(lower)arerecommendationsfornormal-conditionpatientswithMASLD,cir- rhosis,andlivercancer.Abbreviation:MASLD,metabolicdysfunction–associatedsteatoticliverdisease. ResearchontheimpactofphysicalexerciseonPHis Current research on PH is primarily focused on limited and has historically raised concerns about the cirrhosis-induced cases, with other causes of PH not potential for exacerbating complications such as HE or being well studied. In addition, there is a lack of bleeding after exercise. Initial studies indicated that comprehensive data on the appropriate intensity, 8–10 minutes of cycling at 30% and 50% of peak duration, and type of exercise required for effective workload increased HVPG. In an RCT, 40 patients treatmentandpreventionofPH,andthusnoconsensus with compensated cirrhosis of Child-Pugh A were has been reached in this area. recruited to evaluate the effects of a 12-week home- based exercise program. The regimen included moder- ate-intensity aerobic/isotonic
