|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


compensated cirrhosis of Child-Pugh A were has been reached in this area. recruited to evaluate the effects of a 12-week home- based exercise program. The regimen included moder- ate-intensity aerobic/isotonic continuous training exer- EXERCISE IN CIRRHOSIS ciseslasting40minutespersession,conductedatleast 4 times weekly. This study reported no adverse events Cirrhosis, primarily caused by MASLD, viral hepatitis, such as gastrointestinal bleeding, ascites, or and alcohol consumption, accounted for 2.4% of global musculoskeletalinjuries,yetitdidnotfindanybeneficial deaths in 2019. Cirrhosis manifests as extensive impactonPH.Conversely,anotherpilotrandomized fibrosis, resulting in nodular changes in liver structure. (averageHVPG >10mmHg)whoparticipatedina14- lead to severe complications such as ascites, variceal week supervised exercise program showed significant bleeding, and HE. The liver’s ability to synthesize benefits. The regimen, which consisted of physical and metabolize is impaired in cirrhosis, and the risk of exercises performed for 40 minutes, 3 times a week at HCC is elevated. an intensity of 12–14 on the Borg Rating of Perceived Physical exercise has been demonstrated to dimin- Exertion scale, led to an average reduction in HVPG of ish hepatic inflammation and fibrosis by influencing 2.5mmHg,withnoepisodesofvaricealbleedingorHE different signaling pathways. The mechanisms are observed. In addition, a prospective, multicenter, primarily associated with the regulation of several uncontrolled pilot study focused on the effects of an related signaling pathways, including the AMPK signal- intensive lifestyle intervention on patients with compen- ing pathway, the HMGCS2-regulated Wnt3a/β-cat- sated cirrhosis and PH (HVPG ≥6 mm Hg). Partici- enin pathway, monoacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 pants were engaged in a 16-week intensive lifestyle pathway, and MD2-toll-like receptor 4 pathway, modification program, which included a personalized etc. In addition, these mechanisms encompass the hypocaloric normoproteic diet and 60 minutes of inhibition of NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3 supervised physical activity (10 min of warm-up, inflammasomeactivation,modulationofmyeloidcell 40 min of aerobic and strength exercising routine, and monocytes infiltration in the liver, and restoration of 10 min of cooling down) each week. Results showed a gut microbiota. average of 13.9±5.6 mm Hg at baseline to advantageous effects of exercise for individuals in the 12.3±5.2 mm Hg after intervention, with 42% of early stages of cirrhosis. Aamann et al found that participants achieving an HVPG decrease of ≥10%. a regimen of resistance training for 1 hour, 3 times However, the study’s design does not confirm whether weekly for 12 weeks, not only diminished the risk of the observed reductions in PH were due to exercise, initial hospitalization and mortality among patients with diet, or a combination
