|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


weekly for 12 weeks, not only diminished the risk of the observed reductions in PH were due to exercise, initial hospitalization and mortality among patients with diet, or a combination of both. cirrhosis classified as Child-Pugh class A/B 3 years | PHYSICALEXERCISEINLIVERDISEASES 923 post-trial entry but also resulted in increased muscle Theaccumulatingepidemiologicalevidencesupports strength and size. Sirisunhirun et al implemented a thepotentialprotectiveroleofphysicalexerciseagainst 12-week program of aerobic moderate-intensity contin- liver cancer, particularly HCC. In the United States, a uoustrainingexercises,lasting40minutespersession, study revealed a moderate inverse correlation (r = at least 4 times a week, in patients with compensated −0.40, p = 0.004) between state-level physical exer- cirrhosis. This program significantly ameliorated the cise and the incidence of HCC. This is further fatigue domain of the quality-of-life index without supported by comprehensive research from over 44 inducing adverse reactions. However, no benefits were millionparticipantsacrosstheUnitedStatesandEurope, observedinthighmusclemass,liverstiffness,orspleen revealing that higher levels of leisure-time physical stiffness. Moreover, a meta-analysis of RCTs by exercise reduce liver cancer risk by over 20%. Kawaguchi et al discovered that a median protocol of Another cohort study quantifying the dose-response aerobic exercise for 30 minutes per session, 3 times a relationship between leisure-time physical exercise and week for 12 weeks, in combination with a resistance liver cancer showed that engagement in 7.5–15 hours exercise protocol of 60 minutes per session, 3 times a per week of leisure-time physical exercise was associ- week for 10 weeks, significantly reduced the incidence ated with an 18%–27% lower risk of liver cancer. of serious events in patients with liver cirrhosis and However, the study also identified a nonlinear associa- enhanced the 6-minute walk distance, an independent tion between the risk of liver cancer and activity levels, prognostic factor for these patients. implying a limit beyond which additional exercise does Given the heterogeneity of disease progression and notfurtherdecreaselivercancerrisk.Thisfindingraises exercise guidelines, particularly for resistance exercise, intensityofphysicalexerciseforlivercancerprevention. remain elusive. Nonetheless, there are established Whilethesestudiesaregroundbreaking,theyarelimited recommendations for the prescription of aerobic exercise by their failure to adjust for other potentially important in patients with cirrhosis. Before initiating an exercise confounding factors, including viral hepatitis, MASLD, regimeninpatientswithcirrhosis,acomprehensivemedical cirrhosis, and alcohol consumption. A prospective assessmentisimperative.Thisassessmentshouldencom- multinational cohort study further explored this associa- passanevaluationofcardiopulmonaryfunction,concurrent tion, finding physical exercise associated with a lower pathologies, and musculoskeletal constraints. Following riskoflivercancers.Thisrelationshippersistedevenafter this, it is crucial to delineate exercise objectives and adjusting for liver cancer risk factors like alcohol modalities, adhering to the FITT (Frequency, Intensity, consumption,
