|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


and musculoskeletal constraints. Following riskoflivercancers.Thisrelationshippersistedevenafter this, it is crucial to delineate exercise objectives and adjusting for liver cancer risk factors like alcohol modalities, adhering to the FITT (Frequency, Intensity, consumption, smoking, waist circumference, or body Time, and Type) principle, tailored to the patient’s unique mass index. Moreover, a meta-analysis provided healthcondition.Theclinicalpracticerecommendationsfor furtherevidence,demonstratinga23%reductioninliver patients with cirrhosis advocate for the engagement in cancer risk and a 19% decrease in mortality among physical exercise of mild to moderate intensity for individualswhoengagedinmoderatephysicalexercise, 30–60minutespersession,5daysperweek(cumulatively reinforcing the potential protective impact of exercise ≥150minperweek)throughanactivitysuchaswalkingor againstlivercancer. cycleergometry.Theintensityshouldbecalibratedto30%– The beneficial effects of physical exercise on liver 40%ofheartratereserveorwithinarangeof10–14onthe cancer can be attributed to various systemic and local Borgscale(Figure3). biological mechanisms. Obesity, an independent risk factor for mortality in primary liver cancer, can be significantlymitigated byphysicalexercise,reducing the EXERCISE IN LIVER CANCER associated risk. In addition, in patients with HCC, a decline in skeletal muscle mass is significantly associ- challenge and the third leading cause of cancer death tolerability, increased tumor recurrence, and all-cause worldwide, accounting for ~7.8% of total cancer deaths mortality. Significantly, exercise intervention has in 2022. The impending burden of liver cancer is improved skeletal muscle strength in these patients. expectedtoaffectover1millionindividualsby2025. This underscores the effective role of exercise in Notably, physical exercise is emerging as a particularly enhancing the management of liver cancer, potentially promising strategy. Studies suggest that physical improving treatment outcomes and survival rates for exercise might play a role in various aspects, including affected individuals. The benefits of exercise on liver reducing the risk of developing liver cancer,[133–135] cancer can be elucidated through 3 fundamental mech- controlling liver cancer progression, enhancing anisms. First, exercise regulates critical signaling path- efficacy, and reducing the side effects of anticancer ways and modulatory proteins crucial in HCC progres- treatments. This growing evidence suggests that sion. This includes the suppression of TGF-β, physical exercise could be an effective component in downregulation of dynamin-related protein 1, activa- combating liver cancer. tion of p53, and modulation of the AMPK/mTOR | 924 HEPATOLOGY signaling pathway. Second, exercise enhances anti- neuroinflammation by upregulating amyloid-β peptide tumorimmunitybyincreasingthe CD8+T-cellinfiltration (Aβ) transporter activity to clear Aβ, and promotes into the tumor microenvironment, creating a hostile neuroplastic changes by altering the synaptic structure environmentfortumorgrowthandprogressionwithinthe and function. Cardiovascular health benefits signif- liver. Third, exercise induces metabolic reprogram- icantlyfromphysicalexercise,whichpromotesmyocar- ming of tumor microenvironment, forming an exer- dial mitochondrial biogenesis and autophagy through cise-induced metabolic shield unfavorable for tumor cell the peroxisome
