|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


signif- liver. Third, exercise induces metabolic reprogram- icantlyfromphysicalexercise,whichpromotesmyocar- ming of tumor microenvironment, forming an exer- dial mitochondrial biogenesis and autophagy through cise-induced metabolic shield unfavorable for tumor cell the peroxisome proliferator–activated receptor gamma colonization.Thismetabolicreprogrammingunderscores coactivator 1-alpha. In addition, exercise attenuates theroleofexerciseinreshapingthemetaboliclandscape myocardial inflammation and apoptosis by regulating of the tumor microenvironment to impede cancer the apelin peptide jejunum/signal transducer and progression and metastasis. Beyond these specific activator of transcription 3 signaling pathway, and mechanisms, exercise also influences other critical it improves heart function after myocardial infarction factors,suchasangiogenesisandoxidativestress,which through the AMPK signaling pathway. For muscles, can affect tumor growth and survival. However, it is physical exercise increases the utilization of glucose essentialtoacknowledgethatcurrentresearchonthese and fatty acid, promotes the secretion of myokines mechanismsremainslimited,necessitatingfurtherempir- that facilitate communication with other organs such as ical investigation to substantiate these findings and fully adiposetissue,liver,andpancreas,andreducesthe elucidate their implications in the context of liver cancer risk of sarcopenia by maintaining muscle mass and management. strength. Moreover, physical exercise contributes to the integration of regular exercise into both cancer and enhances paracrine and endocrine functions of treatment regimens and posttreatment recovery. adiposetissuebyincreasingtheproductionofbeneficial During the second roundtable conference held in 2018, adipokines and extracellular vesicles. Exercise also survivors, including those with liver cancer, was increasing butyrate production, and restoring intes- presented. The most effective exercise prescription for tinal barrier integrity. addressing health-related outcomes caused by cancer Physical exercise indirectly promotes liver health diagnosis and treatment includes engaging in moder- through its effects on other organs. For instance, ate-intensity aerobic training at least 3 times per week, physical exercise stimulates the brain to secrete for at least 30 minutes each session, for at least 8–12 IGF-1, which alleviates hepatic histologic lesions in weeks. In addition to aerobic training, incorporating MASH. In addition, exercise enhances cardio- resistance training atleast twice a week, with at least 2 pulmonary efficiency, which significantly improves sets of 8–15 repetitions, where each repetition is overall well-being and quality of life in adult recipients performed with at least 60% of the maximum weight oflivertransplant.Physicalexercisealsotriggersthe that can be lifted once, appears to offer similar benefits release of myokines, such as Irisin, which can inhibit (Figure 3). This endorsement highlights the hepaticinflammationbycompetitivelybindingwithMD2 recognized importance of physical activity in to improve MASLD. Moreover, exercise helps individuals undergoing cancer therapy and those in the a key factor in the development of MASLD. It also recovery phase after treatment. Further evidence is regulates the
