|
KEYWORDS: exercise, liver, physical, resistance, hepatic, insulin, physical exercise, cancer, week, masld, cells, aerobic, patients, weeks, cirrhosis


Moreover, exercise helps individuals undergoing cancer therapy and those in the a key factor in the development of MASLD. It also recovery phase after treatment. Further evidence is regulates the gut microbiota, providing therapeutic neededtoformulateindividualizedandrealisticexercise benefits for liver diseases like MASLD and programs, including the type, intensity, and duration of cirrhosis. Through these indirect mechanisms, patients with liver cancer. highlighting its wide-ranging impact. PHYSICAL EXERCISE INDIRECTLY CONCLUSIONS AND FURTHER IMPROVES LIVER DISEASES PERSPECTIVE THROUGH OTHER ORGANS In summary, the existing literature demonstrates the healthanddiseaseresistanceacrossvariousorgans.In effectively improves critical factors such as insulin the brain, physical exercise enhances cognitive func- resistance, hepatic fatty acid metabolism, and the tions through multiple mechanisms: it increases the modulation of inflammatory cascades. These findings generationofnewneuronsinthehippocampusthrough support the current guidelines recommending tailored brain-derived neurotrophic factor, suppresses exercise programs to enhance long-term adherence | PHYSICALEXERCISEINLIVERDISEASES 925 andpromoteanactivelifestyleamongpatientswithliver 7. HashidaR,KawaguchiT,BekkiM,OmotoM,MatsuseH,Nago diseases. However, there remains a pressing need for T, et al. Aerobic vs. resistance exercise in non-alcoholic fatty multicenter clinical trials toestablishexercise norms for liverdisease:Asystematicreview.JHepatol.2017;66:142–52. 8. KawaguchiT,KawaguchiA,HashidaR,NakanoD,TsutsumiT, different disease stages, thereby further enriching our Kawaguchi M, et al. Resistance exercise in combination with understanding of the role of exercise in liver disease aerobic exercise reduces the incidence of serious events in management. patients with liver cirrhosis: A meta-analysis of randomized controlledtrials.JGastroenterol.2024;59:216–28. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 9. Lee YT, Wang JJ, Luu M, Tseng HR, Rich NE, Lu SC, et al. State-level HCC incidence and association with obesity and Yunwei Zhang and Chunyan Cao wrote the manuscript physical activity in the United States. Hepatology. 2021;74: and prepared figures. Chaofan Li, Russell G. Witt, Hai 1384–94. Huang, and Allan Tsung helped with manuscript 10. Bernardi M, Santini C, Trevisani F, Baraldini M, Ligabue A, revision. Hongji Zhang provided supervision, manu- GasbarriniG.Renalfunctionimpairmentinducedbychangein script review, and editing. posture in patients with cirrhosis and ascites. Gut. 1985;26: 629–35. 11. Franken FH. Bed rest, diet and working capability in liver FUNDING INFORMATION disease(author’stransl).LeberMagenDarm.1977;7:300–5. This work was supported by the National Institutes of 12. Messner M, Brissot P. Traditional management of liver Health R01-CA214865 and R01-GM95566 to Allan disorders.Drugs.1990;40(suppl3):45–57. Hai Huang, and state funds within the UVA Comprehen- ability, and muscle mass during treatment of hepatoma in sive Cancer Center “IDEA-Cancer pilot award” and patients with chronic liver disease. Hepatol Res. 2017;47: “CancerTherapeutics(CRX)pilotaward”toHongjiZhang. E22–e34. 14. LesmanaCR,InggrianiS,CahyadinataL,LesmanaLA.Deep CONFLICTS OF INTEREST veinthrombosisinpatientswithadvancedlivercirrhosis:Arare condition?HepatolInt.2010;4:433–8. The authors have no conflicts to report. 15. ChunHS,LeeM,LeeHA,Oh SY,BaekHJ,MoonJW,etal. Association of physical activity with risk of
