Dyspnea
KEYWORDS: dyspnea, pulmonary, chest, disease, heart, history, patients, causes, cause, chronic, examination, findings, pulmonary embolism, testing, physical


flow 7/12 Cause Suggestive Findings Diagnostic Approach† Dyspnea only on exertion History and physical Physical deconditioning in patients with sedentary examination lifestyle * Chronic dyspnea that has lasted for weeks to years. In many of these disorders, dyspnea is initially present on exertion before progressing to dyspnea at rest. † Most patients should have pulse oximetry and, unless symptoms are clearly a mild exacerbation of a known chronic disease, chest radiograph. CAD = coronary artery disease; COPD = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CT = computed tomography; ECG = electrocardiogram; EMG = electromyography; S2 = second heart sound; S3 = third heart sound. Pathophysiology of Dyspnea Although dyspnea is a relatively common problem, the pathophysiology of the uncomfortable sensation of breathing is poorly understood. Unlike those for other types of noxious stimuli, there are no specialized dyspnea receptors (although MRI studies have identified a few specific areas in the midbrain that may mediate perception of dyspnea). The experience of dyspnea likely results from a complex interaction between chemoreceptor stimulation, mechanical abnormalities in breathing, abnormalities in cardiac function or venous return, and the perception of those abnormalities by the central nervous system. Some authors have described the imbalance between neurologic stimulation and mechanical changes in the lungs and chest wall as neuromechanical uncoupling (1, 2). Evaluation of Dyspnea History History of present illness should cover the temporal onset (eg, abrupt, insidious) and duration. Severity can be determined by assessing the activity level required to cause dyspnea (eg, dyspnea at rest is typically more severe than dyspnea only when climbing stairs). Healthcare professionals should note how much dyspnea has changed from the patient’s usual state. Precipitating or exacerbating factors (eg, allergen exposure, cold, exertion, supine position) and relieving factors should be identified. Review of systems should seek symptoms of possible causes, including chest pain or pressure (pulmonary embolism, myocardial ischemia, pneumonia); dependent edema, orthopnea, and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (heart failure); fever, chills, cough, and sputum production (pneumonia); black, tarry stools or heavy menses (occult bleeding, possibly causing anemia); and weight loss or night sweats (cancer or chronic lung infection). Past medical history should cover disorders known to cause dyspnea, including asthma, COPD, and heart disease, as well as risk factors for the different etiologies: Smoking history: For cancer, COPD, some interstitial lung diseases, and heart disease Family history, hypertension, and high cholesterol levels: For coronary artery disease Recent immobilization or surgery, recent long-distance
