Dyspnea
KEYWORDS: dyspnea, pulmonary, chest, disease, heart, history, patients, causes, cause, chronic, examination, findings, pulmonary embolism, testing, physical


etiologies: Smoking history: For cancer, COPD, some interstitial lung diseases, and heart disease Family history, hypertension, and high cholesterol levels: For coronary artery disease Recent immobilization or surgery, recent long-distance travel, cancer or risk factors for or signs of occult cancer, prior or family history of clotting, pregnancy, oral contraceptive use, calf pain, leg swelling, and known deep venous thrombosis: For pulmonary embolism Environmental and occupational exposures (eg, gases, smoke, asbestos) should be investigated. Physical examination Vital signs are reviewed for fever, tachycardia, hypoxia, and tachypnea. Examination focuses on the cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. A full lung examination should be performed, particularly including adequacy of air entry and exit, symmetry of breath sounds, and presence of crackles, rhonchi, stridor, and wheezing. Signs of consolidation (eg, egophony, dullness to percussion) should be sought. The cervical, supraclavicular, and inguinal areas should be inspected and palpated for lymphadenopathy. Neck veins should be inspected for distention, and the legs and presacral area should be palpated for pitting edema (both suggesting heart failure). Heart sounds should be auscultated with notation of any extra heart sounds, muffled heart sounds, or murmurs. Testing for pulsus paradoxus (a > 12-mm Hg drop of systolic blood pressure during inspiration) can be done by inflating a blood pressure cuff to 20 mm Hg above the systolic pressure and then slowly deflating until the first Korotkoff sound is heard only during expiration. As the cuff is further deflated, the point at which the first Korotkoff sound is audible during both inspiration and expiration is 9/12 recorded. If the difference between the first and second measurement is > 12 mm Hg, then pulsus paradoxus is present. Conjunctiva should be examined for pallor. Red flags The following findings are of particular concern: Dyspnea at rest during examination Decreased level of consciousness or agitation or confusion Accessory muscle use and poor air excursion Chest pain Crackles Weight loss Night sweats Palpitations Interpretation of findings The history and physical examination often suggest a cause and guide further testing (see tables Some Causes of Acute Dyspnea, Some Causes of Subacute Dyspnea, and Some Causes of Chronic Dyspnea) (1). Several findings are of note: Wheezing suggests asthma or COPD, although it can occur with other disease processes such as heart failure, paradoxical vocal fold motion, tracheal stenosis, tracheomalacia, relapsing polychondritis, and bronchiolitis. Stridor suggests extrathoracic airway obstruction (eg, foreign body, epiglottitis, vocal fold dysfunction). Crackles suggest left
