Dyspnea
KEYWORDS: dyspnea, pulmonary, chest, disease, heart, history, patients, causes, cause, chronic, examination, findings, pulmonary embolism, testing, physical


such as heart failure, paradoxical vocal fold motion, tracheal stenosis, tracheomalacia, relapsing polychondritis, and bronchiolitis. Stridor suggests extrathoracic airway obstruction (eg, foreign body, epiglottitis, vocal fold dysfunction). Crackles suggest left heart failure, interstitial lung disease, or, if accompanied by signs of consolidation, pneumonia. However, the symptoms and signs of life-threatening conditions such as myocardial ischemia and pulmonary embolism can be nonspecific. Furthermore, the severity of symptoms is not always proportional to the severity of the cause (eg, pulmonary embolism in a fit, healthy person may cause only mild dyspnea). Thus, a high degree of suspicion for these common conditions is prudent. It is often appropriate to exclude these conditions before attributing dyspnea to a less serious etiology. Consideration of pre-test probability and sometimes clinical prediction rules can help estimate the likelihood of pulmonary embolism. Note that normal oxygen saturation does not exclude pulmonary embolism. Hyperventilation syndrome is a diagnosis of exclusion. Because hypoxia may also cause tachypnea and agitation, it should not be assumed that every rapidly breathing, anxious young person merely has hyperventilation syndrome. 10/12 Testing Pulse oximetry should be performed in all patients, and chest radiography should be done as well unless symptoms are clearly caused by a mild or moderate exacerbation of a known condition. For example, patients with asthma or heart failure do not require a radiograph for each flare-up, unless clinical findings suggest another cause or an unusually severe attack. Most adults should have an ECG to detect myocardial ischemia (and serum cardiac biomarker testing if suspicion is high) unless myocardial ischemia can be excluded clinically. In patients with severe or deteriorating respiratory status, arterial blood gases (ABGs) should be measured to more precisely quantify PaO2 and PaCO2, diagnose acid-base disorders stimulating hyperventilation, and calculate the alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient. Also, obtaining a basic metabolic panel to measure the bicarbonate level can be useful to assess the chronicity of a respiratory acidosis. Patients who have no clear diagnosis after chest radiograph and ECG and are at moderate or high risk of having pulmonary embolism (based on a clinical prediction rule) should undergo CT angiography or ventilation/perfusion scanning. Patients who are at low risk may have D-dimer testing (a normal D- dimer level effectively excludes pulmonary embolism in a low-risk patient). See diagnostic criteria to determine the likelihood of a patient having a pulmonary embolism. Chronic dyspnea may warrant additional tests, such as CT, pulmonary function tests,
