Dyspnea
KEYWORDS: dyspnea, pulmonary, chest, disease, heart, history, patients, causes, cause, chronic, examination, findings, pulmonary embolism, testing, physical


in a low-risk patient). See diagnostic criteria to determine the likelihood of a patient having a pulmonary embolism. Chronic dyspnea may warrant additional tests, such as CT, pulmonary function tests, echocardiography, and bronchoscopy. If initial workup is inconclusive, cardiopulmonary exercise testing can be considered. CLINICAL CALCULATORS A-a Gradient Treatment of Dyspnea Treatment is correction of the underlying disorder. Hypoxemia (in the absence of compensatory hyperventilation) is treated with supplemental oxygen as needed to maintain oxygen saturation > 88% or PaO2 > 55 mm Hg (> 7.3 kPa) because levels above these thresholds provide adequate oxygen delivery to tissues. Levels below these thresholds are on the steep portion of the oxygen–hemoglobin dissociation curve, where even a small decline in arterial oxygen tension can result in a large decline in hemoglobin saturation. Oxygen saturation should be maintained at > 93% if myocardial or cerebral ischemia is a concern, although data suggest that 11/12 supplemental oxygen is not beneficial in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction unless the patient has hypoxia (1). Morphine (eg, 0.5 to 5 mg IV) helps reduce anxiety and the discomfort of dyspnea in various conditions, including myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, and the dyspnea that commonly accompanies terminal illness. However, opioids should be used with caution in patients with acute airflow limitation (eg, asthma, COPD) because they suppress the ventilatory drive and can worsen respiratory acidemia. Key Points Pulse oximetry is a key component of the examination. Low oxygen saturation (< 90%) indicates a serious condition, but normal saturation does not exclude one. Accessory muscle use, a sudden decrease in oxygen saturation, or a decreased level of consciousness requires emergent evaluation and hospitalization. Myocardial ischemia and pulmonary embolism are relatively common, but their symptoms and signs can be nonspecific. Exacerbation of known conditions (eg, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart failure) is common, but patients may also develop new conditions.
