Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


Introduction The Department of Health (DH) asked the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) to produce public health guidance on the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) at population level. CVD includes coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke and peripheral arterial disease. These conditions are frequently brought about by the development of atheroma and thrombosis (blockages in the arteries). They are also linked to conditions such as heart failure, chronic kidney disease and dementia. The guidance is for government, the NHS, local authorities, industry and all those whose actions influence the population's cardiovascular health. This includes commissioners, managers and practitioners working in local authorities and the wider public, private, voluntary and community sectors. It may also be of interest to members of the public. The guidance complements, but does not replace, NICE's guidance on smoking cessation and prevention and tobacco control, physical activity, obesity, hypertension and maternal and child nutrition. It will also complement NICE guidance on alcohol misuse. The Programme Development Group (PDG) developed the recommendations on the basis of reviews of the evidence, economic modelling, expert advice, stakeholder comments and fieldwork. Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. The evidence statements underpinning the recommendations are listed in appendix C. See also the evidence reviews, supporting evidence statements and economic modelling report. Recommendations for policy: A national framework for action • Changes in cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors can be brought about by intervening at the population and individual level. Government has addressed, and continues to address, the risk factors at both levels. • Interventions focused on changing an individual's behaviour are important and are supported by a range of existing NICE guidance. • Changes at the population-level could lead to further substantial benefits and this guidance breaks new ground for NICE, by focusing on action to bring about such changes. They may be achieved in a number of ways but national or regional policy and legislation are particularly powerful levers. For more on the importance of interventions aimed at the whole population, see considerations 1.12 to
