Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


number of ways but national or regional policy and legislation are particularly powerful levers. For more on the importance of interventions aimed at the whole population, see considerations 1.12 to 1.15. Also for reference, see: － Blas et al. (2008): Addressing social determinants of health inequities: what can the state and civil society do? － Kelly et al. (2009a) A conceptual framework for public health: NICE's emerging approach. － Marmot (2010) Fair society, healthy lives: strategic review of health inequalities in England post 2010. － Rose (2008) Rose's strategy of preventive medicine. Commentary by Khaw and Marmot. • This guidance makes the case that CVD is a major public health problem. • Recommendations 1 to 12 are based on extensive and consistent evidence. This suggests that the policy goals identified provide the outline for a sound, evidence- based national framework for action which is likely to be the most effective and cost- effective way of reducing CVD at population level. • It would require a range of legislative, regulatory and voluntary changes including the further development of existing policies. • The framework would be established through policy, led by the Department of Health. It would involve government, government agencies, industry and key, non- governmental organisations working together. • The final decision on whether these policy options are adopted, and how they are prioritised, will be determined by government through normal political processes. • The recommendations for practice (recommendations 13 to 24) support and complement, and are supported by, these policy options. Who should take action? • As well as the Department of Health, the following should be involved: － Chief Medical Officer － National Clinical Director for Coronary Heart Disease － Government Chief Scientific Adviser － Department of Health Chief Scientist － Advertising Standards Authority － Department for Business, Innovation and Skills － Department for Culture, Media and Sport － Department for Education － Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs － Department for Transport － Department of Communities and Local Government － Food Standards Agency － HM Treasury － National Institute for Health Research － Ofcom • Other research organisations (for example, the Medical Research Council and the Economic and Social Research Council). • Other key players include: － caterers － food and drink producers － food and drink retailers － marketing and media industries － national, non-governmental organisations including, for example, the British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK,
