Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


caterers － food and drink producers － food and drink retailers － marketing and media industries － national, non-governmental organisations including, for example, the British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Diabetes UK, National Heart Forum, the Stroke Association and other chronic disease charities － the farming sector. Recommendation 1 Salt • High levels of salt in the diet are linked with high blood pressure which, in turn, can lead to stroke and coronary heart disease. High levels of salt in processed food have a major impact on the total amount consumed by the population. • Over recent years the food industry, working with the Food Standards Agency, has made considerable progress in reducing salt in everyday foods. As a result, products with no added salt are now increasingly available. However, it is taking too long to reduce average salt intake among the population. Furthermore, average intake among children is above the level recommended by Public Health England, and some children consume as much salt as adults. Progress towards a low-salt diet needs to be accelerated as a matter of urgency. Policy goal • Reduce population-level consumption of salt. To achieve this, the evidence suggests that the following are among the measures that should be considered. What action should be taken? • Accelerate the reduction in salt intake among the population. Aim for a maximum intake of 6 g per day per adult by 2015 and 3 g by 2025. • Ensure children's salt intake does not exceed age-appropriate guidelines (these guidelines should be based on up-to-date assessments of the available scientific evidence). • Promote the benefits of a reduction in the population's salt intake to the European Union (EU). Introduce national legislation if necessary. • Ensure national policy on salt in England is not weakened by less effective action in other parts of the EU. • Ensure food producers and caterers continue to reduce the salt content of commonly consumed foods (including bread, meat products, cheese, soups and breakfast cereals). This can be achieved by progressively changing recipes, products and manufacturing and production methods. • Establish the principle that children under 11 should consume substantially less salt than adults. (This is based on advice from the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition.) • Support the Food Standards Agency so that it can continue to promote, and take the lead on, the development of EU-wide salt targets for processed foods. • Establish
