Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


daily amount (GDA) from each category. • Consider using legislation to ensure universal implementation of the Food Standards Agency's front-of-pack traffic light labelling system. • Develop and implement nutritional labelling for use on shelves or packaging for bread, cakes, meat and dairy products displayed in a loose or unwrapped state or packed on the premises. The labelling should be consistent with the Food Standards Agency's traffic light labelling system. • Ensure food and drink labelling is consistent in format and content. In particular, it should refer to salt (as opposed to sodium), the content per 100 g and use kcals as the measure of energy. • Continue to support the Food Standards Agency in providing clear information about healthy eating. • Ensure the UK continues to set the standard of best practice by pursuing exemption from potentially less effective EU food labelling regulations when appropriate. Recommendation 7 Health impact assessment (see also recommendation 22) • Policies in a wide variety of areas can have a positive or negative impact on CVD risk factors, and frequently the consequences are unintended. The Cabinet Office has indicated that, where relevant, government departments should assess the impact of policies on the health of the population. Well-developed tools and techniques exist for achieving this. Policy goals • Ensure government policy is assessed for its impact on CVD. • Ensure any such assessments are adequately incorporated into the policy making process. To achieve this, the following are among the measures that should be considered. What action should be taken? • Assess (in line with the Cabinet Office requirement) all public policy and programmes for the potential impact (positive and negative) on CVD and other related chronic diseases. In addition, assess the potential impact on health inequalities. Assessments should be carried out using health and policy impact assessment and other similar, existing tools. • Monitor the outcomes of policy and programmes after the assessment and use them to follow up and amend future plans. • Make health impact assessment mandatory in specific scenarios. (Note that strategic environmental assessment, environmental impact assessment and regulatory impact assessment are already mandatory in certain contexts.) Recommendation 8 Common agricultural policy • The common agricultural policy (CAP) is the overarching framework used by EU member countries to form their own agricultural policies. The burden of diet-related disease has grown considerably since CAP was first implemented. • CAP reform offers a significant opportunity
