Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


highly nutritious foods such as fruit, vegetables, whole grains and leaner meats. • Negotiate to ensure the European Commission's impact assessment procedure takes cardiovascular health and other health issues into account. (Impact assessment is part of the European Commission's strategic planning and programming cycle.) Recommendation 9 Physically active travel (see also recommendation 21) • Travel offers an important opportunity to help people become more physically active. However, inactive modes of transport have increasingly dominated in recent years. In England, schemes to encourage people to opt for more physically active forms of travel (such as walking and cycling) are 'patchy'. Policy goal • Ensure government funding supports physically active modes of travel. To achieve this, the evidence suggests that the following are among the measures that should be considered. What action should be taken? • Ensure guidance for local transport plans supports physically active travel. This can be achieved by allocating a percentage of the integrated block allocation fund to schemes which support walking and cycling as modes of transport. • Create an environment and incentives which promote physical activity, including physically active travel to and at work. • Consider and address factors which discourage physical activity, including physically active travel to and at work. An example of the latter is subsidised parking. Recommendation 10 Public sector catering guidelines (see also recommendations 19 and 20) • Public sector organisations are important providers of food and drink to large sections of the population. It is estimated that they provide around one in three meals eaten outside the home. Hence, an effective way to reduce the risk of CVD would be to improve the nutritional quality of the food and drink they provide. Policy goals • Ensure publicly funded food and drink provision contributes to a healthy, balanced diet and the prevention of CVD. • Ensure public sector catering practice offers a good example of what can be done to promote a healthy, balanced diet. • To achieve this, the evidence suggests that the following are among the measures that should be considered. What action should be taken? • Ensure all publicly funded catering departments meet Food Standards Agency- approved dietary guidelines. This includes catering in schools, hospitals and public sector work canteens. • Assess the effectiveness of the government's healthier food mark pilot. If successful, develop a timetable to implement it on a permanent basis. Recommendation 11 Take-aways and other food outlets
