Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


• Assess the effectiveness of the government's healthier food mark pilot. If successful, develop a timetable to implement it on a permanent basis. Recommendation 11 Take-aways and other food outlets (see also recommendations 23 and 24) • Food from take-aways and other outlets (the 'informal eating out sector') comprises a significant part of many people's diet. Local planning authorities have powers to control fast-food outlets. Policy goal Empower local authorities to influence planning permission for food retail outlets in relation to preventing and reducing CVD. To achieve this, the following are among the measures that should be considered. What action should be taken? • Encourage local planning authorities to restrict planning permission for take-aways and other food retail outlets in specific areas (for example, within walking distance of schools). Help them implement existing planning policy guidance in line with public health objectives. (See also recommendation 12.) • Review and amend 'classes of use' orders for England to address disease prevention via the concentration of outlets in a given area. These orders are set out in the Town and Country Planning (Use Classes) Order 1987 and subsequent amendments. Recommendation 12 Monitoring • CVD is responsible for around 33% of the observed gap in life expectancy among people living in areas with the worst health and deprivation indicators compared with those living elsewhere in England. Independent monitoring, using a full range of available data, is vital when assessing the need for additional measures to address such health inequalities, including those related to CVD. Policy goal Ensure all appropriate data are available for monitoring and analysis to inform CVD prevention policy. To achieve this, the evidence suggests that the following are among the measures that should be considered. What action should be taken? • Ensure data on CVD prevention is available for scrutiny by the public health community as a whole. • Ensure new econometric data (including pooled consumer purchasing data) are rapidly made available by industry for monitoring and analysis by independent agencies. • Use population surveys (including Public Health England's National Diet and Nutrition Survey [NDNS] and the Low income diet and nutrition survey [LIDNS]) and data from all relevant sources to monitor intake of nutrients for all population groups. (Sources include: the Food Standards Agency, Department of Health, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Office for National Statistics, the Public Health Observatories, academic and other researchers.) • Monitor the
