Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


include: the Food Standards Agency, Department of Health, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Office for National Statistics, the Public Health Observatories, academic and other researchers.) • Monitor the intake of salt, trans fatty acids, saturated fatty acids and mono and polyunsaturated fatty acids among different population groups and report the findings for those groups. • Support the National diet and nutrition survey and the Low income diet and nutrition survey. • Ensure the CVD module (including lipid profile measures) routinely appears in the NHS Digital's Health surveys for England. • Develop an international public health information system (resembling GLOBALink) for CVD prevention and use it to ensure widespread dissemination of these data. Recommendations for practice Recommendations 13 to 18 Regional CVD prevention programmes • Recommendations 13 to 18 provide for a comprehensive regional and local CVD prevention programme. They should all be implemented, following the order set out below and in conjunction with recommendations 1 to 12, which they support. The aim is to plan, develop and maintain effective programmes. The target population for recommendations 13 to 18 and the list of who should take action is outlined below. This is followed by the specific actions to be taken in relation to each element of the programme. Whose health will benefit? • The population that falls within a local authority, primary care trust (PCT) area or across combined PCT and local authority areas or within a particular region of the country. Who should take action? Commissioners and providers of public health intervention programmes within: • city region partnerships • government regional offices • local authorities • local strategic partnerships • non-governmental organisations, including charities and community groups • PCTs • strategic health authorities. Recommendation 13 Regional CVD prevention programmes – good practice principles What action should be taken? • Ensure a CVD prevention programme comprises intense, multi-component interventions. • Ensure it takes into account issues identified in recommendations 1 to 12. • Ensure it includes initiatives aimed at the whole population (such as local policy and regulatory initiatives) which complement existing programmes aimed at individuals at high risk of CVD. • Ensure it is sustainable for a minimum of 5 years. • Ensure appropriate time and resources are allocated for all stages, including planning and evaluation. Recommendation 14 Regional CVD prevention programmes – preparation What action should be taken? • Gain a good understanding of the prevalence and
