Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


allocated for all stages, including planning and evaluation. Recommendation 14 Regional CVD prevention programmes – preparation What action should be taken? • Gain a good understanding of the prevalence and incidence of CVD in the community. Find out about any previous CVD prevention initiatives that have been run (including any positive or negative experiences). • Consider how existing policies relating to food, tobacco control and physical activity, including those developed by the local authority, may impact on the prevalence of CVD locally. • Gauge the community's level of knowledge of, and beliefs about, CVD risk factors. This includes beliefs that smoking is the only solace in life for people with little money, or that only people who have a lot of money eat salad. • Gauge how confident people in the community are that they can change their behaviour to reduce the risks of CVD (see NICE's guideline on behaviour change: general approaches). • Identify groups of the population who are disproportionately affected by CVD and develop strategies with them to address their needs. • Take into account the community's exposure to risk factors (factors currently facing adults and those emerging for children and younger people). Recommendation 15 Regional CVD prevention programmes – programme development What action should be taken? • Develop a population-based approach. • Ensure a 'programme theory' is developed and used to underpin the programme (Pawson 2001). This should cover the reasons why particular actions are expected to have particular outcomes. • Ensure the programme helps address local area agreement targets and acts as a local incentive to help meet the government's programme for world class commissioning in the NHS. Also ensure it tackles health inequalities. • Link the programme with existing strategies for targeting people at particularly high risk of CVD and take account of ongoing, accredited screening activities by GPs and other healthcare professionals. This includes the NHS Health Checks programme. • Work closely with regional and local authorities and other organisations to promote policies which are likely to encourage healthier eating, tobacco control and increased physical activity. Policies may cover spatial planning, transport, food retailing and procurement. Organisations that may get involved could include statutory, public sector and civil society groups (examples of the latter are charities, clubs, self-help and community groups). When developing CVD programmes, take account of relevant recommendations in NICE's guidelines on tobacco, walking and cycling, physical activity: brief advice for
