Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


latter are charities, clubs, self-help and community groups). When developing CVD programmes, take account of relevant recommendations in NICE's guidelines on tobacco, walking and cycling, physical activity: brief advice for adults in primary care, exercise referral schemes to promote physical activity, behaviour change: general approaches, physical activity and the environment, community engagement: improving health and wellbeing and reducing health inequalities, maternal and child nutrition, physical activity in the workplace, cardiovascular disease: identifying and supporting people most at risk of dying early, physical activity for children and young people and overweight and obesity management. • Only develop, plan and implement a strategic, integrated media campaign as part of a wider package of interventions to address CVD risk factors. Media campaigns should be based on an acknowledged theoretical framework. Recommendation 16 Regional CVD prevention programmes – resources What action should be taken? • Ensure the programme lasts a minimum of 5 years (while subject to annual evaluation reports) to maximise its potential impact. • Produce a long-term plan, and gain political commitment, for funding to ensure the programme has adequate resources and is sustainable beyond the end of the research or evaluation period. • Ensure the programme is adequately staffed. Avoid adding CVD prevention to the workload of existing staff without relieving them of other tasks. • Ensure volunteers are an additional (rather than a core) resource and that their training and support is adequately resourced. • Ensure steps are taken to retain staff. • Where staff are recruited from the local community ensure, as far as possible, that they reflect the local culture and ethnic mix. • Ensure there are effective links with other existing and relevant community initiatives. Recommendation 17 Regional CVD prevention programmes – leadership What action should be taken? • Act as leader and governor of CVD prevention. Identify and articulate local community needs and aspirations and how these may impact on the community's risk of CVD. Reconcile these needs and aspirations or arbitrate on them to help prevent CVD (see the Department for Communities and Local Government's 2008 statutory guidance on creating strong, safe and prosperous communities). • Identify senior figures within PCTs and local authorities as champions for CVD prevention. • Identify people to lead the CVD programme, including members of the local community. Identify in advance, and provide for, the training and other needs of these potential leaders. • Develop systems within local strategic partnerships
