Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


CVD programme, including members of the local community. Identify in advance, and provide for, the training and other needs of these potential leaders. • Develop systems within local strategic partnerships and other subregional or regional partnerships for agreeing shared priorities with other organisations involved in CVD prevention. Ensure senior staff are involved, as appropriate. Recommendation 18 Regional CVD prevention programmes – evaluation What action should be taken? • Establish baseline measures before the CVD programme begins. These should include lifestyle and other factors that influence cardiovascular risk, as well as figures on CVD prevalence and mortality. The establishment of such measures should be budgeted for as part of the programme. • Ensure evaluation is built in (in line with NICE's guideline on behaviour change: general approaches). It should include the policies and activities of partner organisations which are likely to influence CVD prevalence. • Ensure appropriate methods (using multiple approaches and measures) are used to evaluate the programme's processes, outcomes and measures or indicators. Evaluation should include determining how acceptable the programme is to the local community or the groups targeted. • Ensure the results of evaluation are freely available and shared with partner organisations. Use the findings to inform future activities. Recommendation 19 Children and young people Whose health will benefit? • Children and young people aged under 16 years. Who should take action? • Parents and carers of children and young people under the age of 16. • Local authorities (providers of cultural and leisure services). • Schools (governors and teachers). • Catering staff. • Nursery nurses and workers in pre-school day care settings such as nurseries. • Managers of children's centres. What action should they take? • Help children and young people to have a healthy diet and lifestyle. This includes helping them to develop positive, life-long habits in relation to food. This can be achieved by ensuring the messages conveyed about food, the food and drink available, and where it is consumed, is conducive to a healthy diet. (For more details, see NICE's guidelines on maternal and child nutrition and physical activity for children and young people). • When public money is used to procure food and drink in venues outside the direct control of the public sector, ensure those venues provide a range of affordable healthier options (including from vending machines). Ideally, the healthier options should be cheaper than the less healthy alternatives. For instance,
