Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


public sector, ensure those venues provide a range of affordable healthier options (including from vending machines). Ideally, the healthier options should be cheaper than the less healthy alternatives. For instance, carbonated or sweetened drinks should not be the only options and fruit and water should be available at an affordable price. (Examples of when public money is used in this way include school visits to museums, sports centres, cinemas and fun parks.) • Encourage venues frequented by children and young people and supported by public money to resist sponsorship or product placement from companies associated with foods high in fat, sugar or salt. (This includes fun parks and museums.) • Organisations in the public sector should avoid sponsorship from companies associated with foods high in fat, sugar or salt. Recommendation 20 Public sector food provision Whose health will benefit? • Anyone who eats food provided by public sector organisations. Who should take action? • Education authorities. • Government departments and agencies. • Local authorities. • NHS organisations. • Prison services. • The armed forces. • The emergency services. What action should they take? • Ensure all food procured by, and provided for, people working in the public sector and all food provided for people who use public services: － is low in salt and saturated fats － is nutritionally balanced and varied, in line with recommendations made in the NHS eatwell guide • does not contain industrially produced trans fatty acids (IPTFAs). Recommendation 21 Physical activity Whose health will benefit? • Everyone. Who should take action? • Local authorities. • PCTs. What action should they take? • Ensure the physical environment encourages people to be physically active (see NICE's guideline on physical activity and the environment). Implement changes where necessary. This includes prioritising the needs of pedestrians and cyclists over motorists when developing or redeveloping highways. It also includes developing and implementing public sector workplace travel plans that incorporate physical activity (see NICE's guideline on physical activity in the workplace). Encourage and support employers in other sectors to do the same. • Ensure the need for children and young people to be physically active is addressed (see NICE's guideline on physical activity for children and young people). This includes providing adequate play spaces and opportunities for formal and informal physical activity. • Audit bye-laws and amend those that prohibit physical activity in public spaces (such as those that prohibit ball
