Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


adequate play spaces and opportunities for formal and informal physical activity. • Audit bye-laws and amend those that prohibit physical activity in public spaces (such as those that prohibit ball games). • Consider offering free swimming to parents and carers who accompany children aged under 5 years to swimming facilities. • Apportion part of the local transport plan (LTP) block allocation to promote walking, cycling and other forms of travel that involve physical activity. The proportion allocated should be in line with growth targets for the use of these modes of transport. • Ensure cycle tracks created under the Cycle Tracks Act 1984 are part of the definitive map (the legal record of public rights of way). • Align all 'planning gain' agreements with the promotion of heart health to ensure there is funding to support physically active travel. (For example, Section 106 agreements are sometimes used to bring development in line with the government's sustainable development objectives). Recommendation 22 Health impact assessments of regional and local plans and policies Whose health will benefit? • Everyone. Who should take action? • Local policy makers. • PCTs. • Regional and local government. What action should they take? • Use a variety of methods to assess the potential impact (positive and negative) that all local and regional policies and plans may have on rates of CVD and related chronic diseases. Take account of any potential impact on health inequalities. • Identify those policies and plans that are likely to have a significant impact on CVD rates. This can be achieved by using screening questions that cover the social, economic and environmental determinants of CVD. • Monitor the outcomes following an assessment and use this to follow up and amend plans. • Identify where expertise is required to carry out assessments and where this is available locally. • Identify the training and support needs of staff involved in carrying out assessments and provide the necessary resources. Recommendation 23 Take-aways and other food outlets Whose health will benefit? • Everyone but particularly those who frequently use these food outlets. Who should take action? • Environmental health officers. • Local government planning departments. • Public health nutritionists. • Trading standards officers. What action should they take? • Use bye-laws to regulate the opening hours of take-aways and other food outlets, particularly those near schools that specialise in foods high in fat, salt or sugar. •
