Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


take? • Use bye-laws to regulate the opening hours of take-aways and other food outlets, particularly those near schools that specialise in foods high in fat, salt or sugar. • Use existing powers to set limits for the number of take-aways and other food outlets in a given area. Directives should specify the distance from schools and the maximum number that can be located in certain areas. • Help owners and managers of take-aways and other food outlets to improve the nutritional quality of the food they provide. This could include monitoring the type of food for sale and advice on content and preparation techniques. Recommendation 24 Nutrition training Whose health will benefit? • People eating snacks and meals provided by public sector services. Who should take action? • Caterers. • Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH). • Local authorities. • Providers of hygiene training. • The food and farming network (Feast). What action should they take? • Ensure the links between nutrition and health are an integral part of training for catering managers. In particular, they should be made aware of the adverse effect that frying practices and the use of salt, industrial trans fats and saturated fats can have on health. • Ensure they are aware of the healthy alternatives to frying and to using salt and sugar excessively, based on the NHS eatwell guide. • The PDG considers that all the recommended measures are cost effective. • See the recommendations for research and gaps in the evidence. Public health need and practice Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is generally due to reduced blood flow to the heart, brain or body caused by atheroma or thrombosis. It is increasingly common after the age of 60, but rare below the age of 30. Plaques (plates) of fatty atheroma build up in different arteries during adult life. These can eventually cause narrowing of the arteries, or trigger a local thrombosis (blood clot) which completely blocks the blood flow. The main types of CVD are: coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke and peripheral arterial disease (PVD) (British Heart Foundation 2009a). Globally, CVD is the leading cause of death (World Health Organization 2007). It is also associated with a large burden of preventable illnesses. CVD in England and the UK In England in 2007, CVD led to nearly 159,000 deaths (accounting for nearly 34% of all deaths in England). This includes 74,185 deaths from coronary
