Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


and saturated fat, added sugar and salt intake. Tackling the risk factors Reducing the risks, for example, by quitting tobacco or improving the diet (so reducing cholesterol or blood pressure levels) can rapidly reduce the likelihood of developing CVD. Actions which impact on the whole population most effectively reduce these risk factors (Kelly et al. 2009a). Some population-based prevention programmes have been accompanied by a substantial reduction in the rate of CVD deaths. However, the degree to which these are attributable to the programme is contested. This is due to a number of reasons including: • It is difficult to design studies which evaluate entire cities, regions or countries or are of sufficient duration. • Control sites can become 'contaminated' (that is, if the intervention affects people living in the control area). • There may be unreasonable expectations about the speed of change. • Behaviour change is often erratic or slow. • Failure to address 'upstream' influences such as policy or manufacturing and commercial practices. The crucial importance of using policy to modify population-wide CVD risk factors has been recognised on an international, European and national level. For example, the World Health Organization's (WHO) first global treaty on health, the 'Framework convention on tobacco control' (2003) undertook to enact key tobacco control measures, such as tobacco tax increases, smokefree public places and tobacco advertising controls. Parties to the treaty included the UK. In 2004, WHO member states also agreed to a non-binding global strategy on diet, physical activity and health. In addition, since 1993 the European Union (EU) has legislated on issues such as advertising and the labelling of consumer products like food and tobacco. In 2009, the Cardio and Vascular Coalition published 'Destination 2020', the voluntary sector's plan for cardiac and vascular health in England (Cardio and Vascular Coalition 2009). Government policy Government policy in many areas influences CVD. The 'Choosing health' white paper (DH 2004) set priorities for action on nutrition, physical activity, obesity and tobacco control. It was supported by delivery plans on food, physical activity and tobacco control, including the provision of NHS Stop Smoking Services. Since that time, a wide variety of policy documents have been published including: • Active travel strategy (Department for Transport 2010) • A smokefree future: a comprehensive tobacco control strategy for England (DH 2010) • Be active be healthy. A plan for getting the nation moving (DH 2009a) • Commissioning
