Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


of deaths from cancer, 13% of cardiovascular deaths and 30% of deaths from respiratory disease (Action on Smoking and Health 2008). It also acknowledged that smoking accounts for over half the disproportionate burden of illnesses experienced by disadvantaged groups. The PDG strongly endorsed the national tobacco control measures set out in 'Beyond smoking kills' (Action on Smoking and Health 2008). 1.4 Approaches to helping people quit smoking, or to stop using other forms of tobacco, are covered by NICE's guideline on tobacco. As a result, tobacco issues are not covered in this guidance. 1.5 The PDG noted that nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) can help to reduce CVD among people who are addicted to nicotine. It fully endorses the Tobacco Advisory Group's recommendations on the regulation and marketing of NRT (Royal College of Physicians 2007). (The report advocates making NRT more acceptable and accessible to people who smoke and who find it impossible to quit.) 1.6 Taking a population-based approach, the PDG focused on the major contributors to CVD risk found in the typical UK diet. These include: a high intake of saturated and industrially-produced trans fatty acids and salt. It acknowledged and supports the work of the Food Standards Agency and other organisations (such as the Advertising Standards Authority) in helping to reduce general consumption of these products. However, it believes further action is essential to achieve greater reductions in premature death and disease and to reduce health inequalities. 1.7 A consistent message on lifestyle risk factors related to CVD is important. 1.8 The recommendations made in this guidance are not intended to replace existing advice to the public on diet. Rather, they will support the next stage of policy development to tackle the substantial burden of ill health from CVD and other chronic diseases (see also the section on public health need and practice). This includes the development of effective local and regional, population-level programmes to prevent CVD, diabetes, obesity, kidney disease and some common cancers. 1.9 In response to stakeholder feedback, the PDG considered the evidence on interventions targeting specific CVD risk factors. For example, in relation to salt, saturated fats and trans fatty acids. 1.10 Policies to promote physical activity were considered. However, physical activity, smoking and obesity have all been covered by other NICE guidance. In addition, as policies to increase the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables are already agreed and widely implemented, the PDG
