Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


obesity have all been covered by other NICE guidance. In addition, as policies to increase the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables are already agreed and widely implemented, the PDG did not consider them in detail. Population versus individual approach 1.11 CVD risk factors can be reduced in a number of ways. Two different (and frequently, complementary) approaches are often described as 'individual-' and 'population-based'. The former involves interventions which tend to give people direct encouragement to change their behaviour. It may involve providing information about the health risks of their current behaviour, advice (such as to be more active) or prescribing a treatment. Alternatively, it may involve altering the way the NHS and other organisations deliver prevention or healthcare services. Population-based interventions, on the other hand, aim to change the risks from the social, economic, material and environmental factors that affect an entire population. This can be achieved through regulation, legislation, subsidy and taxation or rearranging the physical layout of communities. The PDG focused on population-based approaches. 1.12 The NHS Health Check programme, which was being rolled out as this guidance was published, is aimed at all those aged 40 to 74. It will ensure everyone in this age range is assessed to determine their risk of heart disease, stroke, kidney disease and diabetes. It will also help them to reduce or manage that risk by providing individually tailored advice. This guidance complements the NHS Health Check programme by focusing on the CVD risk factors for an entire population. It will benefit the NHS, local authorities and industry, as well as individuals, by substantially reducing the number of people who need statin or anti-hypertensive medication. It will also enable services to focus more on those who still need treatment. 1.13 The PDG recognised that smoking cessation and other services that focus on helping individuals to change their behaviour have an important role to play in preventing CVD. Many of these services or approaches have been the focus of earlier NICE guidance. 1.14 Previously in the UK, interventions focused on individuals have tended to dominate CVD prevention activities and it is important to identify and treat those who are at higher risk. However, a much larger overall benefit could be achieved by making changes (albeit small ones) among any given population as a whole. As indicated by the Rose hypothesis, a small reduction in risk among a large number of
