Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


achieved by making changes (albeit small ones) among any given population as a whole. As indicated by the Rose hypothesis, a small reduction in risk among a large number of people may prevent many more cases, rather than treating a small number at higher risk. A whole-population approach explicitly focuses on changing everyone's exposure to risk (Rose 2008). 1.15 There is growing evidence in support of the Rose hypothesis (see point above). For instance, data were recently pooled from six general population cohort studies involving 109,954 European participants. These data were analysed to compare different CVD strategies. The analysis found that a 10%, population- wide reduction in blood cholesterol, blood pressure and smoking prevalence would save approximately 9120 lives per million population over 10 years. In contrast, treating 40% of high-risk individuals with a 'polypill' (containing a statin, three half-dose anti-hypertensives and aspirin) would save about 3720 lives per million, even assuming complete, long-term adherence (Cooney et al. 2009). 1.16 It should be noted that, as indicated above, population- and individual-based approaches are both important and can be complementary. They do not have to be considered as alternatives for CVD prevention. Population-based approaches: health inequalities 1.17 Both population- and individual-based approaches can influence health inequalities. However, population-based approaches may be more likely to reduce health inequalities. That is because there are many reasons why people who are disadvantaged might find it more difficult to change their behaviour than those who are affluent (Swann et al. 2009). As a result, some activities aimed at individuals may inadvertently increase health inequalities. 1.18 'Upstream', population-level interventions include: fiscal measures (such as taxation), national or regional policy and legislation (such as legislation on smokefree public places or the way food is produced); and environmental changes. They are not reliant on an individual's knowledge or ability to choose healthier options. Social and economic action can also change people's risk of CVD (in such cases, the health outcomes are side effects, albeit desirable). 1.19 The recommendations in this guidance do not, in the main, rely on individual choice. Rather, they aim to improve social environments and thus ensure the healthy choice is the easy choice. The emphasis is on changing policies, systems, regulations, the physical environment and other 'upstream' factors. This approach is likely to reduce, rather than increase, health inequalities and is congruent with NICE's guidance on behaviour change. Population-level approaches: cost effectiveness 1.20 The
