Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


of CHD is particularly high among women with diabetes (Barrett-Connor et al. 1991). 1.24 Epidemiological studies indicate that approximately 45 to 75% of the recent fall in CVD deaths in Westernised industrialised countries was the result of a reduction in the major risk factors. This includes a reduction in smoking prevalence and salt and saturated fat consumption. 1.25 The decline in CVD deaths noted above began long before effective treatments were introduced. In Finland and Iceland, coronary heart disease mortality rates declined by 63% between 1982 and 1997. Seventy five per cent of this was attributed to a reduction in smoking, blood pressure and cholesterol levels (Aspelund et al. 2009; Laatikainen et al. 2005). Sweden also observed a large reduction in CVD-related mortality. This was attributed to dietary reductions in cholesterol and blood pressure. In contrast, blood pressure and cholesterol levels in the UK have, thus far, only fallen a modest amount (Unal et al. 2005). 1.26 The fall in blood pressure and cholesterol levels seen in many Western populations are mainly attributable to lifestyle changes and changes in the wider determinants of health, rather than to medication. Changes to the wider determinants of health have often been as a consequence of public health policy. Preventive services are unlikely to tackle these wider determinants unless supported by national policies and systems (Capewell and O'Flaherty 2008). 1.27 Data from 'natural experiments' in a whole population (where there were no randomised controlled trials to assess the results) provide compelling evidence of the links between CVD and diet. Rapid and large falls in CVD deaths have been observed in diverse populations including those living in Poland, Mauritius, Finland, Iceland and Norway. In Poland, a 26% decrease in coronary deaths followed a substantial reduction in the consumption of animal fats and increased consumption of vegetable oils and fruit after the break-up of the Soviet Union (Zatonski and Willett 2005). In Mauritius, CVD deaths fell following the introduction of legislation to make it mandatory to use polyunsaturated oils as a substitute for highly saturated cooking oils (Dowse et al. 1995). A substantial fall in CVD deaths also followed a reduction in saturated fat intake in Finland, Iceland, Norway and elsewhere (Zatonski and Willet 2005, Laatikainen et al. 2005.) Conversely, rapid rises in CVD mortality have been seen in China and elsewhere, principally due to the adoption of a Western diet rich in saturated fats (Critchley
