Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


et al. 2005.) Conversely, rapid rises in CVD mortality have been seen in China and elsewhere, principally due to the adoption of a Western diet rich in saturated fats (Critchley et al. 2004). 1.28 The PDG discussed the nature and quality of evidence relevant to CVD prevention in whole populations. As indicated in consideration 3.71, this evidence is not drawn from randomised trials alone. The PDG felt it important to consider natural experiments and observational studies as well. The studies had to include a known cause–effect mechanism and an association which was both strong and consistent. Primordial prevention 1.29 The PDG noted the importance of taking action to prevent the elevation of CVD risk factors among children, by ensuring they have a healthy, balanced diet and are physically active. This supports the principle of 'primordial prevention'. In this context, this means ensuring the low cholesterol and blood pressure levels seen in normal childhood are maintained throughout life (Labarthe 1999). This is crucial to prevent risk factor 'tracking' whereby, for instance, children with obesity, elevated blood pressure or raised cholesterol are very likely to become adults with above-average risk-factor levels. There is also a strong association between early abuse and neglect and subsequent depression, drug abuse and ischemic heart disease. In addition, some evidence suggests that childhood maltreatment, including both abuse and neglect, influences depression and heart disease in ways that are gender-dependent. 1.30 Maternal and fetal nutrition may have an important influence on whether or not people develop CVD later in life. Some evidence suggests that breastfeeding may protect against the development of risk factors for CVD. For example, it is associated with small reductions in blood pressure (Martin et al. 2005) and serum cholesterol. It is also associated with a reduced risk of being overweight (Harder et al. 2005) or having type 2 diabetes. However, the evidence on breastfeeding per se as a means of preventing CVD is weak (Owen et al. 2006; 2008). 1.31 The PDG recognised the many benefits of breastfeeding (including the benefits of continuing to breastfeed beyond the recommended first 6 months after birth). However, it concluded that there was insufficient evidence to make a recommendation related to CVD prevention. Note: NICE's guideline on maternal and child nutrition is referred to in the recommendations. Single risk factors 1.32 The Strategy Unit report 'Food matters' (2008) concluded that some 70,000 premature UK deaths could be avoided
