Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


no more than 2 g salt a day (0.8 g sodium); from 4 to 6 years they should consume no more than 3 g salt a day (1.2 g sodium); and from 7 to 10 years a maximum of 5 g salt a day (2 g sodium) (Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition 2003). 1.41 The PDG discussed the benefits of substituting mono-unsaturated or polyunsaturated fats for saturated fats (Hu 2008) and of reducing total fat consumption. Evidence suggests that reducing saturated fat intake from 14% to 7% of energy intake (to reach the levels seen in Japan) might prevent around 30,000 CVD deaths annually. Changes in CVD deaths are also addressed in consideration 3.27. 1.42 The PDG discussed whether to recommend 'low' rather than 'full-fat' products as there is a risk that if saturated fat is removed to create a 'low-fat' product, it could still be used in another product, with no overall reduction in the population's fat consumption. In addition, the Group felt that there was a risk that some fat content would be replaced with high levels of sugar, so losing some of the benefit of reducing calorie intake. 1.43 The PDG discussed the potential problems that might arise if low-fat milk was made cheaper than full-fat milk. In general, most of the population should aim for a low-fat diet. However, full-fat products are the 'healthier' choice for some groups. Children aged under 2, for instance, may need the additional calories and fat-soluble vitamins found in full-fat milk and the PDG noted that full-fat milk is recommended for this group when cow's milk is being used. The Group was concerned that increasing the relative price of full-fat milk (to make lower-fat milk a more attractive option) could place an added financial burden on disadvantaged groups. However, it also believed that this added burden could be addressed by the tax and benefits system. 1.44 The PDG agreed with the 2009 World Health Organization (WHO) review of industrially-produced trans fatty acids (IPTFAs), also known as partially hydrogenated vegetable oils (PHVOs). In line with the WHO review, the PDG concluded that IPTFAs are unnecessary and 'toxic' and should be eliminated from foodstuffs. The WHO review states that because IPTFAs are produced by partial hydrogenation they are not normally present naturally in foods and have no known health benefits. The review defined them as 'industrial additives'. It recommended that food services, restaurants,
