Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


the need to encourage people to be more physically active. However, evidence on how to address sedentary behaviour is not well developed and remains an area for further study. 1.50 The PDG noted the importance of ensuring physical activity is enjoyable and can be incorporated into daily life. Effective interventions to encourage physical activity are possible both nationally and locally. For example, NICE has made recommendations on how to help people to be physically active in guidelines on walking and cycling, physical activity: brief advice for adults in primary care, exercise referral schemes to promote physical activity, physical activity and the environment, physical activity in the workplace and physical activity for children and young people. Achieving change: national level 1.51 Public, private, voluntary and community sector organisations all have a role to play in preventing CVD at national level. For example, measures to encourage commercial markets to be health promoting could be highly cost saving (Abelson 2003; Catford 2009; Trust for America's Health 2008; Wanless 2004). Such measures might include: improving the content of products (re-formulation); controls on the marketing of energy-dense, nutrient-poor foods, foods high in fat, salt or sugar and processed foods; and package labelling. 1.52 Those preparing, producing and selling food have a particularly important role in improving the diet of the nation. Although such organisations must consider their commercial interests, the PDG considers it also reasonable to expect them to work with others to help prevent CVD. It takes this view in light of the diseases and deaths caused by CVD (and the consequent costs to the exchequer and society). The PDG recognised that many responsible commercial organisations are already taking positive action. Many organisations, for instance, have taken praiseworthy action to reduce the salt or saturated fat content of food, or to remove industrially-produced trans fats from their processes (Brownell and Warner 2009). 1.53 The PDG believes that more could be done to assist those sectors which have, for a variety of reasons, been unable or unwilling to take positive action. Such action would not only benefit the population, but would also help provide a 'level playing field', where all businesses work to the same standard. Brownell and Warner (2009) state: 'there is an opportunity if the industry chooses to seize it – an opportunity to talk about the moral high ground and to occupy it'. 1.54 Advertising and other marketing activities have an important
