Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


if the industry chooses to seize it – an opportunity to talk about the moral high ground and to occupy it'. 1.54 Advertising and other marketing activities have an important influence on consumption patterns. They encourage people to change brands and they also encourage overall increases in consumption of related brands. 1.55 The PDG noted the work of the Advertising Standards Authority and others to develop the existing overarching regulatory system that controls food advertising aimed at children. Furthermore, the Group noted and praised the important work involved in developing the current UK advertising regulations. The Ofcom/Food Standards Agency restrictions on TV advertisements for foods high in salt, fat or sugar aimed at children are a good example of these regulations being put into practice. However, the PDG felt that children are particularly vulnerable and need further protection from commercial pressures. The 'Sydney principles' (developed by the International Obesity Taskforce Working Group in Sydney, Australia [Swinburn et al. 2007]) provide for the type of protection that it believes is still needed in the UK. The principles state that any action to reduce marketing to children should: support their rights; afford them substantial protection; be statutory in nature; take a wide definition of commercial promotion; guarantee commercial-free childhood settings; include cross-border media; and be evaluated, monitored and enforced. In other words, the PDG considers that a comprehensive model which includes marketing, advertising, promotion and product placement would provide the necessary protection. 1.56 Advertising restrictions are gaining support. In 2007, WHO called for recommendations to restrict food marketing to children. Examples of jurisdictions that have successfully introduced such restrictions now include Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Greece, Romania and Quebec. 1.57 National policy has an important role in changing the risk factors faced by a population (both direct, indirect and unintentional). However, the PDG recognised that developing and implementing such policy is a highly complex process: it is not linear and rarely moves simply from design to implementation. In addition, the Group acknowledged that evidence alone is rarely sufficient to bring about policy change. 1.58 The way research evidence influences the policy process and gets translated into action can be explained by a model such as Kingdon's (1995) 'policy windows'. This suggests that 'windows' open (and close) by the coupling (or de-coupling) of three 'streams': problems, policies and politics. It can be applied nationally and locally (Exworthy et al. 2002). Other policy models also
