Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


open (and close) by the coupling (or de-coupling) of three 'streams': problems, policies and politics. It can be applied nationally and locally (Exworthy et al. 2002). Other policy models also provide a potentially valuable insight into this complex, non-linear process. Whichever model is applied, however, all parties concerned need to acknowledge that the problem is important. In addition, it has to be possible to devise policies to remedy it, and there has to be a political willingness to act. Examples from other countries of where policy has been successfully used to reduce CVD are particularly valuable in showing what could be achieved in the UK. 1.59 This guidance has made the case unequivocally that CVD is a major and, most significantly, a preventable problem. It has also identified policy options which would be effective at the population level. 1.60 Nationally, the campaigning activities of charities such as the British Heart Foundation, the National Heart Forum and others focused on chronic diseases are particularly influential. 1.61 Voluntary action may be effective. However, if the pace of change is insufficient mandatory measures may be needed. The success of legislation banning tobacco advertising and smoking in public places followed unsuccessful voluntary agreements with industry. This also demonstrates the effectiveness of national government action to improve the public's health. Achieving change: the regional, community and private sectors 1.62 Regional government offices and strategic health authorities could make an important contribution to CVD prevention. For example, they could negotiate to maximise the number of local area agreements (LAAs) that include 'stretch' targets related to CVD. They could also ensure all PCT 'world class commissioning' strategies for healthcare adequately address CVD prevention at a population and individual level. This involves having long-term strategies for sustainable change that avoid an over-dependence on medical solutions. There is also scope for effective action by public sector bodies at a sub-regional level. This was the case in Merseyside where, prior to the national ban on smoking in public places, a private members bill supporting local smoking restrictions had been developed in case national legislation was delayed. 1.63 Local authorities and PCTs, working with the private and 'the third sector' in local strategic partnerships (LSPs), have demonstrated their commitment to CVD prevention. (The third sector includes voluntary and community groups, social enterprises, charities, cooperatives and mutual organisations.) For example, many have established health and wellbeing partnerships. In addition, 5 of the
