Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


prevention. (The third sector includes voluntary and community groups, social enterprises, charities, cooperatives and mutual organisations.) For example, many have established health and wellbeing partnerships. In addition, 5 of the 15 most popular improvement targets in LSP local area agreements relate directly or indirectly to CVD prevention. Fifty-one LSPs have also selected national indicator (NI) 121 (mortality rate from all circulatory diseases for those aged under 75) as an indicator for the current round of local area agreements, which runs to 2011. 1.64 Only 5 (6.7%) of the 74 green flags awarded to the 152 LSPs in England as part of their first comprehensive area assessment related to public health (green flags represent exceptional performance or outstanding improvement); 19 (30.6%) of the 62 red flags awarded related to public health. Of these, 15 (24.2%) related directly or indirectly to CVD prevention. (Red flags indicate the need to improve outcomes.) The first comprehensive area assessment reports were published in December 2009. 1.65 Local advocacy by 'third sector' groups and organisations, including the voluntary sector, is an important part of CVD prevention activities. For example, it could have an impact on planning applications for fast-food outlets. 1.66 Addressing the needs of disadvantaged groups involves working beyond geographical boundaries with different communities. The leaders of some communities may be able to deliver CVD prevention programmes effectively. However, it should not be assumed that all community leaders will be able or willing to participate, or that it would be appropriate. Evidence 1.67 Many studies considered in the reviews of effectiveness for this guidance were carried out some years ago (that is, studies reporting on regional, population- level programmes). The majority were published before 2000, with a substantial number published before 1990. This reflects, in part, the decision to include studies such as the North Karelia and HeartBeat Wales CVD population programmes which took place in the 1970s and 1980s. The age of the studies means a number of factors have to be taken into account when considering effectiveness. In particular: • The risk factor levels for CVD are likely to have changed. For instance, intake of salt and saturated fat and the prevalence of smoking may have fallen, while a sedentary lifestyle and rates of obesity may have increased. • The political and cultural environments which potentially influence the effectiveness of interventions may have changed substantially. 1.68 A number of issues have to be
