Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


of obesity may have increased. • The political and cultural environments which potentially influence the effectiveness of interventions may have changed substantially. 1.68 A number of issues have to be taken into account when considering evidence of the effectiveness of population-level interventions: • Changes may have come about inadvertently, for instance, as a result of a change in agriculture practice following economic developments. Any evaluation of such changes is likely to have been carried out after the event, using proxy data. • It is often difficult to find a suitable control population where conditions are relatively similar to those in the intervention group. Where a control group is used, there is often contamination between the two groups which can lead to an underestimation of any beneficial effects. • It is ethically wrong, and practically impossible, to randomly allocate country- wide populations to controlled trials. The best evidence available has to be gleaned from other research designs, in particular, natural experiments, epidemiological models and cost effectiveness and cost–benefit analyses. 1.69 The potential effect of any intervention may change according to the initial level of risk. For instance, it may be easier to reduce salt consumption among a population with a high intake than among a population where intakes of salt are lower. However, epidemiological modelling suggests that substantial reductions in CVD rates can be achieved by reducing the major risk factors as much as possible. This is the case even in countries where CVD mortality rates are already relatively low, such as Italy (Palmieri et al. 2009). 1.70 The economic modelling used for this guidance was based on conservative assumptions. Nevertheless, it suggested that the recommended population- based approaches are likely to be consistently cost saving (see considerations 1.33 and 1.45 and appendix C). Interpreting the evidence 1.71 The PDG recognised that empirical data alone, even from the best conducted investigation, seldom provides a sufficient or complete basis for making recommendations. Rather, it requires interpretation and analysis. Therefore, the PDG developed its recommendations using the best available empirical data and inductive and deductive reasoning, using prior knowledge and understanding and existing models and theories. The development of policy to reduce mortality and morbidity from CVD flow from these inductive and deductive interpretations. 1.72 The PDG acknowledged that the traditional hierarchy of evidence does not resolve all the problems associated with empirical data. For example, while it explicates the degree of bias
