Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


interpretations. 1.72 The PDG acknowledged that the traditional hierarchy of evidence does not resolve all the problems associated with empirical data. For example, while it explicates the degree of bias attributable to poor internal validity, it does not answer it completely. Nor does it deal with external validity, that is, the degree to which findings are transferable to other experimental settings or to practice. The PDG therefore, took a broad approach to the evidence available to it. Other issues 1.73 Many of the risk factors that the PDG considered are also associated with other health-related conditions including some common cancers, chronic respiratory disease, obesity, diabetes, kidney disease and mental wellbeing. The strategies discussed in this guidance are likely to help prevent some of these other health conditions. (Certainly, they are not likely to increase the risk of any common chronic diseases.) However, it was not possible to consider each of these other health conditions in detail. 1.74 Daily consumption of products containing plant sterols and stanols may reduce blood cholesterol by about 10%, and so may reduce CVD mortality substantially. However, it was not clear how a recommendation on their use might impact on inequalities in health. The PDG believes this issue deserves further attention. 1.75 Agricultural and transport policy and practice (and associated issues) has a powerful impact on people's diet and physical activity levels. It also has an impact on climate change and sustainable development (which, in turn, can affect health). An analysis of transport patterns in London and how they could be changed indicates the extent of this synergy (Woodcock et al. 2009). One scenario described a 'sustainable transport future' featuring more physically active travel and low-emission vehicles to cut CO2 emissions by three-fifths. The report points out that physically active travel could bring substantial benefits: the incidence of heart disease and stroke could fall by 10% to 20%, with reductions in breast cancer (12% to 13%), dementia (8%) and depression (5%). Reductions in air pollution would bring additional health benefits. 1.76 Agriculture and food production account for 10% to 12% of greenhouse gas emissions (Friel et al. 2009). Livestock farming is responsible for four-fifths of these emissions (including methane). A 30% fall in adult consumption of saturated fat from animal sources (and an associated fall in livestock-related greenhouse gas emissions) would reduce heart disease by around 15% in the UK. If additional, positive effects are taken
