Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


saturated fat from animal sources (and an associated fall in livestock-related greenhouse gas emissions) would reduce heart disease by around 15% in the UK. If additional, positive effects are taken into account (such as a reduction in the prevalence of obesity and diet-related cancers) the health gains might been even more substantial. 1.77 Monitoring is crucial. The PDG commended the regular Food Standards Agency/ Department of Health-sponsored surveys. These include the National diet and nutrition survey (NDNS) and the Low income diet and nutrition survey (LIDNS). Recommendations for research The Programme Development Group (PDG) recommends that the following research questions should be addressed. It notes that 'effectiveness' in this context relates not only to the size of the effect, but also to cost effectiveness rapidity and duration of effect. It also takes into account any harmful or negative side effects. 1 Marketing bans in other countries What has been the impact of marketing bans on foods high in fat, sugar or salt in Norway, Sweden, Romania and Quebec? What lessons can the UK learn? 2 Inequalities and their contribution How do inequalities contribute to: • the consumption of trans fats, poly-unsaturated and mono-unsaturated fats, fresh fruit and vegetables and stanols? • variations in physical activity levels among different population groups? 3 Widening health inequalities CVD prevention aimed at individuals tends to widen health inequalities. Is there any effective way to ameliorate this? Conversely, is there any further empirical evidence that population-wide policy interventions or CVD preventive strategies narrow the inequalities gap? 4 Food taxes and subsidies What impact would food taxes and subsidies, particularly in relation to salt, saturated fats and fruit and vegetable consumption, have on CVD risk and health inequalities? 5 Natural experiments Could 'natural' experiments aid understanding of the impact that 'upstream' factors such as the social, economic and physical environment have on the incidence and rates of cardiovascular disease (CVD)? How could CVD modelling be developed in the UK, particularly to examine health inequalities? 6 Regular daily intake of 2.5 g of stanols or sterols What effect would a regular daily intake of 2.5 g of stanols or sterols have on the incidence of cardiac and stroke events? How can we best evaluate stanols in terms of their acceptability, affordability, effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and impact on health inequalities? More detail on the gaps in the evidence identified during development of this guidance is provided in appendix D.
