Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


Journal of Clinical Nutrition (63): 68–75 Unal B, Critchley J, Capewell S (2005) Modelling the decline in coronary heart disease deaths in England and Wales, 1981–2000: comparing contributions from primary prevention and secondary prevention. BMJ 331: 614–5 Wanless D (2004) Securing good health for the whole population. London: HM Treasury Wilson A, Siskind V (1995) Coronary heart disease mortality in Australia: is mortality starting to increase among young men? International Journal of Epidemiology (24): 678-84 Woodcock J, Edwards P, Tonne C et al. (2009) Public health benefits of strategies to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions: urban land transport. Lancet 374 (9705): 1930–43 World Health Organization (2003) Framework convention on tobacco control World Health Organization (2007) Prevention of CVD: guidelines for assessment and management of total cardiovascular risk. Geneva: World Health Organization Yusuf S, Hawken S, Ôunpuu T et al. (2004) Effect of potentially modifiable risk factors associated with myocardial infarction in 52 countries (the INTERHEART study): case- control study. The Lancet 364: 937–52 Zatonski WA, Willett W (2005) Changes in dietary fat and declining coronary heart disease in Poland: population based study. BMJ 331: 187–9 Appendix A: Membership of the Programme Development Group (PDG), the NICE project team and external contractors Programme Development Group PDG membership is multidisciplinary, comprising public health practitioners, clinicians (both specialists and generalists), local authority officers, teachers, social care professionals, representatives of the public, patients, carers, academics and technical experts as follows. Pamela Ashton Community Member Andrew Briggs Professor of Health Policy and Economic Evaluation, University of Glasgow Simon Capewell (Vice Chair) Professor of Clinical Epidemiology, University of Liverpool; Honorary Consultant in Public Health, Liverpool PCTs Francesco Cappuccio Chair of Cardiovascular Medicine and Epidemiology, Clinical Sciences Research Institute, University of Warwick Medical School; Honorary Consultant Physician, University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry Martin Caraher Professor in Food and Health Policy, Centre for Food Policy, City University Charlie Foster Senior Researcher, British Heart Foundation Health Promotion Research Group, University of Oxford Paramjit Gill GP and Clinical Reader in Primary Care Research, Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham; Honorary Consultant in Primary Care, Heart of Birmingham Teaching PCT Robin Ireland Chief Executive, Heart of Mersey Paul Lincoln Chief Executive, National Heart Forum Klim McPherson (Chair) Visiting Professor of Public Health Epidemiology, University of Oxford Madeleine Murtagh Reader, Applied Social Science in Public Health and Social Care, Medical and Social Care Education, University of Leicester Margaret O'Mara Community
