Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


and why some programmes are more successful than others was carried out by the Peninsula Technology Assessment Group at the Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and Plymouth. The principal authors were: Ruth Garside, Mark Pearson, Tiffany Moxham, and Rob Anderson. Economic analysis Review 6: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; cost- effectiveness) was carried out by WMHTAC, University of Birmingham. The principal authors were: Lazaros Andronis, Pelham Barton, Sue Bayliss and Chris Hyde. Modelling report: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level: modelling strategies for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease was carried out by WMHTAC, University of Birmingham. The principal authors were: Pelham Barton and Lazaros Andronis. Fieldwork Fieldwork on prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level was carried out by Greenstreet Berman. Expert testimony Report 1: The effectiveness of physical activity promotion interventions was carried out by Charlie Foster and Nick Cavill, British Heart Foundation Health Promotion Research Group. Report 2: Health policy analysis was carried out by Mark Exworthy, School of Management, Royal Holloway University of London. Report 3: Expert testimony on salt and cardiovascular disease was carried out by Francesco Cappuccio, Clinical Sciences Research Institute, University of Warwick Medical School. Report 4: The relationship between commercial interests and risk of cardiovascular disease was carried out by Jane Landon, National Heart Forum. Report 5: Regional development of a population-based collaborative CVD prevention strategy: the experience of NHS West Midlands was carried out by Kiran Patel, University of Birmingham and West Midlands Strategic Health Authority. Report 6: NICE guidance on the prevention of CVD at population level: evidence from the Co-operative Group was carried out by Cathryn Higgs, the Co-operative Group. Report 7: Population and community programmes addressing multiple risk factors to prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD): addendum to qualitative study produced by Peninsula Technology Assessment Group for NICE: CVD programme – Heart of Mersey (HoM) was carried out by Robin Ireland, Heart of Mersey. Report 8: Expert testimony paper on the independent evaluation of 'have a heart Paisley' phase one (Scotland's national CHD prevention demonstration project) was carried out by Avril Blamey, Avril Blamey and Associates. Report 9: Expert testimony on the public health harm caused by industrially produced trans fatty acids and actions to reduce and eliminate them from the food system in the UK was carried out by Paul Lincoln, National Heart Forum. Report 10: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at a population level:
