Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


reduce and eliminate them from the food system in the UK was carried out by Paul Lincoln, National Heart Forum. Report 10: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at a population level: evidence on interventions to address dietary fats was carried out by Modi Mwatsama, Heart of Mersey. Report 11: CVD risk factors: paradigms and pathways was carried out by Simon Capewell, University of Liverpool. Report 12: CVD prevention in populations: lessons from other countries was carried out by Simon Capewell, University of Liverpool. Report 13: Will CVD prevention widen health inequalities? was carried out by Simon Capewell, University of Liverpool. Report 14: Food manufacturer's perspective was carried out by Frances Swallow and Nicola Currie, Greencore. Appendix B: Summary of the methods used to develop this guidance Introduction The reviews, expert reports and economic analysis include full details of the methods used to select the evidence (including search strategies), assess its quality and summarise it. The minutes of the PDG meetings provide further detail about the Group's interpretation of the evidence and development of the recommendations. All supporting documents are listed in appendix E. Key questions The key questions were established as part of the scope. They formed the starting point for the reviews of evidence and were used by the PDG to help develop the recommendations. The overarching questions were: • Which multiple risk-factor interventions are effective and cost effective in preventing the onset of cardiovascular disease (CVD) within a given population (primary prevention)? • How does effectiveness and cost effectiveness vary between different population groups? The subsidiary question was: What barriers and facilitators influence the effectiveness of multiple risk-factor programmes aimed at reducing CVD (or the risk factors associated with CVD) among a given population (including subgroups experiencing health inequalities, where the data allows)? These questions were made more specific for each review (see reviews for further details). Single risk factors were considered using expert testimony. See appendix C. Reviewing the evidence Three reviews of effectiveness (reviews 1,2 and 3), one qualitative review (review 4), one primary study of barriers and facilitators (review 5) and one review of cost effectiveness (review 6) were conducted. Identifying the evidence The following databases were searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs); controlled before-and-after trials; cohort studies; case–control studies; before-and-after studies; and interrupted time series (from 1970 onwards): • ASSIA (Applied Social Science Index and Abstracts) • CINAHL (Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health
