Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


cohort studies; case–control studies; before-and-after studies; and interrupted time series (from 1970 onwards): • ASSIA (Applied Social Science Index and Abstracts) • CINAHL (Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature) • Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) • Cochrane Library (Wiley) • Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) • DH-Data • EMBASE • Health Management Information Service (HELMIS) • Health Technology Assessment (HTA) • HMIC (Health Management Information Consortium) • King's Fund Database • MEDLINE • MEDLINE In Process • PsycINFO The following websites were also searched: • Centre for the Evaluation of Public Health Interventions, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine • Cochrane Public Health Group • Health evidence • The Campbell Collaboration • The Evidence for Policy and Practice Information and Coordinating Centre Further details of the databases, search terms and strategies used are included in the review reports. Selection criteria Studies were included in the effectiveness reviews if they: • Involved a population at least the size of one covered by a UK primary care trust. • Were based in an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) country, another developed country or within a World Health Organization region. • Included primary prevention strategies to tackle at least two of the key risk factors for CVD. Studies were excluded if they were: • Confined to populations clinically diagnosed as being at high risk of CVD or diagnosed with CVD. • Published before 1970. • Not published in English. Quality appraisal Included papers were assessed for methodological rigour and quality using the NICE methodology checklist, as set out in the NICE technical manual 'Methods for the development of NICE public health guidance'. Each study was graded (++, +, –) to reflect the risk of potential bias arising from its design and execution. Study quality ++ All or most of the checklist criteria have been fulfilled. Where they have not been fulfilled, the conclusions are very unlikely to alter. + Some of the checklist criteria have been fulfilled. Those criteria that have not been fulfilled or not adequately described are unlikely to alter the conclusions. – Few or no checklist criteria have been fulfilled. The conclusions of the study are likely or very likely to alter. Economic analysis The economic analysis consisted of a review of economic evaluations (review 6) and a cost effectiveness analysis. Review of economic evaluations The same protocol was used to
