Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


alter. Economic analysis The economic analysis consisted of a review of economic evaluations (review 6) and a cost effectiveness analysis. Review of economic evaluations The same protocol was used to conduct the literature reviews for all phases of the review. In a minor departure from the protocol, the list of included study designs was extended to include cost-consequences. The following databases were searched from 1970 to August 2008: • ECONLIT • EMBASE • MEDLINE • NHS EED database (Cochrane Library, Wiley). The search was limited to articles published from 1970 onwards and in the English language. In addition to the general bibliographic database searches, specific searches were conducted for each programme found during the general searches to ensure all published evaluations, particularly economic evaluations, were identified. Study quality was assessed using an evidence form based on the 'Methods for the development of NICE public health guidance' (second edition 2009) and adapted to reflect the parameters of this review. It was supplemented with questions from the Drummond checklist (Drummond MF [1996] Guidelines for authors and peer reviewers of economic submissions to the BMJ. London: BMJ). The selection criteria were the same as for the effectiveness reviews (see pages 53 to 54). The following study types were included: cost–benefit, cost-effectiveness and cost–utility analyses. Modelling An economic model was constructed to incorporate data from the reviews of effectiveness and cost effectiveness. The results are reported in Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level: modelling strategies for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Fieldwork Fieldwork was carried out to evaluate how relevant and useful NICE's recommendations are for practitioners and how feasible it would be to put them into practice. It was conducted with practitioners and commissioners who are involved in activities relevant to cardiovascular disease. They included those working in the food industry (such as food retailers, food producers and trade associations), local planning departments, local authority catering representatives and representatives from the NHS and PCTs. The fieldwork comprised: • Eight half-day workshops. • Nine case studies (interviews involving practitioners, commissioners and professionals). Each reviewed recommendations made in the following specific areas: － health impact assessments － CVD prevention programmes (two case studies) － take-away planning － training caterers － public sector food provision － physically active travel － the dairy industry － reformulation of food. • Telephone interviews covering the following topics: mass media, government departments, and key food industry producers. The studies
