Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


－ physically active travel － the dairy industry － reformulation of food. • Telephone interviews covering the following topics: mass media, government departments, and key food industry producers. The studies were commissioned to ensure there was ample geographical coverage. The main issues arising from these studies are set out in appendix C under fieldwork findings. See the full fieldwork report on prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level. How the PDG formulated the recommendations At its meetings between September 2008 and July 2009, the PDG considered the evidence of effectiveness, expert reports and cost effectiveness to determine: • whether there was sufficient evidence (in terms of strength and applicability) to form a judgement • where relevant, whether (on balance) the evidence demonstrates that the intervention or programme/activity can be effective or is inconclusive • where relevant, the typical size of effect (where there is one) • Whether the evidence is applicable to the target groups and context covered by the guidance. The PDG developed draft recommendations through informal consensus, based on the following criteria: • Strength (type, quality quantity and consistency) of the evidence. • The applicability of the evidence to the populations/settings referred to in the scope. • Effect size and potential impact on the target population's health. • Impact on inequalities in health between different groups of the population. • Equality and diversity legislation. • Ethical issues and social value judgements. • Cost effectiveness (for the NHS and other public sector organisations). • Balance of harms and benefits. • Ease of implementation and any anticipated changes in practice. Where possible, recommendations were linked to evidence statements (see appendix C). Where a recommendation was inferred from the evidence, this was indicated by the reference 'IDE' (inference derived from the evidence). The draft guidance, including the recommendations, was released for consultation in October 2009. At its meeting in December 2009, the PDG amended the guidance in light of comments from stakeholders and experts and the fieldwork. The guidance was signed off by the NICE Guidance Executive in May 2010. Appendix C: The evidence This appendix lists the evidence statements from four reviews, a cost-effectiveness review and a primary research study provided by external contractors (see appendix A) and links them to the relevant recommendations. (See appendix B for the key to quality assessments.) The evidence statements are presented here without references, these can be found in the full reviews (see
