Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


to the relevant recommendations. (See appendix B for the key to quality assessments.) The evidence statements are presented here without references, these can be found in the full reviews (see appendix E). The appendix also sets out a brief summary of findings from the economic analysis. The 4 reviews (reviews 1 to 4), the primary research study (review 5) and the cost- effectiveness review (review 6) are: • Evidence reviews: － Review 1: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; phase 1) － Review 2: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; phase 2) － Review 3: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; phase 3) － Review 4: Barriers to, and facilitators for, multiple risk factor programmes aimed at reducing cardiovascular disease within a given population: a systematic review of qualitative research • Primary research: － Review 5: Population and community programmes addressing multiple risk factors to prevent cardiovascular disease: A qualitative study into how and why some programmes are more successful than others • Cost-effectiveness review: － Review 6: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; cost-effectiveness) Evidence statement R3.E1a indicates that the linked statement is numbered E1a in review 3. Evidence statement R5.12 indicates that the linked statement is numbered 12 in the primary research study (review 5). Evidence statement ER1 indicates that the linked statement is from expert report 1 (see additional evidence). Evidence statement CE1 indicates that the linked statement is numbered 1 in the cost-effectiveness review (review 6). ' The reviews, economic analysis and additional evidence are available. Where a recommendation is not directly taken from the evidence statements, but is inferred from the evidence, this is indicated by IDE (inference derived from the evidence). Where the PDG has considered other evidence, it is linked to the appropriate recommendation below. It is also listed in the additional evidence section of this appendix. This includes evidence used to develop other NICE guidelines and guidance. Recommendation 1: evidence statement R3.E1m; additional evidence ER3 Recommendation 2: evidence statements R3.E1b; R3E1h; R3.E1i; R3.E1j; R3.E1k; additional evidence ER10 Recommendation 3: additional evidence ER9; ER10 Recommendation 4: additional evidence ER4; ER6; CG43 (1) Recommendation 5: additional evidence ER4 Recommendation 6: additional evidence ER3; ER4; ER6; CG43 (2) Recommendation 7: additional evidence ER1; ER10; ER13 Recommendation 8: additional evidence ER10; ER13 Recommendation 9: additional evidence ER1; CG43 (3) Recommendation 10: additional evidence CG43
