Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


summary effect measures, demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI on CVD morbidity (the majority disbeneficial) with one CBA study and one RCT demonstrating a net increase in morbidity and one RCT demonstrating no net change in morbidity. The effect of one programme on morbidity and mortality is unclear. Evidence statement R3.E1b Blood cholesterol: A large body of evidence from 15 CBA studies and 5 RCTs demonstrates a mixed direction of effect (majority of programmes beneficial) of MRFI programmes on blood cholesterol. Fourteen studies (nine CBA and five RCTs) demonstrate a beneficial net effect. Four CBA studies demonstrate no net effect or inconclusive net effects and two CBA studies demonstrate a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 0.7mmol/l net reduction in blood cholesterol. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a +0.5mmol/l net increase in blood cholesterol. Evidence statement R3.E1c Diastolic and systolic blood pressure: A large body of evidence demonstrates a mixed direction of effect (majority of programmes beneficial) in favour of MRFI programmes on diastolic and systolic blood pressure. Fourteen CBA studies and five RCTs demonstrate a mixed direction of effect (majority of programmes beneficial) on diastolic blood pressure. Twelve studies (seven CBA studies and five RCTs) demonstrate a beneficial net effect. Five CBA studies demonstrate no net effect or inconclusive net effects and two CBA studies demonstrate a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 5.5mmHg net reduction in diastolic blood pressure. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 6mmHg net increase in diastolic blood pressure. Fourteen CBA studies and five RCTs demonstrate a mixed effect (majority of programmes beneficial) on systolic blood pressure. Ten studies (five CBA studies and five RCTs) demonstrate a beneficial net effect. Five CBA studies demonstrate no net effect or inconclusive net effects and four CBA studies demonstrate a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting an 11.8 mmHg net reduction in systolic blood pressure. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 5mmHg net increase in systolic blood pressure. Evidence statement R3.E1d Smoking: A large body of evidence from twenty CBA studies and four RCTs demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI on smoking prevalence (the majority of programmes beneficial). Twelve studies (nine CBA studies and three RCTs) demonstrate a beneficial net
