Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


studies and four RCTs demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI on smoking prevalence (the majority of programmes beneficial). Twelve studies (nine CBA studies and three RCTs) demonstrate a beneficial net effect. Seven studies (six CBA studies and one RCT) demonstrate no net effect or inconclusive net effects and five CBA studies demonstrate a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting an 18.6% net reduction in smoking prevalence. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 12.8% net increase in smoking prevalence. Evidence statement R3.E1e BMI: A large body of evidence from fourteen CBA studies and three RCTs demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI programmes on body mass index (BMI) (the majority of programmes beneficial). Ten studies (seven CBA studies and three RCTs) demonstrate a beneficial net effect. Four CBA studies demonstrate no net effect or inconclusive net effects and three CBA studies demonstrate a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 1.3kg/m2 net reduction in BMI. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 0.7kg/m2 net increase in BMI. Evidence statement R3.E1f Blood glucose: Limited evidence from 3 out of 38 programme evaluations, using different summary effect measures, demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI on blood glucose. One RCT and one CBA study report mixed results: net decreases in men and net increases in women, whilst one CBA study demonstrates no net effect. Evidence statement R3.E1g Triglyceride levels, high-density lipoprotein/low-density lipoprotein (HDL/LDL) ratio or lipid levels: No evidence has been identified on the effects of MRFI programmes on triglyceride levels, HDL/LDL ratio or lipid levels. Evidence statement R3.E1h Dietary change – low versus high fat spreads: Five CBA studies and one RCT (+) demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI programmes on consumption or low versus high fat spreads (the majority of programmes beneficial). Four studies (three CBA studies and one RCT) demonstrate a beneficial net effect. One CBA study demonstrates an inconclusive net effect and one CBA study demonstrates an unfavourable net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 24% net reduction in the number of people with high consumption of fat spread on bread. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 3.3% net decrease in the use of unsaturated spreading fats. Evidence statement R3.E1i Dietary change – vegetable versus animal fats
