Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 3.3% net decrease in the use of unsaturated spreading fats. Evidence statement R3.E1i Dietary change – vegetable versus animal fats for cooking: Four CBA studies demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI programmes on the use of vegetable versus animal fat for cooking (the majority of programmes beneficial). Three CBA studies demonstrate a beneficial net effect and one CBA study demonstrates an inconclusive net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 6% net increase in the use of unsaturated fats for cooking. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 2% net decrease in the use of vegetable fats for cooking. Evidence statement R3.E1j Dietary change – low versus high fat milk: Five CBA studies and one RCT (+) demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI programmes on the consumption of low- versus high-fat milk (the majority of programmes beneficial). Three CBA studies and one RCT demonstrate a beneficial net effect and two CBA studies demonstrate an inconclusive net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 9% net increase in the use of low fat milk in men. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 1% net decrease in the use of low fat milk in women. Evidence statement R3.E1k Dietary change – consumption high fat foods: Six CBA studies demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI programmes on the percentage of high-fat foods in the diet (the majority of programmes beneficial). Three CBA studies demonstrate a beneficial net effect, two CBA studies demonstrate no net effect or inconclusive net effects and one CBA study demonstrates a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 24% net decrease in saturated fat intake. The least optimistic result was from a CBA study, reporting a 3.4% net increase in high-fat/junk food consumption. Evidence statement R3.E1l Dietary change – consumption of fruit and vegetables and wholemeal bread: Limited evidence is available on the effects of MRFI programmes on the consumption of fruit and vegetables and wholemeal bread (the majority of programmes beneficial). Three CBA studies demonstrate a mixed effect of MRFI programmes on the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Two CBA studies demonstrate a beneficial net effect and one CBA study demonstrates an inconclusive net effect. The most optimistic result is from a
