Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Two CBA studies demonstrate a beneficial net effect and one CBA study demonstrates an inconclusive net effect. The most optimistic result is from a CBA study, reporting a 9% net increase in the number of people consuming five portions of fruit and vegetables per day. The least optimistic result is from a CBA study, reporting a 0.2% net decrease in fruit consumption. Two CBA studies demonstrate a mixed effect on the consumption of wholemeal bread. One CBA study demonstrates a beneficial net effect and one CBA study demonstrates an inconclusive effect. The most optimistic result is from a CBA study, reporting a 3% increase in children. The least optimistic result is from the same CBA study, reporting a 0.3% net decrease in adults. Evidence statement R3.E1m Dietary change – salt intake: Two CBA studies (one [+] and one [-]) provide mixed results for the effects of MRFI programmes on salt intake. One CBA study demonstrates a beneficial net treatment effect and one CBA demonstrates an inconclusive net treatment effect. Evidence statement R3.E1n Physical activity: Evidence from 11 CBA studies and one RCT (+) provide a mixed pattern for the effect of MRFI programmes on physical activity (the majority of studies are disbeneficial). Three CBA studies and two RCTs demonstrate a favourable net effect. Three CBA studies demonstrate inconclusive net effects and four CBA studies demonstrate a disbeneficial net effect. The most optimistic result is from a CBA study, reporting an 11.5% net increase in the number of people doing strenuous physical activity more than three times per week. The least optimistic result is from a CBA study, reporting a 6% net decrease in the number of people who were physically active. Evidence statement R3.E1o Attitudes, knowledge and intentions relating to CVD risk factors: Limited evidence is available on the effects of MRFI programmes on CVD risk factor attitudes, knowledge and intention to change. One CBA study and one uncontrolled before-and-after study suggest beneficial changes in CVD knowledge following MRFI programmes. One of these studies showed a net increase in the number of individuals intending to lose weight. No evidence has been identified on the effects of MRFI programmes on CVD risk factor attitudes. Evidence statement R3.E2a General: Evidence for variation in effectiveness in subgroups of the population is limited and inconsistently reported across included programmes. There is no clear pattern with respect to gender,
