Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


statement R3.E2a General: Evidence for variation in effectiveness in subgroups of the population is limited and inconsistently reported across included programmes. There is no clear pattern with respect to gender, age, ethnicity or measures of deprivation which may be the result of the limited information available, confounding and selective reporting. Evidence statement R3.E2b Ethnicity: Three programmes report the results of subgroup analysis of effectiveness according to ethnicity. One uncontrolled before-and-after study reports lower effectiveness in ethnic minorities in acquisition of CVD knowledge. One CBA study reports lower effectiveness in ethnic minority groups for reducing smoking prevalence, reducing BMI and increasing fruit and vegetable intake and one CBA study reports no difference in effectiveness according to ethnic group. Evidence statement R3.E2c Age: Six programmes report results of subgroup analysis according to age. Two uncontrolled before-and-after studies report a reduction in effectiveness in acquisition of CVD knowledge in younger participants and one uncontrolled before-and-after study reports a reduction in effectiveness in reducing salt intake in younger participants. One CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in promoting CVD awareness in older participants. Two CBA studies report no differences in effectiveness according to age. Evidence statement R3.E2d Gender: Seven programmes report results of subgroup analysis according to gender. Four programmes report a reduction in effectiveness in women compared to men. One RCT reports a reduction in effectiveness in increasing physical activity in women compared to men. One uncontrolled before-and- after study and two CBA studies report a reduction in effectiveness in reducing smoking prevalence in women compared to men. One CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in reducing cholesterol in women compared to men. One CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in drinking low-fat compared to high- fat milk in women compared to men. Two programmes report a reduction in effectiveness in men compared to women. Two CBA studies report a reduction in effectiveness in promoting CVD awareness and acquisition of CVD knowledge in men compared to women and one CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in reducing CVD morbidity and mortality in men compared to women. One CBA study reports no differences in effectiveness according to gender. Evidence statement R3.E2e Social class: Two programmes report results of subgroup analysis according to social class. One CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in reducing smoking in lower social classes compared to higher social classes. One CBA study reports no differences
