Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


according to social class. One CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in reducing smoking in lower social classes compared to higher social classes. One CBA study reports no differences in effectiveness according to social class. Evidence statement R3.E2f Level of education: One programme reports results of subgroup analysis according to level of education. One CBA study reports a reduction in effectiveness in CVD awareness in those relatively more educated. Evidence statement R3.E3a Nature of the interventions: Thirty one programmes were concerned with the effectiveness of population programmes using education and mass media, and seven with screening programmes directed at large populations in the community or primary care. However, 16 of the education and mass-media programmes contained screening components. Counselling was a key process in many programmes, undertaken individually in 24 programmes and amongst groups in 16 programmes. The 38 programmes varied in many other ways. Programme length ranged from one to over 20 years. The size of the population addressed ranged from approximately 2,500 to over 1 million. Fourteen of the programmes implemented changes to the environment. Health departments (n=23) [where n is the number of programmes in which the organisations indicated were involved], local health committees (n=12), voluntary organisations (n=11) and community volunteers (n=9) had roles in programme delivery. Programmes were delivered in a variety of settings including workplaces (n=12) and schools (n=18). Evidence statement E.3b Education and mass-media based programmes compared to screening based: As indicated this was the most marked contrast between the programmes. However, comparing the effectiveness of the 2 groups is complicated: • Many of the education and mass-media based programmes contain elements of screening. • There are many CVD screening programmes, particularly focused on moderate or high-risk populations which are not included in this review. • The comparison between the 2 groups is likely to be confounded by other factors, a very important one of which is that CBA studies are used to evaluate most of the education and mass-media based programmes, and RCTs all the screening based programmes. With these provisos (and reference to pages 127 to 131 in report 3), the pattern of results for the risk factors of cholesterol, blood pressure (BP), smoking and body mass index (BMI) in the 2 different groups of programmes are summarised in the tables below. In each case the programme result (beneficial, inconclusive, disbeneficial or no data) is based on direction of effect: Net
