Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


Whether any of these factors account for differences in effectiveness which could not arise by chance alone has not been fully explored, and their potential importance can neither be confirmed nor refuted. Unfortunately, the extent to which the differences could ever be satisfactorily explored using the results from these evaluations is debatable given noted limitations in the reporting of the precise differences in nature of the programmes and the amount of statistical information available. Evidence statement R3.E5c Age: Fifteen programmes report participation in programme interventions and/or programme evaluation surveys according to age. One uncontrolled before-and-after study and 13 CBA studies report lower participation in evaluation surveys or programme interventions by those of younger age whilst one CBA study reports no difference in participation according to age. Evidence statement R4.1b These suggest that factors influencing success include: time limitations for projects, leadership, (including difficulties engaging community members at strategic levels), and cooperation between partner organisations. Evidence statement R4.2a Four study reports show conflicting evidence about the degree and methods of community engagement important for success. Evidence statement R4.2b For programmes that were successful, one study reports that positive community expectations about the potential of the programme to effect wider change facilitated community engagement. It is suggested that insufficient community engagement did not significantly impact on another programme's success. Evidence statement R4.2c For programmes that were unsuccessful, 1 study reports that previous negative experiences of community programmes discouraged community engagement. Conversely, another study reports engagement in the programme increased willingness for future involvement. Evidence statement R4.3a There is evidence from five study reports that community programmes to address heart health can be affected by the broader political context. Evidence statement R4.3b This can effect diverse organisational elements such as: the availability of project funding, the development of partnerships between organisations and a sense of shared purpose at different administrative levels. Individual responses may also be affected through legislation incentives to healthier behaviours. Evidence statement R4.4a There is evidence from four study reports that high pricing can impact on people's ability and willingness to adopt healthy eating behaviours and to participate in organised physical activity. Evidence statement R4.7a Six study reports discuss factors relating to organisational and strategic issues. Evidence statement R4.7b There is evidence from four studies that short time frames limit the ability to plan and develop the programme, engage the community, develop partnerships and communication, meet targets and leave a
