Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


is evidence from four studies that short time frames limit the ability to plan and develop the programme, engage the community, develop partnerships and communication, meet targets and leave a positive legacy. Evidence statement R4.7c Leadership was identified as a key organisational benefit of programmes by three studies. It is required to develop partnerships and collaborations within communities, and is important at all levels, from volunteers to with senior administrators. One study failed to see the desired shift in leadership to the community itself. Evidence statement R4.8a Evidence from 6 study reports is related to the organisational culture and partnerships of those involved in CVD programme services. Evidence statement R4.8b Three studies note differences in culture between partner organisations including frames of reference, terminology and programme expectations although this didn't always lead to conflict. Evidence statement R4.8c Four studies suggest that CVD programmes are enhanced where partner organisations have aligned values, priorities, focus and goals between organisations. Evidence statement R4.8d Partnerships may have positive effects through interagency learning, increasing the visibility of smaller organisations and enhanced funding opportunities. Evidence statement R4.9e Two studies note that to sustain the provision of healthier food options, communities need to take them up and so they need to be made attractive and clear. Evidence statement R4.9f One study found that community projects were largely unwilling address smoking, preferring to promote physical activity. Evidence statement R4.10a Five studies reported on staffing successful programmes. Evidence statement R4.10b Three studies report difficulties in recruitment and retention. Evidence statement R4.10c Positive staff contributions were defined in three studies where successful networking allowed staff to use their time effectively because they were not duplicating activities; where they were assisted by structures that focus on heart health issues and where flexibility allowed them to spend significant periods of time with participants. Evidence statement R4.10d Positive staff characteristics included knowledge and interest in heart health and being upbeat and friendly. A range of specialist staff should be involved. Evidence statement R4.11a Six study reports make specific comments about funding and resource requirements. Evidence statement R4 11.b Five study reports note the need for those with existing roles and responsibilities to be given resources to take on additional CVD programme work, or for dedicated positions to be created. Limited time for school-based staff may be a particular problem. Evidence statement R4.12a Two studies identify effective communication between organisations, staff and the community,
