Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


for dedicated positions to be created. Limited time for school-based staff may be a particular problem. Evidence statement R4.12a Two studies identify effective communication between organisations, staff and the community, to be important, but use different mechanisms to achieve this: lay health advisers or having a full-time project coordinator. Evidence statement R4.13a Four study reports discuss recruiting and retaining programme volunteers. Evidence statement R4.13b Volunteers need adequate resourcing and leadership, and may be motivated by witnessing positive changes in the community. Evidence statement R4.13c One study suggests that volunteers find health promotion less satisfying than traditional patient service roles. Evidence statement R4.13d Two study reports about the same programme note that lay health advisers, recruited from the target community, were key. Evidence statement R4.14a Two study reports mention the role of GPs in community CVD projects. Evidence statement R4.14b GP uptake was slow and it is suggested that GPs may be less comfortable in health promotion roles than their traditional role of secondary prevention. Evidence statement R4.15a Evidence relating to staff training were identified by six study reports. Evidence statement R4.15b While skills training is needed, involvement in the programme itself increases skills and knowledge through sharing information and implementing theoretical knowledge. Evidence statement R4.16a Five study reports relate to the evaluation of CVD prevention programmes. Evidence statement R4.16b Two study reports found that process evaluation and action research raised self- awareness among staff and promoted programme improvement. While a third reports that time limited projects limit the possibility of such learning. Evidence statement R4.16c Data management was a challenge in long-term projects and those with multiple strands across a number of organisations. Evidence statement R4.17a There is evidence from 8 study reports about community engagement in CVD prevention programmes. Evidence statement R4.17b Two study reports suggest that successful community engagement requires multiple approaches across populations. Evidence statement R4.17c Two study reports suggest that successful programmes need to be sensitive to communities' habits and cultural patterns, while a further three describe the important of matching programme staff to the social and/or ethnic characteristics of the target communities. Evidence statement R4.17d Challenges to community engagement include engaging community representatives at strategic levels; building confidence in community leaders; difficulties breaking into existing networks; competing with other community events; reaching young people; reluctance due to the legacy of negative experiences with previous initiatives; lack of enthusiasm in the community. Evidence statement R4.18a Seven
