Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


networks; competing with other community events; reaching young people; reluctance due to the legacy of negative experiences with previous initiatives; lack of enthusiasm in the community. Evidence statement R4.18a Seven studies report that the local physical environment had important effects on the ability of community CVD risk-reduction projects to be successful. Evidence statement R4.18b Five studies reported that access to healthy food options was limited, while unhealthy food was more visible, both in the community and in school-based programmes. Evidence statement R4.18c Local barriers to physical activity including no sidewalks, unmetalled roads or loose dogs; lack of school provision to secure bikes or store kit which discourages extra-curricular exercise; and local availability of gyms or other facilities. Evidence statement R4.19a Community and familial norms: There is evidence from one study report among British Asians that stress from a variety of sources was a noted problem among both men and women and this might lead to inability to access essential services or to communicate with professionals. Evidence statement R4.20a Attitudes to food and cooking: There is evidence from three study reports that specific foods and eating patterns may be regarded as important expressions of cultural identity. Cultural norms about food types and their preparation may not be the healthiest from a CVD prevention perspective. Evidence statement R4.21a There is evidence from three study reports about cultural attitudes to weight and exercise. Evidence statement R4.21b These suggest that, among some groups, understandings of greater weight as a sign of wealth and health may persist which may challenge successful adoption of CVD prevention activities. Evidence statement R4.21c Further, specific connotations of language used to describe weight and physical activities may exist, so shared understandings between clinical and community meanings should not be assumed. Evidence statement R4.22a Fatalism and health: There is evidence from three study reports, among three different ethnic groups, of fatalistic attitudes where one's state of health is the will of God. Evidence statement R4.23a There is evidence from 6 study reports to suggest that a benefit of community CVD programmes is in providing leadership that encourages local attitudes to change for the better. Evidence statement R4.23b As well as making personal changes, such 'social health' encouraged changes within the family, within the local community and within the wider social and political community. Despite this, one study suggests that men remain less likely to use health services. Evidence statement R4.24a Nine
