Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


within the local community and within the wider social and political community. Despite this, one study suggests that men remain less likely to use health services. Evidence statement R4.24a Nine studies discuss community perceptions of CVD risk factors. Evidence statement R4.24b Six studies report high levels of understanding about CVD risk among the target population while 2 suggest limited understanding and 2 suggest challenges in turning knowledge into action. Evidence statement R4.24c One study suggests that different types of knowledge are at play (theoretical, practical, experiential and intuitive), and where there is a discrepancy between theoretical and experiential knowledge, the latter influences what participants do. These links might be challenged by cues to action (health belief model), most significantly breakdown of self- image and social networks. Evidence statement R4.24d One study develops a typology of 6 'ideal types' of functional and dysfunctional attitude among programme participants who see it as a blessing, an opportunity, a confirmation, a watchman, a disappointment or an insult. The latter 2 are negative or 'dysfunctional' in terms of positive health choices and more men have these attitudes. Evidence statement R4.25a Nine study reports discuss people's motivations for, or resistance to, adopting risk reduction behaviours. Evidence statement R4.25b Two studies report that health concerns, sometimes serious, were motivating factors to participate and 2 that feedback of physiological test results was motivating. Evidence statement R4.25c Women may be targeted to take heart health practices home, however, 2 studies report on difficulties initiating or maintaining family interest and that resistance from family members was a barrier to adopting healthier behaviour. It is difficult to maintain behaviour changes amidst the usual business of family commitments. Evidence statement R4.25d One study suggests that there is a need for ongoing support in order for behavioural changes to be made and maintained. Evidence statement R4.25e One study found that secondary school pupils enjoyed the freedom to make food choices not available at primary school, pupils' food choices, and those of the wider population, may reflect issues other than health. Evidence statement R4.26a Six studies report on participant perceptions of programmes in which they were involved. Evidence statement R4.26b In 2 studies participants reported improving heart health through weight loss, increased exercise, as well as increased awareness and use of services and programme activities. One study also suggests that networks providing community support was a benefit. Evidence statement R4.26c One study found that
