Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


well as increased awareness and use of services and programme activities. One study also suggests that networks providing community support was a benefit. Evidence statement R4.26c One study found that practical demonstrations were much more successful than information provision alone. Evidence statement R4.26d Two studies suggest that the participants may doubt the credibility of health messages, with so many sources of, sometimes contradictory, information available. Matching the characteristics of the community may be important. Evidence statement R5.2 Community engagement: Positive community engagement requires trusting, respectful relationships to be built which motivate and support change. Community engagement should be an ongoing and dynamic partnership which responds to community needs. As CVD may not be seen as an immediate concern within targeted communities, staff may first need to listen and respond to the existing concerns of the community. This may be done through participating in existing networks and forums, or creating forums that have more open agendas, at least to start with. Sufficient time is needed to ensure that this is done appropriately and also to ensure that changes become adopted by the community so that they are empowered to continue, even if the project itself comes to an end. Information and education is likely to be more effective if it relates to the experiences of the community, and if those that deliver it are seen as part of that community. Appropriately skilled staff are needed for effective community engagement. Greater levels of participation, that involve community members as partners or devolve power to them, may have additional benefits, ensuring that programmes are truly responsive to community needs, involving local people in the complexities of planning and delivering such programmes and so facilitating understanding within the community. Done well, community engagement may create a positive feedback loop which motivates change, improving health which produces greater motivation. However, care needs to be taken to ensure that those adopting behaviour change are not just those already motivated to change, thereby increasing, rather than lessening, health inequalities. Evidence statement R5.3 Staffing – leadership: Strong, inspirational leadership may be important to initiate, coordinate and drive complex programmes and motivate and encourage cooperation among multiple staff across a number of agencies with a range of responsibilities. To fulfil this, staff are needed whose role is dedicated to the programme and those with multiple roles need to have appropriate time freed up. Leaders may be needed for the
