Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


fulfil this, staff are needed whose role is dedicated to the programme and those with multiple roles need to have appropriate time freed up. Leaders may be needed for the project overall, but also for specific elements of the project, for example, to encourage primary care participation or ensure local political or funding support. Leaders from within the community are also needed to champion the project and facilitate engagement. Expectations of leadership roles should be matched by appropriate control and responsibility, and given the necessary training and support. Evidence statement R5.4 Staffing – staff engagement: To ensure that staff are engaged with the aims of a CVD prevention programme, they require appropriate training and resources, a good understanding of how their role fits into the programme overall and a clear understanding of the extent of their roles and responsibilities. Evidence statement R5.5 Staffing – GPs: The role of primary care was complicated and sometimes contradictory. Some GPs may be more comfortable with a secondary, rather than primary, prevention role, which may explain why some participants found it difficult to engage them in CVD prevention programmes. Conversely, other participants viewed primary care as crucial partners in CVD prevention. Advocacy among other local organisations may be a key role. Where primary care is involved in CVD prevention programmes, they need to receive appropriate resources to free-up staff time. Engaging primary care and keeping them appropriately informed may require tailored approaches. Evidence statement R5.6 Staffing – volunteers: Volunteers from within the community may be particularly effective at informing, motivating and engaging their peers in the community and enhance community empowerment. Volunteer workers need to be properly trained and supported to ensure that they continue to be involved and don't get burnt out. The issues of paying those involved should be considered carefully. Evidence statement R5.7 Staffing – multi-agency, multi-disciplinary teams: Public health work to reduce CVD is likely to require the involvement of multiple agencies and disciplines. Coordination and cooperation is required to build trust and a sense of shared purpose through aligning the goals and activities of different agencies involved, and assigning clear roles and responsibilities to participating organisations and staff within them. Joint appointments may facilitate this. Ongoing feedback and communication is vital. Sufficient time is needed to successfully negotiate and accommodate different expectations and bureaucracies. Evidence statement R5.8 Legacy: CVD reduction programmes may enhance their longer-term impact through ensuring that
