Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


is vital. Sufficient time is needed to successfully negotiate and accommodate different expectations and bureaucracies. Evidence statement R5.8 Legacy: CVD reduction programmes may enhance their longer-term impact through ensuring that programme activities are embedded within organisations and the community. Appropriate training and support for key staff, and community members, from project inception may help to ensure activities become 'institutionalised'. Ongoing sources of funding should also be identified. Programme impacts should be regularly assessed and results fed back to staff and organisations so that successful activities are recognised and adopted. This will require the identification of appropriate resources. Early and ongoing community engagement may ensure ongoing changes in healthy behaviours, empowering the community to maintain positive changes. Short-term projects often fail to leave lasting benefits to a community as their short-term goal setting may preclude the necessary engagement required. Evidence statement R5.9 Short time frames: Short time frames for CVD prevention programmes may threaten success at a number of levels: implementation, staff engagement and training, community engagement, evaluation and legacy. It is difficult for such programmes to meet community needs, staff needs or to permit changes to become embedded in the community. This may lead communities and local agencies to lose faith in such interventions, further hampering the ability of future work to be successful in those areas. Evidence statement R5.10 Structural barriers: At a macro-level, changes in the broader political environment can have dramatic effects on the adoption and continuation of prevention activities. Support for CVD prevention programmes may be affected by changing political priorities around prevention and treatment of illness. Evidence statement R5.11 Piloting and monitoring: Cyclical approaches to monitoring and evaluation, such as piloting, process evaluation and action research, allow project to be responsive to local needs, adapting or removing inappropriate projects and allowing successful projects to be rolled out. Information from this process fed back to staff in a timely way can help develop a sense of ownership and cooperation and motivate good practice. Organisations and individuals should also learn from the experiences of previous projects. Evidence statement R5.12 Challenges of evaluation: Commissioners and funders may need to allow flexibility in programme evaluation designs to allow them to adapt to local needs, rather than requiring fixed plans prior to funding. In addition, programmes and evaluations should allow sufficient time for outcomes to be achieved. Multiple methods may be needed to evaluate important aspects of CVD prevention programmes,
