Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


prior to funding. In addition, programmes and evaluations should allow sufficient time for outcomes to be achieved. Multiple methods may be needed to evaluate important aspects of CVD prevention programmes, such as community empowerment, that are not all easily captured through numerical outcome data. Programmes that measure only population-level changes may not capture large impacts for some individuals, and this may be important, especially where health inequalities are addressed. Evidence statement CE1 Three studies gave results in cost per life-year gained for population-based programmes compared to no intervention. The results ranged from cost-saving to £240,000 per life- year gained. Evidence statement CE2 Two studies gave results in cost per QALY or DALY (disability-adjusted life years) for population-based programmes compared to no intervention. Results ranged from £10 per QALY to £96 per DALY. Evidence statement CE3 Two studies gave results in cost per case prevented for population-based programmes compared to no intervention. Results ranged from cost saving to £22,000 per case prevented. Evidence statement CE4 Five studies reported results in cost per life-year gained for some form of screening strategy compared to no intervention. Results ranged from cost saving to £140,000 per life-year gained. Evidence statement CE5 Two studies gave results in cost per case prevented for screening compared to no intervention. Results ranged from £10,000 to £730,000 per case prevented. Evidence statement CE6 Two studies gave results per 1% reduction in coronary risk for screening compared to no intervention. Results ranged from £2.25 to £5.30 per 1% reduction for 1 person. Evidence statement CE7 One study gave a result of £0.80 per pound weight lost for a screening programme compared to no intervention. Evidence statement CE8 One study gave results ranging from £12,000 to £120,000 per life-year gained and £100,000 to £230,000 per QALY for screening compared to a population-based approach. Evidence statement CE9 One study gave results from cost saving to £39,000 per life-year gained for some form of exercise training. Additional evidence • Expert reports: － ER 1: The effectiveness of physical activity promotion interventions － ER 3: Expert testimony on salt and cardiovascular disease － ER 4: The relationship between commercial interests and risk of cardiovascular disease － ER 5: Regional development of a population-based collaborative CVD prevention strategy: the experience of NHS West Midlands － ER 6: NICE guidance on the prevention of CVD at population level: evidence from the Co-operative Group － ER 7: Population
