Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


be expected to produce a net cost saving to the public sector, as well as improving health. (Unless a very large sum of money needs to be spent on implementation.) For example, implementing a CVD prevention programme based on the North Karelia project would result in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of approximately £7000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). For the Stanford Five City Project, the total healthcare cost savings almost equal the estimated cost of the project. The benefits of reducing the prevalence of smoking would also make the programme cost saving. At the request of the Programme Development Group (PDG), the scope of the modelling was extended beyond programmes for which there was direct evidence of effectiveness. Interventions modelled included: • The North Karelia project, including the effect of a net percentage reduction in serum cholesterol of 3% for men and 1% for women, and a reduction in systolic blood pressure of 3% for men and 5% for women. • The Stanford Five City Project, the effect of a 4% reduction in systolic blood pressure and a 2% decrease in serum cholesterol among the general population. • Legislation to ban trans fats and so reduce trans fatty acid (TFA) levels in the population so that it only accounts for approximately 0.7% of total energy intake. • Legislation to reduce the population's salt intake by 3 g and 6 g per day. The modelling made a number of conservative assumptions. It found that halving CVD events across the entire England and Wales population of 50 million would result in discounted savings of approximately £14 billion per year. Reducing mean population cholesterol or blood pressure levels by 5% would result in discounted annual savings of approximately £0.7 billion and £0.9 billion respectively. Reducing population cardiovascular risk by even 1% would generate discounted savings of approximately £260 million per year. Additional benefits to existing CVD patients, and reductions in other diseases, were not quantified. As the model is based on a series of conservative assumptions, it probably seriously underestimates the true health benefits to be gained from the recommendations. Fieldwork findings Fieldwork aimed to test the relevance, usefulness and feasibility of putting the recommendations into practice. The PDG considered the findings when developing the final recommendations. For details, go to the fieldwork section in appendix B and the fieldwork report. Feedback to the recommendations varied. Food industry recommendations (1, 2, 3, 4,
