Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


developing the final recommendations. For details, go to the fieldwork section in appendix B and the fieldwork report. Feedback to the recommendations varied. Food industry recommendations (1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 10 in the consultation document) It was indicated, particularly by some food industry stakeholders, that: • It was felt that NICE has 'a lot less weight' in the food and planning sectors and that we would need to work much more closely with them to gain support for the recommendations. • Food industry representatives generally (but not unanimously) indicated that trans fats were 'no longer an issue' and should, therefore, not be included in the recommendations. They also questioned the levels of saturated fat and salt recommended, as they were unaware of the evidence to support a reduction to these levels. • Catering industry recommendations (6, 14 and 15 in the consultation document). In general, stakeholders felt that the catering recommendations demonstrated how to follow good practice. • Local authority planning recommendations (7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 17 and 18 in the consultation document) Local planning and policy representatives stated that the recommendations needed to become part of national planning policy or law. Otherwise, it would not be possible to implement them. Communications recommendation (number 11 in the consultation document) There was limited feedback from the industry as some of the target organisations disputed that it was relevant to them and declined the opportunity to be interviewed. CVD programme recommendations (19 to 24 in the consultation document) In general, representatives from the NHS and PCTs indicated that the regional CVD prevention recommendations were appropriate and that they supported current work on CVD prevention. Appendix D: Gaps in the evidence The Programme Development Group (PDG) identified a number of gaps in the evidence related to the programmes under examination based on an assessment of the evidence, stakeholder and expert comment and fieldwork. These gaps are set out below. 1. There is a lack of UK studies on the effectiveness of programmes to prevent CVD among black and minority ethnic groups living in the UK. 2. There is a lack of evidence on the effectiveness of interventions targeting those with high risk factors who believe their health is bad. 3. There is a lack of evidence on the effectiveness of providing emotional support and help to develop general coping skills as part of interventions to prevent CVD. 4. There
