Cardiovascular disease prevention
KEYWORDS: evidence, health, cvd, food, programmes, statement, prevention, study, population, evidence statement, risk, studies, community, disease, cba


3. There is a lack of evidence on the effectiveness of providing emotional support and help to develop general coping skills as part of interventions to prevent CVD. 4. There is a lack of evidence on the effectiveness of CVD prevention programmes involving the families of those at risk. 5. There is a lack of controlled comparison studies looking at the effectiveness of lay health advisers in helping to prevent CVD. The group made 6 recommendations for research. Appendix E: supporting documents The supporting documents include: • Evidence reviews: － Review 1: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; phase 1) － Review 2: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; phase 2) － Review 3: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; phase 3) － Review 4: Barriers to, and facilitators for, multiple risk factor programmes aimed at reducing cardiovascular disease within a given population: a systematic review of qualitative research. • Primary research: － Review 5: Population and community programmes addressing multiple risk factors to prevent cardiovascular disease: A qualitative study into how and why some programmes are more successful than others. • Economic analysis: － Review 6: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level (Question 1; cost-effectiveness). • Economic modelling: － Prevention of cardiovascular disease at population level: modelling strategies for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. • Expert reports: － Report 1: The effectiveness of physical activity promotion interventions － Report 2: Health policy analysis － Report 3: Expert testimony on salt and cardiovascular disease － Report 4: The relationship between commercial interests and risk of cardiovascular disease － Report 5: Regional development of a population-based collaborative CVD prevention strategy: the experience of NHS West Midlands － Report 6: NICE guidance on the prevention of CVD at population level: evidence from the Co-operative Group － Report 7: Population and community programmes addressing multiple risk factors to prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD): addendum to qualitative study produced by Peninsula Technology Assessment Group for NICE: CVD programme – Heart of Mersey (HoM) － Report 8: Expert testimony paper on the independent evaluation of 'have a heart Paisley' phase one (Scotland's national CHD prevention demonstration project) － Report 9: Expert testimony on the public health harm caused by industrially produced trans fatty acids and actions to reduce and eliminate them from the food system in the UK － Report 10: Prevention of cardiovascular disease at
