MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION The Presentation, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Sexually Transmitted Infections Florian M.E. Wagenlehner, Norbert H. Brockmeyer, Thomas Discher, Klaus Friese, Thomas A. Wichelhaus SUMMARY Sexually transmitted infections are caused by a wide variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites Background: The reported incidence of sexually trans- that are communicated from one human being to mitted infections (STIs) in Germany is rising. For example, another primarily by vaginal, anal, or oral sexual con- the number of new reported cases of syphilis rose from tact. Different sexually transmitted infections (STIs) 3034 in 2010 to 4410 in 2012. can be present or be transmitted simultaneously, and Methods: This review is based on pertinent articles re- the presence of any such infection increases the risk of trieved by a selective search in MEDLINE, and on guide- contracting other types of STI. Sexually transmitted lines and systematic reviews from Germany and abroad. infections are often oligo- or asymptomatic. According to the World Health Organization Results: We discuss sexually transmitted infections (WHO), sexually transmitted infections are one of presenting with genital, anal, perianal, or oral ulcers, the five types of disease for which adults around the urethritis, cervicitis, urethral or vaginal discharge, or world most commonly seek medical help (1). The genital warts. We also discuss sexually transmitted in- current state of the data on the prevalence of sexually fection with HIV and the hepatitis C virus (HCV). Acquired transmitted infections in Germany does not permit sexually transmitted infections elevate the risk of trans- any reliable conclusions about infection rates, except mission of other sexually transmitted infections; thus, for those of two diseases: human immunodeficiency patients presenting for the diagnosis or treatment of any virus (HIV) and syphilis (2). kind of sexually transmitted infection should be evalu- Sexually transmitted infections can cause severe ated for others as well. For most of these diseases, fetal and neonatal damage, genital neoplasia, and treatment of the patient’s sexual partner(s) is indicated. infertility. A number of diagnostic strategies and tests, Diagnostic nucleic acid amplification techniques are over of variable quality, are available for the individual 90% sensitive and specific and are generally the best pathogens. way to detect the responsible pathogen. Factors im- peding effective treatment include antibiotic resistance The diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms can gen- (an increasing problem) and the late diagnosis of HIV and erally be tailored to the leading clinical manifestations HCV infections. (if the patient
