MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


The diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms can gen- (an increasing problem) and the late diagnosis of HIV and erally be tailored to the leading clinical manifestations HCV infections. (if the patient is symptomatic). Thus, sexually trans- mitted infections can usefully be classified by their Conclusion: Sexually transmitted infections are common presenting features, as follows: around the world, and any such infection increases the ● Genital, anal, perianal, or oral ulcers patient’s risk of contracting other types of sexually ● Urethral or vaginal discharge transmitted infection. Molecular genetic diagnostic ● Genital warts t echniques should be made widely available. ● HIV or hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. ►Cite this as: If the availability of diagnostic tests is limited, ef- W agenlehner FME, Brockmeyer NH, Discher T, Friese K, fective treatment can also be initiated without any ment of sexually transmitted infections. Dtsch Arztebl these are clearly typical of a particular sexually Int 2016; 113: 11–22. D OI: transmitted disease. Asymptomatic infections are Justus Liebig University Giessen: Prof. Dr. med. Wagenlehner Definition Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik II, Justus-Liebig-Universität, Giessen: infections are one of the five types of disease Dr. med. Discher for which adults around the world most com- Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the Ludwig-Maximilians- U niversität München: Prof. Dr. med. Friese monly seek medical help. Frankfurt am Main: Prof. Dr. med. Wichelhaus Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–22 11 MEDICINE ● (cid:2)Recognize the clinical features of selected common sexually transmitted diseases ● (cid:2)Apply the currently recommended diagnostic tests for these diseases ● K now their appropriate treatment in the light of current antibiotic resistance rates. Sexually transmitted infections presenting Figure 1: Acute herpes simplex virus infection in the area of the with genital, anal, perianal, or oral ulcers mons pubis Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection Infectious ulcers in the genito-anal region are com- monly due to HSV. HSV-1 accounts for 20% of cases, HSV-2 for 80%. HSV infection is the most common common, however, and only detectable by testing. sexually transmitted infection that causes ulcers. Up to 90% of sexually transmitted infections are Herpes simplex virus persists in the human host for his asymptomatic. The likelihood that an infection will be or her entire lifetime. Painful vesicles may develop into asymptomatic depends both on the site of infection erosions or ulcers that secrete a hyaline infectious fluid and on the responsible pathogen. For example, the (Figure
