MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


vesicles may develop into asymptomatic depends both on the site of infection erosions or ulcers that secrete a hyaline infectious fluid and on the responsible pathogen. For example, the (Figure 1). The ulcers generally heal completely in two probability of asymptomatic rectal infection with C. to three weeks. HSV infection can manifest itself trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae is 85% in men who i nitially with regional lymphadenopathy and fever; on have sex with men (MSM) (e1). 30% of pregnant girls the other hand, it can also be asymptomatic. in Tanzania have an asymptomatic type 2 herpes sim- HSV infection can be transmitted by sexual contact plex virus (HSV-2) infection (3). In the United States, (including oral sex) as well as perinatally from mother to about 85% of T. vaginalis infections in women are child. Persons with an acute HSV-1 infection should asymptomatic; so are 77% in men (4). r efrain from unprotected oral sex. Unprotected sexual The treatment of sexually transmitted infections has contact in the setting of HSV infection promotes the ac- the following objectives: quisition of HIV infection (odds ratio [OR] 1.7) (e5) and ● To cure the infection in the individual patient as other sexually transmitted diseases. Moreover, studies rapidly as possible, and to eliminate contagious- have shown that HSV-2 infection triples the risk of HIV ness as rapidly as possible in order to interrupt the infection through unprotected sexual intercourse (e6). chain of transmission; HSV infection is diagnosed by the analysis of vesicular fluid ● To prevent reinfection and recurrent infection. or genital secretions, generally with the aid of nucleic acid T he treatment of sexual partners is important as well. amplification techniques, which are the most sensitive Bacterial infections and trichomoniasis can now be method (over 95%) and nearly 100% specific (e7). The cured with systemic treatment (1, 5, 6). Viral infections virus can also be revealed by antigen-detection techniques, due to HIV, HSV, and human papillomaviruses cannot but these are much less sensitive. Genital herpes infections be cured, but they can be weakened or modulated with are treated systemically with aciclovir, valaciclovir, or systemic treatment (1, 5, 6). f amciclovir; the dose depends on whether the episode is an initial infection or a recurrence, and on whether the patient is Methods immunocompromised (Table). In patients who have HSV We selectively searched the MEDLINE database for infections that recur four or more times a year,
