MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


ceftriaxone 2 g i.v. q.d. for 10–14 days or doxycycline 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. for 28 days (in case of penicillin allergy; not for pregnant women) or erythromycin 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. for 28 days * see also the treament recommendations of the German STI Society (DSTIG): www.dstig.de/literaturleitlinienlinks/sti-leitfaden.html NAT, nucleic acid test Treponema pallidum infection (syphilis) “early syphilis” for the first year after the date of infec- Syphilis is caused by Treponema pallidum. Sentinel tion and “late syphilis” at later times. Half of all analysis in Germany revealed a fluctuating reported infected persons develop a painless ulcer with an incidence of the disease in the range of 1.1 to 1.9 cases i ndurated edge (ulcus durum) after an average interval per 100 000 persons per year from 2003 to 2008 (2). of three weeks; this heals in 4–6 weeks with or without There were 3034 reported cases in 2010, and 4410 in treatment (Figure 2) (7). Painless lymphadenopathy Genital herpes simplex virus infection The treatment of syphilis Genital herpes simplex virus infections should Benzathine penicillin is the drug of first choice. a lways be treated systemically. 14 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–22 MEDICINE d evelops regionally. Hematogenous spread (stage II; secondary syphilis) leads to systemic symptoms arising six weeks to six months later, including fever, myalgia, bone and joint pain, transaminase elevation, and, typi- cally, a maculopapular rash (roseola syphilitica). Other, polymorphic types of rash (Figure 2) can arise through involvement of the mucous membranes (plaques muqueuses), the palms and soles (palmoplantar s yphilid); intertriginous condylomata lata can be distin- guished visually from condylomata acuminata by ex- perienced clinicians (Figures 3b and c). Treponemes are present in these skin lesions, which can therefore transmit infection by contact (7). 75% of untreated pa- tients have no further symptoms after the end of stage II (7), but 25% develop tertiary syphilis (stage III) in 12 months to 10 years (7). Stage III syphilis causes a wide variety of general medical, neurological, and p sychiatric morbidity and may be life-threatening if Figure 2: Primary infection and secondary stage of syphilis: untreated. ulcus durum on the upper lip; maculopapular facial rash The pathogen is generally revealed serologically by antibody detection in the framework of the diagnostic algorithm. First, a pathogen-specific screening test is performed, e.g., a Treponema pallidum particle aggluti- towels, toilet seats, etc., although transmission via “sex nation
