MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


detection in the framework of the diagnostic algorithm. First, a pathogen-specific screening test is performed, e.g., a Treponema pallidum particle aggluti- towels, toilet seats, etc., although transmission via “sex nation test (TPPA). If this test is positive, it is followed toys” is possible in certain situations. The spread of by a specific confirmation test employing a different syphilis can be halted by timely diagnosis and rigorous assay (ELISA). If this test is positive as well, the ing of its effect; patients should be thoroughly informed activity level of syphilis is assessed in a third stage of of the diagnosis and its implications, and all of their evaluation (e.g., cardiolipin antibodies or treponeme- sexual partners from the three months prior to the onset specific IgM), in order to distinguish syphilis in need of of the disease should be tested. treatment from residual seropositivity in inactive dis- Penicillin is the drug of first choice for syphilis. ease. With appropriate equipment, an experienced Early syphilis is treated with a single injection of examiner can see Treponema pallidum directly on dark- benzathine penicillin, 2.4 million IU i.m., while late field microscopy of vesicular fluid or genital secretions syphilis is treated with three injections of the same in primary syphilis (caution: the specimens are infec- drug at the same dose, one each on days 1, 8, and 15 tious). In Germany, all positive laboratory tests for (Table). Patients who are allergic to penicillin can be syphilis must be reported anonymously to the Robert alternatively given doxycycline 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. for agency). If neurosyphilis is suspected, CSF should be treatment of congenital syphilis will not be discussed obtained by lumbar puncture and submitted for here (e8). Treatment failure rates are analysis; this should also be done in any patient with high—6.9–22.4% in early syphilis, 19.4–31.1% in suspected syphilis who is HIV-positive with severe im- late syphilis, and 27.3–27.8% in neurosyphilis (7). date of exposure is unknown (possible late syphilis) (7). follow-up every 3 months for a year (2 years in HIV- The disease is transmitted exclusively by direct positive or immunocompromised patients) (7). All pa- c ontact with the genito-anal or oral mucosa (less tients with syphilis should be tested for other sexually commonly, the skin) of infected persons, i.e., by sexual transmitted diseases, including gonorrhea and HIV contact. Intrauterine transmission is also possible. (6). Syphilis cannot be transmitted by objects such as The transmission
