MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


skin) of infected persons, i.e., by sexual transmitted diseases, including gonorrhea and HIV contact. Intrauterine transmission is also possible. (6). Syphilis cannot be transmitted by objects such as The transmission of herpes simplex viruses Syphilis HSV infection can be transmitted by sexual contact Half of all infected persons develop a painless (including oral sex) as well as perinatally from u lcer with an indurated edge (ulcus durum) after mother to child. an average interval of three weeks; this heals in 4–6 weeks with or without treatment. Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–22 15 MEDICINE a) b) c) Figure 3: Various appearances and localizations of condylomatous warts: a) condylomata acuminata, coronal sulcus of the penis; b) condy- lomata acuminata, perianal; c) condylomata lata, perianal Sexually transmitted infections presenting (74%) (16–19). Orally administered cefixime has been with urethral or vaginal discharge repeatedly reported to have a high rate of treatment Urethritis f ailure and is therefore not recommended for first-line Urethritis can be of either infectious or non-infectious empiric treatment (6, 9). If antibiotic treatment brings origin. It is often asymptomatic. If symptomatic, it no improvement, additional evaluation for T. vaginalis generally presents with a mucopurulent or purulent (microscopy, nucleic acid test [NAT]) and M. genita- discharge, dysuria, or itching. The main pathogens are lium (NAT) should be considered. Doxycycline treat- Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, and ment is generally ineffective against urethritis due to Mycoplasma genitalium (6, e4); rarer ones include M. genitalium (6, 20, e11). Treatment with a single Trichomonas vaginalis, Gardnerella vaginalis, Urea- dose of azithromycin 1 g p.o. is associated with the plasma urealyticum, herpes simplex virus (HSV), and d evelopment of macrolide resistance; thus, the adenoviruses (6, e10). c urrently recommended treatment of urethritis due to The following clinical findings suggest the diagnosis M. genitalium consists of one dose of azithromycin of urethritis: 500 mg p.o., followed by azithromycin 250 mg p.o. q.d. ● Mucopurulent or purulent urethral discharge for 7 days (7, 20). If this is ineffective, moxifloxacin (Figure 4) 400 mg p.o. q.d. should be given for 10 to 14 days (7, ● ≥ 2 leukocytes in a smear of the urethral discharge 20). Insufficient data are available on the efficacy of under 1000x magnification other fluoroquinolones, such as ciprofloxacin or levo- ● ≥ 10 leukocytes in the sediment of 3 mL of early- floxacin. The clinical significance of other Mycoplas- stream
