MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


under 1000x magnification other fluoroquinolones, such as ciprofloxacin or levo- ● ≥ 10 leukocytes in the sediment of 3 mL of early- floxacin. The clinical significance of other Mycoplas- stream urine under 400x magnification ma species and of Ureaplasma species is currently ● A positive leukocyte esterase test of early-stream debated (21). urine. Patients with diagnosed urethritis should be tested Mere visual inspection of the discharge is inadequate for other sexually transmitted infections, including HIV for a reliable etiologic diagnosis. Gram staining of the and syphilis (6). urethral discharge should be performed for rapid diag- The patient’s sexual partner(s) of the past 60 days nosis; in men, Gram staining is 95% sensitive and should be evaluated and, if necessary, treated. The pa- 99.9% specific (10, 15). tient should remain sexually abstinent until at least 7 Patients are treated empirically with antibiotics days after the end of treatment. covering N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis (Table) A follow-up evaluation with NAT should be per- (7). In Germany, N. gonorrhoeae has high rates of re- formed four weeks or more after the end of treatment to sistance to penicillin (80%) and fluoroquinolones confirm the eradication of the infection. The transmission of syphilis Symptoms of urethritis The disease is transmitted exclusively by direct Urethritis is often asymptomatic; if symptomatic, contact with the genito-anal or oral mucosa (less it generally presents with a mucopurulent or commonly, the skin) of infected persons, i.e., by purulent discharge, dysuria, or itching. sexual contact. 16 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–22 MEDICINE Cervicitis Cervicitis has two main diagnostic hallmarks: ● A purulent or mucopurulent discharge that is v isible in the endocervical canal or on an endocer- vical smear (generally termed “mucopurulent cer- vicitis” or simply “cervicitis”), and ● Persistent endocervical bleeding, which can be easily induced by the gentle insertion of a swab in the cervix. Either or both of these signs may be present. Cervici- tis is often asymptomatic, but many affected women complain of an abnormal vaginal discharge or inter- menstrual bleeding (e.g., after sexual intercourse). The main pathogens are C. trachomatis and/or N. Figure 4: Purulent urethral discharge in gonorrheal urethritis gonorrhoeae; rarer ones include T. vaginalis and HSV-2 (e12). Limited data suggest that M. genitalium can also cause cervicitis. In most cases of cervicitis, however, no pathogen is isolated (10). Leukorrhea is defined as a vaginal discharge in For many
