MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


data suggest that M. genitalium can also cause cervicitis. In most cases of cervicitis, however, no pathogen is isolated (10). Leukorrhea is defined as a vaginal discharge in For many years immediate microscopy was the most which there are more than 10 leukocytes per common diagnostic test for Trichomonas infection, h igh-power field under 400x magnification. This find- despite a low sensitivity of only 50% to 65% (22). evidence of infectious vaginitis. Because cervicitis can specific (e15). In one study, the use of NAT increased also be a sign of endometritis, women with newly diag- the rate of positive diagnosis from 2.7% to 13.5% (22); nosed cervicitis should also be evaluated for a possible thus, NAT is clearly indicated. In general, either a pelvic infection with C. trachomatis or N. gonor- smear of urethral or vaginal origin or the patient’s urine rhoeae. NAT is currently the most sensitive test for T. is studied. The treatment is with nitroimidazoles vaginalis (6). (Table). The empiric treatment of cervicitis should be Persons infected with T. vaginalis should also be directed against C. trachomatis, and also against N. tested for other sexually transmitted diseases (e.g., gonorrhoeae in patients at high risk, i.e., those with chlamydia, gonococci, or human papillomaviruses multiple sexual partners or a history of prior sexually [HPV]). A follow-up test after treatment is recom- transmitted infections (for the choice of antibiotic, see mended to document the eradication of the infection (5). the treatment of urethritis, above). Women in whom Sexual partners should be treated as well. cervicitis due to C. trachomatis and/or N. gonor rhoeae is diagnosed should also be tested for other sexually Sexually transmitted infections presenting transmitted infections, including HIV and syphilis (6). with genital warts Human papillomavirus infection Trichomonas infection Human papillomaviruses (HPV) are divided into two In men, infection with Trichomonas vaginalis can types on the basis of their oncogenic potential. Low- p resent with the symptoms and signs of urethritis, risk varieties, such as HPV6 and HPV11, give rise to epididymitis, or prostatitis; in women, it presents with a condylomata acuminata (genital warts) (Figure 3a, b); vaginal discharge that may be diffuse, ill-smelling, or high-risk varieties, such as HPV16 and HPV18, cause yellowish-green. 70–85% of all infected persons, how- neoplasia. The treatment of condylomata acuminata is ever, have minimal or no symptoms, and untreated difficult and often protracted. Recurrence rates of asymptomatic infection can persist for months
