MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


persons, how- neoplasia. The treatment of condylomata acuminata is ever, have minimal or no symptoms, and untreated difficult and often protracted. Recurrence rates of asymptomatic infection can persist for months or years 6–60% after topical treatment, 18–77% after surgery, (e13). T. vaginalis infection elevates the risk of acquir- and 9–69% after surgical treatment have been de- ing HIV by a factor of 2 to 3 (e14). scribed (23). Persistent HPV infection (possibly due to The treatment of urethritis The treatment of sexual partners If antibiotic treatment brings no improvement, The urethritis patient’s sexual partner(s) of the a dditional evaluation for T. vaginalis (microscopy, past 60 days should be evaluated and, if necessa- NAT) and M. genitalium (NAT) should be consid- ry, treated. The patient should remain sexually ered. abstinent until at least 7 days after the end of treatment. reyemkcorB .H.N :serugiF Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–22 17 MEDICINE with 5% imiquimod ointment for 8 weeks. Alternatives BOX include podophyllotoxin, 5-fluoruracil and cyclo - sporine. Precancerous lesions and carcinomas should HIV testing (e3, e21) be treated according to the current guidelines (e18). ● All patients presenting to a physician for the diagnosis or treatment of a HIV and HCV infections sexually transmitted disease should be tested for HIV. HIV infection ● HIV testing requires the patient’s documented informed consent. Of the estimated 80 000 persons with HIV in Ger- ● HIV testing begins with a 4th-generation screening test (e.g., Combotest, many today, roughly 90% acquired the infection Ab+Ag). Positivity can be expected no sooner than 2–3 weeks after exposure. through sexual contact (5, 25). Two-thirds are men ● If the screening test is positive, a confirmatory test is performed on a second who have sex with men (MSM). The incidence of HIV infection has risen slightly over the past 10 serum sample (e.g., Western blot; can distinguish HIV-1 from HIV-2 with an years. The highest number of new cases in Ger- HIV-2 antigen). many in a single year was 3525, in 2014. 780 of ● A test for type-specific HIV-RNA is performed if the above test results are these cases were reported as having been caused by unclear, or if an acute HIV infection is suspected before seroconversion can heterosexual transmission (HET); that was 182 take place (no sooner than 10 days after exposure). more HET cases than had been reported the ● 4th generation
