MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


suspected before seroconversion can heterosexual transmission (HET); that was 182 take place (no sooner than 10 days after exposure). more HET cases than had been reported the ● 4th generation HIV testing can rule out HIV infection six weeks after exposure, p revious year (e16). If untreated, HIV infection unless the patient has deficient B-cell-mediated immunity. progresses from the acute infection to the latency stage (2–10 years), the symptomatic stage, and ● Patients found to be HIV-positive should undergo professional counseling and death (Centers for Disease Control [CDC] classifi- examination, as well as screening for further sexually transmitted diseases, cation). HIV-positive persons who receive timely including syphilis, gonorrhea, lymphogranuloma venereum, HBV, and HCV. and appropriate treatment, with good compliance, ● The patient’s sexual partner(s) should be offered an HIV test and screening for now have nearly the same life expectancy as HIV- other sexually transmitted diseases. negative persons (26–30, e19). Late diagnosis, ● HIV-negative sexual partners should be offered post-exposure prophylaxis however, is still a common and serious problem: within 72 hours of exposure. 1/3 of all persons with HIV in Germany were diag- nosed only in a stage of advanced immunodeficien- ● In Germany, positive HIV test results must be reported to the Robert Koch cy (< 200 CD4/µL). This markedly worsens the clinical course and increases the risk of trans- Ab, antibody; Ag, antigen; HBV, hepatitis B virus; HCV, hepatitis C virus mission (27, e20). The opportunity to diagnose HIV arises when the patient has an acute HIV infection or suffers from symptoms that may be due to HIV, or from AIDS- d efining symptoms or conditions. 50–90% of persons an underlying immunodeficiency) increases the risk of with acute HIV infection have an EBV or flu-like dysplasia and tumors. More than 99% of cervical car- illness (EBV, Epstein-Barr virus), generally of brief cinomas and more than 90% of anal carcinomas are duration, within 3–4 weeks of the exposure. Features HPV positive, and HPV can be demonstrated in up to that indicate a possible HIV infection include a his- 70% of penile, vulvar, and vaginal carcinomas (5). Up tory of possible HIV exposure, fever, rash, and a to 30% of carcinomas of the throat, and tonsillar marked loss of helper T-cells (CD4+ lymphocytes). In carcinomas in particular, are caused by HPV (e16). persons with untreated HIV infection, the gradual loss Anal carcinoma is a central problem in HIV medicine
