MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


helper T-cells (CD4+ lymphocytes). In carcinomas in particular, are caused by HPV (e16). persons with untreated HIV infection, the gradual loss Anal carcinoma is a central problem in HIV medicine of cellular immunocompetence causes atypical today, as it is more common among HIV-positive men symptoms and signs (Box). HIV infection can often be who have sex with men (70–100 per 100 000) (23, 24 suspected from the site, extent, and severity of an in- e17). Genital warts should be treated locally with cryo- fection or condition of a possibly opportunistic type, therapy, trichloroacetic acid, or ablative techniques as well as from its tendency to recur or its resistance such as curettage. The surgical treatment of anogenital to standard treatment. It is important for the physician warts should be followed by adjuvant topical treatment and the patient to have an open, unprejudiced Signs and symptoms in Trichomonas infection Anal carcinoma In men, infection with Trichomonas vaginalis can Anal carcinoma is a central problem in HIV present with the symptoms and signs of urethri- m edicine today, as it is more common among tis, epididymitis, or prostatitis; in women, it HIV-positive men who have sex with men. p resents with a vaginal discharge that may be d iffuse, ill-smelling, or yellowish-green. 18 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–22 MEDICINE d iscussion of the patient’s sexual orientation and prac- transmission. tices (5). Antiretroviral therapy should be offered to the The risk of transmission depends on the concen- patient as soon as HIV is diagnosed; this is the rec- tration of the virus (HIV), the particular sexual ommendation of the WHO (35) as well as of the practices involved, and any concomitant infection American HIV guidelines (e25). The German and with other sexually transmitted diseases (31, 32, Austrian guidelines are now being revised (e2). e20, e21). Early treatment, with good compliance, The concentration of virus particles is highest at s uppresses the virus completely and gives HIV- the time of primary infection and in the stage of ad- positive persons a life expectancy comparable to vanced immunodeficiency (106–107 copies/mL in that of HIV-negative persons. The early initiation the blood). The higher the viral burden, the higher of treatment saves money compared to later initi- the risk of transmission by sexual contact; HIV ation (e23), as well as being an effective preventive transmission is unlikely if the HIV-positive indi- measure against
