MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


compared to later initi- the risk of transmission by sexual contact; HIV ation (e23), as well as being an effective preventive transmission is unlikely if the HIV-positive indi- measure against disease transmission (36). vidual has a consistently low viral count (less than 50 copies/mL) and no other concomitant sexually HCV infection transmitted diseases (e22). Among all sexual prac- Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is not a typical sex- tices, being the receptive partner in unprotected ually transmitted disease. Nonetheless, HIV-infected anal intercourse confers the highest risk of con- men who have sex with men and who have many tracting HIV—up to 1.4%, depending on the viral sexual partners, use sexually stimulating drugs, and count of the HIV-positive person (e23). engage in traumatizing sexual practices have a 17.8% The risk of HIV transmission is elevated by a risk of contracting HCV, compared to 0.4% among factor of 3 to 10 by the concomitant presence of a HIV-negative persons (5, 37, e26). Any man who has florid sexually transmitted infection (33, e23, e24). sex with men and in whom an HCV infection is newly Such infections are common among persons with diagnosed should be evaluated for other sexually HIV (13–16%) (33, e22). Sexually transmitted transmitted infections, including HIV and syphilis. diseases take a more complicated course in HIV- Double and triple infections are common (up to 15%). positive persons than in HIV-negative persons; Persons infected with HIV should undergo annual they also induce a rise in viral counts and progres- screening tests for HCV (with anti-HCV antibody and sion of the HIV disease (34, e3). HCV-RNA tests). There is no vaccine against HCV, The risk of HIV transmission can be lessened by: and 80% of HCV infections are chronic (e27, e28). ● Rigorous treatment of sexually transmitted The new, directly acting drugs against HCV enable infections (42%) interferon-free treatment for all types of HCV (e28, ● Condoms (85%) e29). As a rule, cure is attained in over 90% of treated ● Antiretroviral therapy (ART) (96%) patients within 12 weeks (38). Persons co-infected ● A RT and condoms (99.2%) (e23) with HIV and HCV are at increased risk of hepatic ● Pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV-negative cirrhosis and should be given antiviral therapy for sexual partners (86%) (5, 6). HCV infection, just as is recommended for HCV findings and the helper cell count. The key sur- rogate markers for the assessment of prognosis and
