MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: infection, hiv, treatment, transmitted, sexually, infections, sexually transmitted, days, syphilis, sexual, virus, men, persons, risk, transmitted infections


sexual partners (86%) (5, 6). HCV infection, just as is recommended for HCV findings and the helper cell count. The key sur- rogate markers for the assessment of prognosis and Conflict of interest statement Prof. Wagenlehner has served as a paid consultant for Astellas, B ionorica for the monitoring of treatment are: Cubist, Galenus, Leo-Pharma, Merlion, OM-Pharma, Pierre Fabre, Perell Re- ● The helper cell count (CD4+/µL). The lower search, Rosen Pharma, and Zambon. He has received payment for presenting at continuing medical education events from Astellas, Bionorica Cubist, the count, the more severe the cellular immu- Galenus, Leo-Pharma, Merlion, OM-Pharma, Pierre Fabre, Rosen Pharma, and nodeficiency and the higher the risk of AIDS Zambon. He has also received payment for carrying out clinical trials on be- and death. half of Astellas, Bionorica, Calixa, Cerexa, Cubist, The German Research F oundation (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft), the European Association of ● (cid:2)The concentration of virus particles in the Urology, Galenus, The Hessen State Ministry of Higher Education, Research blood (viral count in RNA copies/mL). The and the Arts, Merlion, OM-Pharma, Rosen Pharma, and Zambon. higher the viral count, the more rapid the pro- Prof. Brockmeyer has recieved reimbursement of conference participation gression of disease and the higher the risk of fees and travel and accommodation costs from Gilead, Jansen, and MSD. He Acute HIV infection The risk of HIV infection can be lessened by: 50–90% of persons with acute HIV infection (cid:129) Treatment of sexually transmitted infections have an EBV or flu-like illness of, generally, brief (cid:129) Condoms duration within 3–4 weeks of the exposure. (cid:129) Antiretroviral therapy (ART) (cid:129) ART and condoms (cid:129) Pre-exposure prophylaxis Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2016; 113: 11–2219 MEDICINE and Jansen. Infektionen des weiblichen und des männlichen Genitaltraktes. Prof. Wichelhaus has served as a paid consultant for Teutopharma. He has München: Urban & Fischer 2011. received payment for preparing continuing medical education events from 11. Abele-Horn M, Blenk H, Clad A,et al: Genitalinfektionen Teil II. Pfizer, Bayer, Biomerieux, and Gilead. Infektionserreger: Bakterien. München: Urban & Fischer; Dr. Discher has served as a paid consultant for Gilead, Abbvie, and Roche. He 2011. has recieved reimbursement of conference participation fees and travel and accommodation costs, as well as payment for preparing continuing medical 12. Abele-Horn M, Blenk H, Clad A, et al.: Genitalinfektionen Teil II. education events, from BMS, Gilead, MSD, Roche, Abbvie, and Janssen. Infektionserreger: Parasiten,
