Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and managing peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in adults. Rapid changes in diagnostic methods, endovascular treatments and vascular services associated with new specialties in surgery and interventional radiology have resulted in considerable uncertainty and variation in practice. This guideline aims to resolve that uncertainty and variation. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • Adults, and their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Information requirements 1.1.1 Offer all people with peripheral arterial disease oral and written information about their condition. Discuss it with them so they can share decision-making, and understand the course of the disease and what they can do to help prevent disease progression. Information should include: • the causes of their symptoms and the severity of their disease • the risks of limb loss and/or cardiovascular events associated with peripheral arterial disease • the key modifiable risk factors, such as smoking, control of diabetes, hyperlipidaemia, diet, body weight and exercise • how to manage pain • all relevant treatment options, including the risks and benefits of each • how they can access support for dealing with depression and anxiety. Ensure that information, tailored to the individual needs of the person, is available at diagnosis and subsequently as required, to allow people to make decisions throughout the course of their treatment. [2012] 1.1.2 NICE has produced guidance on the components of good patient experience in adult NHS services. Follow the recommendations in NICE's guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services. [2012] 1.2 Secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in people with peripheral arterial disease 1.2.1 Offer all people with peripheral arterial disease information, advice, support and treatment regarding the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, in line with published NICE guidance on: • treating tobacco dependence • diet, weight management and exercise • lipid modification and statin therapy • diabetes • high blood pressure • antiplatelet therapy. [2012] 1.2.2 Rivaroxaban plus aspirin is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for preventing
