Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


modification and statin therapy • diabetes • high blood pressure • antiplatelet therapy. [2012] 1.2.2 Rivaroxaban plus aspirin is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease at high risk of ischaemic events. For full details, see the guidance on rivaroxaban (TA607, 2019). 1.2.3 Clopidogrel is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for preventing occlusive vascular events in people with peripheral arterial disease. For full details, see the guidance on clopidogrel (TA210, 2010). 1.3 Diagnosis 1.3.1 Assess people for the presence of peripheral arterial disease if they: • have symptoms suggestive of peripheral arterial disease or • have diabetes, non-healing wounds on the legs or feet, or unexplained leg pain or • are being considered for interventions to the leg or foot or • need to use compression hosiery. [2012] 1.3.2 Assess people with suspected peripheral arterial disease by: • asking about the presence and severity of possible symptoms of intermittent claudication and critical limb ischaemia • examining the legs and feet for evidence of critical limb ischaemia, for example ulceration • examining the femoral, popliteal and foot pulses • measuring the ankle brachial pressure index (see recommendation 1.3.3). [2012] 1.3.3 Measure the ankle brachial pressure index in the following way: • The person should be resting and supine if possible. • Record systolic blood pressure with an appropriately sized cuff in both arms and in the posterior tibial, dorsalis pedis and, where possible, peroneal arteries. • Take measurements manually using a doppler probe of suitable frequency in preference to an automated system. • Document the nature of the doppler ultrasound signals in the foot arteries. • Calculate the index in each leg by dividing the highest ankle pressure by the highest arm pressure. [2012] Diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes 1.3.4 Do not exclude a diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes based on a normal or raised ankle brachial pressure index alone. [2018] 1.3.5 Do not use pulse oximetry for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes. [2018] For a short explanation of why the committee made these 2018 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on diagnosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: determining diagnosis and severity of peripheral arterial disease in people
