Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


rationale and impact section on diagnosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: determining diagnosis and severity of peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes. 1.4 Imaging for revascularisation 1.4.1 Offer duplex ultrasound as first-line imaging to all people with peripheral arterial disease for whom revascularisation is being considered. [2012] 1.4.2 Offer contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography to people with peripheral arterial disease who need further imaging (after duplex ultrasound) before considering revascularisation. [2012] 1.4.3 Offer computed tomography angiography to people with peripheral arterial disease who need further imaging (after duplex ultrasound) if contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography is contraindicated or not tolerated. [2012] 1.5 Management of intermittent claudication Supervised exercise programme 1.5.1 Offer a supervised exercise programme to all people with intermittent claudication. [2012] 1.5.2 Consider providing a supervised exercise programme for people with intermittent claudication which involves: • 2 hours of supervised exercise a week for a 3-month period • encouraging people to exercise to the point of maximal pain. [2012] Angioplasty and stenting 1.5.3 Offer angioplasty for treating people with intermittent claudication only when: • advice on the benefits of modifying risk factors has been reinforced (see the section on secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in people with peripheral arterial disease) and • a supervised exercise programme has not led to a satisfactory improvement in symptoms and • imaging has confirmed that angioplasty is suitable for the person. [2012] 1.5.4 Do not offer primary stent placement for treating people with intermittent claudication caused by aorto-iliac disease (except complete occlusion) or femoro-popliteal disease. [2012] 1.5.5 Consider primary stent placement for treating people with intermittent claudication caused by complete aorto-iliac occlusion (rather than stenosis). [2012] 1.5.6 Use bare metal stents when stenting is used for treating people with intermittent claudication. [2012] Bypass surgery and graft types 1.5.7 Offer bypass surgery for treating people with severe lifestyle-limiting intermittent claudication only when: • angioplasty has been unsuccessful or is unsuitable and • imaging has confirmed that bypass surgery is appropriate for the person. [2012] 1.5.8 Use an autologous vein whenever possible for people with intermittent claudication having infra-inguinal bypass surgery. [2012] Pharmacological treatment 1.5.9 Consider naftidrofuryl oxalate for treating people with intermittent claudication, starting with the least costly preparation, only when: • supervised exercise has not led to satisfactory improvement and • the person prefers not to be referred for consideration of angioplasty or bypass surgery.
