Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


least costly preparation, only when: • supervised exercise has not led to satisfactory improvement and • the person prefers not to be referred for consideration of angioplasty or bypass surgery. Review progress after 3 to 6 months and discontinue naftidrofuryl oxalate if there has been no symptomatic benefit. [2012] Naftidrofuryl oxalate is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease for whom vasodilator therapy is considered appropriate after taking into account other treatment options. For full details, see the guidance on naftidrofuryl oxalate (TA223, 2011). 1.5.10 Cilostazol, pentoxifylline and inositol nicotinate are not recommended in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating intermittent claudication in people with peripheral arterial disease. For full details, see the guidance on cilostazol, pentoxifylline and inositol nicotinate (TA223, 2011). 1.6 Management of critical limb ischaemia 1.6.1 Ensure that all people with critical limb ischaemia are assessed by a vascular multidisciplinary team before treatment decisions are made. [2012] Revascularisation 1.6.2 Offer angioplasty or bypass surgery for treating people with critical limb ischaemia who require revascularisation, taking into account factors including: • comorbidities • pattern of disease • availability of a vein • patient preference. [2012] 1.6.3 Do not offer primary stent placement for treating people with critical limb ischaemia caused by aorto-iliac disease (except complete occlusion) or femoro-popliteal disease. [2012] 1.6.4 Consider primary stent placement for treating people with critical limb ischaemia caused by complete aorto-iliac occlusion (rather than stenosis). [2012] 1.6.5 Use bare metal stents when stenting is used for treating people with critical limb ischaemia. [2012] 1.6.6 Use an autologous vein whenever possible for people with critical limb ischaemia having infra-inguinal bypass surgery. [2012] Management of critical limb ischaemic pain 1.6.7 Offer paracetamol, and either weak or strong opioids depending on the severity of pain, to people with critical limb ischaemic pain. To support discussions with patients about the benefits and harms of opioid treatment, and safe withdrawal management, see: • NICE's guideline on medicines associated with dependence or withdrawal symptoms • NICE's guideline on shared decision making • the section on medication review in NICE's guideline on medicines optimisation. [2012, amended 2020] 1.6.8 Offer drugs such as laxatives and anti-emetics to manage the adverse effects of strong opioids, in line with the person's needs and preferences. [2012] 1.6.9 Refer people with critical limb ischaemic pain to a specialist pain management service if any
