Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


adverse effects of strong opioids, in line with the person's needs and preferences. [2012] 1.6.9 Refer people with critical limb ischaemic pain to a specialist pain management service if any of the following apply: • their pain is not adequately controlled and revascularisation is inappropriate or impossible • ongoing high doses of opioids are required for pain control • pain persists after revascularisation or amputation. [2012] 1.6.10 Do not offer chemical sympathectomy to people with critical limb ischaemic pain, except in the context of a clinical trial. [2012] Major amputation 1.6.11 Do not offer major amputation to people with critical limb ischaemia unless all options for revascularisation have been considered by a vascular multidisciplinary team. [2012] Recommendations for research In 2012 the guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. The committee's full set of research recommendations is detailed in the full guideline. As part of the 2018 update, the standing committee made new research recommendations on the effectiveness and reliability of tools for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes. Details can be found in the evidence review. Key recommendations for research 1 Effectiveness of tools for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes What is the most clinically and cost-effective tool for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes? Why this is important People with diabetes are at higher risk of cardiovascular events and foot problems such as diabetic neuropathy (nerve damage or degeneration), foot ulcer and limb loss. So it is important to have an effective test for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in this group. At present there are only studies of very low quality (retrospective and prospective cross-sectional studies) containing small sample sizes. Diagnostic accuracy studies are needed to address this issue, ideally containing cost–utility analysis, comparing diagnostic tools with imaging. In order to explore the importance of early diagnosis, different clinical settings where diagnostic tests are performed should be explored. [2018] 2 Effectiveness of tools for establishing the severity of peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes What is the most clinically and cost-effective tool for establishing the severity of peripheral arterial disease and the impact on mortality, morbidity and limb amputation in people with diabetes? Why this is important Limited evidence suggests that doppler ankle brachial pressure index, toe brachial index and oscillometric ankle brachial index accurately diagnose severity of peripheral arterial disease. However, further research is needed using a
