Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


evidence suggests that doppler ankle brachial pressure index, toe brachial index and oscillometric ankle brachial index accurately diagnose severity of peripheral arterial disease. However, further research is needed using a robust diagnostic study design (such as a randomised controlled trial) to explore the clinical and cost effectiveness of tools in establishing the severity of disease and outcomes in people with diabetes. Studies should also explore the use of tools in different populations, such as those with neuropathy, and in different settings, for example, nursing homes, where access to services and diagnostic equipment may differ. [2018] 3 Inter- and intra-rater reliability of assessment tools in the diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes What is the inter- and intra-rater reliability of assessment tools in the diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes? Why this is important Identifying peripheral arterial disease can be a challenge because diagnostic tests are conducted in a number of different settings by healthcare professionals with varying experience of using assessment tools. Data on inter- and intra-rater reliability of point-of-care assessment tools are needed to inform future recommendations for practice. The study should compare diagnostic tests with gold standard imaging. Different clinical and community settings, such as UK primary care setting, should also be taken into account. [2018] 4 Angioplasty versus bypass surgery for treating people with critical limb ischaemia caused by disease of the infra-geniculate arteries What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of a 'bypass surgery first' strategy compared with an 'angioplasty first' strategy for treating people with critical limb ischaemia caused by disease of the infra-geniculate (below the knee) arteries? Why this is important Many people with critical limb ischaemia, especially those with diabetic vascular disease, also have disease of the infra-geniculate (below the knee) arteries in the calf. For many years, the standard of care has been bypass surgery. Although such surgery may be associated with significant morbidity, the resulting long-term amputation-free survival rates are generally good. In recent years there has been a trend towards treating infra-geniculate disease with angioplasty, on the grounds that it is associated with less morbidity than surgery. However, this change in practice is not evidence-based, and serious concerns remain about the durability of angioplasty in this anatomical area. A multicentre, randomised controlled trial with a full health economic analysis is required to address this. The primary endpoint should be amputation-free survival, with secondary endpoints
