Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


in this anatomical area. A multicentre, randomised controlled trial with a full health economic analysis is required to address this. The primary endpoint should be amputation-free survival, with secondary endpoints including overall survival, health-related quality of life, healing of tissue loss, and relief of ischaemic pain. [2012] 5 Supervised exercise programmes for treating people with intermittent claudication What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of supervised exercise programmes compared with unsupervised exercise for treating people with intermittent claudication, taking into account the effects on long-term outcomes and continuing levels of exercise? Why this is important Research has shown that taking part in exercise and physical activity can lead to improvements in symptoms in the short term for people with intermittent claudication. However, the benefits of exercise are quickly lost if it is not frequent and regular. Supervised exercise programmes have been shown to produce superior results when compared with advice to exercise (unsupervised) in the short term, but they are more expensive, and there is a lack of robust evidence on long-term effectiveness. A community-based randomised controlled trial is required to compare the long-term clinical and cost effectiveness of a supervised exercise programme and unsupervised exercise. The trial should enrol people with peripheral arterial disease-related claudication, but exclude those with previous endovascular or surgical interventions. The primary outcome measure should be maximal walking distance, with secondary outcome measures including quality of life, function, levels of uptake of exercise programmes and long-term engagement in physical activity. [2012] Other recommendations for research 6 Patient attitudes and beliefs about peripheral arterial disease What is the effect of people's attitudes and beliefs about their peripheral arterial disease on the management and outcome of their condition? Why this is important The evidence reviewed suggested that, among people with peripheral arterial disease, there is a lack of understanding of the causes of the disease, a lack of belief that lifestyle interventions will have a positive impact on disease outcomes, and unrealistic expectations of the outcome of surgical interventions. Much of the research has been conducted on the subpopulation of people with peripheral arterial disease who have been referred for surgical intervention, but little evidence is available for the majority of people diagnosed with peripheral arterial disease in a primary care setting. Research is needed to further investigate attitudes and beliefs in relation to peripheral arterial disease, interventions that might influence these and how these may have
