Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


in a primary care setting. Research is needed to further investigate attitudes and beliefs in relation to peripheral arterial disease, interventions that might influence these and how these may have an impact on behavioural changes in relation to risk factors for peripheral arterial disease, attitudes to intervention and clinical outcomes. [2012] 7 Primary versus secondary stenting for treating people with critical limb ischaemia caused by disease of the infra-geniculate arteries What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of selective stent placement compared with angioplasty plus primary stent placement for treating people with critical limb ischaemia caused by disease of the infra-geniculate arteries? Why this is important Studies comparing angioplasty plus selective stent placement with primary stent placement have been limited to the aorto-iliac and femoro-popliteal segment. There is also a significant group of people with critical ischaemia caused by disease of the infra-geniculate vessels in which there is a potential for endovascular treatment. Infra-geniculate disease is more complex to treat by endovascular means, and the risks and benefits of different treatment options may differ from those for the more proximal vessels. A multicentre, randomised controlled trial with a full health economic analysis is required to address the optimum policy as regards the choice of method for angioplasty and stent placement for the infra-geniculate arteries. The primary endpoint should be amputation-free survival, with secondary endpoints including overall survival, re-intervention rates, health-related quality of life, healing of tissue loss, and relief of ischaemic pain. [2012] 8 Chemical sympathectomy for managing critical limb ischaemic pain What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of chemical sympathectomy in comparison with other methods of pain control for managing critical limb ischaemic pain? Why this is important Approximately 1 in 5 people with critical limb ischaemia cannot be offered procedures to improve the blood supply to their leg because of either the pattern of their disease or other comorbidities. In this group the therapeutic options are pain control or primary amputation. Chemical lumbar sympathectomy, which involves the destruction of the lumbar sympathetic chain (usually the L2 and L3 ganglia), has been suggested to reduce pain and improve wound healing, and may prevent amputation in some patients. Initially achieved surgically, it is now most commonly performed using chemical agents such as phenol to destroy the lumbar sympathetic chain. Despite having been used for over 60 years, the role of chemical lumbar sympathectomy remains unclear. Improvement in skin blood
