Peripheral arterial disease: diagnosis and management
KEYWORDS: disease, people, peripheral, peripheral arterial, arterial, arterial disease, limb, pain, critical, critical limb, diabetes, exercise, evidence, treating, disease people


agents such as phenol to destroy the lumbar sympathetic chain. Despite having been used for over 60 years, the role of chemical lumbar sympathectomy remains unclear. Improvement in skin blood flow and modification of pain perception control have been demonstrated, and this has prompted the use of chemical lumbar sympathectomy for treating a range of conditions such as regional pain syndrome, vasospastic conditions and critical limb ischaemia. However, in critical limb ischaemia the use of chemical lumbar sympathectomy varies widely between units in England, the mode of action and indications are unclear, and there is currently no randomised controlled trial evidence demonstrating its clinical value. Therefore a randomised control trial comparing chemical lumbar sympathectomy with other methods of pain relief is recommended. [2012] Rationale and impact Diagnosis Recommendations 1.3.4 and 1.3.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence showed that doppler ankle brachial pressure index below an agreed cut-off increased the probability of diagnosing peripheral arterial disease. However, people with diabetes and peripheral arterial disease may have a normal or raised index because of hardening of the arteries. The committee agreed that it was important to highlight this so that healthcare professionals do not exclude peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes based on a normal or raised ankle brachial pressure index alone. There was a lack of evidence on the use of pulse oximetry for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes. The committee noted that a universal cut-off point had not been established. This could lead to variation in the interpretation of results. It was also noted that pulse oximetry is rarely used in clinical practice for assessing peripheral arterial disease and there was general clinical agreement that it is not a useful test in this context. Therefore, the committee recommended against the use of pulse oximetry for this purpose. There was not enough evidence on the use of other tests (doppler waveform analysis and toe brachial index) for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease in people with diabetes. However, the committee agreed it was not appropriate to make recommendations against the use of these tests, as there were good theoretical arguments as to why these tests might provide useful diagnostic value. The committee therefore agreed to make recommendations for research to inform future practice and any further update of this guidance. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: determining the diagnosis
