Inflammatory bowel disease
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, ibd, study, treatment, comorbidities, response, anti, bowel, analysis, inflammatory, factors, eims, inflammatory bowel, lor


anti-T NFα diseases (1.87, 1.48 to 2.36) were significantly associated therapies. with primary non- response to anti- TNFα, as was the use ► Specifically, the results suggest that chronic ob- of corticosteroids and the type of inflammatory bowel structive pulmonary disease, myocardial infarction, hepato- pancreato- biliary conditions and skin dis- disease (ulcerative colitis vs Crohn’s disease). It was eases may have a negative influence on anti- TNFα also found that myocardial infarction (3.30, 1.48 to 7.35) treatment outcomes. and skin disease (2.73, 1.42 to 5.25) were significantly associated with loss of response, along with the use of corticosteroids and the type of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis vs Crohn’s disease). IntroductIon © Author(s) (or their Conclusions Our results suggest that the presence of Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) describes employer(s)) 2020. Re- use some comorbidities in patients with inflammatory bowel a group of chronic, progressive disorders that permitted under CC BY- NC. No disease, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease predominantly affect the bowel. Although the commercial re-u se. See rights and myocardial infarction, and of certain extraintestinal and permissions. Published pathophysiology is not fully known, it seems manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease, such as by BMJ. that environmental factors and an abnormal hepato- pancreato- biliary conditions and skin diseases, For numbered affiliations see immune response to enteric microbes play a end of article. appear to be related to failure to anti- TNFα treatment. role in individuals with a genetic predispo- Therefore, their presence should be considered when sition.1 Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative Correspondence to choosing a treatment. Dr Ignacio Marin-J imenez; Trial registration number NCT02861118. colitis (UC) are the two main forms of IBD. drnachomarin@ hotmail. com The disease often has an onset during young Marin- Jimenez I, et al. BMJ Open Gastro 2020;7:e000351. doi: 1 Open access adulthood and a course characterised by remission and comorbidities was described, and the comorbidity profile relapse phases.2 The progressive organ damage results in at each level of IBD severity was determined. a negative impact on the patient’s health-r elated quality of life (HRQoL) and in a major economic burden for both society and health services.3–7 Methods The Spanish incidence of IBD seems to have increased study population in recent years, similarly to other countries,8 9 and ranges This study was a retrospective, non- interventional, obser- between 8 and 11 cases per 100 000 inhabitants per vational, multicentre study involving 24 gastroenterology
