Inflammatory bowel disease
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, ibd, study, treatment, comorbidities, response, anti, bowel, analysis, inflammatory, factors, eims, inflammatory bowel, lor


Marin- Jimenez I, et al. BMJ Open Gastro 2020;7:e000351. doi: Open access groups or categories and categorical variables, and with Table 1 Charlson index χ2 tests or Fisher’s exact tests when comparing categorical Comorbidity Weighted index variables. Myocardial infarction 1 To analyse the factors associated with PNR or LOR, a Congestive heart failure 1 univariate analysis was performed including the sociode- mographic variables, comorbidities, EIM, and other clin- Peripheral vascular disease 1 ical variables as factors. Afterwards, a stepwise (backward Cerebrovascular disease 1 and forward) multiple logistic regression analysis was Dementia 1 performed using as the dependent variable either PNR Chronic obstructive pulmonary 1 or LOR and as independent variables those considered disease potential factors in the univariate analysis (p<0.100). Connective tissue disease 1 In addition, given the potential relevance of the type of IBD (CD or UC) and of concomitant treatments on the Peptic ulcer disease 1 response to anti- TNFα medications, the type of IBD and Diabetes mellitus 1 (mild), 2 (moderate to the concomitant administration of immunosuppressants severe) and corticosteroids were included as fixed factors in the Chronic renal disease 2 (moderate to severe) models. Hemiplegia 2 An additional analysis to evaluate the impact of the Leukaemia 2 EIM profile on treatment response to the first anti- TNFα Lymphoma 2 therapy was conducted. It was based on two stepwise multiple logistic regression analyses with PNR or LOR Solid tumour 2 (tumour), 6 (metastatic) as dependent variables and all EIMs (arthropathy and Liver disease 1 (mild), 3 (moderate to arthritis, metabolic bone disease, eye disease, oral, aural severe) and nasal disease, skin disease, hepato-p ancreato- biliary AIDS 6 disease, neurological disease, and cardiovascular, pulmo- nary and genitourinary manifestations) as independent variables. Again, type of IBD, treatment with immuno- anti- TNFα). Primary non- response (PNR) was defined as suppressants, and treatment with corticosteroids were lack of response after induction treatment (weeks 0–10). included as fixed factors in the models. Loss of response (LOR) was defined as loss of the effect Additionally, we analysed the associations among of the drug along the follow- up in a patient with an initial response.34 Reasons to stop the drug were classified as comorbidities and IBD severity at baseline. Patients were PNR, LOR, side effect, remission or other.34 categorised as having a severe disease if HBI was >16 or PMS was 8–9. We performed a univariate analysis consid- IBD comorbidities in patients with UC
