Inflammatory bowel disease
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, ibd, study, treatment, comorbidities, response, anti, bowel, analysis, inflammatory, factors, eims, inflammatory bowel, lor


effect, remission or other.34 categorised as having a severe disease if HBI was >16 or PMS was 8–9. We performed a univariate analysis consid- IBD comorbidities in patients with UC and CD (defined ering severity as the dependent variable and type of as the coexistence of another medical condition along- IBD and comorbidities as independent variables. After- side IBD that did not imply causation) at the time of diag- wards, a stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis was nosis and at the study visit were listed according to the Charlson index35 (table 1). EIMs in patients with UC and performed using non- severe disease as the dependent variable and as independent variables those that were CD were chosen from a list from the European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation guidelines.18 significant at p<0.10 in the univariate analysis. All data analyses were performed using IBM SPSS statistical analysis Statistics V.22.0 Statistical Package for Windows. With an estimated 50% of non-r esponders to the first anti- TNFα treatment and considering a minimum sample of 10 patients who presented with the event of interest per results independent variable included in the logistic regression Patient characteristics model and a maximum of 10 independent variables per A total of 357 patients with IBD were included in this model, a sample of 200 patients with UC and 200 patients study. Forty- seven patients were eventually excluded from with CD were estimated. the analysis due to screening failure. Of the 310 anal- All patients participating in the study who fulfilled the ysed patients, 194 were diagnosed with CD and 116 were inclusion criteria and did not have a major deviation from diagnosed with UC. Subjects’ characteristics are shown the study protocol were included in the final analysis. in table 2. The mean age (SD) at the time of anti-T NFα Continuous variables were described as the number of treatment initiation was 38.8 (12.7) years for CD and patients with valid/missing observations, mean, and SD, 41.8 (13.3) years for UC. Men comprised 53.5% of the or the median and IQR if required. Categorical variables whole analysed population. There was a higher preva- were described by absolute and relative frequencies. lence of non- smokers among patients with UC (60.3%) Pairwise comparisons were performed by t- tests, Mann- compared with patients with CD (44.3%). Likewise, Whitney tests, analyses of variance or Kruskal- Wallis tests there was a higher prevalence of ex- smokers
