Inflammatory bowel disease
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, ibd, study, treatment, comorbidities, response, anti, bowel, analysis, inflammatory, factors, eims, inflammatory bowel, lor


(4.4%). Likewise, acute myocardial PNR (p=0.670) or LOR (p=0.677). In any case, in order infarction was found to be almost three times as likely in to test this hypothesis more in depth, additional multi- patients with IBD as in matched controls in a population- variate analyses were conducted, forcing three different based study.38 On the other hand, major skin involve- variables related with smoking behaviour as independent ment has also been described in 2%–34% of patients with variables: current smoker, ex-s moker and ever smoker. IBD.39 However, it is difficult to diagnose these skin mani- Interestingly, whereas none of these three variables was festations as EIMs because they can also arise as paradox- identified as an independent predictor of PNR or LOR, ical reactions to anti- TNFα drugs.40 For example, some COPD, myocardial infarction and skin diseases kept reports have suggested that inhibition of TNFα induces significance as independent predictors of PNR or LOR overexpression of cutaneous interferon-α, which in turn (data not shown). This reinforces that the determinants causes a predisposition to psoriasis.40 Hence, in light of of failure to anti- TNFα therapy are the identified comor- the present results, when selecting an anti- TNFα for the bidities/EIMs, rather than smoking habits. treatment of patients with IBD, the identified comorbidi- These comorbidities/EIMs had increased prevalence ties and EIMs predicting a possible drug response failure in many epidemiological IBD studies, and some aetio- should be taken into consideration. pathogenic explanations have been hypothesised.38–40 The prevalence of comorbidities in our study was Overexpression of inflammatory factors and abnormal relatively low compared with other studies.14–16 A plau- immune responses have been postulated as the common sible explanation might be that the median age of pathogenetic mechanisms underlying IBD and comor- study patients was relatively young (approximately 44 bidities. In some epidemiological studies, a strong asso- years old). Another reason could be that many IBD ciation between COPD and IBD was found. Compared specialists or even patients are reluctant to use biologic Marin- Jimenez I, et al. BMJ Open Gastro 2020;7:e000351. doi: 7 Open access therapy, and we cannot discard a possible overlap Nonetheless, larger prospective controlled and pref- between comorbidities and EIMs due to the retrospec- erably randomised studies are needed to confirm our tive study design. We also found an unusual distribu- results. In addition, a study assessing the impact of tion of comorbidities in the subpopulations of patients comorbidities on
