Inflammatory bowel disease
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, ibd, study, treatment, comorbidities, response, anti, bowel, analysis, inflammatory, factors, eims, inflammatory bowel, lor


confirm our tive study design. We also found an unusual distribu- results. In addition, a study assessing the impact of tion of comorbidities in the subpopulations of patients comorbidities on response to other biologics in the IBD with CD and UC. Unlike most of the epidemiological population should be conducted to compare the study data, we found higher prevalence of comorbidities and results with the results of the present study. EIMs in UC than in CD. Interestingly, patients with In conclusion, our results suggest that the presence UC in our study showed a significant association with of some comorbidities, such as COPD and myocardial a more severe disease compared with patients with CD, infarction, and of certain EIMs of IBD, such as hepato- and also showed a significant association with PNR or pancreato- biliary conditions and skin diseases, seems LOR compared with patients with CD. Therefore, the to be connected to the lower probability of therapeutic higher disease severity in patients with UC included in success with anti-T NFα. Therefore, the presence of these our study may explain the higher occurrence of EIMs in conditions in patients with IBD should guide clinicians this group. These findings are nonetheless in line with when selecting the most appropriate treatment. other published results.41–43 Park et al found disease Author affiliations severity to be a strong predictor of non- response to infliximab in patients with UC.43 The authors hypoth- Madrid, Spain esised that, unlike CD, UC seems to result from an 2Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain role in the pathogenesis of UC. Spain use of corticosteroids and both PNR and LOR. Some Spain disease,44 of the need for anti-T NFα treatment dose Spain intensification, and of an increased risk of anti-T NFα Valencia, Spain suggest that the early need for corticosteroids may be a Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, Spain proxy for disease severity or hard- to- treat disease. Some of the limitations of the present study were the Trueta, Girona, Spain the other hand, a requirement to a successful logistic Sagunto, Spain entered into the model. While it is tempting to include as many input variables as possible, this can dilute true Compostela, Madrid, Spain associations, or conversely identify spurious associations. In order to limit these risks, the conventional technique Acknowledgements We would like to thank Ana Sánchez- Gabriel (Takeda was followed, meaning to first run the univariate analyses Farmacéutica España),
