Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


ABSTRACT Androgens are an important class of C19 steroid hormones that control normal male development and reproductive function. The main circulating androgen is testosterone, which is produced in the Leydig cells of the testis and can also act as a pro-hormone after being metabolized to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or estradiol (E 2 ). The biological actions of testosterone and DHT are mediated by the androgen receptor, a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, which in response to hormone regulates gene expression in target tissues. In this chapter the biosynthesis of androgens, receptor structure/function, and the consequences of genetic changes impacting on receptor expression and signaling in disorders of male development are discussed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Androgens are important hormones for expression of the male phenotype. They have characteristic roles during male sexual differentiation, but also during development and maintenance of secondary male characteristics and during initiation and maintenance of spermatogenesis ( 1 , 2 ). The two most important androgens in this respect are testosterone and 5α-dihydrotestosterone [ Figure 1 ]. Figure 1. Structure of testosterone and 5α-dihydrotestosterone and anti-androgens. While acting through the same androgen receptor, each androgen has its own specific role during male sexual differentiation: testosterone is directly involved in development and differentiation of Wolffian duct derived structures (epididymides, vasa deferentia, seminal vesicles and ejaculatory ducts) [ Figure 2A ], whereas 5α-dihydrotestosterone, a metabolite of testosterone, is the active ligand in a number of other androgen target tissues, like urogenital sinus and tubercle and their derived structures (prostate gland, scrotum, urethra, penis) [ Figure 2B ] ( 3 , 4 ). Figure 2. Specific actions of testosterone (T) and 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT). A) Testosterone is synthesized in the testis under the control of luteinizing hormone (LH) from the pituitary. After entering target cells in the hypothalamus, pituitary, testis, and Wolffian duct, T binds to the androgen receptor (AR) and the T-AR complex binds to specific DNA sequences and regulates gene transcription, which can result in negative feedback regulation of gonadotrophin synthesis and secretion, in initiation and regulation of spermatogenesis, and in differentiation and development of Wolffian ducts. B) T is synthesized in the testis under the control of LH, enters target cells in urogenital sinus, urogenital tubercle, and several other androgen target tissues and is metabolized to DHT by the enzyme 5α-reductase type 2.
