Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


under the control of LH, enters target cells in urogenital sinus, urogenital tubercle, and several other androgen target tissues and is metabolized to DHT by the enzyme 5α-reductase type 2. DHT binds directly to the AR and the DHT-AR complex interacts with specific DNA sequences and regulates gene transcription resulting in differentiation and development of the prostate, the external genitalia, and during puberty several secondary male sex characteristics. The interaction of both androgens with the androgen receptor is different. Testosterone has a twofold lower affinity than 5α-dihydrotestosterone for the androgen receptor, while the dissociation rate of testosterone from the receptor is five-fold faster than of 5α-dihydrotestosterone ( 5 ). However, testosterone can compensate for this "weaker" androgenic potency during sexual differentiation and development of Wolffian duct structures via high local concentrations due to diffusion from the nearby positioned testis. In more distally located structures, like the urogenital sinus and urogenital tubercle the testosterone signal is amplified via conversion to 5α-dihydrotestosterone. ANDROGEN BIOSYNTHESIS Androgens (testosterone and 5α-dihydrotestosterone) belong to the group of steroid hormones. The major circulating androgen is testosterone, which is synthesized from cholesterol in the Leydig cells in the testis. Testosterone production in the fetal human testis starts during the sixth week of pregnancy. Leydig cell differentiation and the initial early testosterone biosynthesis in the fetal testis are independent of luteinizing hormone (LH) ( 6 - 8 ). During testis development production of testosterone comes under the control of LH which is produced by the pituitary gland. Synthesis and release of LH is under control of the hypothalamus through gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and inhibited by testosterone via a negative feedback mechanism [ Figure 2A ] ( 9 ).The biosynthetic conversion of cholesterol to testosterone involves several discrete steps, of which the first one includes the transfer of cholesterol from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane by the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (Star) and the subsequent side chain cleavage of cholesterol by the enzyme P450scc ( 10 ). This conversion, resulting in the synthesis of pregnenolone, is the rate-limiting step in testosterone biosynthesis. Subsequent steps require several enzymes including, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 17α-hydroxylase/C17-20-lyase and 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 [ Figure 3 ] ( 11 ). Figure 3. Biosynthetic pathways for testosterone and DHT synthesis. The classic pathway show testosterone synthesized from cholesterol with further metabolism to DHT. The alternative or “backdoor” pathway shows DHT production without going through testosterone. Note
