Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


testosterone and DHT synthesis. The classic pathway show testosterone synthesized from cholesterol with further metabolism to DHT. The alternative or “backdoor” pathway shows DHT production without going through testosterone. Note only some of the enzymes are shown for clarity. METABOLISM OF TESTOSTERONE TO 5ΑΑ-DIHYDRO-TESTOSTERONE Metabolism of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone occurs through the classical pathway [ Figure 3 ] and is essential for initiation of the differentiation and development of the urogenital sinus into the prostate [ Figure 2B ]. Differentiation of male external genitalia (penis, scrotum and urethra) also strongly depends on the conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone in the urogenital tubercle, labioscrotal swellings, and urogenital folds ( 1 ). In recent research there has been considerable interest in the alternative or ‘backdoor’ pathway of DHT production (12 and references therein). This pathway has been found to have a significant role in the normal masculinization of the male fetus (see 13 ) and abnormal virilization of the female fetus in cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from mutations in the enzyme P450 oxidoreductase ( 14 ). The irreversible conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone is catalyzed by the microsomal enzyme 5α-reductase type 2 (SRD5A2) and is NADPH dependent [ Figure 4 ] ( 15 ). The cDNA of the gene for 5α-reductase type 2 codes for a protein of 254 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 28,398 Dalton ( 16 , 17 ). Figure 4. Metabolism of testosterone to DHT by the enzyme 5α-reductase type 2 (SDR5A2). The NH 2 -terminal part of the protein contains a subdomain proposed to be involved in testosterone binding, while the COOH-terminal region is involved in NADPH-binding ( 3 ). The enzyme 5α-reductase type 2 belongs to the 5α-reductase family which is composed of 3 subfamilies with a total of 5 members ( 18 ). There are three isozymes: type 1, type 2 and the more recently discovered type 3, which has a role in the conversion of polyprenols to dolichols (important step in protein N-glycosylation) ( 19 , 20 ). The other members are the proteins glycoprotein synaptic 2 (GPSN2) and glycoprotein synaptic 2 like (GPNS2L) and are most likely involved in double bond reduction during fatty acid elongation ( 21 ). ANDROGEN ACTION The Androgen Receptor and the Nuclear Receptor Family Actions of androgens are mediated by the androgen receptor (NR3C4; Nuclear Receptor subfamily 3, group C, gene 4). This
