Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


). ANDROGEN ACTION The Androgen Receptor and the Nuclear Receptor Family Actions of androgens are mediated by the androgen receptor (NR3C4; Nuclear Receptor subfamily 3, group C, gene 4). This ligand-dependent transcription factor belongs to the superfamily of 48 known human nuclear receptors ( 22 ). This family includes receptors for steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, all-trans and 9-cis retinoic acid, 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D, ecdysone and activators of peroxisome proliferation ( 23 - 25 ). An increasing number of nuclear proteins have been identified with a protein structure homologous with that of nuclear receptors, but without a known ligand. These so-called "orphan" receptors form an important subfamily of transcription factors acting either in the absence of any ligand or with yet unknown endogenous ligands ( 26 ). Comparative structural and functional analysis of nuclear hormone receptors has revealed a common structural organization in 4 different functional domains: a NH 2 -Terminal Domain, a DNA-Binding Domain, a Hinge Region and a Ligand Binding Domain [ Figure 5 ]. Figure 5. Steroid hormone receptor family. Sequence homologies between the human androgen receptor (hAR), human progesterone receptor (hPR), human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR), human mineralocorticoid receptor (hMR), and the human estrogen receptor alpha (hERα) and beta (hERβ). The current model for androgen action involves a multi-step mechanism as depicted in Figure 6 . Upon entry of testosterone into the androgen target cell, binding occurs to the androgen receptor either directly or after its conversion to 5α-dihydrotestosterone. Binding to the receptor is followed by dissociation of chaperone protein complexes (e.g., heat shock proteins) in the cytoplasm, simultaneously accompanied by a conformational change of the receptor protein resulting in a transformation and a translocation to the nucleus. The complex of chaperone and chaperone-associated proteins is collectively called the ‘foldosome’ and has functions beyond the classical role in the cytosol. The foldosome can for instance affect nuclear translocation and target gene expression ( 27 , 28 ). Upon binding in the nucleus to specific DNA-sequences the receptor dimerizes with a second molecule and the homodimer entity recruits further additional proteins (e.g., coactivators, general transcription factors, RNA-polymerase II) via specific interaction motifs ( 29 ). This finally results in transcriptional activation or suppression of specific androgen responsive genes ( 30 ). Figure 6. Simplified model of androgen action in an androgen target cell. The androgen receptor (AR) binds testosterone or its active metabolite DHT. After disassociation of heat shock
