Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


30 ). Figure 6. Simplified model of androgen action in an androgen target cell. The androgen receptor (AR) binds testosterone or its active metabolite DHT. After disassociation of heat shock proteins (hsp) the receptor enters the nucleus via an intrinsic nuclear localization signal and binds as a homodimer to specific DNA elements present as enhances upstream of androgen target genes. The next step is recruitment of coactivators, which form the communication bridge between the receptor and several components of the transcription machinery. The direct and indirect binding of the androgen receptor with several components of the transcription machinery (e.g., RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II), general transcription factors (GTFs)) are key events in nuclear signaling. This communication triggers subsequent mRNA synthesis and consequently protein synthesis resulting in androgen responses. A non-genomic pathway involving the AR via cross-talk with the Src/Raf-1Erk-2 pathway is also known. Interestingly androgen signaling via the androgen receptor can also occur in a non-genomic, rapid and sex-nonspecific way by crosstalk with the Scr, Raf-1, Erk-2 pathway [ Figure 6 ] ( 31 , 32 ). The classical androgen receptor is also involved in androgen-mediated induction of Xenopus oocyte maturation via the (MAPK)-signaling cascade in a transcription independent way ( 33 , 34 ). Cloning and Structural Organization of the Androgen Receptor Gene Since cloning of the human androgen receptor cDNA our insights into the mechanism of androgen action have increased tremendously. Only one androgen receptor cDNA has been identified and cloned, despite the two different ligands ( 35 - 38 ). The concept of two hormones and one receptor to explain the different actions of androgens has been generally accepted and, according to the information available from the human genome project, it is very unlikely that additional genes exist coding for a functional nuclear receptor with androgen receptor-like properties ( 25 ). The androgen receptor gene is located on the X-chromosome at Xq11.2 -12. The gene spans 186,587 kilobases (kb) in total and codes for a protein with a molecular mass of approximately 110 kDa [ Figure 7 ] ( 39 , 40 ). The gene consists of 8 coding exons and the structural organization of the coding exons is essentially identical to those of the genes coding for the other steroid hormone receptors (e.g., exon/intron boundaries are highly conserved) and is characterized by unusually long 5’- and 3’-UTRs [ Figure 7 ] ( 36 , 41
