Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


coding for the other steroid hormone receptors (e.g., exon/intron boundaries are highly conserved) and is characterized by unusually long 5’- and 3’-UTRs [ Figure 7 ] ( 36 , 41 - 43 , 47 ). As a result of differential splicing in the 3' - untranslated region two androgen receptor mRNA species (of around 7.5 and 10 kb, respectively) have been identified in several human tissues and cell lines ( 36 ): only the larger transcript is seen in rodent tissues ( 36 , 43 , 47 ). There is no structural indication in the androgen receptor mRNA for any preferential use of either of the two transcripts or transcript specific functions, but it can be speculated that tissue-specific factors may determine which transcript is present in which androgen target tissue. In the human prostate and in genital skin fibroblasts the 10 kb size mRNA is predominantly expressed ( 43 ). It may also be significant that a number of micro-RNAs have been identified and validated that target the 3’-UTR that are likely to contribute to the regulation of receptor levels ( 44 - 46 ) [ Figure 7 ]. Figure 7. Human androgen receptor gene was mapped to the long arm of the X chromosome. The human androgen receptor gene consists of coding exons and unusually long 5’- and 3’ UTRs. These have been shown to be important for transcriptional regulation (binding sites for both positive and negative regulatory factors) in the case of the 5’UTR. The 3’UTR region of the mRNA is targeted by a number of microRNAs (miRNAs). The androgen receptor has been shown to downregulate its own mRNA through response elements located in the 5’UTR and exon 2. Regulation and Expression of the Androgen Receptor Gene The promoter for the androgen receptor gene lacks TATA and CCAAT elements and transcription is driven primarily by the Zn-finger transcription factor Sp1. Sp1 binds to GC-boxes upstream of the transcription start site (-46 to -41 bps) and within the 5’UTR (+429 to +442) ( 47 - 52 ) [ Figure 7 ]. In addition, the promoter and the region spanning the 5’-UTR and exon 1 contains a CpG island that demonstrates tissue-selective methylation patterns ( 53 ) and to be associated with loss of AR expression in prostate cancer ( 54 ). Transcription of the receptor gene is under both positive and negative regulation ( 55 , 58 ).
