Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


be associated with loss of AR expression in prostate cancer ( 54 ). Transcription of the receptor gene is under both positive and negative regulation ( 55 , 58 ). Recent studies have focused on the auto-down regulation of the receptor mRNA in prostate cells. Balk and co-workers ( 56 ) identified, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), binding sites for ligand bound androgen receptor within the second intron and a second negative androgen response elements has been characterized in the 5’UTR (+611 bp) of the human receptor gene ( 57 ). Unravelling the molecular mechanism(s) for androgen-dependent down regulation, including possible synergy between the identified elements, in different cell types and tissues is an active area of research ( 58 ). In addition to regulation by hormone, recent work has also highlighted the importance of the balance between positive (Sp1) and negative (Purα) transcription factors binding to the 5’UTR of the human gene in determining the expression of receptor mRNA in different prostate cancer cell models (52 and references therein). Androgen Receptor Polymorphisms The androgen receptor DNA-binding and ligand-binding domains have a high homology with the corresponding domains of the other members of the steroid receptor subfamily ( 59 ) [ Figure 5 ]. There is a remarkably low homology between the androgen receptor NH 2 -terminal domain and that of the other steroid receptors [ Figure 5 , see above] ( 60 - 65 ). A poly-glutamine stretch, encoded by a polymorphic (CAG)nCAA - repeat is present in the NH 2 -terminal domain ( 66 ). The length of the repeat has been used for identification of X-chromosomes for carrier detection in pedigree analyses ( 67 , 68 ). Variation in length (9 - 38 glutamine residues) is observed in the normal population and has been suggested to be associated with a very mild modulation of androgen receptor activity ( 69 ). This assumption is based on in vitro experiments after transient transfection of androgen receptor cDNA's containing (CAG)nCAA - repeats of different lengths ( 70 , 71 ). In translating this finding to the in vivo situation, it can be envisaged that either shorter or longer repeat lengths can result in a relevant biologic effect during life. This concept has been explored in epidemiological studies of men with prostate cancer or infertility. With respect to prostate cancer, a clear picture has not emerged, and controversy persists. In several studies,
