Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


has been explored in epidemiological studies of men with prostate cancer or infertility. With respect to prostate cancer, a clear picture has not emerged, and controversy persists. In several studies, shortening of the (CAG)nCAA repeat length in exon 1 of the androgen receptor gene was found to correlate with an earlier age of onset of prostate cancer, and a higher tumor grade and aggressiveness ( 72 - 74 ). However, in other epidemiological studies in prostate cancer patients these associations were not confirmed ( 75 , 76 ). In several investigations in male infertile patients an association was found between a longer (CAG)nCAA repeat and the risk of defective spermatogenesis ( 77 - 79 ). This suggests that a less active androgen receptor, due to a moderate expanded repeat length, may be a factor in the etiology of male infertility. The (CAG)nCAA - repeat in exon 1 of the androgen receptor gene is expanded in patients with spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) and varies between 38 and 75 repeat units ( 69 , 80 , 81 ). Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and atrophy and is associated with nuclear accumulation of androgen receptor protein with the expanded polyglutamine stretch in motor neurons. Clinical symptoms usually manifest in the third to fifth decade and result from severe depletion of lower motor nuclei in the spinal cord and brainstem ( 69 , 82 , 83 ). SBMA patients frequently exhibit endocrinological abnormalities including testicular atrophy, infertility, gynecomastia, and elevated LH, FSH and estradiol levels. Sex differentiation proceeds normally, and characteristics of mild androgen insensitivity appear later in life. The neurotoxicity of the polyglutamine androgen receptor may involve generation of NH 2 -terminal truncation fragments, as such peptides occur in SBMA patients, but several other mechanisms have also been suggested for the molecular basis of SBMA ( 84 , 85 ). Therapeutic approaches in SBMA are focusing on reducing nuclear localized mutant androgen receptor via enhanced mutant androgen receptor degradation or by disrupting the interaction with androgen receptor coregulators ( 86 , 87 ). In a phase 3 clinical trial it was shown that the use of leuprorelin, a synthetic neuropeptide with an inhibitory action on LH secretion and consequently on testicular testosterone synthesis, is associated with improved swallowing function in SBMA patients, suggesting that interference by a pharmacon in testosterone-mediated AR aggregation can be a
