Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


LH secretion and consequently on testicular testosterone synthesis, is associated with improved swallowing function in SBMA patients, suggesting that interference by a pharmacon in testosterone-mediated AR aggregation can be a potential therapy in SBMA patients ( 88 ). The selective action of dutasteride (a 5α-reductase inhibitor) in motor neurons, by reducing significantly the formation of the active androgen 5α-dihydrotestosterone, resulted in a slowdown of the progression of SBMA and illustrated that active androgen depleting therapies can be promising in the treatment of SBMA ( 89 ). In general patients with an expanded CAG repeat are expected to have a low incidence of prostate cancer. However, a rare case has been reported in which a high stage prostate cancer has been detected in a SBMA patient, which responded to a maximal androgen blockade therapy ( 90 ). An important step in the receptor-mediated mechanism of action of androgens involves the NH 2 -terminal domain interacting with the COOH-terminal ligand binding domain (N/C interaction). (See details below under ‘ Androgen Receptor Functional Domain Structure ’). This N/C interaction is also a prerequisite for androgen receptor aggregation and toxicity in SBMA. Interference of the N/C interaction by selective androgen receptor modulators ameliorates aggregation and toxicity ( 91 ). The androgen receptor is a substrate for numerous post-translational modifications (see below) and phosphorylation of serine 516 has been associated with cleavage of the receptor and cytotoxicity ( 92 ). In contrast, phosphorylation of serines 215 and 793, by Akt kinase, was found to prevent nuclear translocation and receptor transactivation ( 93 ). Interestingly, methylation on arginine residues 210, 212, 787, 789 enhanced cytotoxicity and the authors proposed that this was as a consequence of mutual antagonism of phosphorylation (serines 215, 792) and arginine methylation ( 94 ). Similarly, prevention of SUMOylation rescues the SBMA phenotype in a mouse model by enhancing receptor-dependent transcriptional activity ( 95 ). The isoflavone genistein, which is derived from soy, is a potential therapeutic agent in SBMA, because this androgen receptor modulator can effectively disrupt the interaction between the co-regulator ARA70 and the androgen receptor and promotes the degradation of the mutant receptor in neuronal cells. ( 96 ). Similarly, targeting molecular chaperone complexes with small molecule modulators (e.g., 17-AAG, YM-1) has been shown to reduce neurotoxicity and enhance receptor-dependent degradation (reviewed in 81 ). Several therapeutic approaches have been investigated at different levels in the androgen receptor signaling
