Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


but retain a functional DBD and NTD with unique C-terminal sequences derived from cryptic exons (CE) (e.g., AR-v7). ANDROGEN RECEPTOR: FUNCTIONAL DOMAIN STRUCTURE The NH 2 -terminal Domain The androgen receptor NH 2 -terminal domain (NTD) harbors the major transcription activation functions and several structural subdomains. The NTD of the androgen receptor, as that of the other steroid receptors, can be considered as an intrinsically disordered protein domain, existing as an ensemble of conformers. It has a structure between a fully unfolded state and a structured folded conformation: this molten-globule-like conformation has the propensity to form helical structures, despite its structurally plasticity ( 99 - 102 ). Within its 539 amino acids, two independent activation domains have been identified: activation function 1 (AF-1) (located between residues 103 and 372) that is essential for transcriptional activity of full-length androgen receptor, and activation function 5 (AF-5) (located between residues 362-486) that is required for transactivity of a constitutively active androgen receptor, which lacks its LBD ( 103 ). Evidence is available now that the AF-5 region in the receptor NH 2 -terminal domain interacts with a glutamine rich domain in p160 cofactors like SRC-1 and TIF2/GRIP1 and not with their LxxLL-like protein interacting motifs ( 104 - 107 ). Recent years have seen further structural and functional insights into the intrinsically disordered NTD. Key discoveries include the high-resolution mapping of helical regions within the AF1 domain ( 108 ) that were in very good agreement with previous predictions ( 109 ); and the identification of a helical segment involving the WHTLF motif responsible for TFIIF binding ( 110 ). Also of note are helical regions mapping to the poly-Q and adjacent leucine stretch ( 111 ) and the sequence immediately preceding the DBD ( 112 ). Collectively, these studies emphasize the presence of helical regions within the NTD and its propensity to adopt a more helical structure underpinning function. Another function of the androgen receptor NH 2 -terminal domain is its binding to the COOH-terminal LBD (N/C interaction) ( 113 , 114 ). The NH 2 -terminal regions required for the binding of the LBD have been mapped to two essential units: the first 36 amino acids and residues 372-495 ( 115 ). The hormone dependent interaction of the NH 2 -terminal domain with the ligand binding domain can play a role in stabilization of the androgen receptor dimer complex and in
