Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


). The hormone dependent interaction of the NH 2 -terminal domain with the ligand binding domain can play a role in stabilization of the androgen receptor dimer complex and in stabilization of the ligand receptor complex by slowing the rate of ligand dissociation and decreasing receptor degradation ( 116 , 117 ). Agonists like T and DHT, but not antagonists like hydroxyflutamide or bicalutamide induce the N/C interaction in full length receptor. In a FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) study it was clearly shown that the androgen receptor N/C interaction is rapidly initiated in the cytoplasm after hormone binding as an intramolecular interaction and is followed by an intermolecular N/C interaction in the nucleus, contributing to receptor dimerization ( 118 ). The N/C interaction occurs preferentially in the mobile androgen receptor, where it protects the coactivator binding groove for ultimately unfavorable protein-protein interactions. Specifically bound to DNA, the N/C interaction is lost allowing cofactor binding ( 119 ). Several mutations in the ligand binding domain, detected in patients with the syndrome of androgen insensitivity, negatively affect the interaction of the NH 2 -terminal domain with the ligand binding domain, while androgen binding was impaired, indicating the importance of this interaction ( 120 ). In addition to the role of the NH 2 -terminal domain in protein-protein interactions it has also been reported to modulate DNA binding, leading to a lower apparent binding affinity for both selective and non-selective response elements (see also below) ( 121 ). These findings suggest a further role of the NH 2 -terminal domain, in interdomain interactions and allosteric regulation of receptor activity. The DNA-Binding Domain The DNA-binding domain is the best conserved among the members of the receptor superfamily [ Figure 5 ]. It is characterized by a high content of basic amino acids and by nine conserved cysteine residues [ Figure 9A ]. Detailed structural information has been published on the crystal structure of the DNA-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor complexed with DNA ( 122 ). 3D-information is also available for the androgen receptor-DNA interaction on an artificial DNA response element ( 123 ) [ Figure 9B ]. The folding of the DBD is similar to that reported for the glucocorticoid and estrogen receptor DBDs. Figure 9. Structure of the DNA binding domain of the androgen receptor. A) The protein structure is represented in the one letter code. The domain consists of two
