Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


receptor DBDs. Figure 9. Structure of the DNA binding domain of the androgen receptor. A) The protein structure is represented in the one letter code. The domain consists of two zinc cluster modules, which are stabilized by the coordination binding of a zinc atom (red dot) by 4 cysteine residues (yellow). The first zinc cluster contains the P-box (proximal box) of which three residues determine androgen response element recognition. The second zinc cluster contains the D-box (distal box) in which amino acids are located that are involved in protein-protein interactions with a second receptor molecule in the homodimer complex. B) Structure of the AR-DBD bound to DNA (Pdb 1R41). C) Consensus androgen receptor response element. Briefly, the DNA-binding domain has a compact, globular structure in which three substructures can be distinguished: two zinc clusters and a more loosely structured carboxy terminal extension (CTE) ( 124 ). Both zinc substructures contain centrally one zinc atom which interacts via coordination bonds with four cysteine residues [ Figure 9 ]. The two zinc coordination centers are both C-terminally flanked by an α-helix ( 122 , 123 ). The two zinc clusters are structurally and functionally different and are encoded by two different exons [see Figures 7 and 8 ]. The α-helix of the most N-terminal located zinc cluster interacts directly with nucleotides of the hormone response element in the major groove of the DNA. Three amino acid residues at the N-terminus of this α-helix are responsible for the specific recognition of the DNA-sequence of the responsive element [ Figure 9A ]. These three amino acid residues, the so-called P(proximal)-box [Gly; Ser; Val;] are identical in the androgen, progesterone, glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors, and differ from the residues at homologous positions in the estradiol receptor. It is not surprising therefore, that the androgen, progesterone, glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors can recognize the same response element. The receptor DNA binding domain requires a CTE of minimally four residues (amino acids 626 – TLGA – 629) for proper binding to an ARE (androgen response element) with an inverted repeat of high affinity ARE-half sites and a CTE of at least twelve residues (amino acids 626 – TLGARKLKKLGN – 637) for binding to an ARE with one high and one low affinity half site ( 125 ). For the hormone and tissue-specific responses of the different receptors additional determinants are needed. Important in this respect are DNA-sequences flanking
