Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


and one low affinity half site ( 125 ). For the hormone and tissue-specific responses of the different receptors additional determinants are needed. Important in this respect are DNA-sequences flanking the hormone response element, receptor interactions with other proteins and receptor concentrations. The second zinc cluster motif is involved in protein-protein interactions such as receptor dimerization via the so-called D(distal)-box [ Figure 9A and B ] ( 122 , 123 ). DNA Response Elements for the Androgen Receptor In vitro the androgen receptor binds to 15 bp palindromic sequences [ Figure 9C ]. These non-selective elements are also recognized and bound by the glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid and progesterone receptors. In contrast, androgen response elements demonstrate selectivity for the receptor. In an animal model, termed Specificity-affecting androgen receptor Knock-in or SPARKI, where the androgen receptor-DBD has been replaced by that of the glucocorticoid receptor-DBD, binding to selective AREs is disrupted ( 126 ). These mice have a reproductive phenotype, with male reproductive tissues having reduced weight and size and the animals showing reduced fertility. Interestingly the SPARKI males also demonstrated differential gene expression with the Rhox5 mRNA significantly reduced which correlated with a role for a selective ARE, necessary for receptor-dependent transcription of this gene ( 126 ). More recently a number of genome-wide studies, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), have increased our knowledge of androgen-regulated genes and have demonstrated a significant variability in DNA response element architecture, with imperfect palindromic sequences and half-sites identified as potential receptor binding sites ( 30 , 127 - 131 ). These studies have also highlighted the enrichment of pioneering factors, such as FOXA1 and GATA2 in close proximity to receptor binding sites ( 30 , 127 - 131 ). The Hinge Region Between the DNA-binding domain and the ligand binding domain is located a non-conserved hinge region, which is also variable in size in different steroid receptors [ Figure 5 ]. The hinge region can be considered as a flexible linker between the ligand binding domain and the rest of the receptor molecule. The hinge region is important for nuclear localization and contains a bipartite nuclear localization signal. Co-repressor binding can also occur via the hinge region ( 125 ). In some nuclear receptors, including the androgen receptor, acetylation can occur in the hinge region at a highly conserved consensus site [KLLKK] [ Figure 11 , see below] ( 132 , 133 ). The Ligand Binding
