Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


the carboxy-terminal helix 12 is positioned in an orientation allowing a closure of the ligand binding pocket. Upon hormone binding the fold of the ligand binding domain results in a globular structure with an interaction surface for binding of interacting proteins like co-activators (AF2) [ Figure 10B ]. In this way the androgen receptor selectively recruits a number of proteins and can communicate with other partners of the transcription initiation complex. Crystallization studies of wild type androgen receptor ligand binding domain with antagonists have not been reported so far. However, the structural consequences of surface modulatory compounds on the receptor LBD crystals complexed with DHT are promising for future developments of new androgen receptor modulators including a new type of androgen receptor antagonists ( 147 ). The androgen receptor can use different transactivation domains (AF1 and AF5, respectively, in the NH 2 -terminal domain and AF2 in the COOH-terminal domain) depending on the "form" of the receptor protein [ Figure 8 , see above] ( 103 ). The AF2 function in the ligand binding domain is strongly dependent on the presence of nuclear receptor coactivators. In vivo experiments favor a ligand-dependent functional interaction between the AF-2 region in the ligand-binding domain with the NH 2 -terminal domain ( 113 , 115 ). In fact, the AF2 surface demonstrates a preference for more bulky hydrophobic amino acids over the LxxLL motif and the structural basis for this has been described ( 148 - 150 ). Thus, the receptor NTD FxxLF motif [ Figure 10B ] is more effective at forming a charge clamp with Glu898 and Lys721 and burying the phenylalanine residues into the AF2 pocket, whereas peptides containing the sequence LxxLL make weaker and fewer contacts with the LBD. Interestingly, a previously unknown regulatory surface cleft, named BF-3, has been identified in the receptor LBD ( 147 ) [ Figure 10C ]. BF-3 comprises of Ile-673, Phe-674, Pro-724, Gly-725, Asn-728, Phe-827, Glu-830, Asn-834, Glu-838 and Arg-841. The androgen receptor transcriptional activity and co-activator binding can be decreased by binding of thyroid hormones triiodothyronine (T3) and TRIAC and three non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to the BF-3 pocket. In addition, several mutations of the amino acid residues of BF-3 have been found in subjects with either androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS, loss of function mutation) or in prostate cancer (gain of function mutation) ( 151 ). Mutational analyses have shown the requirement of several
