Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


subjects with either androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS, loss of function mutation) or in prostate cancer (gain of function mutation) ( 151 ). Mutational analyses have shown the requirement of several of these amino acid residues for receptor-dependent transcriptional activity. However, these analyses have been performed only in the presence of DHT ( 147 ). The influence of each of these residues in the presence of T3, TRIAC or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is therefore unknown. A long-standing question in the field concerning dimerization of the AR-LBD has recently been resolved with new crystallographic studies ( 152 , 153 ). The work from the Estébanez-Perpiñá group identified sequences in helix 5 as novel dimerization interface. Significantly, a number of point mutations associated with androgen insensitivity or prostate cancer map to this region emphasizing its functional importance for AR signaling ( 152 ). Androgen Receptor Splice Variants Lacking the LBD Deletions in the ligand binding domain abolish hormone binding completely ( 154 ). Deletions in the N-terminal domain and DNA-binding domain do not affect hormone binding. Deletion of the ligand binding domain leads to a constitutively active androgen receptor protein with trans-activation capacity comparable to the full-length androgen receptor ( 154 ). Thus, it appears that the hormone binding domain acts as a repressor of the trans-activation function in the absence of hormone. This regulatory function of the androgen receptor ligand binding domain in the absence of hormone, is not unique for the androgen receptor and has been reported also for the glucocorticoid receptor ( 155 ). The generation of NH 2 -terminal splice variants involves the use of cryptic exons (AR-v1and -v7) or exon skipping (AR-v12) [ Figure 8 ] ( 156 ). Androgen receptor variants have been shown to regulate similar patterns of gene expression to the full-length hormone-bound receptor ( 157 ). However, intriguingly there are a growing number of studies reporting unique sets of genes expressed by AR-v7 ( 157 , 158 ), both expected and variant-specific target genes for AR-v12 ( 159 ) or differential regulation of classical androgen receptor-target genes ( 160 ). Importantly, these constitutively active splice variants have been identified in prostate cancer cell-lines, xenographs and prostate cancer patients undergoing androgen ablation therapy ( 157 - 159 , 161 - 163 ). Structural Insights from a DNA-bound Complex of Full-length Androgen Receptor A major development in our understanding of AR mechanism of action has
