Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


and consequently enzymes that mediate dephosphorylation, deacetylation, deubiquitination, demethylation and de-SUMOylation are also potential regulators of androgen receptor activity. A total of 23 sites in the androgen receptor protein have been identified undergoing direct modification ( 170 ). These posttranslational modifications can contribute significantly to androgen receptor structure, activity and stability. It has been shown for instance that the histone methyltransferase SET9 is able to methylate the receptor in the hinge region at the Lysine residues 631 and 633 resulting in enhancement of transcriptional activity of the receptor ( 172 , 173 ). The same Lysine residues together with Lysine 634 can be acetylated and the acetylation-deficient mutants have a decreased transcriptional activity, while the acetylation-mimetic mutations showed an enhanced transcriptional activity ( 132 , 174 ). Recently, phosphorylation of serine 83 was observed to result in recruitment of the histone acetyltransferase p300, acetylation of the receptor and enhanced receptor stabilization and transcriptional activity ( 175 ). Conversely, disruption of acetylation, through mutating the lysine residues or knock-down of p300 resulted in receptor ubiquitination and degradation. This study elegantly demonstrates how different post-translational modifications of the androgen receptor can work in concert to regulate receptor expression and activity. RNF6 dependent ubiquitination of Lysine residues 846 and 848 in the receptor protein results in recruitment of the coregulator ARA54 by the androgen receptor and directly determines promoter selectivity and specificity of the receptor ( 176 ). SUMOylation of the androgen receptor occurs at two sites Lysine residues 388 and 521, but SUMOylation only at Lysine 388 results in a significant reduction of transcriptional activity ( 177 ). However, recent, whole genome analysis revealed that SUMOylation regulated both receptor recruitment to DNA and target gene selection ( 178 ). Significantly, the physiological importance of SUMOylation has been demonstrated in a knock-in mouse model, ARKI, where the SUMOylation sites were mutated to arginine ( 179 ). Male animals developed normally but were found to be infertile due to defects in epididymal sperm maturation. Crucially, In the ARKI animals the AR-dependent transcriptional activity was impaired in the epididymis and there was an absence of receptor SUMOylation linking this PTM to normal male reproduction and fertility ( 179 ). Phosphorylation The androgen receptor can be phosphorylated at serine, threonine and tyrosine residues ( 170 , 171 , 180 , 181 ). Immediately after translation the androgen receptor becomes phosphorylated resulting in the appearance of two
