Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


activated either through HER-2/neu or growth factors ( 205 , 206 ). ANTI-ANDROGENS AND SELECTIVE ANDROGEN RECEPTOR MODULATORS Androgen receptor antagonists are compounds that interfere in some way in the biological effects of androgens and are frequently used in the treatment of androgen-based pathologies. The steroidal anti-androgens, cyproterone acetate (CPA) and RU38486 (RU486; mifepristone), have partial agonistic and antagonistic actions. Interestingly both compounds also display partial progestational and glucocorticoid actions and are therefore not considered to be pure anti-androgens. The non-steroidal anti-androgens hydroxyflutamide, nilutamide and bicalutamide [see Figure 1 ] are pure antiandrogens ( 207 - 209 ). Recent developments have led to the generation and marketing of second-generation non-steroidal antiandrogens, such as enzalutamide (formerly called MDV3100) [ Figure 1 ], which have been reported to be more effective at blocking receptor nuclear translocation and activity ( 210 ). Recently, two new anti-androgens apalutamide and darolutamide have received FDA approval for treatment of non-metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (see 211 , 212 ). However, resistance to enzalutamide has now also been identified as a result of an Phe876Leu point mutation in the LBD ( 213 ) and the expression of NH 2 -terminal domain splice variants ( 163 ) in CRPC, emphasizing the need for continued research and development of strategies to switch off androgen receptor signaling. Mechanism of Action of Antiandrogens In contrast to the full antagonists hydroxyflutamide and bicalutamide, CPA and RU486 can partially activate the androgen receptor with respect to transcription activation ( 214 ). With a limited proteolytic protection assay, it was demonstrated that binding of androgens by the androgen receptor results in two consecutive conformational changes of the receptor molecule. Initially, a fragment of 35 kDa, spanning the complete ligand binding domain and part of the hinge region, is protected from digestion by the ligand. After prolonged incubation times with the ligand a second conformational change occurs resulting in protection of a smaller fragment of 29 kDa ( 214 , 215 ). In the presence of several anti-androgens (e.g., cyproterone acetate, hydroxyflutamide and bicalutamide) only the 35 kDa fragment is protected from proteolytic digestion, and no smaller fragments are detectable upon longer incubations. Obviously, the 35 kDa fragment can be associated with an inactive conformation, whereas the second conformational change, only inducible by agonists and considered as the necessary step for transcription activation, is lacking upon binding of anti-androgens. During treatment of advanced prostate cancers,
