Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


whereas the second conformational change, only inducible by agonists and considered as the necessary step for transcription activation, is lacking upon binding of anti-androgens. During treatment of advanced prostate cancers, resistance develops to several of the above-mentioned anti-androgens, mostly due to mutations rendering the receptor protein less sensitive to anti-androgens. Promising results were reported for a newly developed second generation of antiandrogens for castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC): ASC-J19, enzalutamide (MDV3100), apalutamide (ARN-509), AZD 3514, Compound30 and VPC-3033. ( 87 , 210 , 216 - 220 ). Characteristics of this new generation of anti-androgens are androgen displacement, inhibition of receptor- mediated transcription and enhancement of androgen receptor degradation. Clinical applications in prostate cancer were reported for enzalutamide ( 221 - 223 ). However, resistance to enzalutamide and apalutamide has been reported in prostate cancer due to a mutation at residue Phe877Leu ( 213 , 224 ). Interestingly this mutation is located in a residue next to the LNCaP prostate cancer cell line mutation Thr878Ala ( 139 , 225 ), supporting the view that this region in the ligand binding domain of the androgen receptor is very susceptible to mutagenesis in prostate cancer, which may lead to the tumor becoming resistant to hormone-based therapies. Selective Androgen Receptor Modulation (SARMs) Androgen signaling via the androgen receptor can occur in a non-genomic, rapid and sex-nonspecific way by crosstalk with the Scr, Raf-1, Erk-2 pathway [ Figure 6 , see above] ( 31 , 32 , 226 ). The anti-apoptotic action via the androgen receptor in bone cells (osteocytes, osteoblasts), and also in HeLa cells, could be induced by androgens and estrogens and inhibited by antiandrogens as well as anti-estrogens. The anti-apoptotic action appeared to be dissociated from the genomic action of the androgen receptor. The progesterone-induced oocyte maturation in Xenopus laevis also appears to be mediated in a non-genomic way by androgens and the androgen receptor via activating the MAPK pathway after the rapid conversion of progesterone to androstenedione and testosterone ( 33 ). These findings stimulated the development of new compounds (SARMs) which can selectively activate the androgen receptor either in a non-genomic pathway or in a genotropic transcriptional activation pathway. The term SARM (= Selective Androgen Receptor Modulator) was introduced in 1999 in analogy of the term SERM (Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator) ( 227 ). A SARM can be defined as a molecule that targets the androgen receptor, and elicits a
