Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


1999 in analogy of the term SERM (Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator) ( 227 ). A SARM can be defined as a molecule that targets the androgen receptor, and elicits a biological response, in a tissue-specific way. In a sense, anti-androgens (molecules that specifically target the androgen receptor pathway resulting in inhibition of the biological effects of androgens) can be considered as a special subtype of SARMs. Extensive overviews of current clinical trials with newly developed SARMs by several different pharmaceutical companies have been presented ( 228 - 230 ). The structural basis for SARM binding and activity has been reviewed ( 138 ). Based on the conformational changes of the androgen receptor ligand binding domain induced by androgens or anti-androgens, it can be concluded that the different transcriptional activities displayed by either full agonists (testosterone, 5α-dihydrotestosterone, methyltrienolone), partial agonists (RU486 and CPA) or full antagonists (hydroxyflutamide, bicalutamide, enzalutamide) are the result of recruitment of a different repertoire of co-regulators (coactivators or corepressors) as a consequence of these conformational changes. The differential recruitment of co-regulators can be considered as a special form of ligand-selective modulation of the androgen receptor ligand binding domain and can also be applied in a broader sense to the tissue selective modulation of androgen action, where levels of co-activators and co-repressors may ultimately determine the final activity ( 229 - 232 ). TISSUE-SPECIFIC ANDROGEN RECEPTOR MEDIATED ACTIONS IN MOUSE MODELS Genetic mouse models in which the androgen receptor gene has been inactivated (so-called ARKO [androgen receptor knock-out] mouse models) are valuable tools to understand in detail the role of receptor-mediated pathways in male and female reproductive functions. For this purpose several different mouse models have been developed for studying androgen receptor mediated tissue-specific action in almost all known androgen target tissues, although the application of the mouse findings to the human situation has its limitation ( 233 - 238 ). Furthermore, the development of a mouse model for imaging of luciferase activity under control of endogenous androgen receptor activity has contributed to a further elucidation of tissue-specific receptor action ( 239 ). ANDROGEN RECEPTOR DISORDERS There is growing evidence for the involvement of the androgen receptor in the gender biases seen in a wide range of pathological conditions, from cancers of non-reproductive tissues (i.e., bladder, liver) (see 240 , 241 ) to cardiovascular and metabolic disease (see 242 - 244 ). However, in this review we will
