Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


conditions, from cancers of non-reproductive tissues (i.e., bladder, liver) (see 240 , 241 ) to cardiovascular and metabolic disease (see 242 - 244 ). However, in this review we will focus on receptor mutations leading to defects of male development and fertility. Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome It has been known for quite some time that defects in male sexual differentiation in 46, XY individuals have an X-linked pattern of inheritance. It was Reifenstein who reported in 1947 on families with severe hypospadias, infertility, and gynecomastia ( 245 ). The end-organ resistance to androgens has been designated as androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) and is distinct from other XY disorders of sex development (XY, DSD; formerly named male pseudohermaphroditism) like 17β-hydroxy-steroid dehydrogenase type 3 deficiency or 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency ( 3 , 246 - 248 ). It is generally accepted that defects in the androgen receptor gene can prevent the normal development of both internal and external male structures in 46, XY individuals and information on the molecular structure of the human androgen receptor gene has facilitated the study of molecular defects associated with androgen insensitivity. Due to the X-linked character of the syndrome, only 46, XY individuals are affected, while in female carriers only sporadic reports are available on delayed menarche ( 249 ). Naturally occurring mutations in the androgen receptor gene are an interesting source for the investigation of receptor structure-function relationships. In addition, the variation in clinical phenotypes provides the opportunity to correlate a mutation in the androgen receptor structure with the impairment of a specific physiological function. Clinical Features of the Complete Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (CAIS) The main phenotypic characteristics of individuals with the complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS) are: female external genitalia, a short, blind ending vagina, absence of Wolffian duct derived structures like epididymides, vasa deferentia, and seminal vesicles, the absence of a prostate, the absence of pubic and axillary hair and the development of gynecomastia ( 250 , 251 ). Müllerian duct derived structures are usually absent because anti-Mullerian hormone action is normal due to the presence of both testes in the abdomen or in the inguinal canals. Usually, testosterone levels are within the normal range (10 - 40 nmol/L) or elevated, while elevated luteinizing hormone (LH) levels (> 10 IU/L) are also found indicating androgen resistance at the hypothalamic-pituitary level. The high testosterone levels are also substrate for aromatase activity, resulting in substantial amounts
