Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


hormone (LH) levels (> 10 IU/L) are also found indicating androgen resistance at the hypothalamic-pituitary level. The high testosterone levels are also substrate for aromatase activity, resulting in substantial amounts of estrogens, which are responsible for further feminization in CAIS individuals. Clinical Features of the Partial Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (PAIS) In the partial androgen insensitivity syndrome (PAIS) several phenotypes ranging from individuals with predominantly a female appearance (e.g., external female genitalia and pubic hair at puberty, or with mild clitoromegaly, and some fusion of the labia) to persons with ambiguous genitalia or individuals with a predominantly male phenotype (also called Reifenstein syndrome) ( 250 , 251 ). Patients from this latter group can present with a micropenis, perineal hypospadias, and cryptorchidism. In the group of PAIS individuals, Wolffian duct derived structures can be partially to fully developed, depending on the biochemical phenotype of the androgen receptor mutation. At puberty, elevated luteinizing hormone, testosterone, and estradiol levels are observed, but in general, the degree of feminization is less as compared to individuals with CAIS. Individuals with mild symptoms of undervirilization (mild androgen insensitivity syndrome) and infertility have been described as well. Phenotypic variation between individuals in different families has been described for several mutations ( 251 - 254 ). However, in cases of CAIS no phenotypic variation has been described within one single family, in contrast to families with individuals with PAIS ( 255 ). Genetics of Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (AIS) Since the cloning of the androgen receptor cDNA in 1988 and the subsequent elucidation of the genomic organization of the androgen receptor gene, molecular diagnostic tools have been available for the molecular analysis of the androgen receptor gene in individuals with AIS. In addition to endocrinology data, such as levels of testosterone, luteinizing hormone, androstenedione, and 5α-dihydrotestosterone, which can vary widely in AIS individuals, the most reliable approach is the sequencing of each individual androgen receptor exon and the flanking intron sequences. In general, AIS can be routinely analyzed and separated from entirely different syndromes presenting with similar phenotypes including testicular enzyme deficiencies, 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency, and Leydig cell hypoplasia due to inactivating luteinizing hormone receptor mutations. Furthermore, in pedigree analysis intragenic polymorphisms like the highly polymorphic (CAG)nCAA repeat encoding a poly-glutamine stretch, the polymorphic GGN repeat encoding a poly-glycine stretch, the HindIII polymorphism [ Figure 8 , see above] ( 39 ) and the StuI polymorphism ( 256
