Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


encoding a poly-glutamine stretch, the polymorphic GGN repeat encoding a poly-glycine stretch, the HindIII polymorphism [ Figure 8 , see above] ( 39 ) and the StuI polymorphism ( 256 ), can be used as X-chromosomal markers ( 67 , 257 , 258 ). Extensive general information can be obtained at the internet site, www.genecards.org for the androgen receptor gene (NR3C4) and on the 233 identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP’s). Mutations in the Androgen Receptor Gene In the androgen receptor gene, 4 different types of mutations have been detected in 46, XY individuals with AIS: single point mutations resulting in amino acid substitutions or premature stop codons, nucleotide insertions or deletions most often leading to a frame shift and premature termination, complete or partial gene deletions (>10 nucleotides), and intronic mutations in either splice donor or splice acceptor sites which affect the splicing of androgen receptor RNA ( 151 ). In general, in 70% of the cases, androgen receptor gene mutations are transmitted in an X-linked recessive manner, but in 30% the mutations arise de novo. When de novo mutations occur after the zygotic stage, they result in somatic mosaicisms ( 259 ). The most recent update on androgen receptor gene mutations is available at http://www.mcgill.ca/androgendb/ ( 151 ). MUTATIONS IN THE NH2-TERMINAL DOMAIN Mutations in the NH 2 -terminal domain (exon 1 of the gene) do not occur frequently and the vast majority of the mutations result directly in a stop codon or in premature termination due to frameshifts caused by nucleotide insertions or deletions. Mutations in 103 different codons have been reported in the NH 2 -terminal domain, which is approximately 18% of all codons in exon 1 ( http://androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ) ( 151 , 260 - 264 ). An interesting mutation is described in the fourth nucleotide, which results in a decreased translational efficiency of the androgen receptor mRNA in an individual with PAIS ( 265 ). Three other missense mutations were reported in combination with mosaicism or with a mutation in another region of the gene. In a family with PAIS associated with severe hypospadias, the length of the androgen receptor NH 2 -terminal poly-glutamine repeat has been reported to be shortened to only 12 glutamine residues ( 266 ). The shortened glutamine stretch as such is not the cause for the androgen resistance, but it seems to increase the thermolability of the androgen receptor in combination
