Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


( 266 ). The shortened glutamine stretch as such is not the cause for the androgen resistance, but it seems to increase the thermolability of the androgen receptor in combination with a point mutation in exon 5 (Y764C) in the ligand binding domain. This point mutation causes rapid dissociation of hormone, but no thermolability. These data support a functional interaction of the two separated regions in the androgen receptor and indicates further that the defect becomes critical in only some of the androgen target tissues because of the partial character of the androgen resistance found in this family ( 266 ). MUTATIONS IN THE DNA-BINDING DOMAIN In general, mutations in the DNA binding domain (e.g., single nucleotide substitutions) result in a normal hormone-binding protein, which is defective in DNA-binding/dimerization and consequently in transcription activation. In total, 71 different mutations have been reported in 38 different codons in the DNA-binding domain, which is approximately 43% of all codons in exons 2 and 3 ( http://androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ) ( 151 , 260 , 264 , 267 , 268 ). Thirty-four mutations were observed in the first zinc cluster and thirty-two in the second zinc cluster. Since the 3D structure of the DNA-binding domain of several nuclear receptors have been published earlier than that of the androgen receptor DNA-binding domain, the consequence of several mutations in the androgen receptor DNA-binding domain have been predicted initially on basis of the structure of the glucocorticoid receptor DNA-binding domain ( 122 , 123 ).This is illustrated in two studies in which 3D-modelling of the mutated DNA binding domain of the androgen receptor predicts the functional activity of mutant receptors ( 269 , 270 ). A mutation (G578R) in the so-called P-box [ Figure 9 , see above], which is involved in androgen response element recognition, was found in a PAIS individual. This mutation differentially affects transactivation of several natural and synthetic promoters, suggesting that androgen target genes may be differentially affected by this mutation ( 271 ). An interesting observation was made with respect to the second zinc cluster in which either one of two adjacent arginine residues (Arg608 & Arg609) were found to be mutated in PAIS individuals who developed breast cancer [ Figure 9 , see above] ( 272 , 273 ). It is speculated that a decrease in androgen action within the breast cells could account for the development of male breast cancer by
