Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


see above] ( 272 , 273 ). It is speculated that a decrease in androgen action within the breast cells could account for the development of male breast cancer by the loss of a protective effect of androgens. However, the same mutations in several other PAIS individuals did not result in breast cancer development. The mutation Ala597Thr in the second zinc cluster in the so-called D-box resulted in abolishment of dimerization in a PAIS individual [ Figure 9 , see above] ( 274 ). A similar mutation at an identical position in the second zinc cluster of the glucocorticoid receptor DNA-binding domain has been created to discriminate between dimerization/DNA binding of the glucocorticoid receptor and protein-protein interactions with other transcription factors such as the AP-1 transcription complex ( 275 ). It appeared that the dimerization mutant did not affect the cross-talk with other transcription factors. In this way, a tissue-specific response can be influenced by a single amino acid change and if this is also true for the mutant androgen receptor then the partial phenotype can be explained. Interestingly a Ser580Arg, also located in the D-box can cause significantly different phenotypes ranging from under-virilization to a normal male phenotype ( 276 ). MUTATIONS IN THE HINGE REGION In the so-called hinge region, located between amino acid residues 623 and 671 [ Figure 8 , see above], only nine mutations have been reported. The relatively low number of mutations in the hinge region (only in 18% of all codons) indicates that this region might be very flexible and that some variation in composition and length of this region is not detrimental for androgen receptor function ( http://www.mcgill.ca/androgendb/ ) ( 151 ). Four amino acid substitutions within the hinge region have been described that resulted in CAIS, four in PAIS and one in MAIS ( http://www.mcgill.ca/androgendb/ ( 151 ). The Ile665Asn substitution on the border of the hinge region and ligand-binding domain, resulted in a decreased hormone binding ( 277 ). MUTATIONS IN THE LIGAND-BINDING DOMAIN It can be expected that mutations in the ligand binding domain might affect different functional aspects (e.g., loss of ligand binding, changes in ligand binding affinity and specificity, changes in co-activator receptor interactions, changes in receptor stability and thermolability). A large number of mutations (283 different mutations in 164 codons, which is in 66% of all codons of the ligand binding domain) in the ligand binding
