Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


established the pathogenic nature of androgen receptor mutations found in AIS individuals with different functional assays ( 260 , 289 - 292 ). In order to optimize molecular diagnosis an extensive functional analysis of receptor mutations is desired. For counselling strategies and for future outcome predictions a correct functional diagnosis is very important as well as for prognosis on the risks of gonadal malignancy ( 293 ). A combination of different functional analyses, designed to test androgen receptor mutations at different stages in receptor functioning (e.g., hormone binding, transcriptional activation, cofactor binding, translocation to the nucleus and nuclear dynamics) will provide a more accurate prediction of androgen receptor action and will help to establish a more exact phenotypic characterization. DELETIONS AND DUPLICATIONS OF THE ANDROGEN RECEPTOR GENE Only a few cases (8 different deletions in 15 different patients) have been reported on partial or complete androgen receptor gene deletions, indicating the relatively low frequency of this type of androgen receptor defect ( http://androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ) ( 151 , 294 ). All cases reported are found in CAIS individuals, with the exception of two cases, one in which an exon 4 deletion was found in a person with azoospermia ( 295 ) and another one in which a large intron 2 deletion of at least 6 kb was reported involving a branch point site, which resulted in a partial exon 3 skipping during the splicing process ( 294 ). Deletion of either exon 3 or exon 4 occur both in-frame and result in a non-functional protein lacking either the second zinc cluster or the hinge region and the NH 2 -terminal part of the ligand-binding domain [see Figure 7 for genomic organization of the androgen receptor gene]. In case of an exon 3 deletion, an intact and functional ligand-binding domain is present [ Figure 7 ]. So far, functionally significant mutations in the androgen receptor promoter region or in the 5'- and 3'- untranslated regions of the gene have not been reported. SPLICE SITE MUTATIONS AFFECTING ANDROGEN RECEPTOR RNA SPLICING A special group of interesting, but rare, mutations are the splice donor and splice acceptor site mutations in the androgen receptor gene in AIS individuals ( http://androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ) ( 151 ). For all splice donor sites in the gene, the consensus splice donor site sequence GTAAG/A is present. The twelve reported mutations in donor splice sites are all substitutions either at position
