Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


all splice donor sites in the gene, the consensus splice donor site sequence GTAAG/A is present. The twelve reported mutations in donor splice sites are all substitutions either at position +1 (G → A or G → T), position +2 (T → C), position +3 (A → T), position + 4 (A→T) or position + 5 (G → A) and result in defective splicing with the consequence of one or more exons spliced out, or the use of a cryptic splice donor site within the preceding exon ( 264 , 296 - 301 ). In 11 of the reported cases, the phenotype is complete androgen insensitivity. In one case, an insertion of one nucleotide (T) at position + 4 in the splice donor site of intron 6 has been reported, resulting in a partial androgen insensitive phenotype ( 300 ). Only 5 mutations have been reported in splice acceptor sites, which all affect the splicing of the androgen receptor RNA. Interestingly, a substitution at position -11 (T →G) has been found in the pyrimidine-rich region of the splice acceptor site of intron 2, resulting in the activation of a cryptic splice acceptor site at position -70/-69 and consequently in the insertion of 69 nucleotides (corresponding to 23 additional amino acid residues) in the mRNA between exons 2 and 3 ( 302 ). The corresponding protein is defective in DNA-binding because the insertion has occurred between the first and second zinc cluster. In another CAIS patient a splice junction mutation at the intron2/exon3 splice acceptor site resulted in the utilization of the same cryptic splice acceptor site and also in the insertion of 69 bp in the mRNA, predicting the insertion of 23 amino acid residues in frame between the two zinc clusters ( 303 ). Androgen Receptor Gene Mutations in Cancers Mutations in the androgen receptor gene have also been reported to be associated with prostate cancers, breast cancers, larynx cancers, liver cancers and testicular cancers ( http://androgendb.mcgill.ca/ ) ( 151 ). ANDROGEN METABOLISM DISORDERS The metabolism of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone by the enzyme 5α-reductase type 2 (SRD5A2) is essential for the initiation of the differentiation and development of the urogenital sinus into the prostate. The differentiation of the male external genitalia (penis, scrotum and urethra) also strongly depends on the conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone in the urogenital tubercle, labioscrotal swellings and urogenital folds, respectively [ Figure 2B ,
