Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


external genitalia (penis, scrotum and urethra) also strongly depends on the conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone in the urogenital tubercle, labioscrotal swellings and urogenital folds, respectively [ Figure 2B , see above] ( 3 , 4 ). Interestingly in the SPARKI mouse expression of Srd5α2 gene is significantly impaired in the epididymis and the androgen-regulation of the gene was demonstrated to involve three selective AREs ( 304 ). Clinical Features of the Syndrome of 5α-reductase Type 2 Deficiency 46, XY individuals with impairment of 5α-reductase type 2 have normally virilized Wolffian duct derived structures, with seminal vesicles (although small seminal vesicles have been reported as well), with vasa deferentia, epididymides and ejaculatory ducts and no Mullerian duct derived structures ( 3 , 305 , 306 ). However, differentiation of the urogenital sinus and genital tubercle is not observed, resulting in absence of the prostate and in ambiguous or in female external genitalia at birth ( 3 , 305 , 306 ). Affected 46, XY individuals are therefore often raised as girls. At puberty all affected individuals show some or a severe degree of virilization often resulting in deepening of the voice, an increased muscle mass, growth of the penis, scrotal development, testicular descent and sometimes leading to a gender change ( 3 , 307 ). Gynecomastia in adulthood does not occur. The additional virilization may result from the action of testosterone because testosterone is available at high levels during puberty. In addition, some testosterone may be converted to 5α-dihydrotestosterone by some residual 5α-reductase activity and by the action of 5α-reductase type 1, which is expressed in non-genital skin, pubic skin, liver and certain brain regions. In the affected 46, XY individuals a typical female pubic hair pattern develops, while the facial and body hair amount is absent or reduced ( 4 ). This last observation points to a role for 5α-reductase type 2 in the normal development of this type of body hair. Male pattern baldness has never been observed. 5α-reductase type 2 deficient patients are usually infertile due to the absence or underdevelopment of the prostate and seminal vesicles, in addition to oligospermia or azoospermia due to maldescent of the testes. However, paternity has been reported in some cases, either by intrauterine insemination or after in vitro fertilization in combination with intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( 3 , 305 , 308 - 310 ). 46, XX female carriers have normal
