Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


either by intrauterine insemination or after in vitro fertilization in combination with intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( 3 , 305 , 308 - 310 ). 46, XX female carriers have normal fertility, decreased body hair and delayed menarche, normal sebum production but no history of acne ( 3 , 305 ). This suggests a role of 5α-reductase type 2 enzyme in females in the physiology and pathophysiology of body hair growth, menarche and follicular development ( 305 ). Molecular Basis for the Syndrome of 5α-Reductase Type 2 Deficiency A reflection of defective or absence 5α-reductase type 2 enzyme activity can be obtained in patients’ serum and urine samples by measuring testosterone levels (elevated), 5α-dihydrotestosterone levels (decreased) and by measuring the ratio of testosterone/5α-dihydrotestosterone (increased after hCG stimulation) ( 3 ). Furthermore, in cultured genital skin fibroblasts (if available) the conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone can be assessed and is an option for establishing a defective enzyme. In broken cell preparations at pH 5.5, the type 2 isozyme activity is measured more specifically and can be compared with a preparation from a normal person ( 3 ). Genetic analysis of 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency has become possible since the cloning of the cDNA ( 17 ). The gene is located on chromosome 2 at locus 2p23. The enzyme is encoded by 5 exons and the most reliable approach to detect gene mutations is the sequencing of each individual exon and the flanking intron sequences [ Figure 12 ]. A relatively large number of loss of function mutations in the type 2 steroid 5α-reductase has been identified in 46XY individuals with this rare autosomal recessive disorder of sex development (46XY, DSD). Figure 12. Mutations in the5α-reductase type 2 gene (SDR5A2) reported in patients with the syndrome of 5α-reductase deficiency. The 5α-reductase type 2 enzyme is encoded by 5 different exons and mutations have been reported in all 5 exons, as well as a complete gene deletion, small deletions of nucleotides, and splice site mutations. Interestingly worldwide 87 different mutations have been detected in the 5α-reductase type 2 gene in patients with the syndrome of 5α-reductase type 2 deficiency in several different ethnic groups [ Figure 12 ] ( 3 , 4 , 285 , 305 - 307 , 311 - 339 ). Identical mutations have been reported in different ethnic groups and some of them can be considered to be due to a
