Androgen Physiology: Receptor and Metabolic Disorders
KEYWORDS: androgen, receptor, androgen receptor, pubmed, free, article, free article, article pubmed, pmc free, pmc, cancer, gene, binding, domain, prostate


indicating that this polymorphism might be implicated in prostate cancer carcinogenesis ( 343 - 346 ). CONCLUSIONS-KEY POINTS Androgenic steroids are important for normal development and function of male reproductive tissues and for anabolic actions in muscle and bone. The multiple actions of the main circulating androgen testosterone and the more potent metabolite DHT are mediated by a single intracellular receptor protein, the androgen receptor. The hormone-bound receptor acts primarily to differentially regulate gene expression in target tissues and its encoding gene is located on the X chromosome, making it a single-copy gene in males. Thus, genetic changes affecting expression or structure/function of the receptor protein will lead to a range of diseases associated with loss or impaired androgen signaling, including disruption of male development, infertility or a late onset neurodegenerative disease (SBMA). Furthermore, altered expression and genetic changes in the receptor are also key drivers in progression of prostate cancer to a therapy-resistant stage. Since the first cloning of the androgen receptor cDNA, over thirty years ago, considerable progress has been made in our understanding of receptor structure and function. Advances include: the availability of 3D-structures of the isolated LBD with different ligands bound and the isolated DBD; structural characterization of the intrinsically disordered NH 2 -terminal domain; first glimpse of the structure of full-length AR transcriptional complex on DNA; the identification of a plethora of co-regulatory proteins binding to the ligand- and NH 2 -terminal domains; identification of gene regulatory pathways in target cells; and a better understanding of the impact of genetic changes affecting receptor structure/function. Future research will likely focus on the mechanisms determining cell/tissue-selective expression and function of the androgen receptor in both normal and pathophysiological conditions and a more complete structural descriptions of the full-length receptor bound to different DNA response elements and co-regulatory proteins. REFERENCES 1. George FW, Wilson JD 1994 Sex determination and differentiation. In: Knobil E, Neill JD, eds. The Physiology of Reproduction. New York.: Raven Press Ltd.; Chapter 1. 2. Brinkmann AO. Molecular mechanisms of androgen action--a historical perspective. Methods Mol Biol. 2011; 776 :3–24. [ PubMed : 21796517 ] 3. Wilson JD, Griffin JE, Russell DW. Steroid 5 alpha-reductase 2 deficiency. Endocr Rev. 1993; 14 (5):577–593. [ PubMed : 8262007 ] 4. Randall VA. Role of 5 alpha-reductase in health and disease. Baillieres Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1994; 8 (2):405–431. [ PubMed : 8092979 ] 5. Grino PB, Griffin JE,
