Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


by plasma osmolality detected via a splice variant of the capsaicin receptor, the transient receptor potential vanilloid type-1 (Trpv1) receptor ( 1 ). AVP is axonally transported to the posterior pituitary and released into the blood upon respective stimulation. AVP regulation is, however, more complex than a mere response to changes of plasma osmolality. In fact, hypovolemia enhances AVP release upon increases of plasma osmolality. Conversely, hypervolemia attenuates AVP release for given increases of plasma osmolality. In patients with “Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion” or SIADH, the cornerstone of diagnosis is hyponatremia (Na<136 mmol/l) ( 2 ) in a state of euvolemia, i.e. absence of either over- or dehydration. SIADH-related hyponatremia is caused by excess water reabsorption due to inappropriately high levels of AVP. Specifically, AVP binds to stimulatory G-protein-coupled vasopressin V 2 -receptors of the basolateral membrane of collecting-duct cells, thereby increasing the intracellular cAMP level, which, in turn, activates Aquaporin-2 channels of the brush-border membrane or urine side of the collecting-duct principal cells. AVP action results in a reduced free-water clearance resulting in a more concentrated urine and total-body water (TBW) expansion. AVP-mediated TBW expansion mediates sympathoinhibition ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Role of AVP in regulation of sympathetic tone. AVP translates into sympathoinhibition (Figure amended from ( 3 ) ). In addition, AVP-induced TBW expansion translates into plasma-solute dilution leading to hyponatremia. Thereby, plasma osmolality (OSM) is decreased given the fact that sodium strongly determines OSM according to the following equation: OSM (calculated) = 2 x Na (mmol/l) + Glucose (mmol/l) + Urea (mmol/l) Besides AVP actions on OSM, AVP also enhances endothelial-cell synthesis and the release of von-Willebrand Factor, thereby affecting hemostasis ( 4 ). This AVP effect on hemostasis is therapeutically used in bleeding disorders involving Factor VIII or von-Willebrand factor deficiency ( 5 , 6 ). SIADH may be viewed as a primary central-nervous system dysregulation of OSM and/or thirst. The etiology still is incompletely understood. Alternatively, SIADH may relate to baroreceptor unloading due to clinically inapparent hypovolemia or, hypothetically, to carotid-artery atherosclerosis affecting baroreflex regulation ( 7 ). This alternative route of increased AVP release may ultimately translate into the clinical picture of SIADH. Generally, less wall distension of the carotid arterial walls and/or the aortic arch may lead to a decrease of arterial baroreceptor-related afferent autonomic nerve traffic to the rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) translating into
