Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


arterial walls and/or the aortic arch may lead to a decrease of arterial baroreceptor-related afferent autonomic nerve traffic to the rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) translating into less sympathoinhibition (sympathoexcitation) and to an increased release of AVP ( 8 ) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Baroreflex regulation and SIADH: arterial hypotension lowers baroreflex-mediated afferent nerve traffic to the nucleus tractus solitarii leading to an elevated efferent sympathetic nerve activity and increased AVP release. Lastly, hypovolemia-related cardiopulmonary (CP) reflex deactivation mediated by less wall distension of the right atrial wall and pulmonary veins may increase plasma AVP leading to SIADH ( 9 , 10 ). Conversely, CP reflex activation mediated by more right-atrial wall distension e.g. after body immersion in water is able to decrease plasma AVP ( 11 ). The term “primary SIADH” is used for all above-mentioned causes involving a known or suspected dysregulation of OSM and/or circulating-blood volume. The term “secondary SIADH” is attributed to pituitary-independent causes of AVP increases, e.g., in hormone-active neoplasms such as small-cell lung cancer. In addition, a drug-induced type of SIADH is detailed here. CLINICAL PRESENTATION OF SIADH Both moderate and especially severe hyponatremia (Na < 125 mmol/l) found in newly admitted hospital patients is linked with a significantly elevated in-hospital mortality of 28% compared to 9% in-hospital mortality in normonatremic, matched control patients ( 12 ). Mortality, in fact, increases when serum Na levels are below 137 mmol/L ( 13 ). While (neurological) symptoms of hyponatremia such as gait disturbances, cognitive dysfunction and dizziness may lead to falls leading to subsequent injuries requiring medical care, either preceding symptom may be subtle and difficult to diagnose. Therefore, hyponatremia often is overseen or not given full attention. Furthermore, if hyponatremia is diagnosed, it is regularly classified to be asymptomatic. Diagnostic differentiation remains absent or incomplete. Thus, underlying reasons often remain obscure ( 14 ). However, cognitive and/or geriatric functional tests regularly reveal a significant impairment in states of hyponatremia. Clearly, symptoms of hyponatremia depend on the time elapsed since the start of hyponatremia development. Hyponatremia developing in less than 48 hours may already present with severe symptoms which are mainly caused by cerebral edema and a high intracranial pressure. These include epileptic convulsions, a pronounced somnolence or coma, vomiting and/or a compromised respiratory regulation. Symptoms like headache or modest nausea generally reflect a rather moderate severity. In patients with acute
