Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


include epileptic convulsions, a pronounced somnolence or coma, vomiting and/or a compromised respiratory regulation. Symptoms like headache or modest nausea generally reflect a rather moderate severity. In patients with acute hyponatremia, a brief patient history and a physical examination should be performed ( Table 1 ). In cases of a rather slowly developing or chronic hyponatremia, intracellular regulations such as decreased uptake of taurin aim to adapt to the decreased extracellular osmolality. Therefore, those patients may show very subtle or even no clinical alterations. Taurin is an endogenous amino acid that mediates cellular adaptation to hyperosmotic stress ( 15 ). Table 1. Anamnestic Factors and Conditions Responsible for the Occurrence of an Acute Hyponatremic State (<48h) View in own window Medical interventions: General post-operative phase Resection of the prostate Exercise (e.g., long distance run) with increased and rapid fluid (water) intake Extended sauna visit Polydipsia (transient) Severe pain attacks (including concomitant pharmacotherapy) Initiation of new drugs e.g., thiazides, terlipressin, psychiatric medication For the diagnosis of SIADH, the first diagnostic step, hyponatremia needs to be ascertained. False laboratory “measurements” of serum Na+ comprise primarily a hyperglycemic state. According to Hillier et al ( 16 ) an estimation of the true sodium concentration in serum can be drawn from the formula: Corrected (Na+) = Measured (Na+) + 2.4 x (glucose (mg/dl) - 100 mg/dl)/100mg/dl For example, a serum glucose level of 400 mg/dl with a measured serum sodium of 120 mmol/l corresponds to a true sodium value of 127 mmol/l ( 16 ). Likewise, pseudohyponatremia may occur in patients with paraproteinemia, e.g. multiple-myeloma patients ( 17 ). Another pitfall with serum sodium is the mode of its determination: the usual method involves ion-selective electrodes, not flame-photometric determination and may yield occasionally “diluted” Na + levels (elevated triglyceride levels, paraproteinemia). Measured, not calculated serum osmolality may help discriminate true from pseudohyponatremia: true hyponatremia associates with a decreased serum osmolality. True-hyponatremic patients are regularly identified at hospital admission, e.g., in the emergency room. However, a large number of hospitalized patients have or develop either mild (Na 131 – 136 mmol/l), moderate (Na 126 – 130 mmol/l) or severe (Na <125 mmol/l) hyponatremia after admission during the hospital stay. Although many hyponatremic patients will present with chronic hyponatremia, however, some patients present with a proven acute hyponatremia. Since acute hyponatremia means an incomplete adjustment of the difference in osmolality between plasma (extracellular space) and intracellular
