Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


with chronic hyponatremia, however, some patients present with a proven acute hyponatremia. Since acute hyponatremia means an incomplete adjustment of the difference in osmolality between plasma (extracellular space) and intracellular cell space of tissues and organs such as the brain, a 48-hours threshold to discern acute from chronic hyponatremia appears reasonable. However, in everyday practice, this discrimination might not be feasible due to a lack of documentation of serum sodium levels in newly hospitalized patients. As an important step in the approach to the hyponatremic patient is to determine volume status. Accordingly, a state of overhydration characterized by the presence of peripheral edema needs to be ruled out. Hyponatremia accompanied by peripheral edema, anasarca, jugular vein distension in absence of a significant tricuspid-valve regurgitation, dyspnea, and/or signs of a lung fluid or pulmonary edema on the chest radiograph are not consistent with the diagnosis of SIADH. Here, underlying diseases such as chronic heart failure should be diagnosed and addressed. Likewise, hyponatremia in a state of hypovolemia needs to be excluded. In exsiccosis, e.g., due to diuretics, both water and solutes may be lost. Hypovolemia triggers sympathoactivation via CP and baroreflex leading to an appropriate ADH release. In patients presenting with hyponatremia in a state of euvolemia, i.e., absence of overhydration or exsiccosis, the diagnosis of SIADH should be considered, after excluding conditions such as chronic heart failure. A known and medically treated chronic heart failure condition may present as a hypervolemic, euvolemic or – when vigorously treated – hypovolemic state. Both, chronic heart failure and liver cirrhosis are characterized by arterial underfilling and, hence, activation of both the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and antidiuretic hormone leading to both sodium chloride retention and water retention. The net effect may be hyponatremia, if AVP stimulation dominates. Thus, urine-sodium measurements in 24-hours urine collection may prove the presence of a sodium-sparing disorder, thereby rendering SIADH unlikely. A useful algorithm to approach hyponatremia is depicted in Figure 3 . Figure 3. Approach to the patient with hyponatremia (adapted and modified from ( 18 ), with permission). In the clinical assessment, euvolemic patients suspected to have primary SIADH often show a slight weight gain by 5 – 10% of body weight and/or a worsened condition of arterial hypertension, and urine output is normal or slightly reduced. In secondary, neoplasm-associated SIADH, however, an unexplained weight loss and/or state of cachexia may prompt further diagnostics including chest radiograph and
