Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


hypertension, and urine output is normal or slightly reduced. In secondary, neoplasm-associated SIADH, however, an unexplained weight loss and/or state of cachexia may prompt further diagnostics including chest radiograph and thoracic computed tomography scan, if deemed necessary. It is crucial to assess and to treat infections effectively, since they may establish or worsen a tendency to hyponatremia. To correctly evaluate laboratory results besides aspects of methodology, diuretics, especially thiazides, should be discontinued, and nutritional sodium chloride intake should not exceed 5 – 6 g per day. HYPONATREMIA IN EUVOLEMIA: ASSESSMENT FOR SIADH The diagnostic, step-wise approach for evaluating hyponatremia in euvolemic patients is detailed below: 1 st Step Here, a laboratory work-up ( Table 2 ) is proposed to establish a preliminary diagnosis being consistent with SIADH. Table 2. Laboratory Work-Up for SIADH View in own window Parameter SIADH Diagnosis Serum Sodium Potassium Glucose Urea Creatinine Uric acid Thyroid hormones Cortisol Aldosterone Copeptin <136 mmol/l Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Elevated Urine Osmolality Sodium Uric acid Creatinine Osmolality >100 mosm/kg > 30 mmol/l Normal or Low Normal >12% As a diagnostic cornerstone of SIADH diagnosis, determination of fractional uric-acid excretion has recently emerged (SIADH increased). Fenske et al. ( 19 ) confirmed earlier reports demonstrating fractional uric-acid excretion (cut-off greater than 12%) to rule out hyponatremic states with reduced extracellular fluid volume, e.g. due to diuretics ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Calculation of fractional uric acid excretion. There is sometimes debate on whether measurements of AVP in the plasma are helpful or not for diagnosis of SIADH or other hyponatremic circumstances. There are, however; multiple obstacles rendering AVP determination and interpretation difficult. Only a few laboratories provide tests with good sensitivity, since AVP is very unstable when isolated from plasma and binds to other structures. A potential alternative is the more stable copeptin, also called C-terminal proarginine vasopressin, which is generated by enzymatic cleavage of the vasopressin prohormone. Strikingly, SIADH patients were shown to have an elevated plasma copeptin ( 20 ). As an additional way to diagnose SIADH, correlation of plasma copeptin with changes in plasma osmolality (step 2, step 3) can be used ( 21 ). Furthermore, a hypertonic (3%) saline test has been proposed for SIADH ( 20 ). However, this test strategy still needs to be validated. 2 nd Step Administration of 500 ml saline (NaCl 0.9%) is regarded as an empiric,
