Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


proposed for SIADH ( 20 ). However, this test strategy still needs to be validated. 2 nd Step Administration of 500 ml saline (NaCl 0.9%) is regarded as an empiric, first-line therapeutic and diagnostic measure. Especially when arterial underfilling and baroreflex and/or CP reflex deactivation are thought to be relevant, i.v. saline corrects the initial disturbance that led to hyponatremia/SIADH. This relates, strictly speaking, to volume regulation and respective reflex stimulation. Isotonic saline may not resolve hyponatremia in cases of ongoing urine concentration with urine osmolality exceeding 400 mosm/kg. In addition, a water-load test as described in www.endotext.org , NEUROENDOCRINOLOGY, HYPOTHALAMUS, AND PITUITARY may be performed the next morning under utmost scrutiny and precaution, in the hospital. The water-load test relates to the fact that normal subjects excrete 78-82% of the ingested water load within 4 hours due to AVP suppression. In patients with SIADH, the expected urine amount within 4 hours is reduced to 30-40%. However, the test involves a massive water intake in a short period of time and, therefore, is not considered a safe procedure for the majority of patients for the following three reasons: 1. In SIADH patients, a relative intravascular overhydration will be enhanced. 2. An underlying cardiac co-morbidity may be adversely affected. 3. The water challenge may worsen the hyponatremia increasing the risk of symptoms such as epileptic convulsions. In the majority of patients with hyponatremia suspected to have SIADH, this test can be replaced by the following 3 rd and 4 th diagnostic step (below). The water-load test only adds information in hospitalized individuals free of cardiac conditions presenting with rather mild hyponatremia in whom the 4 th step usually will not be performed. Again, the physician has to weigh risks and benefits of this water challenge versus alternate diagnostic steps (step 3, step 4 below). 3 rd Step A balanced fluid-intake restriction (500 ml/day) is able to correct hyponatremia over the next 3 to 4 days with an aimed plasma-sodium increase of 0.5 mmol/l/h or less than 10 mmol/l/day. Most patient do not tolerate a very strict fluid intake reduction. 4 th Step If step 1 – step 3 did not lead to an improvement of hyponatremia, therapy with an antagonist of the vasopressin V 2 -receptors, e.g. tolvaptan, for four days should be instituted ( 22 ) with an aimed plasma-sodium increase of 0.5 mmol/l/h or less than 10 mmol/l/day. INTERPRETATION
