Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


the vasopressin V 2 -receptors, e.g. tolvaptan, for four days should be instituted ( 22 ) with an aimed plasma-sodium increase of 0.5 mmol/l/h or less than 10 mmol/l/day. INTERPRETATION OF CLINICAL AND LABORATORY RESULTS SIADH leads to an increase of free-water reabsorption, thereby increasing the circulating blood volume. By virtue of dilution mediated by AVP, both hematocrit and plasma sodium are decreased. Likewise, a decrease of urine output can be found. In cases of a prolonged, subclinical hypovolemia, baroreflex- and/or CP-reflex unloading stimulates AVP secretion leading to the clinical picture of SIADH. There, discontinuation of diuretics and/or the empirical infusion of 500 ml saline (0.9%) as outlined above in step 2 may correct such a state of subclinical hypovolemia and lead to an improvement in hyponatremia driven by SIADH. In assessing key laboratory results including plasma and urine sodium concentration and -osmolality, both the theoretical or calculated OSM should be compared to the actually measured OSM. That way, states of hyponatremia due to uremia or hyperglycemia can be ruled out. In such cases of hyponatremia, high plasma urea or high plasma glucose lead to a rise in OSM prompting a physiologic release of AVP, which, in turn, leads to a plasma-sodium dilution in order to maintain a normal OSM. Urine sodium within normal range rules out a dietary sodium deficiency or states of increased tubular sodium reabsorption such as in chronic heart failure or liver cirrhosis. After fulfilling the above-mentioned steps to diagnose SIADH, the following conditions should be separately considered as a possible differential diagnosis: DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF HYPONATEMIA OTHER THAN SIADH Sodium chloride depletion, low dietary sodium intake regularly is accompanied by hypovolemia, low urine sodium, elevated serum uric acid and serum urea. Anterior-lobe pituitary gland insufficiency often is accompanied with signs and symptoms, and respective laboratory findings indicating hormone deficiencies such as hypothyroidism, hypocortisolism or hypogonadism. In addition, bitemporal hemianopsia and hyperprolactinemia are found in cases of anterior-lobe pituitary tumors as a cause of anterior-lobe pituitary gland insufficiency. Adrenal-gland insufficiency including iatrogenic mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonism (spironolactone/eplerenone) regularly is accompanied by hyperkalemia and hypovolemia. Thiazide diuretics can induce hyponatremia by an AVP-dependent mechanism and by a thiazide-induced increase of water permeability in the medullary collecting duct. Severe hypothyroidism regularly is accompanied by dilutional hyponatremia due to a reduced free-water clearance. Chronic kidney disease : In salt losing nephropathy, a condition that occurs in advanced kidney failure with a
