Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


regularly is accompanied by dilutional hyponatremia due to a reduced free-water clearance. Chronic kidney disease : In salt losing nephropathy, a condition that occurs in advanced kidney failure with a GFR below 15 ml/min, hyponatremia is paralleled by hypovolemia. This is a feature classically seen in interstitial kidney disease. On the other hand, many patients with near end-stage renal failure show increased Na excretion to balance body sodium content, but, due to (continuous) reduction in urine production, a diluted urine cannot be achieved, leading to hyponatremia. Acute kidney (transplant) failure without signs of uremia, a water-excretion dysfunction may lead to dilutional hyponatremia. Hyperglycemia or poor diabetes mellitus control may lead to a so-called translational hyponatremia due to intra- to extracellular water shift and consequent plasma sodium dilution (see above). Cerebral salt wasting is an important differential diagnosis to SIADH occurring in cases of aneurysmal subarachnoidal hemorrhage and in other intracranial pathologies. Cerebral salt wasting still is not completely characterized and most likely involves a putative central nervous system-derived factor and/or a sudden decrease of renal sympathetic nerve activity favoring a urinary loss of sodium chloride. Cerebral-salt wasting - associated urinary sodium-chloride loss improves after successful neurosurgical care of the initial intracranial disease condition and may require temporary high amounts of sodium chloride replacement. Overdose of antidiuretic-hormone analogs in cases of known central diabetes insipidus. If the primary physician is unaware of the underlying medical condition, SIADH may be suspected based on laboratory results described above. Patient history including the medication list clarifies the diagnosis. THERAPY OF SIADH If left untreated, SIADH may lead to a severe, life-threatening hyponatremia with or without clinically apparent overhydration. Acute complications of SIADH include cerebral edema and epileptic convulsions. SIADH therapy clearly depends on the specific etiology and the severity of symptoms. Once therapy is initiated, repeat measurements of plasma sodium are mandatory to gauge the therapeutic response, and, most importantly, to ascertain a slow plasma-sodium normalization with a recommended maximum rate of 0.5 mmol/l/h plasma-sodium increase. Again, the delivery of higher concentrated sodium chloride solution is allowed strictly for symptomatic patients. A significant proportion of in-hospital mortality relating to hyponatremia likely is due to a too rapid sodium normalization in long-standing hyponatremia. The consequence of too rapid sodium normalization is the osmotic demyelination syndrome due to a rapid intra- to-extracellular water transfer and subsequent brain swelling that exceeds the percentage of cerebrospinal fluid volume
