Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


of too rapid sodium normalization is the osmotic demyelination syndrome due to a rapid intra- to-extracellular water transfer and subsequent brain swelling that exceeds the percentage of cerebrospinal fluid volume capacity (usually around 8% but higher in elderly with a hydrocephalus ex vacuo). Besides the therapeutic goal to avoid rapid changes in plasma osmolality, the underlying reason of hyponatremia in SIADH, excess total body water, should be addressed by balanced fluid-intake reduction. All therapeutic interventions discussed here target the consequences of exaggerated AVP secretion rather than sodium-chloride supplementation. In primary SIADH, plasma-sodium dilution can be addressed by an ongoing fluid-intake restriction of 500-800 ml/day which many patients do not tolerate well. However, subclinical hypovolemia and ensuing baroreflex and CP reflex suppression leading to AVP stimulation should be kept in mind. Addressing arterial hypotension and/or central-venous hypotension is effective in lowering AVP in plasma. At the same time, fluid-intake restriction may appear contradictory. Even though fluid-intake restriction appears to be a proven measure in terms of attenuation of AVP consequences, it is the clinician`s judgement to test both interventions and compare the best results in terms of a slow plasma-sodium increase. In secondary SIADH, identification of the neoplasm is the goal. A thorough tumor search using positron-emission tomography and computed tomography is warranted to further determine the underlying pathology and, if applicable, consider all options of curative therapy. Chemotherapy, surgical and/or radiation therapy of malignancies with AVP activity represent definitive therapeutic approaches. On clinical grounds, neoplasm-associated, secondary SIADH often requires V2-receptor antagonism therapy until a specific oncologic care plan is employed. This might be especially true while performing cytostatic therapy cycles with increased intravenously administered fluid volumes. However, to date, no survival benefit has been demonstrated in favor of V2-receptor antagonism in oncologic care of patients with secondary, neoplasm-associated SIADH. Besides malignancies, infections such as tuberculosis have been associated with occurrence of SIADH ( 24 ). Severity of Hyponatremia-Related Symptoms Only if there are severe symptoms related hyponatremia, is it advised to administer a small amount of a hypertonic NaCl-solution for a very short period of time. In practice, this must be accomplished with closely monitored sodium concentration measurements which can be accomplished on a regular ward rather than in the intensive care unit, especially when considering the urgency. 150 ml of a 3% saline solution can be infused over 20 minutes. If the symptoms do not ameliorate with this management,
