Endocrine Testing for the Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH)
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, siadh, patients, sodium, pubmed, avp, plasma, mmol, osmolality, serum, urine, receptor, diagnosis, normal, step


intensive care unit, especially when considering the urgency. 150 ml of a 3% saline solution can be infused over 20 minutes. If the symptoms do not ameliorate with this management, the infusion with 100 ml of 3% hypertonic saline can be repeated every 30 minutes until the target serum Na is reached (usually 5-8 mmol increase from baseline). Above all, a 5 mmol/l increase in serum sodium concentration should not be exceeded within the first hour. These recommendations have also been summarized in recent guideline reports ( 18 ). The management after relief of the symptoms should be focused on a careful administration of 0.9% (only) sodium chloride solution. Independently of the initial rise in serum sodium concentration by the above measures, the maximal rise within the first 24 hours should not exceed 10 mmol/l. In some cases of overcorrection, desmopressin can be administered ( 13 , 23 ). In terms of reaching a sodium goal within a short time, a rapid intermittent bolus infusion of hypertonic solution is preferred to a slow continuous infusion ( 25 ). Drug-Induced SIADH Drugs (see Table in Ref. 18 ) such as vincristine, vinblastine, cyclophosphamide, carbamazepine, tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (e.g., citalopram), oxytocin, opiates, barbiturates, and nicotine may cause SIADH. Either they enhance ADH release, are analogues of ADH, or they amplify the renal effects of ADH. However, for some drugs, the mechanism remains unclear. If applicable, a suspected drug should be discontinued with close supervision of plasma sodium levels. Once hyponatremia improves after cessation of a specific drug, drug-induced SIADH is likely. However, unless re-exposure takes place, drug- induced SIADH is not proven. Primary and Secondary SIADH In both primary and secondary SIADH or in euvolemic, hyponatremic patients with suspected SIADH without a therapeutic effect of fluid-intake restriction, the lowest recommended standard dose of a vasopressin V 2 -receptor blocker, e.g., Tolvaptan, should be administered orally. Besides the diagnostic approach outlined above as step 4, empiric V2-receptor antagonism represents a rescue therapy and is suitable to gain time needed to perform further diagnostics and therapies in (suspected) SIADH. Low-dose Tolvaptan therapy was shown to significantly improve hyponatremia (by 3 – 4 mmol/l) within 4 days when compared to placebo ( 26 , 27 ). Alternatively, conivaptan (approved for SIADH in the United States) has a broader target than its competitors tolvaptan or mozavaptan. Conivaptan selectively targets the V1a and V2
