Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


Overview This guideline covers identifying and assessing risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in adults without established CVD. It covers lifestyle changes and lipid-lowering treatment (including statins) for primary and secondary prevention of CVD, and includes guidance for people who also have diabetes or chronic kidney disease. For people with familial hypercholesterolaemia, see the NICE guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Adults who are at risk of CVD or who have CVD Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Identifying and assessing cardiovascular disease risk for people without established cardiovascular disease Identifying people for full formal risk assessment 1.1.1 For the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in primary care, use a systematic strategy to identify people who are likely to be at high risk of CVD. [2008, amended 2014] 1.1.2 Prioritise people based on an estimate of their CVD risk before doing a full formal risk assessment. Estimate their CVD risk using CVD risk factors already recorded in primary care electronic medical records. [2008] 1.1.3 Review estimates of CVD risk on an ongoing basis for people over 40. [2008] 1.1.4 Prioritise people for a full formal risk assessment if their estimated 10-year risk of CVD is 10% or more. [2008, amended 2014] 1.1.5 Discuss the process of risk assessment with the person identified as being at risk, including the option of declining any formal risk assessment. [2008] 1.1.6 Do not use opportunistic assessment as the main strategy in primary care to identify CVD risk in unselected people. [2008] Full formal risk assessment 1.1.7 Use the QRISK3 tool to calculate the estimated CVD risk within the next 10 years for people aged between 25 and 84 without CVD. [May 2023] 1.1.8 Use the QRISK3 tool for people with type 2 diabetes aged between 25 and 84. [May 2023] Until electronic clinical systems in which QRISK2 is embedded are updated with QRISK3, it may be necessary to use QRISK2. When assessing risk for people taking corticosteroids or atypical antipsychotics or people with systemic
