Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


in which QRISK2 is embedded are updated with QRISK3, it may be necessary to use QRISK2. When assessing risk for people taking corticosteroids or atypical antipsychotics or people with systemic lupus erythematosus, migraine, severe mental illness or erectile dysfunction, use QRISK3 because QRISK2 does not take these risk factors into account and may underestimate the 10-year CVD risk in these populations. 1.1.9 Do not use a risk assessment tool for people who are at high risk of CVD, including people with: • type 1 diabetes (see the section on primary prevention of CVD for people with type 1 diabetes) • an estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 and/or albuminuria (see the section on primary and secondary prevention of CVD for people with chronic kidney disease [CKD]) • familial hypercholesterolaemia (see NICE's guideline on familial hypercholesterolaemia) or other inherited disorders of lipid metabolism. [May 2023] 1.1.10 Recognise that CVD risk tools may underestimate risk in certain groups of people, including but not limited to: • people treated for HIV • people already taking medicines to treat CVD risk factors • people who have recently stopped smoking • people taking medicines that can cause dyslipidaemia, such as immunosuppressant drugs • people with severe mental illness • people with autoimmune disorders, and other systemic inflammatory disorders. [May 2023] 1.1.11 Consider people aged 85 or older to be at increased risk of CVD because of age alone, particularly people who smoke or have raised blood pressure. [May 2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on full formal risk assessment. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: CVD risk assessment tools: primary prevention. Communication about risk assessment, lifestyle changes and treatment 1.1.12 Follow the recommendations on communication in NICE's guidelines on patient experience in adult NHS services and shared decision making. [2014] 1.1.13 Set aside adequate time during the consultation to provide information on risk assessment and to answer any questions. Arrange for further consultation if needed. [2008, amended May 2023] 1.1.14 Document the discussion relating to the consultation on risk assessment and the person's decision. [2008] 1.1.15 Offer people information about their absolute risk of CVD and the absolute benefits and harms of any intervention over a 10-year period. [2008] 1.1.16 Consider using
