Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


person's decision. [2008] 1.1.15 Offer people information about their absolute risk of CVD and the absolute benefits and harms of any intervention over a 10-year period. [2008] 1.1.16 Consider using a lifetime risk tool such as QRISK3-lifetime to inform discussions on CVD risk and to motivate lifestyle changes, particularly for people with a 10-year QRISK3 score less than 10%, and people under 40 who have CVD risk factors. [May 2023] 1.1.17 To encourage the person to participate in reducing their CVD risk: • find out what, if anything, the person has already been told about their CVD risk and how they feel about it • explore the person's beliefs about what determines future health (this may affect their attitude to changing risk) • assess their readiness to make changes to their lifestyle (diet, physical activity, smoking and alcohol consumption), to undergo investigations and to take long-term medication • assess their confidence to make changes to their lifestyle, undergo investigations and take medication • inform them of potential future management options based on current evidence and best practice • involve them in developing a shared management plan • check that they have understood what has been discussed. [2008, amended 2014] 1.1.18 If the person's CVD risk is at a level where treatment is recommended but they decline the offer of treatment, advise them that their CVD risk should be reassessed in the future. Record their choice in their medical records. [2008, amended 2014] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on communication about risk assessment, lifestyle changes and treatment. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: CVD risk assessment tools: primary prevention. 1.2 Aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease 1.2.1 Do not routinely offer aspirin for primary prevention of CVD. [January 2023] For guidance on using aspirin to prevent venous thromboembolism in over 16s in hospital, see NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. NICE's surveillance team reviewed the evidence about aspirin for the primary prevention of CVD. Based on the review, NICE decided to add a do not routinely offer recommendation about this. For full details, see the January 2023 exceptional surveillance report. 1.3 Lifestyle changes for the primary and secondary prevention of
