Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


to add a do not routinely offer recommendation about this. For full details, see the January 2023 exceptional surveillance report. 1.3 Lifestyle changes for the primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease Behaviour change 1.3.1 Advise and support people at high risk of or with CVD to achieve a healthy lifestyle in line with NICE's guideline on behaviour change: general approaches. [2014, amended May 2023] Healthy eating For advice on healthy eating, see the NHS eat well guide. Cardioprotective diet 1.3.2 Advise people at high risk of or with CVD to eat a diet in which total fat intake is 30% or less of total energy intake, saturated fats are 7% or less of total energy intake, and where possible saturated fats are replaced by mono-unsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. [May 2023] 1.3.3 Advise people at high risk of or with CVD to: • reduce their saturated fat intake • increase their mono-unsaturated fat intake with olive oil, rapeseed oil or spreads based on these oils and to use them in food preparation. [2014] 1.3.4 Take account of a person's individual circumstances, for example, drug treatment, comorbidities and other lifestyle changes, when giving dietary advice. [2014] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on cardioprotective diet. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: dietary cholesterol strategies. Physical activity 1.3.5 Advise people at high risk of or with CVD to do aerobic and muscle-strengthening activities in line with the UK Chief Medical Officers' physical activity guidelines. [2008, amended 2014] 1.3.6 Encourage people who are unable to perform moderate intensity physical activity because of comorbidity, medical conditions or personal circumstances to exercise at their maximum safe capacity. [2008, amended 2014] 1.3.7 Advice about physical activity should take into account the person's needs, preferences and circumstances. Agree goals and provide the person with written information about the benefits of activity and local opportunities to be active, in line with recommendation 2 of NICE's guideline on physical activity: brief advice for adults. [2008] 1.3.8 Follow recommendation 8 of NICE's guideline on walking and cycling, and recommendation 2 of NICE's guideline on exercise referral schemes. [2008] Weight management 1.3.9 Offer people at high risk of or with CVD who are overweight or obese appropriate interventions in line with NICE's guideline on overweight
