Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


and • review for potential secondary causes of hyperlipidaemia and • seek specialist advice if the triglyceride level remains at more than 10 mmol per litre. [2014] 1.4.8 In people with a triglyceride level between 4.5 mmol and 9.9 mmol per litre: • be aware that the CVD risk may be underestimated by risk assessment tools and • optimise the management of other CVD risk factors present and • seek specialist advice if non-HDL cholesterol level is more than 7.5 mmol per litre. [2014] 1.5 Discussions and assessment before starting statins Discuss risks and benefits of statins 1.5.1 Make decisions about starting statin treatment after an informed discussion between the clinician and the person about the risks and benefits of statins. [May 2023, amended December 2023] 1.5.2 Take into account potential benefits from lifestyle changes, the person's preferences, the presence of any comorbidities, whether they are on multiple medications, whether they are frail and their life expectancy. (See also NICE's guideline on multimorbidity.) [May 2023, amended December 2023] 1.5.3 Advise people who are being offered a statin that the risk of muscle pain, tenderness or weakness associated with statin use is small and the rate of severe muscle adverse effects (rhabdomyolysis) because of statins is extremely low. [May 2023] Discuss possible interactions between statins and other substances 1.5.4 Advise people who are being treated with a statin: • that other drugs, some foods (for example, grapefruit juice) and some supplements may interfere with statins and • to always consult the patient information leaflet, a pharmacist or prescriber for advice when starting other drugs or thinking about taking supplements. [May 2023] Perform baseline blood tests and clinical assessment 1.5.5 Before starting statins perform baseline blood tests and clinical assessment. Include all of the following in the assessment: • smoking status • alcohol consumption • blood pressure (see NICE's guideline on hypertension in adults) • BMI or other measure of obesity (see NICE's guideline on overweight and obesity management) • full lipid profile • diabetes status • renal function • transaminase level (alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase) • thyroid-stimulating hormone level in people with symptoms of underactive or overactive thyroid. [May 2023, amended December 2023] 1.5.6 Do not routinely exclude from statin treatment people who have liver transaminase levels that are raised but are less than 3 times the upper limit of normal. [May 2023] 1.5.7 Before offering a statin, ask the
