Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


treatment people who have liver transaminase levels that are raised but are less than 3 times the upper limit of normal. [May 2023] 1.5.7 Before offering a statin, ask the person if they have had persistent generalised unexplained muscle symptoms (pain, tenderness or weakness), whether associated or not with previous lipid-lowering treatment. If they have, measure creatine kinase levels. If creatine kinase levels are: • more than 5 times the upper limit of normal, re-measure creatine kinase after 7 days; if creatine kinase levels are still 5 times the upper limit of normal, do not start statin treatment (see the section on treatment if statins are contraindicated or not tolerated) • raised but less than 5 times the upper limit of normal, start statin treatment at a lower dose. [May 2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on discussions and assessment before starting statins. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: statins: efficacy and adverse effects. Choice of drug based on clinical trials 1.5.8 Be aware that when deciding on lipid-lowering treatment to prevent CVD, drugs are preferred for which there is evidence in clinical trials of a beneficial effect on CVD morbidity and mortality. [2008] Statins and pregnancy 1.5.9 Be aware that statins are contraindicated in pregnancy because of the risk to the unborn child of exposure to statins. [2014, amended May 2023] 1.5.10 Explain that: • statins should be stopped if pregnancy is a possibility • statins should be stopped 3 months before attempting to conceive • statins should not be restarted until breastfeeding is finished. [2014, amended May 2023] 1.6 Lipid-lowering treatment for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease There is a NICE patient decision aid to support discussions about statin treatment to reduce the risk of heart disease and stroke for people without CVD. Also see the sections on optimising statin treatment and assessing response to treatment. Lipid target for people taking statins 1.6.1 For primary prevention of CVD aim for a greater than 40% reduction in non-HDL cholesterol. [May 2023] Optimising lifestyle changes 1.6.2 Before offering statin treatment for primary prevention, discuss the benefits of lifestyle changes and optimise the management of all other modifiable CVD risk factors if possible. [May 2023] 1.6.3 Recognise that people may need support to change their
