Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


on lipid-lowering treatment for primary prevention of CVD. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: statins: efficacy and adverse effects. Optimising statin treatment See the section on optimising statin treatment. Assessing response to treatment See the section on assessing response to treatment. Escalating treatment for people on statins 1.6.13 Ezetimibe, co-administered with a statin, is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating primary hypercholesterolaemia in some adults who have started statin therapy when serum total or low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration is not appropriately controlled. For full details, see the guidance on ezetimibe (TA385, 2016). 1.7 Lipid-lowering treatment for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease These recommendations apply to people with and without type 1 and 2 diabetes. Also see the sections on optimising statin treatment and assessing response to treatment. Lipid target for people taking lipid-lowering treatments 1.7.1 For secondary prevention of CVD, aim for LDL cholesterol levels of 2.0 mmol per litre or less, or non-HDL cholesterol levels of 2.6 mmol per litre or less. [December 2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on lipid target for secondary prevention of CVD. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: escalation of lipid-lowering treatment for secondary prevention of CVD. As part of the December 2023 update, a new NICE indicator was developed to support quality improvement in managing cholesterol levels for people with CVD. This NICE indicator is suitable for inclusion in local and national general practice measurement frameworks, including those underpinned with financial incentives: IND278: The percentage of patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) in whom the last recorded LDL or non-HDL cholesterol level (measured in the preceding 12 months) is 2.0 mmol per litre or less for LDL cholesterol or 2.6 mmol per litre or less for non-HDL cholesterol. Initial treatment 1.7.2 Offer atorvastatin 80 mg to people with CVD, whatever their cholesterol level, unless the person meets the criteria in recommendation 1.7.3. [May 2023, amended December 2023] 1.7.3 Offer a lower dose of atorvastatin if any of the following apply: • it could react with other drugs • there is a high risk of adverse effects • the person would prefer to take a lower dose. [May 2023, amended December 2023] In December 2023,
