Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


• an omega 3 fatty acid compound, except icosapent ethyl as described in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people with raised triglycerides (TA805, 2022). [2014, amended December 2023] Terms used in this guideline This section defines terms that have been used in a particular way for this guideline. Full lipid profile This involves taking a blood sample to measure total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels and then calculating non-HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol (a fasting sample is not mandated). LDL cholesterol results may not be reported in participants with triglyceride levels more than 4.5 mmol per litre or 9 mmol per litre depending on the formula used by local laboratories. High-intensity statin The following doses for statins are high intensity, based on the percentage reduction in LDL cholesterol they can produce: • atorvastatin: 20 mg to 80 mg • rosuvastatin: 10 mg to 40 mg. Medium-intensity statin The following doses for statins are medium intensity, based on the percentage reduction in LDL cholesterol they can produce: • atorvastatin: 10 mg • fluvastatin: 80 mg • rosuvastatin: 5 mg • simvastatin: 20 mg to 40 mg. Low-intensity statin The following doses for statins are low intensity, based on the percentage reduction in LDL cholesterol they can produce: • fluvastatin: 20 mg to 40 mg • pravastatin: 5 mg to 40 mg • simvastatin: 10 mg. Severe mental illness A diagnosis of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or other psychoses. (In line with the criteria for severe mental health conditions used in the NHS annual health check for people with severe mental health conditions.) Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following key recommendations for research. 1 Simplifying risk assessment What is the effectiveness of age alone and other routinely available risk factors compared with the formal structured multifactorial risk assessment to identify people at high risk of developing CVD? [2014] 2 Statin treatment for older people What is the effectiveness of statin treatment in older people? [May 2023, amended December 2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on lipid-lowering treatment for primary prevention of CVD. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: statins: efficacy and adverse effects. 3 Lipid-lowering treatment for people with type 1 diabetes What is the
