Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: statins: efficacy and adverse effects. 3 Lipid-lowering treatment for people with type 1 diabetes What is the effectiveness of statins and/or other lipid-lowering treatment in people with type 1 diabetes? [May 2023, amended December 2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on lipid-lowering treatment for primary prevention of CVD. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: statins: efficacy and adverse effects. Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Full formal risk assessment Recommendations 1.1.7 to 1.1.11 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that the evidence suggested QRISK3 performed best among tools evaluated in a UK population to assess the risk of a person without established CVD having a CVD event within the next 10 years. They agreed that no tool is very good at accurately discriminating between who will and who will not have a CVD event, but that tools are useful for guiding decisions about interventions to prevent CVD based on estimated risk. A small amount of evidence suggested that the additional fields included in QRISK3 (such as severe mental illness, regular corticosteroid use and atypical antipsychotic use) enabled the tool to perform better than QRISK2 at predicting CVD events for people with these risk factors. Use of QRISK3 should, therefore, result in more people within these groups being appropriately considered for risk reduction approaches including statin treatment. It was noted that the group of people with severe mental illness used to develop and validate QRISK3 included a high proportion of people with severe and moderate depression. This is reflected in the definition of severe mental illness in QRISK3 but does not reflect the definition used in electronic clinical systems in primary care. The committee agreed, informed by their clinical experience and expert opinion, that people with moderate to severe depression are not considered to have as great an increased risk of CVD as people with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other psychoses. By using data that grouped these conditions together, QRISK3 may underestimate CVD risk for people with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other psychoses. Despite this the committee agreed to recommend use of the tool for people with severe mental illness (however defined),
