Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


CVD risk for people with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other psychoses. Despite this the committee agreed to recommend use of the tool for people with severe mental illness (however defined), but clinical judgement should inform interpretation. The committee was aware that the NHS Health Check best practice guidance states that gender should be recorded as reported by the individual. If the individual discloses gender reassignment, they should be provided with CVD risk calculations based on both genders and advised to discuss with their GP which calculation is most appropriate for them as an individual. They agreed that healthcare professionals are expected to follow this guidance when undertaking formal risk assessments. An age range is given for QRISK3 because it is only intended for people aged between 25 and 84 years (inclusive). The committee agreed that the use of a risk tool remains appropriate in people with type 2 diabetes to support shared decision making. They agreed, based on the evidence, that QRISK3 performed better than QRISK2 for the population as whole and so should be used for people with type 2 diabetes. The committee agreed to remove a 2014 recommendation to complete as many fields of the risk assessment tool as possible because QRISK3 explains that the tool can overestimate risk if fields are left blank. They also noted that BMI, ethnicity and family history of CVD should be recorded in people's medical records, so the committee agreed that the 2014 recommendation on recording this information was no longer needed. Evidence on the performance of QRISK3 was not considered sufficient to suggest changing the 2014 recommendations against using a CVD risk tool in people with type 1 diabetes or CKD as it had not been validated in a separate population from that in which the tool was developed. The committee agreed these groups should be considered high risk, as should people with familial hypercholesterolaemia. Based on their clinical experience, the committee identified a list of factors for which all CVD risk tools underestimate risk. They highlighted the importance of using clinical judgement to interpret risk scores. As risk scores are used to guide decisions about interventions to prevent CVD, the committee agreed it was particularly important to ensure people are not incorrectly considered to be at low risk. The 2014 recommendation to consider people aged 85 and older to be at increased risk of CVD was retained as the committee
