Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


not incorrectly considered to be at low risk. The 2014 recommendation to consider people aged 85 and older to be at increased risk of CVD was retained as the committee agreed with this statement and there are still no tools for this age group. The committee highlighted it is important that this group be considered for interventions to prevent CVD even though a formal risk assessment would not be carried out. The evidence for lifetime risk tools was not considered sufficient to recommend their use instead of 10-year risk tools. However, the committee agreed they can have value in communication of risk. See the section on communication about risk assessment, lifestyle changes and treatment. How the recommendations might affect practice QRISK2 is currently integrated into electronic clinical systems, so 10-year CVD risk assessments can be generated using data already available in a person's electronic records. At the time of development, the committee was aware of ongoing discussions about continuation of the inclusion of QRISK in electronic clinical systems. Using QRISK3 instead of QRISK2 will require clinical systems to be updated by software developers for the impact on practice to be minimised. Public Health England issued guidance in August 2021 on using QRISK3 in NHS health checks and how to deal with the transition period (responsibility for the NHS Health Check programme has transferred to the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities, but the guidance produced by Public Health England remains current). QRISK3 requires some additional clinical information that was not required for QRISK2. However, if integrated into electronic clinical systems, QRISK3 is not likely to require additional resources over QRISK2. There may be some implementation costs as healthcare professionals become familiar with the additional information included in QRISK3 and in managing the transition period. Return to recommendations Communication about risk assessment, lifestyle changes and treatment Recommendation 1.1.16 Why the committee made the recommendation The committee agreed that the evidence did not support using lifetime CVD risk assessment tools to guide decisions on the need for statin treatment because their accuracy could not be reliably assessed. However, the committee noted that the usefulness of lifetime risk tools is primarily in communicating risk. They agreed by consensus that lifetime risk tools should be considered to help inform discussions about risk and motivate lifestyle changes. The committee highlighted that these tools may underestimate the ongoing benefit of lipid- lowering treatments as they do
