Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


be considered to help inform discussions about risk and motivate lifestyle changes. The committee highlighted that these tools may underestimate the ongoing benefit of lipid- lowering treatments as they do not predict risk reduction from taking medicines, and noted this should be considered when interpreting the results. They agreed lifetime risk calculation would not be necessary for everyone, but it may be particularly useful for people with a QRISK3 score less than 10% or under 40s who have CVD risk factors. How the recommendation might affect practice Lifetime risk tools are not routinely used in current clinical practice. The committee noted that there may be resource implications for calculating lifetime risk score estimates because lifetime risk tools are not currently embedded into electronic clinical systems, so scores are not automatically generated. There may also be implementation costs related to educating healthcare professionals about lifetime risk calculators. It is not clear if use of lifetime risk tools will result in longer consultations. The committee agreed that the online calculators for lifetime risk tools such as QRISK- lifetime were easy to complete and provided some interpretation of the risk scores to aid discussions, but acknowledged that lifetime risk assessment would not be done for everyone. The committee believe that using lifetime risk tools may have a long-term benefit in encouraging people to participate in lifestyle changes or engage in treatment, if appropriate. Given this, any additional time costs were considered likely to improve management of CVD risk and reduce future CVD events. Return to recommendation Aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease Recommendation 1.2.1 Why NICE made the recommendation NICE's surveillance team reviewed the evidence about aspirin for the primary prevention of CVD. Based on the review, NICE decided to add a do not routinely offer recommendation about this. For full details see the January 2023 exceptional surveillance report. Return to recommendation Cardioprotective diet Recommendation 1.3.2 Why the committee made the recommendation There was no available evidence comparing the effectiveness of dietary cholesterol strategies with normal diets for adults with and without CVD, so the committee updated the 2014 recommendation based on their clinical experience and expert opinion. They removed the reference to restricting dietary cholesterol intake. Only evidence on dietary cholesterol was in scope for review and therefore the guidance on total fat intake and proportion of saturated fat versus unsaturated fat was not changed. How the recommendation might affect practice
