Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


was in scope for review and therefore the guidance on total fat intake and proportion of saturated fat versus unsaturated fat was not changed. How the recommendation might affect practice The committee agreed healthcare professionals already better understand the lack of a relationship between dietary cholesterol and CVD risk, so the new recommendation reflects current practice. The committee agreed there should be no change in practice or resource impact to the NHS because of this updated recommendation. Return to recommendation Discussions and assessment before starting statins Recommendations 1.5.1 to 1.5.7 Why the committee made the recommendations New evidence on adverse effects while on statins supported the 2014 recommendation. Evidence on the risk of muscle pain and rhabdomyolysis with statin use demonstrated a real effect, but the large body of evidence showed this was a very small increased risk when compared with similar populations not on statins; that is, when using high-intensity statins approximately 16% of people reported experiencing muscle pain, but of these cases only around 1 in 12 were likely to be due to the statin. The committee agreed to strengthen the recommendation to reassure people that the risk of these adverse effects occurring is low. The evidence supported the other 2014 recommendations, so they were retained. The committee agreed a full lipid profile should be provided before starting statins and amended the recommendation on lipid measures accordingly. See the section on assessing response to treatment for further details. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendation on adverse effects has been strengthened to emphasise the low risk of experiencing severe muscle adverse effects because of statin treatment. It is not expected to have an impact on resource use as discussions on adverse effects are already an important part of current practice in prescribing and monitoring statins. Return to recommendations Lipid-lowering treatment for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease Recommendations 1.6.1 to 1.6.12 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence on both the effectiveness and adverse effects of statins showed high-intensity statins are clinically effective and cost effective compared to no statins, low-intensity statins, or medium-intensity statins for preventing CVD in people without CVD. The committee agreed to retain 20 mg as the recommended starting dose for all people starting atorvastatin for primary prevention of CVD. Although there was committee consensus that higher doses have a greater effect, they agreed that starting at the lowest effective dose was likely to
