Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


atorvastatin for primary prevention of CVD. Although there was committee consensus that higher doses have a greater effect, they agreed that starting at the lowest effective dose was likely to be preferable to people, but that up-titration of the dose should be considered as appropriate, following recommendation 1.9.1. The evidence supported the 2014 recommendations on optimising lifestyle changes and treating comorbidities and secondary causes of dyslipidaemia before starting statins, so they were retained. The committee agreed to retain the following recommendations for research because there is still a lack of direct evidence in these areas: • statin treatment for older people • lipid-lowering treatment for people with type 1 diabetes. Statins and QRISK score Evidence showed that statins are cost effective for people with 10-year CVD risk scores less than 10%. The committee agreed that if more people took statins there would be a greater reduction in CVD events. However, they also recognised that practical considerations needed to be taken into account. They agreed that risk scores are an important aid to shared decision making on statins. National audit data (CVDPREVENT) suggests that 60% of people without CVD and a QRISK score of 20% or more are prescribed lipid-lowering treatment, compared with 50% for people with scores of 10% or more. Therefore, the committee consensus was that an even smaller proportion of people with scores less than 10% may choose to take statins. The committee agreed that focusing on increasing uptake among people with the most potential to benefit would have more impact than lowering the statin treatment threshold. The 10% 10-year QRISK score was therefore retained as the threshold for offering statins. Although QRISK3 is specified in the recommendations, it is acknowledged that QRISK2 may be used in some circumstances until QRISK3 is embedded in electronic clinical systems (see the panel after recommendation 1.1.8 for details). The 10% threshold applies whether QRISK2 or 3 is used. Despite this, the committee agreed that a more person-centred approach should be adopted and recommended atorvastatin 20 mg as an option for people who want to take statins, irrespective of their QRISK3 score, or where clinical judgement suggests the person may be at high risk of CVD (for example, if the person has CVD risk factors not covered by QRISK3). How the recommendations might affect practice Most recommendations about statin treatment have been retained from the 2014 update of the guideline and so
