Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


CVD risk factors not covered by QRISK3). How the recommendations might affect practice Most recommendations about statin treatment have been retained from the 2014 update of the guideline and so should not require a change in practice. National audit data suggests that about half of people with a QRISK score of 10% or more are on lipid-lowering treatment. It is unclear if people are not being offered treatment or if they are declining or stopping treatment. The recommendation to consider starting atorvastatin 20 mg for people with QRISK3 scores less than 10% is a change in practice. The impact on medication and monitoring costs and workload will depend on the level of uptake. For details of the impact of an increase in statin use, see the impact section on lipid target for secondary prevention of CVD. Return to recommendations Statins for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease Recommendations 1.7.2 to 1.7.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence on both the effectiveness and adverse effects of statins showed high-intensity statins are clinically effective and cost effective compared to no statins, low-intensity statins, or medium-intensity statins for preventing CVD in people with CVD. The evidence supported the 2014 recommendations on initial treatment with statins and so they were retained. The recommendation on acute coronary syndromes was amended to clarify that a full lipid profile is needed on admission to hospital and 2 to 3 months after starting treatment. See the section on assessing response to treatment for further details. How the recommendations might affect practice These recommendations are in line with current practice and therefore will not have a resource impact. Return to recommendations Optimising statin treatment Recommendation 1.9.1 Why the committee made the recommendation The committee amended the 2014 consensus recommendation on what to do if someone taking statins does not reach their lipid target to apply to both the existing primary prevention target and the new secondary prevention target. The recommended actions remain the same. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation is in line with current practice and therefore will not have a resource impact. Return to recommendation Lipid target for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease Recommendation 1.7.1, recommendations 1.7.7 to 1.7.10 and recommendations 1.10.3 and 1.10.4 Why the committee made the recommendations Lipid target The committee agreed LDL cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol levels should be reduced as much as possible in people with CVD. However, people respond
