Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


the committee made the recommendations Lipid target The committee agreed LDL cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol levels should be reduced as much as possible in people with CVD. However, people respond differently to statins and other lipid-lowering treatments, and it is not cost effective to offer the full range of treatments to everyone with CVD. The clinical evidence consisted of 34 randomised control trials (RCTs). Clinically significant reductions in LDL cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol levels compared to placebo were seen for all 4 lipid-lowering treatments covered by the clinical trials: alirocumab, evolocumab, ezetimibe and inclisiran. The majority of people in the trials were also taking statins. Modest reductions in major CVD events such as myocardial infarction, stroke and related deaths were also seen for all 4 medicines. The committee recognised that some of the trials involved short follow-up periods of 1 year or less, so these medicines are likely to have a bigger impact on CVD events over the long term. There was no clinically important increased risk of adverse events. Injection site reactions were more frequent with alirocumab, evolocumab and inclisiran than with placebo but these were mild and not persistent. An economic model was developed using estimates of the impact of lipid-lowering treatments on LDL cholesterol (from a network meta-analysis of the 34 RCTs), combined with estimates of the impact of LDL cholesterol reduction on major cardiovascular events (from a published meta-analysis of statin RCTs). The economic model calculated, for all possible baseline LDL cholesterol levels, the reduced admissions to hospital for stroke, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular procedures and the associated life expectancy increases, quality of life improvements and treatment cost savings as a result of taking lipid-lowering treatments. This was offset against the cost of lipid-lowering treatments and associated monitoring costs. The data for the 2 PCSK9 inhibitors (alirocumab and evolocumab) were combined and were not analysed separately because treatment effects were found to be the same in the network meta-analysis. The model estimated the absolute LDL cholesterol target at which it was cost effective to escalate treatment for people on a high-intensity statin. The analysis explored different combinations of lipid-lowering treatments. Escalation of treatment was cost effective for people on statins with LDL cholesterol levels of more than 2.2 mmol per litre. There was a little more uncertainty about the cost effectiveness of escalating treatment for people with LDL cholesterol levels between 2.0 mmol and 2.2 mmol
