Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


than 2.2 mmol per litre. There was a little more uncertainty about the cost effectiveness of escalating treatment for people with LDL cholesterol levels between 2.0 mmol and 2.2 mmol per litre. An LDL cholesterol target of 1.8 mmol per litre was not cost effective. The committee decided that 2.0 mmol per litre was likely to be cost effective and would allow more people to be treated than 2.2 mmol per litre. Even though the main economic analysis was based on the impact of lipid-lowering treatment on LDL cholesterol levels, the committee recognised the need to identify a non- HDL cholesterol target for use when LDL cholesterol levels have not been requested or calculated. Using the distribution of LDL cholesterol levels for the population with CVD and on a statin in the clinical practice research datalink (CPRD) dataset, 42% of people had LDL cholesterol levels of 2.0 mmol per litre or more. Using the same data, the threshold for non-HDL cholesterol that would produce an identical number of people being escalated for treatment was 2.6 mmol per litre. An alternative approach would be to use the Friedewald equation and insert the mean triglyceride level of 1.4 mmol per litre along with the LDL cholesterol of 2.0 mmol per litre. This approach also indicates a non-HDL cholesterol target of 2.6 mmol per litre. Both target measures are slightly higher than other national and international targets because, unlike other targets, the LDL cholesterol target is based on the cost effectiveness of treatment escalation. However, the committee thought it was sufficiently similar and, because it was more affordable, was more likely to be implemented. Statin plus ezetimibe In a separate analysis, escalation with statin plus ezetimibe (but no injectable treatment) was evaluated at different LDL cholesterol levels. Ezetimibe was cost effective regardless of LDL cholesterol, so the committee agreed that it could be considered for people with lipid levels below the agreed target. They noted that the trade-off between further reducing risk and increasing medication should be taken into account. These should be considered and fully discussed with the person as part of informed shared decision making. Furthermore, the committee agreed that adherence may be lower for people on 2 pills rather than 1, especially if they are below the target. Statins are contraindicated or not tolerated The committee did not review the evidence for the clinical effectiveness of lipid-lowering treatments in people
