Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


1, especially if they are below the target. Statins are contraindicated or not tolerated The committee did not review the evidence for the clinical effectiveness of lipid-lowering treatments in people who are statin intolerant or for whom statins are contraindicated but based their recommendations on NICE's technology appraisal guidance on alirocumab, bempedoic acid, evolocumab, ezetimibe and inclisiran. The committee emphasised that statin treatment is known to be the most effective method of reducing the risk of CVD events and that this should be the main treatment for most people. They highlighted the importance of reviewing statin medication in response to adverse effects before deciding someone is statin intolerant. An economic analysis estimated the absolute LDL cholesterol target at which it was cost effective to escalate treatment for people on ezetimibe who are statin intolerant. The analysis explored different combinations of lipid-lowering treatments. The committee discussed whether the lipid target should be different because of the different treatment options and associated costs. However, it was noted that this may introduce inequality regarding access to lipid-lowering treatment. Also, the target at which escalation of lipid-lowering treatment is cost effective did not change when the statin intolerant population was included in the economic model alongside the statin tolerant population, largely because the prevalence of statin intolerance is relatively low. Therefore, the committee agreed that the target for people who cannot take statins should be the same as for those who can take them. They recommended offering ezetimibe to people who cannot take statins (in line with NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ezetimibe) and, if this does not achieve the lipid target in this guideline, to offer alternative or additional lipid-lowering treatments (in line with other technology appraisal guidance). How the recommendations might affect practice It is expected that recommending a specific lipid target for secondary prevention of CVD will lead to an increased use of lipid-lowering treatments. The committee was aware that NHS England had recently introduced a target as part of the Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF). The target recommended in this guideline is similar to the 2023/24 QOF, although data showed that, in many people, the QOF target is not being met. In June 2023, the CVDPREVENT audit reported that 28.7% were meeting the target. Increased uptake of statins, ezetimibe and other lipid-lowering treatments will result in higher medication and monitoring costs to the NHS. It will also contribute to an
