Cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification
KEYWORDS: people, cvd, risk, treatment, statin, committee, statins, recommendations, evidence, prevention, cholesterol, recommendation, lipid-lowering, primary, nice


were meeting the target. Increased uptake of statins, ezetimibe and other lipid-lowering treatments will result in higher medication and monitoring costs to the NHS. It will also contribute to an increased workload in primary care, including for GP practices and pharmacies, and in laboratories that process lipid profile and liver function tests. The committee agreed that increased uptake of lipid-lowering treatments is necessary for an overall improvement in population health, but that the extra cost of lipid-lowering treatment would be partly offset by savings due to a reduction in CVD events (including hospital admissions for stroke, heart disease and cardiovascular procedures). Return to recommendation 1.7.1 Return to recommendations 1.7.7 to 1.7.10 Return to recommendations 1.10.3 and 1.10.4 Assessing response to treatment Recommendations 1.11.1 to 1.11.12 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that more flexibility in the timing of blood tests to measure lipid levels after starting high-intensity statins was reflective of actual clinical practice and recommended a timeframe of 2 to 3 months, rather than at 3 months of treatment as recommended in the 2014 guideline. They also recommended blood tests should be done 2 to 3 months after changing treatment. They agreed that blood tests should provide a full lipid profile and that LDL cholesterol levels can be calculated rather than measured directly. They recommended that a full lipid profile should be done to inform annual medication reviews about secondary prevention of CVD, and considered for reviews about primary prevention of CVD. These changes were also applied to the recommendations on baseline blood tests before starting statins and statin treatment after an acute coronary syndrome. The evidence supported the 2008 and 2014 recommendations on when to measure creatine kinase, not stopping statins because of an increase in blood glucose or HbA1c and restarting statins if stopped because of drug interactions or illness, so they were retained. How the recommendations might affect practice The requirement to check lipid levels after changing lipid-lowering treatment, as well as after starting treatment, will result in higher monitoring costs. However, calculating LDL cholesterol as well as non-HDL cholesterol should not add to the cost per test. Return to recommendations Context Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide, accounting for almost 18 million deaths each year (over 30% of all global deaths). Around 7 million people in the UK have CVD. Over 70 million prescriptions for statins are dispensed
