Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, revascularization, evidence, level, level evidence, class, pci, cardiac, cabg, cad, artery, acute, myocardial, pain


Synonyms and keywords: acute coronary syndrome, acute coronary syndromes, ST-elevation myocardial infarction, Non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome, unstable angina, STEMI, UA, , NSTEMI, NSTE-ACS Overview Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) refers to a spectrum of conditions resulting from acute myocardial ischemia and/or infarction that is most often due to an abrupt reduction in coronary blood flow. The most common symptom prompting diagnosis of ACS is chest pain, often radiating to the left arm or angle of the jaw, pressure-like in character, and associated with nausea and sweating. ACS should be distinguished from stable angina, which is chest pain that develops during exertion and resolves at rest. Traditionally, ACS has been classified into non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), ST-elevation MI (STEMI), and unstable angina. Unstable angina is differentiated from NSTEMI by the absence of elevated cardiac biomarkers. The basic pathology in both conditions involves a non-occlusive thrombus formation from a previously disrupted atherosclerotic plaque causing an inadequate blood supply to the heart muscle. Though ACS is usually associated with coronary thrombosis, it can also be associated with other causes such as cocaine use. Cardiac chest pain can also be precipitated by anemia, bradycardias or tachycardias. Classification • Traditionally, ACS has been classified into: • Unstable angina (UA) • Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) • ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). • According to this classification, unstable angina was defined as clinical and electrocardiographic (ECG) evidence of myocardial ischemia in the absence of an elevated troponin level. • However, the widespread use of the high-sensitivity troponin assays made UA and NSTEMI indistinguishable since it was shown that almost all patients previously named UA actually have increased high-sensitivity troponin levels. • In other words, it is very unlikely that patients with clinical and ECG evidence of myocardial ischemia have normal high-sensitivity troponin levels. [1] • Consequently, in recent guidelines, the acute coronary syndromes are classified into two broad categories: [2] [3] • Non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS), encompassing : • Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) • Unstable angina • ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) • Therefore, acute coronary syndromes can be classified as follows: Acute coronary syndromes Non-ST-elevation acute coronary ST elevation myocardial syndrome (NTE-ACS) infarction Non-ST-segment elevation Unstable angina myocardial infarction Defining Lesion Severity. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Revascularization. (Please do not edit). Angiography to Define Anatomy and Assess Lesion Severity The standard procedure for defining coronary anatomy and assessing the degree
