Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, revascularization, evidence, level, level evidence, class, pci, cardiac, cabg, cad, artery, acute, myocardial, pain


Coronary Artery Revascularization. Recommendations to prefer PCI or CABG (Please do not edit) Patients With Complex Disease Class I "1. In patients who require revascularization for significant left main CAD with high complexity CAD, it is recommended to choose CABG over PCI to improve survival (Level of Evidence: A) " [4] Class IIa " 2. In patients who require revascularization for multivessel CAD with complex or diffuse CAD (eg, SYNTAX score >33), it is reasonable to choose CABG over PCI to confer a survival advantage (Level of Evidence B-R)". [4] Patients with Diabetes Class I "1. In patients with diabetes and multivessel CAD with the involvement of the LAD, who are appropriate candidates for CABG, CABG (with a LIMA to the LAD) is recommended in preference to PCI to reduce mortality and repeat revascularizations(Level of Evidence: A) " [4] Class IIa " 2. In patients with diabetes who have multivessel CAD amenable to PCI and an indication for revascularization and are poor candidates for surgery, PCI can be useful to reduce long-term ischemic outcomes (Level of Evidence B-NR)". [4] Class IIb " 3. In patients with diabetes who have left main stenosis and low- or intermediate-complexity CAD in the rest of the coronary anatomy, PCI may be considered an alternative to CABG to reduce major adverse cardiovascular out-comes. (Level of Evidence B-R)". [4] Patients With Previous CABG Class IIa " 1. In patients with previous CABG with a patent LIMA to the LAD who need repeat revascularization, if PCI is feasible, it is reasonable to choose PCI over CABG (Level of Evidence B-NR)". '' 2. In patients with previous CABG and refractory angina on GDMT that is attributable to LAD disease, it is reasonable to choose CABG over PCI when an internal mammary artery (IMA) can be used as a conduit to the LAD (Level of Evidence C-LD) [4] Class IIb " 3. In patients with previous CABG and complex CAD, it may be reasonable to choose CABG over PCI when an IMA can be used as a conduit to the LAD (Level of Evidence B-NR)". [4] Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) Class IIa " 1. In patients with multivessel CAD amenable to treatment with either PCI or CABG who are unable to access, tolerate, or adhere to DAPT for the appropriate duration of treatment, CABG is reasonable in preference to PCI(Level of evidence B-NR)". [4] Revascularization in Pregnant Patients Class
