Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, revascularization, evidence, level, level evidence, class, pci, cardiac, cabg, cad, artery, acute, myocardial, pain


unable to access, tolerate, or adhere to DAPT for the appropriate duration of treatment, CABG is reasonable in preference to PCI(Level of evidence B-NR)". [4] Revascularization in Pregnant Patients Class IIa " 1. In pregnant patients with STEMI not caused by spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD), it is reasonable to perform primary PCI as the preferred revascularization strategy. (Level of Evidence C-LD)". '' 2. In pregnant patients with NSTE-ACS, an invasive strategy is reasonable if medical therapy is ineffective for the management of life- threatening complications (Level of Evidence C-LD) 5/8 [4] Revascularization in Older Patients Class I "1. In older adults, as in all patients, the treatment strategy for CAD should be based on an individual patient’s preferences, cognitive function, and life expectancy(Level of Evidence: B-NR) " [4] Revascularization in Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease Class I "1. In patients with CKD undergoing contrast media injection for coronary angiography, measures should be taken to minimize the risk of contrast-induced acute kidney injury(Level of Evidence: C-LD) " ''2. In patients with STEMI and CKD, coronary angiography and revascularization are recommended, with adequate measures to reduce the risk of AKI.(Level of evidence C-EO )'' [4] Class IIa " 3. In high-risk patients with NSTE-ACS and CKD, it is reasonable to perform coronary angiography and revascularization, with adequate measures to reduce the risk of AKI (Level of Evidence B-NR)". " 4. In low-risk patients with NSTE-ACS and CKD, it is reasonable to weigh the risk of coronary angiography and revascularization against the potential benefit(Level of Evidence C-EO)'' [4] Class III (No Benefit) "5. In asymptomatic patients with stable CAD and CKD, routine angiography and revascularization are not recommended if there is no compelling indication. (Level of Evidence:B-R) " [4] Revascularization in Patients Before Noncardiac Surgery Class III (No Benefit) "1. In patients with non–left main or noncomplex CAD who is undergoing noncardiac surgery, routine coronary revascularization is not recommended solely to reduce perioperative cardiovascular events. (Level of Evidence:B-R) " [4] Revascularization in Patients to Reduce Ventricular Arrhythmias Class I "1. In patients with ventricular fibrillation, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT), or cardiac arrest, revascularization of significant CAD is recommended to improve survival. (Level of Evidence: B-NR) " [4] Class III (No Benefit) "2. In patients with CAD and suspected scar-mediated sustained monomorphic VT, revascularization is not recommended for the sole purpose of preventing recurrent VT. (Level of Evidence:C-LD) " [4] Revascularization in Patients
