Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: coronary, patients, revascularization, evidence, level, level evidence, class, pci, cardiac, cabg, cad, artery, acute, myocardial, pain


In patients with CAD and suspected scar-mediated sustained monomorphic VT, revascularization is not recommended for the sole purpose of preventing recurrent VT. (Level of Evidence:C-LD) " [4] Revascularization in Patients With Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) Class IIb " 1. In patients with SCAD who have hemody-namic instability or ongoing ischemia despite conservative therapy, revascularization may be considered if feasible (Level of Evidence C-LD)". [4] Class III (Harm) "2. Routine revascularization for SCAD should not be performed (Level of Evidence:C-LD) " 6/8 [4] Revascularization in Patients With Cardiac Allografts Class IIa " 1. In patients with cardiac allograft vasculopathy and severe, proximal, discrete coronary lesions, revascularization with PCI is reasonable (Level of Evidence C-LD)". Cardiac Rehabilitation and Education Class I "1. In patients who have undergone revascularization, a comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation program (home-based or center-based) should be prescribed either before hospital discharge or during the first outpatient visit to reduce deaths and hospital readmissions and improve quality of life (Level of Evidence: A) " ''2. Patients who have undergone revascularization should be educated about CVD risk factors and their modification to reduce cardiovascular events. (Level of evidence C-LD)'' [4] Smoking Cessation in Patients After Revascularization Class I "1. In patients who use tobacco and have undergone coronary revascularization, a combination of behavioral interventions plus pharmacotherapy is recommended to maximize cessation and reduce adverse cardiac events (Level of Evidence: A) " ''2. In patients who use tobacco and have under-gone coronary revascularization, smoking cessation interventions are recommended during hospitalization and should include supportive follow-up for at least 1 month after discharge to facilitate tobacco cessation and reduce morbidity and mortality (Level of evidence A)'' [4] Psychological Interventions in Patients After Revascularization Class I "1. In patients who have undergone coronary revascularization who have symptoms of depression, anxiety, or stress, treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy, psychological counseling, and/or pharmacological interventions is beneficial to improve quality of life and cardiac outcomes (Level of Evidence: B-R) " [4] Class IIb " 2. In patients who have undergone coronary revascularization, it may be reasonable to screen for depression and refer or treat when it is indicated to improve quality of life and recovery. (Level of Evidence C-LD)". [4] 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Revascularization (Please do not edit). Revascularization Outcomes Assessment of Outcomes in Patients After Revascularization Class I "1. With the goal of improving patient outcomes, it is recommended that cardiac surgery and
