Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


Atherosclerosis is characterized by the development of fatty and/or fibrous intimal plaques (atheromas) in the arterial wall. Initially, the plaques contain lipid materials, but over time they may become fibrosed and calcified. The key pathophysiological processes in the development of atherosclerosis involve low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles, inflammatory cells, endothelial dysfunction, smooth muscle cell proliferation, and remodeling of extracellular matrix. Common risk factors include age, family history of premature atherosclerotic disease, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular-kidney metabolic factors (eg, diabetes, hypertension, obesity, chronic kidney disease), inflammation, and lifestyle factors (eg, cigarette smoking,a sedentary lifestyle). Symptoms develop when the growth or rupture of the plaque reduces or obstructs blood flow; specific symptoms depend on the affected artery. Diagnosis is primarily clinical and is confirmed by angiography, ultrasound, computed tomography, or other imaging tests. Treatment includes lifestyle changes, addressing established risk factors through the use of lipid-lowering medications, antiplatelet medications, and antiatherogenic medications, as well as catheter-based and surgical interventions. Atherosclerosis can affect all large and medium-sized arteries, including the coronary, carotid, and cerebral arteries,the aorta and its branches, and the major arteries of the extremities. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), ischemic heart disease (caused by atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries) is the world's leading cause of death, accounting for 13% of all global fatalities between 2000 and 2021 (1). Since 2000, ischemic heart disease has had the largest surge in fatalities, increasing by 2.7 million to reach a total of 9.0 million deaths in 2021. In 2022, in the United States, approximately 942,000 people died of cardiovascular disease; heart disease and stroke caused more deaths than the combined total of all cancer types and chronic lower respiratory diseases (2). Although ischemic heart disease continues to be a leading cause of mortality, advancements in cardiovascular care and prevention have resulted in significant declines in age-standardized cardiovascular mortality since 1950 (3, 4). However, a worrisome rapid increase in the prevalence of atherosclerosis has been noted in low and middle income countries, in part due to an increase in hypertension, chronic disease, and overall 1/28 caloric intake (5). Despite advances in care, atherosclerosis remains the leading cause of death worldwide. Pathophysiology of Atherosclerosis The atherosclerotic plaque is the hallmark feature of atherosclerosis. It has a complex and dynamic structure with the following major components: Lipid core: Consists mainly of cholesterol, cholesterol esters, and other lipids Fibrous cap: A layer of smooth muscle cells and collagen that
