Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


and dynamic structure with the following major components: Lipid core: Consists mainly of cholesterol, cholesterol esters, and other lipids Fibrous cap: A layer of smooth muscle cells and collagen that covers the lipid core 2/28 Inflammatory cells and smooth muscle cells: Macrophages, T cells, and other immune cells that infiltrate the plaque Cell debris: Dead or necrotic cells Calcium deposits: Contribute to the rigidity of the plaque Extracellular matrix: Includes elastin, collagen, and other macromolecules, providing structural support Artery: Cross Section 3D MODEL Atherosclerotic plaque formation All stages of atherosclerosis, from initiation and growth to plaque complication (eg, myocardial infarction, stroke), are considered a cytokine-mediated inflammatory response to injury (such as shear stress from hypertension, or oxidative injury from tobacco smoke) (1). During the initial stages of atherosclerotic plaque formation, apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins, particularly low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles, accumulate in the intima, the innermost layer of the arterial wall. Within the intimal layer, LDL particles are shielded from the protective antioxidant mechanisms of the plasma, and, as a result, they undergo oxidation and other modifications mediated by oxidative, lipolytic, and proteolytic enzymes, as well as reactive oxygen species. These chemical modifications lead to a proinflammatory and immunogenic switch in phenotype. This event triggers the migration of proinflammatory, classic monocytes into the intimal layer, facilitated by adhesion molecules (eg, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 [VCAM-1]) expressed on the surface of activated endothelial cells. The local abundance of chemoattractant cytokines facilitates the movement of these bound monocytes into the arterial wall. Inside the intima, monocytes transform into macrophages, expressing scavenger receptors that allow them to ingest lipoprotein particles and become foam cells, a hallmark of the early atherosclerotic plaque. The migration of T cells also plays a significant role in establishing the inflammatory environment of the developing atherosclerotic plaque (2). In response to signals from the accumulating leukocytes, smooth muscle cells originating from the tunica media also migrate into the intimal layer, augmenting the population of resident intimal smooth muscle cells. 3/28 As atherosclerotic plaques evolve, both resident and recruited smooth muscle cells produce extracellular matrix molecules, including collagen, elastin, proteoglycans, and glycosaminoglycans, resulting in intimal thickening (3). Within the maturing lesion, smooth muscle cells and macrophages proliferate. These smooth muscle cells and macrophages may also undergo necrosis or apoptosis (programmed cell death), leading to the accumulation of cell debris and forming a necrotic, lipid-rich core. Certain chemokines, such as interferon gamma
