Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


they undergo oxidation and switch to a pro-inflammatory phenotype. This event leads to the migration and activation of inflammatory cells, primarily monocytes and T cells (6). As a result, LDL plays a central role in the development of atherosclerosis. A growing body of literature suggests that the risk for developing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is proportional to the cumulative exposure to LDL cholesterol, often referred to as cholesterol years (7). Additionally, the concentration of small, dense, lipid-depleted LDL particles is a significant risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) (8). The main determinant for risk of ASCVD, however, is the concentration of atherogenic lipoprotein particles, which is best reflected by the apolipoprotein B (ApoB) concentration, or by the non-high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol concentration if a specific ApoB test is unavailable (9). For risk estimation, ApoB generally provides a more accurate and consistent prediction, especially in cases of discordance between ApoB and LDL cholesterol (10). ApoB-100 is capable of binding the LDL receptor and is responsible for cholesterol transport. It is also responsible for transporting oxidized phospholipids and possesses proinflammatory properties. HDL has been traditionally viewed as a protective factor against atherosclerosis by facilitating reverse cholesterol transport. Studies indicate a U-shaped association between cardiovascular risk and HDL levels, suggesting that individuals with both the lowest (< 40 mg/dL [< 1.0 mmol/L ] in men and < 50 mg/dL [< 1.3 mmol/L] in women) and highest (approximately 80 to 100 mg/dL [2.07 to 2.59 mmol/L]) HDL cholesterol levels face an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality (11, 12) (see table Cholesterol Levels and Cardiovascular Risk). Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] is a pro-atherogenic lipoprotein that consists of an LDL-like core associated with an additional protein, apolipoprotein(a), which is covalently linked with the ApoB-100 molecule. Elevated Lp(a) levels confer an independent risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (13). Lp(a) levels are largely genetically determined and remain fairly stable throughout life. Triglyceride-rich lipoproteins also play a significant role in the development of atherosclerosis. Hypertriglyceridemia is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic events, even in patients whose 9/28 LDL levels are adequately controlled by statin therapy (residual triglyceride risk) (14). Cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic factors Cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic (CKM) syndrome is an interconnected health disorder involving obesity, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, and cardiovascular disease (15). CKM syndrome includes individuals at risk for atherosclerosis as well as those with existing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, with the following CKM stages (15): Stage 0: No CKM risk factors Stage
