Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


CKM syndrome includes individuals at risk for atherosclerosis as well as those with existing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, with the following CKM stages (15): Stage 0: No CKM risk factors Stage 1: Excess or dysfunctional adiposity Stage 2: Metabolic risk factors such as hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, or moderate- to high-risk chronic kidney disease Stage 3: Subclinical cardiovascular disease in CKM syndrome or risk equivalents, such as high predicted cardiovascular risk or very high-risk chronic kidney disease (CKD) Stage 4: Clinical cardiovascular disease in CKM syndrome Diabetes leads to formation of advanced glycation end products, which increase the production of proinflammatory cytokines from endothelial cells (16). The oxidative stress and reactive oxygen radicals generated in diabetes directly injure the endothelium and promote atherogenesis. Hypertension is a well known risk factor for atherosclerosis. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well established. Among other mechanisms, endothelial cell activation, oxidative stress, and the contribution to smooth muscle cell proliferation have been implicated (17). ASCVD risk increases above a threshold blood pressure as low as 115 mmHg (systolic) and 75 mmHg (diastolic), levels that do not fall within the hypertensive range (18). Risk then continues to increase roughly linearly as blood pressure increases (19, 20). Chronic kidney disease promotes the development of atherosclerosis through several pathways, including worsening hypertension, insulin resistance, and increased levels of lipoprotein(a), homocysteine, fibrinogen, and C-reactive protein (21). Inflammation Elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) level (high sensitivity CRP ≥ 2 mg/L) has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events, even in the presence of a normal lipid profile (or one well- controlled on medication even if not completely normal), representing a "residual inflammatory risk" (22). CRP is produced by the liver as a primary acute phase reactant and is involved in platelet activation and the regulation of the innate immune mechanisms. Autoimmune diseases are associated with an increased risk of developing atherosclerosis independent of traditional risk factors (age, sex, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking) (23). The strongest associations have been described in conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis (24), systemic lupus erythematosus, Addison disease, and type 1 diabetes. Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP), characterized by the presence of an expanded somatic blood-cell clone in individuals without other hematologic abnormalities, is associated 10/28 with nearly twice the risk of coronary artery disease and early-onset myocardial infarction (25). Infection may also play a role in atherogenesis. Individuals
