Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


without other hematologic abnormalities, is associated 10/28 with nearly twice the risk of coronary artery disease and early-onset myocardial infarction (25). Infection may also play a role in atherogenesis. Individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection are at increased risk for developing myocardial infarction and other atherosclerotic complications due to a higher prevalence of traditional risk factors, immune cell activation, direct viral effects on endothelial cells, altered lipoprotein metabolism, and antiretroviral therapy associated dyslipidemia, and/or insulin resistance (26). Infections such as Chlamydia pneumoniae, cytomegalovirus, Helicobacter pylori, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (COVID-19), influenza, respiratory syncytial virus, those associated with periodontal disease, and others may cause endothelial dysfunction through direct infection, exposure to endotoxins, or stimulation of systemic or subendothelial inflammation (27). Lifestyle Tobacco smoke contains nicotine and other chemicals that are toxic to vascular endothelium. Smoking, including passive smoking, increases platelet reactivity (potentially promoting platelet thrombosis) and raises plasma fibrinogen levels (28, 29). Smoking increases LDL and decreases HDL levels, promotes lipid peroxidation, induces vasoconstriction, and stimulates smooth muscle cell proliferation. Sedentary lifestyle, diet, alcohol consumption, chronic stress and hostility, and other psychosocial factors are also lifestyle-related risk factors for atherosclerotic disease. Other risk factors Prothrombotic states (see Overview of Thrombotic Disorders) increase the likelihood of atherothrombosis. Accelerated coronary atherosclerosis is also observed after thoracic radiation therapy (30). Atherosclerosis is likely the result of radiation-induced endothelial injury associated with reactive oxygen species production and intimal proliferation. In addition, certain chemotherapeutic agents such as anthracyclines, taxanes, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and immune checkpoint inhibitors have been implicated in the induction of oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, systemic inflammation, or disrupted lipid metabolism, potentially contributing to the development or worsening of atherosclerosis (31). Premature menopause has been associated with a significantly increased risk for the development of cardiovascular disease (32). Data suggest that young women with adverse pregnancy outcomes, including preeclampsia, have a higher rate of coronary atherosclerosis compared to women without a documented history of adverse pregnancy outcomes (33, 34). Documented vascular disease The presence of atherosclerotic disease in one vascular territory increases the likelihood of disease in other vascular territories. Patients with noncoronary atherosclerotic vascular disease have cardiac event rates comparable to those of patients with known coronary artery disease. As a result, they are considered to have a coronary artery disease risk equivalent and should be treated as aggressively as patients with coronary artery disease (35). 11/28 Assessing Overall Risk Overall
