Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


the presence or absence of symptoms. Symptomatic patients Patients with signs and symptoms of ischemia (see table Clinical Manifestations of Atherosclerosis) are evaluated for the extent and location of atherosclerotic disease burden and vascular occlusion using various invasive and noninvasive tests, depending on the organ involved (see elsewhere in The Manual). Noninvasive techniques that can assess atherosclerosis severity and plaque characteristics include: Ankle-brachial index (ABI): The ABI is a simple, noninvasive test that compares the blood pressure in the ankle with the blood pressure in the arm. It is used for the evaluation of peripheral artery disease. Vascular ultrasound: Doppler ultrasound is used to visualize atherosclerotic plaques and assess the severity of stenosis. Vascular ultrasound can be used to assess the carotid 13/28 arteries, renal arteries, abdominal aorta, and peripheral arteries. It offers high temporal resolution without the use of ionizing radiation. Noncontrast CT, including coronary artery calcium scoring CT: CT is used to evaluate the presence and extent of calcified plaques. It can be used as a dedicated examination (eg, coronary calcium scoring CT with standard ECG-gated image acquisition) or for opportunistic evaluation using CT images acquired for other indications. CT angiography (CTA): CTA uses iodinated contrast-enhanced CT to evaluate atherosclerotic plaque morphology and detect stenosis severity with high spatial resolution. This technique involves ionizing radiation and can be applied to any vascular bed, making it ideal for small, mobile vascular beds like the coronary arteries. CT fractional flow reserve (FFR): This technique combines CTA with computational fluid dynamics to assess the physiologic significance of coronary artery stenoses by estimating the pressure drop across a coronary lesion. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA): MRA may be done without contrast or with gadolinium-based contrast. It is used to evaluate vascular size and/or stenosis severity without exposing the patient to ionizing radiation. However, this technique has suboptimal spatial resolution for visualizing small, mobile vascular beds. Positron emission tomography (PET) molecular imaging: This technique uses molecular imaging tracers to detect metabolic activity of atherosclerotic plaques (F18- fluorodeoxyglucose [FDG]) or microcalcifications (F18-sodium fluoride). Stress testing: Stress testing, which assesses the functional significance of coronary stenosis, includes exercise treadmill test, stress echocardiography, or exercise/pharmacological myocardial perfusion imaging (including single photon emission tomography [SPECT], PET, or magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]). PET and MRI myocardial perfusion imaging can quantify myocardial blood flow, which also aids in the diagnosis of coronary microvascular disease. 14/28 Magnetic Resonance Angiogram (MRA) with
