Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


resonance imaging [MRI]). PET and MRI myocardial perfusion imaging can quantify myocardial blood flow, which also aids in the diagnosis of coronary microvascular disease. 14/28 Magnetic Resonance Angiogram (MRA) with Gadolinium-Based Contrast IMAGE IMAGE COURTESY OF ATTILA FEHER, MD, PHD. Fluorine-18–Labeled Deoxyglucose (FDG)/–Positron Emission Tomography... IMAGE IMAGE COURTESY OF ATTILA FEHER, MD, PHD. Invasive catheter-based tests that can assess atherosclerosis severity and plaque characteristics include: Invasive angiography: A catheter is inserted at the origin of the artery being investigated and iodinated contrast is injected. This technique allows the severity of stenosis to be estimated. In addition, therapeutic interventions, including thrombectomy and angioplasty, can be conducted. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS): An intravascular ultrasound transducer is used to assess the composition and extent of atherosclerotic plaques and to guide intravascular 15/28 procedures. Optical coherence tomography (OCT): This optical imaging-based method can be used to assess the composition and extent of atherosclerotic plaques and guide intravascular procedures. Fractional flow reserve (FFR): A pressure wire is used to evaluate the hemodynamic significance of a stenosis. FFR is based on the ratio of pressure distal and proximal to a stenosis in the presence of maximal blood flow (hyperemia, typically induced by adenosine). In coronary arteries, an FFR ≤ 0.80 indicates a hemodynamically significant stenosis. Coronary flow reserve (CFR):-This technique uses a Doppler or a pressure-temperature sensor-tipped guidewire to assess the functional significance of coronary artery disease and microvascular disease by measuring the ratio of maximal flow in a coronary artery to the flow under resting conditions. Endothelial function testing: A vasoactive agent (eg, acetylcholine) is injected into the coronary arteries to provoke vasospasm and assess the endothelial response. Coronary Atherosclerosis (Diagnostic Tests) IMAGE IMAGES COURTESY OF ATTILA FEHER, MD, PHD. Patients with symptoms also should be evaluated for atherosclerosis risk factors through the following assessments (1, 2): History and physical examination, including body mass index and waist circumference Blood pressure measurement (to assess hypertension) Fasting lipid profile with lipoprotein(a), apolipoprotein B, and high-sensitivity CRP assessment if indicated Fasting glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1C) levels Renal function tests (to check for chronic kidney disease) Smoking status, including passive smoking exposure 16/28 Assessment for any history of radiation therapy to the thoracic region Evaluation of menopausal status and adverse pregnancy outcomes (eg, preeclampsia) in females Genetic testing for familial hypercholesterolemia (if family history suggests) Screening for chronic infections that contribute to atherosclerosis, if clinically appropriate Asymptomatic Patients (Screening)
