Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


adverse pregnancy outcomes (eg, preeclampsia) in females Genetic testing for familial hypercholesterolemia (if family history suggests) Screening for chronic infections that contribute to atherosclerosis, if clinically appropriate Asymptomatic Patients (Screening) In children without significant ASCVD risk factors, recommended obesity screening begins at age 2 to 6 years, blood pressure screening at age 3 years, and lipid screening at age 9 to11 years (3, 4, 5, 6). For adults age 20 to 39 years, the evaluation of traditional ASCVD risk factors (age, sex, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking) is recommended. For adults age 40 to 75 years, the pooled cohort equation risk calculator is also recommended to evaluate 10-year ASCVD risk (7). CLINICAL CALCULATORS Cardiovascular Risk Assessment (10-year, Revised Pooled Cohort Equations 2018) Other risk estimation calculators are available: American Heart Association Predicting Risk of Cardiovascular Disease EVENTs (PREVENT) calculator incorporates chronic kidney disease as a significant risk factor (see PREVENT) (8), but this calculator has not been endorsed by any major cardiovascular guidelines. European Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2021 cardiovascular disease prevention guidelines recommend using the Systemic Coronary Risk Estimation 2 (SCORE2) for individuals aged 40 to 69 and SCORE2-OP (Older Persons) for risk estimation for those over the age of 70 (9, 10). Calcium scoring CT uses ECG-gated noncontrast CT to quantify calcified atherosclerotic plaque burden and can be used for risk stratification and reclassification, to help make decisions about withholding or recommending statin therapy. For example, in patients with intermediate risk (estimated 10-year ASCVD risk ≥ 7.5% but < 20%) or in selected patients with borderline risk (estimated 10-year ASCVD risk ≥ 5% but < 7.5%), if the calcium score is zero, it is reasonable to withhold statin therapy and reassess in 5 to 10 years as long as the patient does not smoke, does not have diabetes, and has no family history of premature coronary artery disease; if the calcium score is ≥ 100, it is reasonable to initiate statin therapy. A calcium score of zero has an excellent negative prognostic value, with an estimated 1% risk for major adverse cardiovascular events over 10 years (11, 12). 17/28 Calcified Atherosclerosis on Calcium Scoring Computed Tomography (CT... IMAGE IMAGE COURTESY OF ATTILA FEHER, MD, PHD. Diagnosis references Prevention and Treatment of Atherosclerosis Lifestyle changes: Smoking cessation Diet Physical activity Mental healthcare Pharmacotherapy for established risk factors: Lipid-lowering therapies Antidiabetic or weight loss medications Antihypertensives
