Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


PHD. Diagnosis references Prevention and Treatment of Atherosclerosis Lifestyle changes: Smoking cessation Diet Physical activity Mental healthcare Pharmacotherapy for established risk factors: Lipid-lowering therapies Antidiabetic or weight loss medications Antihypertensives Anti-inflammatory therapy Antiplatelet medications Anticoagulation Thrombolytics Catheter-based interventions: Balloon angioplasty Stenting Atherectomy Intravascular lithotripsy 18/28 Brachytherapy Thrombectomy Surgical intervention: Bypass surgery Endarterectomy Aneurysm repair Treatment involves aggressive modification of risk factors to slow progression and induce regression of existing plaques. Given the well-established link between dyslipidemia and atherosclerosis, lowering LDL is the cornerstone of the recommended therapy for established atherosclerotic disease (ASCVD). Lifestyle changes include diet modification, smoking cessation, regular participation in physical activity, stress reduction strategies, and limitation of alcohol use. Medications to treat dyslipidemia and other underlying risk factors such as hypertension, and diabetes are often required. These lifestyle changes and medications directly or indirectly improve endothelial function and reduce inflammation, and thus serve a role both in prevention and treatment of clinical disease. Lifestyle changes Smoking cessation Smoking is one of the most important preventable causes of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. In current smokers, a combination of behavioral intervention and pharmacotherapy is recommended to help with tobacco abstinence (1, 2). Pharmacotherapy options include nicotine replacement therapy, varenicline, or bupropion (see also Smoking Cessation). Dietary changes that reduce cardiovascular risk Key dietary recommendations for the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis include (1, 2): Prioritize the consumption of fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and fish Reduce the intake of saturated fat and trans fat and replace them by polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats Reduce the intake of dietary cholesterol and sodium Limit the intake of simple sugars, refined carbohydrates, sweetened beverages, and processed meats Limit alcohol consumption In their prevention guidelines, the European Society of Cardiology provides specific dietary recommendations (1): Fiber intake: 30 to 45 grams per day, preferably from whole grains Fruit consumption: At least 200 grams per day (≥ 2 to 3 servings) Vegetable consumption: At least 200 grams per day (≥ 2 to 3 servings) Nuts: 30 grams of unsalted nuts per day 19/28 Red meat consumption: Reduction to less than 350 to 500 grams per week Fish consumption: 1 to 2 times per week. Diets that include increased consumption of fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and lean protein (preferably fish) have consistently been shown to improve survival compared to standard diets low in these ingredients (3, 4, 5). Studies also show that improved outcomes
