Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


grains, and lean protein (preferably fish) have consistently been shown to improve survival compared to standard diets low in these ingredients (3, 4, 5). Studies also show that improved outcomes are associated with a Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil or nuts, daily intake of 5 servings of fruits and vegetables, and intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (found in plant-based oils, seeds, and fatty fish) and monounsaturated fatty acids (found in oils, avocados, and nuts) (6, 7). Dietary elements that increase cardiovascular risk Saturated fats (found in animal products and certain oils) and trans fats (prevalent in processed and fried foods) are associated with increased all-cause mortality, supporting recommendations to replace saturated and trans fats with unsaturated fats in the diet (8). Saturated fats should account for less than 10% of total energy intake, and should be replaced by polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fatty acids, as well as carbohydrates from whole grains (1). Reduction in dietary sodium intake has been associated with lowered blood pressure and a reduced rate of cardiovascular events. Consuming more than 2 grams of sodium per day is linked to increased cardiovascular mortality (9). Consuming added sugar exceeding 10% of daily calories has been linked to higher cardiovascular mortality (10). Additionally, the use of sweetened beverages and juices has been associated with an increased rate of coronary events and cardiovascular mortality (4). The frequency and amount (> 14 g/day) of red and processed meat consumption has been associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular mortality (9). Several large studies suggest that any amount of alcohol consumption is associated with increased atherosclerotic disease risk, challenging prior data suggesting that a low or moderate level of alcohol consumption is associated with lower risk of, or could even be protective against, atherosclerotic disease (11, 12, 13). Current recommendations include limiting alcohol consumption to less than 100 grams per week or 1 drink daily for women and 2 drinks daily for men, avoiding binge drinking, and not initiating alcohol consumption as a preventive measure against ASCVD (1, 14). Physical activity and exercise Sedentary behavior is a well-established cardiovascular risk factor (15). Regular physical activity leads to improvements in measures of obesity, diabetes and insulin resistance, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, as well as enhancing endothelial function and reducing systemic inflammation; all of these collectively help reduce the risk of ASCVD (16, 17, 18, 19). Recommendations for all adults are to engage in
