Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


Score of 1 to 99: Reasonable to initiate statin therapy for patients ≥ 55 years Score of 100 or higher or 75th percentile or higher: Reasonable to initiate statin therapy Intermediate-risk adults with risk-enhancing factors: Consider initiating or intensifying statin therapy Borderline-risk adults with risk-enhancing factors: Consider moderate-intensity stating therapy High-intensity statin therapy has the goal of lowering LDL cholesterol by ≥ 50%. Moderate-intensity stating therapy has the goal of lowering LDL cholesterol by 30 to 50%. Maximally tolerated statin 21/28 therapy is the highest dose that is tolerated by the patient. In patients with acute coronary syndrome, ischemic stroke, or established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (including peripheral artery disease), high-intensity statin therapy is recommended (27, 28, 29, 30). For patients already on maximally tolerated statin therapy who have an LDL cholesterol level of ≥ 70 mg/dL (≥ 1.8 mmol/L), a non-statin lipid-lowering agent is recommended. In addition, for this high-risk patient population, it is reasonable to further intensify lipid-lowering therapy if the LDL cholesterol level is 55 to 70 mg/dL (1.4 to 1.8 mmol/L) and the patient is already on a maximally tolerated statin therapy. Ezetimibe lowers LDL cholesterol by blocking the uptake of cholesterol from the small intestine. When added to standard statin therapy, ezetimibe has been shown to reduce cardiovascular events in both patients with a prior acute coronary syndrome, and those with chronic coronary artery disease at very high risk, particularly when LDL cholesterol levels are ≥ 70 mg/dL ( ≥ 1.8 mmol/L) despite maximally tolerated statin therapy (29, 31). Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitors, or PCSK9 inhibitors, are monoclonal antibodies (evolocumab, alirocumab) that target PCSK9. PCSK9 binds to LDL receptors on the surface of liver cells, promoting their degradation; the inhibition of PCSK9 leads to increased clearance of plasma LDL cholesterol. Clinical trials with evolocumab and alirocumab have shown reduction in atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events (34, 33). PCSK9 inhibitors are most frequently used in patients with severe primary hypercholesterolemia (LDL cholesterol ≥ 190 mg/dL [≥ 4.9 mmol/L]), with or without familial hypercholesterolemia, or in patients with established ASCVD for whom target LDL could not be achieved with maximally tolerated statin therapy. Inclisiran is a small interfering RNA (siRNA) therapeutic that also inhibits production of PCSK9 and has been shown to provide sustained LDL-lowering effects with infrequent (twice-yearly) dosing (34). Other therapeutic agents, including small interfering RNAs (eg, olpasiran, lepodisiran) and antisense oligonucleotide technology (eg, pelacarsen),
