Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


and has been shown to provide sustained LDL-lowering effects with infrequent (twice-yearly) dosing (34). Other therapeutic agents, including small interfering RNAs (eg, olpasiran, lepodisiran) and antisense oligonucleotide technology (eg, pelacarsen), aim to specifically reduce lipoprotein(a) levels and are being evaluated for their efficacy and safety (35, 36). Eicosapent ethyl is a highly purified form of eicosapentaenoic acid, a key omega-3 fatty acid. It reduces triglyceride levels by inhibiting liver triglyceride synthesis and enhancing the clearance of triglyceride- rich lipoproteins and has anti-inflammatory, endothelial stabilizing, and antiplatelet effects (37). It significantly reduces cardiovascular event rates in patients with cardiovascular disease who have elevated triglyceride levels despite statin therapy (38). Unlike prescription eicosapent ethyl, over-the- counter fish oil supplements typically contain a mixture of eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid in lower and variable doses and have not consistently demonstrated cardiovascular event reduction in large clinical trials (39, 40). Antiplatelet medications Oral antiplatelet medications are essential in preventing atherosclerosis-related complications as most events originate from plaque fissure or rupture, leading to platelet activation and thrombosis. The following medications can be used: Aspirin irreversibly inhibits cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and disrupts thromboxane A2 production, inhibiting platelet activation and aggregation. 22/28 P2Y12 inhibitors (eg, clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor) block the adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-mediated activation of platelets. Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and an oral P2Y12 inhibitor is indicated for at least 12 months in patients with acute coronary syndrome who are not at high risk for bleeding (29). For individuals with low to moderate bleeding risk following acute coronary syndrome, it is recommended to switch from dual antiplatelet therapy to single antiplatelet therapy at 6 months following percutaneous coronary intervention (30). Aspirin monotherapy at a low dose (75 to 100 mg) is recommended to reduce atherosclerotic events in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and no indication for oral anticoagulation (30). For patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease, antiplatelet monotherapy with aspirin (75 to 325 mg daily) is also recommended to reduce the risk of adverse cardiovascular events (27). While aspirin therapy is a cornerstone of secondary prevention in patients with established cardiovascular disease, its role in primary prevention is controversial, and it is not recommended routinely for this purpose (2). Single antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel (75 mg daily) or aspirin (75 to 325 mg daily) is also recommended for preventing adverse events in patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease (27). Among the available P2Y12 inhibitors, clopidogrel is
