Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


daily) or aspirin (75 to 325 mg daily) is also recommended for preventing adverse events in patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease (27). Among the available P2Y12 inhibitors, clopidogrel is the least potent and takes the longest time to reach maximum platelet inhibition. While other P2Y12 inhibitors (prasugrel and ticagrelor) are more potent, they are also associated with higher bleeding risk. Therefore, in acute coronary syndrome, the use of clopidogrel is only recommended when other P2Y12 inhibitors are not available, not tolerated, or contraindicated (29). In individuals with a high risk of bleeding, de-escalation from dual antiplatelet therapy to single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor is recommended one month after percutaneous coronary intervention (29). The recommended duration of antiplatelet therapy also depends on concurrent anticoagulation. For example, no additional antiplatelet therapy is recommended in patients already on therapeutic anticoagulation who have no recent history of percutaneous revascularization or myocardial infarction. Other medications Beyond lipid-lowering agents and antiplatelet agents, additional medications are considered in patients with specific risk profiles or comorbidities. For example, sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are used in patients with diabetes and heart failure, while anti-inflammatory therapies such as canakinumab or colchicine may benefit patients with persistent inflammatory risk after myocardial infarction. In selected patients with peripheral artery disease or after revascularization, low-dose anticoagulation combined with aspirin is recommended to further reduce ischemic events. Thrombolysis remains a cornerstone for treatment of acute ischemic stroke (28). Thrombolysis involves administration of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), such as alteplase, to dissolve occlusive thrombi that are obstructing cerebral blood flow. It is recommended for eligible patients who can be treated within 4.5 hours of the onset of stroke symptoms. Key indications include the diagnosis of acute ischemic stroke with measurable neurologic deficits, exclusion of intracranial hemorrhage by imaging, and careful consideration of contraindications such as recent surgery or gastrointestinal bleeding, 23/28 concomitant use of anticoagulants, and severe uncontrolled hypertension. The primary goal is to restore cerebral perfusion, minimize brain injury, and improve clinical outcomes. In acute coronary syndromes, the use of systemic thrombolysis is restricted to ST elevation myocardial infarction when the anticipated delay from first medical contact to primary percutaneous intervention is expected to be greater than 120 minutes (29). Antihypertensives primarily affect atherosclerosis by reducing pressure and thus stress on the arterial wall. This effect is particularly important in aortic aneurysms, where the risk
