Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


greater than 120 minutes (29). Antihypertensives primarily affect atherosclerosis by reducing pressure and thus stress on the arterial wall. This effect is particularly important in aortic aneurysms, where the risk of rupture is directly related to blood pressure (41). For patients with thoracic aortic aneurysm, antihypertensive therapy is recommended with systolic blood pressure of ≥ 130 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure of ≥ 80 mm Hg. By lowering glucose levels, some antihyperglycemic medications mitigate the harmful effects of hyperglycemia, which include endothelial dysfunction, increased oxidative stress, and chronic inflammation. The SGLT2 inhibitors reduce serum glucose by inhibiting renal glucose reabsorption, leading to glucosuria. SGLT2 inhibitors have demonstrated favorable effects on lipid metabolism, reduced inflammation, and improved endothelial function (42), and they have been associated with reduction in some major cardiovascular outcomes (43). GLP-1 receptor agonists act by enhancing glucose-dependent insulin secretion, inhibiting glucagon secretion, and slowing gastric emptying. These agents may have substantial cardiovascular benefits, by preventing endothelial dysfunction through the promotion of angiogenesis and inhibition of oxidative stress; reducing systemic inflammation; and reducing monocyte recruitment, formation of proinflammatory macrophages and foam cells, vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, and plaque development (44). Canakinumab, an anti-inflammatory monoclonal antibody targeting interleukin-1beta, showed a significant reduction in cardiovascular events in patients with prior myocardial infarction and an elevated C-reactive protein level (45). Colchicine, by inhibiting microtubule polymerization and consequent suppression of inflammatory cell activation and adhesion, has been shown to prevent major adverse cardiovascular events in patients with recent myocardial infarction and in patients with chronic coronary disease (but not in the setting of acute myocardial infarction) (46, 47). Although routine anticoagulation is not generally advised for atherosclerosis treatment (or prevention), it can play a supplementary role in some cases. The combination of low-dose rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice daily) and low-dose aspirin is recommended to reduce the risk of adverse cardiovascular and limb-related events in patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease or following peripheral surgical or endovascular revascularization (27). Additionally, to reduce ischemic events in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction treated with intravenous thrombolysis, parenteral anticoagulation is recommended to be continued for the entire hospital stay (up to 8 days) or until revascularization (29). Catheter-based interventions Catheter based interventions typically involve the displacement or removal of stenotic or occlusive atherosclerotic plaques. These interventions play an important role in the treatment of both acute 24/28 complications of atherosclerosis and the management of
