Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


the displacement or removal of stenotic or occlusive atherosclerotic plaques. These interventions play an important role in the treatment of both acute 24/28 complications of atherosclerosis and the management of hemodynamically significant chronic atherosclerotic lesions. In general, a lesion is considered hemodynamically significant when it results in impaired blood flow sufficient to cause symptoms or objective evidence of ischemia. While the exact thresholds vary by vascular territory, this often corresponds to luminal narrowing of ≥ 50% in coronary or carotid arteries when associated with clinical symptoms or imaging evidence of reduced perfusion and ≥ 70% for asymptomatic lesions. Functional assessments, such as fractional flow reserve (FFR) in the coronary circulation or pressure gradients and flow measurements in peripheral vessels, are also used to more accurately define hemodynamic significance. Treatment modalities include: Balloon angioplasty Stenting Atherectomy Intravascular lithotripsy Thrombectomy Brachytherapy See also Percutaneous Coronary Interventions (PCI) for more information about catheter-based interventions in the setting of coronary artery disease. Balloon angioplasty Balloon angioplasty, also referred to as "plain-old balloon angioplasty" (POBA), is a percutaneous intervention involving advancement of a catheter with a deflated balloon to the site of arterial stenosis. The balloon is then inflated to compress atherosclerotic plaque materials against the vessel wall, thereby restoring luminal diameter and blood flow. In addition to POBA, other techniques are available, including: Drug-coated balloon angioplasty, which involves inflating a balloon that is coated with an antiproliferative medication such as paclitaxel or sirolimus. These medications help to prevent restenosis by inhibiting smooth muscle cell proliferation. Cutting balloon angioplasty uses a balloon with micro blades on its surface to create controlled incisions in the plaque as the balloon is inflated. This technique is designed to treat resistant calcific lesions. Stenting Stent placement is frequently performed following balloon angioplasty. It involves the placement of an expandable metallic scaffold within an atherosclerotic artery to preserve luminal integrity and maintain adequate blood flow. Stenting can be performed by using: Bare-metal stents are rarely used due to high restenosis rates and the superiority of drug- eluting stents. Drug-eluting stents are most frequently used. These stents are coated with antiproliferative agents such as sirolimus, everolimus, paclitaxel, or zotarolimus to inhibit neointimal hyperplasia and reduce restenosis. 25/28 Covered stents are encased with a synthetic covering to seal aneurysms or manage other vascular abnormalities. Biodegradable stents are designed to provide temporary scaffolding to maintain vessel patency and then gradually dissolve, potentially reducing
