Atherosclerosis
KEYWORDS: risk, disease, atherosclerosis, coronary, cardiovascular, atherosclerotic, patients, therapy, artery, plaque, factors, cells, blood, plaques, ldl


Brachytherapy Brachytherapy delivers targeted radiation therapy within the arteries to prevent restenosis following angioplasty and stenting. Using a specialized catheter, radioactive isotopes are positioned at the site of the treated artery, where they emit localized radiation that inhibits vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, thereby preventing neointimal hyperplasia. This localized radiation treatment is particularly beneficial for patients with recurrent in-stent restenosis (51). Surgical interventions Surgical techniques for atherosclerotic disease include: Bypass surgery Surgical endarterectomy Aneurysm repair Bypass surgery involves creating arterial connections to "bypass" blocked arteries using autogenous or prosthetic grafts, restoring blood flow to the affected area. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is critical in treating multivessel coronary artery disease (29, 51) and lower extremity peripheral artery disease (27). The decision to perform surgical or catheter-based revascularization in complex coronary artery disease should involve guideline-directed discussions, a team-based approach, and shared decision making. Patients with triple-vessel disease who have diabetes ideally should undergo surgical revascularization, with the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) grafted to the left anterior descending (LAD) artery, unless they are poor candidates for surgery, in which case percutaneous revascularization could be considered. Surgical endarterectomy involves the excision of atherosclerotic plaque from the intimal layer of the artery, thereby restoring luminal diameter and improving blood flow. The most frequently performed variant is carotid endarterectomy, which is used to reduce ischemic stroke rate in patients with high- grade carotid stenosis. While recommendations vary, carotid endarterectomy is generally strongly recommended in patients with 70 to 99% symptomatic carotid stenosis (ie, those who have experienced a transient ischemic attack or stroke within the last 6 months corresponding to the vascular territory of the narrowed vessel) (52, 53). Early intervention is emphasized. Carotid endarterectomy may also be considered in patients with 50 to 69% symptomatic stenosis or in those with ≥ 60% asymptomatic stenosis, depending upon life expectancy and perioperative risk. Aneurysm repair involves the surgical reinforcement of the weakened segment of an artery to prevent rupture. This is accomplished by replacing the aneurysmal vessel with a synthetic graft, which ensures vascular integrity. This procedure is primarily indicated for acute aortic complications or for large, high- risk abdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms (39). The threshold for intervention varies based on several factors, including aneurysm size, location, growth rate, patient symptoms, and overall risk of rupture. 27/28 Treatment references Key Points The development of atherosclerosis involves the deposition of LDL particles, recruitment of
