Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


deep infiltrating endometriosis (complex nodules comprised of endometriotic tissue, adipose tissue, and fibromuscular tissue) (2,3). The anatomical location and inflammatory response to these lesions are believed to account for the symptoms and signs associated with endometriosis. ETIOLOGY Classically, three theories exist to explain the etiology of endometriosis; 1) Sampson’s theory, 2) Meyer’s theory, and 3) Halban’s theory. The most often quoted theory, and to date the one supported by the most evidence, is Sampson’s theory of transplantation and implantation. This theory stemmed from observations made during surgeries in the 1920’s that many women shed endometrial debris through their fallopian tubes into the peritoneum during menstruation (4). Not only has viable endometrial tissue been found in the fallopian tubes and peritoneal fluid of women, but in humans and other animals, endometrial tissue will grow if placed ectopically. Further supporting this theory, endometriosis seems to occur most commonly in the gravitationally dependent parts of the pelvis (5). Finally, the incidence of endometriosis is significantly increased in patients with mullerian anomalies or genital tract obstructions, both which increase the likelihood of retrograde flow (6) . One problem with this theory is that retrograde menstruation has been shown in 76-90% of menstruating women, which is much higher than the prevalence of endometriosis (7,8). This discrepancy suggests that additional factors beyond the presence of ectopic tissue are needed to establish the disease, such as the amount of endometrial debris that reaches the peritoneal cavity, the immunocompetency of the woman to clear the debris, and the molecular abnormalities/properties inherent in the ectopic tissue. Meyer’s theory (9) suggests that metaplasia of the coelomic epithelium is the origin of endometriosis. This theory is logical, as cells from both the peritoneum and endometrium are derived from a common embryological precursor: the coelomic cell. However, this has been a difficult theory to support scientifically. If this postulate were correct, one would expect much higher rates of pleural endometriosis than are observed. Halban’s theory is one that suggests that distant lesions are established by the hematogenous or lymphogenous spread of viable endometrial cells. Although this metastatic theory explains rare endometriotic lesions in the brain or lung, it does not explain the gravitationally-dependent location of most foci of endometriosis. Sampson’s transplantation and implantation theory is the most widely accepted, but most researchers agree that it grossly simplifies the disease process. Whilst retrograde menstruation can transplant tissue fragments into the peritoneal cavity, the
