Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


implantation theory is the most widely accepted, but most researchers agree that it grossly simplifies the disease process. Whilst retrograde menstruation can transplant tissue fragments into the peritoneal cavity, the cells themselves must escape apoptosis (10), adhere to the underlying peritoneum (11,12), degrade the underlying extracellular matrix (13), generate a new vascular supply (14), and evade the immune surveillance system (15) in order to survive. Clear molecular differences exist between endometriotic lesions and eutopic endometrium. Secondary to the inflammation associated with endometriosis, there are increased levels of prostaglandins, chemokines, and cytokines, such as interleukin-1ß, intlerleukins-1, 6, 8 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), which are thought to enhance the adhesion of endometriotic implants to the peritoneal surface. These are associated with overproduction of prostaglandins, cytokines, and chemokines. Proteolytic membrane metalloproteinases, also increased in endometriosis, promote implantation. Angiogenesis and apoptosis are also altered in endometriosis in favor of survival of the implant. Granulocytes, macrophages, and natural killer cells are attracted by the increased monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, interleukin-8, and RANTES (regulated upon activation normal T-cell expressed and secreted), present in endometriosis. These inflammatory mediators accumulate in endometriotic tissue by autoregulatory positive feedback loops (16). Erythrocyte breakdown from endometriotic lesions is internalized by macrophages and the non-protein-bound catalytic iron increases the production of reactive oxygen species, thereby perpetuating peritoneal damage and inflammation. Studies have found no association between the oxidative stress and antioxidants such as Vitamins A and E (17), but the association between Vitamin D and endometriosis is more complex. Several studies suggest a role for Vitamin D and its metabolites as local autocrine and paracrine agents involved in endometriosis etiology and pathology (18-20), but the exact mechanism has yet to be elucidated (21). While steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) is present in ectopic endometrial tissue, it is not found in the eutopic endometrium. SF1 is involved in estradiol synthesis. The increased amount of estradiol seen in the peritoneal fluid of patients with endometriosis increases local cyclo-oxygenase -2 (COX-2) activity, resulting in stimulation of prostaglandin E 2 formation, which upregulates aromatase activity, resulting in additional estradiol to perpetuate the symptoms and lesions present in endometriosis (16). There is elevated expression of both estrogen receptor α and estrogen receptor ß leading to a downregulation of progesterone receptors (2), ultimately causing the characteristic hormonal profile seen in endometriosis . DEMOGRAPHY Endometriosis is diagnosed in women aged 12-80 and the average age at diagnosis is approximately
