Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


of progesterone receptors (2), ultimately causing the characteristic hormonal profile seen in endometriosis . DEMOGRAPHY Endometriosis is diagnosed in women aged 12-80 and the average age at diagnosis is approximately 28. The disease has a multi-factorial etiology including genetic and environmental factors. Exposure to ovarian hormones appears to be essential with the vast majority of the cases found in women aged 20-50. Estrogens stimulate ectopic endometrium growth and aberrations in estrogen signaling have been associated with the disease (2, 22). Caucasians appear to be more likely to suffer from endometriosis than African Americans or Asians (23). There is also an increased prevalence in taller women and those with a lower BMI (24) . Genetic factors contribute to approximately 51% of endometriosis risk. Patients with an affected first-degree relative have an approximate 7 to 10-fold increased risk of developing endometriosis (25, 26). Several at risk loci have been identified: WNT4 , CDKN2B-AS1 , and GREB1 (27,28). WNT4 encodes for gene products that are important for the development of the female reproductive tract and for steroidogenesis. The CDKN2B-AS1 gene is located in an enhancer region and includes a gene cluster that encodes tumor suppressor proteins such as p15, p16-NK4a, and p14ARF. GREB1 encodes an early-response gene in the estrogen receptor regulated pathway (27,28). Risk factors for this disease include nulliparity, early menarche, and frequent or prolonged menses. Protective factors include pregnancy, menopausal status, multiparity, and periods of lactation (29). PREVALENCE The prevalence of endometriosis ranges from 2-50% of reproductive aged women. Unfortunately, this number is widely disparate depending on the study. In women with infertility, the prevalence ranges from 20-50% (30-33). This may be due to the fact that endometriosis plays a causative role in infertility, but it also may be due to a diagnostic selection bias, as women with infertility often undergo laparoscopy as part of their clinical evaluation. Endometriosis is present in 71-87% of women with chronic pelvic pain (34-36). Between the years 1965 and 1984, endometriosis increased from 10% to19% as the primary indication for hysterectomy in the USA. Interestingly, this happened during a time in which a trend towards more conservative therapies as treatment modalities for endometriosis occurred (37). This finding suggests a true increase in the incidence of the disease. Varying theories have been proposed to explain this increase, including a delay in childbearing, declining use of oral contraceptives, and exposure to environmental toxins such as dioxin
