Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


of the disease. Varying theories have been proposed to explain this increase, including a delay in childbearing, declining use of oral contraceptives, and exposure to environmental toxins such as dioxin as a causative agent (38). A recent study involving mice has demonstrated that bisphenol A (one of the highest volume chemicals produced worldwide) is able to elicit an endometriosis-like effect in mice who were prenatally exposed (39). Human studies, however, are equivocal (40-42). Other studies have found higher phthalate concentrations in women with endometriosis than those without the disease (40, 42-48). SYMPTOMS Pain The most common symptom for women who have endometriosis is pelvic pain, although the pathophysiologic mechanisms are not well understood and many women with endometriosis may not have this complaint. The pain is most often cyclic, but may also be chronic in nature. The pain usually begins just before menses and continues throughout the duration of menstrual flow. Dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia are the most common pain complaints with 80% and 30% prevalence, respectively (49-51). Dysuria, dyschezia, and intermenstural pelvic pain are less common and are associated with bladder or bowel lesions. The pain may also be perceived in musculoskeletal regions, such as the flank, low back, or thighs. The heterogeneity of the disease process makes it difficult to ascertain the exact etiology of the pain. Actively bleeding lesions can certainly cause discomfort. Pain may also be produced by the production of inflammatory mediators and neurologic stimulation. It is likely that different types of lesions cause pain through differing pathways. Early papular lesions contain higher levels of prostaglandins than older lesions. These prostaglandins may activate afferent neuronal pathways. Lesions deeply penetrating the peritoneum also have an increased propensity to cause pain, probably by direct irritation and invasion of pelvic nerves. Endometriomas may cause a mass-effect, which can result in the perception of pain. Adhesions and fibrosis cause pain by compromising the blood supply to certain neuronal plexi, or by placing small nerves on tension (52). In addition to the perturbation of nerve fibers by the lesions, studies have demonstrated that neuronal fibers are present in endometriotic lesions found on the ovaries. A nerve growth factor (a substance important for the maintenance of sensory nerves), S 100 (a neurotrophic factor), and PGP9.5 (an immunoreactive nerve fiber) have all been demonstrated in these lesions, which may contribute to the generation of pain (53). Other studies have shown that there
