Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


neurotrophic factor), and PGP9.5 (an immunoreactive nerve fiber) have all been demonstrated in these lesions, which may contribute to the generation of pain (53). Other studies have shown that there is an increased amount of nerve fibers present in the endometrium in patients with endometriosis (54-57). The significance of these observations remains to be determined, but it has been suggested that the presence of nerve fibers in the endometrium may be used to diagnose endometriosis. With a chronic inflammatory environment in endometriosis, it is theorized that there may be a feedback cycle that promotes nociceptor sensitization with activation and neogenesis of sensory nerve fibers resulting in hyperalgesia (58 ). Finally, endometriosis can be associated with increased pain perception secondary to abnormal modulation of nociceptive input and an increase in intensity of neuronal signaling to the brain (59-61). Macrophages in the peritoneal fluid in women suffering from endometriosis are increased in concentration and activity (62). As discussed previously, macrophages are part of an inflammatory cascade, which perpetuates the sensation of pain, as does the constant elevated production of prostaglandins. Infertility The next most common symptom is that of infertility. Women with moderate and severe endometriosis, particularly those in which the ovaries and oviducts are involved with adhesive disease, have decreased fertility rates. It is theorized that this stems from the mechanical obstruction between the ovary and oviduct, with subsequent failure of gamete transport into the tubal ampulla. Many women with moderate to severe endometriosis have undergone operative management for their disease ; as a result, they may have decreased amounts of functional ovarian tissue and thereby suffer from decreased fecundity. Interestingly, women with only minimal or mild disease may also have decreased fertility when compared to those without clinical evidence of endometriosis. It remains controversial whether endometriosis is the cause of this subfertility. Some studies report that even minimal stage disease is associated with decreased fecundity, while other studies report no effect on fertility and pregnancy outcome (63, 64) . The monthly fecundity rate in normal couples is 15-20%, while the monthly fecundity rate in women with untreated endometriosis and infertility is 2-10% (65). In addition to the anatomic causes of infertility mentioned above, there are two other major theories that may explain the decreased monthly fecundity rates seen in women with endometriosis: 1) inflammation and 2) a locally altered hormonal profile. The altered cellular immunity results in an increased amount
