Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


may explain the decreased monthly fecundity rates seen in women with endometriosis: 1) inflammation and 2) a locally altered hormonal profile. The altered cellular immunity results in an increased amount of inflammatory mediators, such as activated macrophages, RANTES (regulated on activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted), interleukins, and tumor necrosis factor in follicular fluid and in peritoneal fluid. This results in a locally hostile, cytotoxic environment, characterized by oxidative stress, that negatively impacts most aspects of reproduction by causing altered folliculogenesis, oocyte degradation, structural DNA damage, decreased spermatozoal integrity, decreased fertilization potential, embryo fragmentation, impaired tubal function, and decreased endometrial receptivity. The altered humoral immunity results in the presence of autoantibodies with the capability of binding to the endometrium and, possibly the oocyte, sperm, embryo, and tube. The presence of elevated levels of steroidogenic factor-1, estrogen, and estrogen receptors in endometriotic cells ultimately leads to a down regulation of local progesterone receptors, and thus, an altered local reproductive hormonal profile (2,16, 66) . Altered folliculogenesis has been proposed as one of the contributing factors to infertility. Characteristics of in vitro fertilization cycles in women with endometriosis include a slower follicular growth rate and reduced follicle size. Changes in the cell-cycle kinetics of the granulosa cell that favor an increase in the amount of cells in the S phase and in cells undergoing apoptosis may play a role in this phenomenon. There is a decreased amount of vascular endothelial growth factor present in follicular fluid, which is believed to be responsible for the decreased follicular health and vascularization seen in endometriosis. Endometriosis has a multifactorial impact on the health and function of spermatozoa. The increased generation of reactive oxygen species seen in women with endometriosis results in the loss of spermatozoal membrane integrity and enzyme inactivation, thereby decreasing the potential for fertilization. Decreased sperm motility, mediated by glycoprotein-130 binding in sperm, is also a result of the negative impact endometriosis has on sperm function. The endosalpinx in women with endometriosis tends to bind spermatozoa more tightly, resulting in a decreased number of available spermatozoa. A decreased ability of spermatozoa to bind to the zona pellucida is evident in patients with endometriosis, resulting in impaired fertilization. Taken together, it is clear that endometriosis has a negative impact on the spermatozoa (16). There are a few proposed mechanisms by which endometriosis impairs implantation. Explanations include the delayed histologic maturation or the biochemical alterations
