Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


endometriosis has a negative impact on the spermatozoa (16). There are a few proposed mechanisms by which endometriosis impairs implantation. Explanations include the delayed histologic maturation or the biochemical alterations of the endometrium, both seen in endometriosis. In another mechanism, αvβ 3 integrin, an adhesion factor which is normally increased during the optimum implantation window, is decreased or absent in patients with endometriosis (16). Evidence indicates that the eutopic endometrium of women who suffer from endometriosis is abnormal in its expression of implantation-associated proteins, e.g., complement protein (C3) (67), IL-6 (68), HOX A 10 and 11 (69), and b3 integrins (70). The zona pellucida of the embryo is compromised by the cytotoxic effects of the reactive oxidative species, which may also lead to impaired implantation (16). Other Symptoms and Associations Other symptoms of endometriosis can include abnormal menstrual bleeding, diarrhea, constipation, and chronic fatigue. There are elevated rates of autoimmune diseases, including hypothyroidism, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus erythematosus, Sjogren’s syndrome, and multiple sclerosis in patients with endometriosis. Reports of allergies, asthma, chronic fatigue syndrome, and fibromyalgia are also more common in women with endometriosis than in women in the general US population (71). PHYSICAL EXAM FINDINGS Unfortunately, due to the diffuse and often varying nature of endometriotic lesions, the physical examination is typically unrevealing. The findings are variable and of limited precision in either localization or diagnosis of endometriosis. However, tender nodules may be palpable along the uterosacral ligaments, rectovaginal septum, or within the cul-de-sac, especially if the examination is performed just before menses. The astute clinician can appreciate pain or induration in the vicinity of otherwise non-palpable lesions, most commonly in the cul-de-sac, along the uterosacral ligaments, or rectovaginal septum. The clinician may also appreciate uterine or adnexal fixation or a tender adnexal mass. Because much disease is found in the dependent areas of the pelvis, it is critical to perform a systematic rectovaginal examination. In that way, the practioner is assured of evaluating the cul-de-sac and uterosacral ligaments as well as the adnexa (72). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS The differential diagnosis of endometriosis includes pelvic inflammatory disease, tubo-ovarian abscess, ectopic pregnancy, irritable bowel syndrome, interstitial cystitis, adenomyosis, pelvic adhesions, uterine fibroids, chronic or acute endometritis, ovarian neoplasms, musculoskeletal disease, gastrointestinal neoplasms, appendicitis, and diverticular disease. DIAGNOSTIC MODALITIES Laparoscopy with visualization of lesions is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of endometriosis. Dogma states that a biopsy of the lesion is
