Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


appendicitis, and diverticular disease. DIAGNOSTIC MODALITIES Laparoscopy with visualization of lesions is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of endometriosis. Dogma states that a biopsy of the lesion is the only way to truly confirm a disease diagnosis. For those surgeons trained in advanced laparoscopy, direct visual recognition of endometriosis also allows treatment to be instituted immediately. Laparoscopy is preferred over laparotomy as it provides visualization of the entire abdomen and pelvis at magnified views, has less morbidity than laparotomy, and carries a decreased risk of adhesion formation (73, 74). One of the major limitations of diagnostic laparoscopy for pelvic pain is the assumption that those lesions seen (or not seen) directly correlate with the symptoms of pain. Attempts to develop noninvasive radiological imaging techniques as diagnostic tools for endometriosis have been compromised by lack of specificity. Computed tomography was used initially to diagnose endometriomas in the setting of adnexal masses. Unfortunately, not only was it difficult to distinguish between benign versus malignant masses, it was often impossible to distinguish adnexal structures and loops of bowel (56, 57). Hence, this modality is of little value for this purpose. Transvaginal ultrasound is considered the first-line imaging modality. The typical ultrasound appearance of an endometrioma is a homogeneously hypoechoic unilocular cystic mass with low-level internal echoes and a ground glass appearance. Occasionally, endometriomas may be multilocular, though they typically have fewer than five locules. The vaginal probe can further be used in the evaluation of endometriosis by helping to determine the mobility of pelvic organs. For example, if the ovary appears to be affixed to the uterus, the probe can be used to apply pressure to the ovary. If the ovary does not move with the applied pressure, one can conclude that there are adhesions preventing such movement (75). The addition of cystoscopy, colonoscopy/ sigmoidoscopy, renal ultrasound, intravenous pyelogram, or barium enema should be considered if there is cyclic bowel/bladder dysfunction or back pain to rule out ureteral, bladder, or rectal involvement of deep lesions or other malignancy . Because of the broad range of symptoms that are included in endometriosis, a multi-disciplinary approach is often required for diagnosis and management (76-82). At present, magnetic resonance imaging is the best imaging for identifying endometriosis, and it can identify implants as small as 3mm in size (83, 84). It also has been shown to differentiate benign from malignant lesions, with excellent sensitivity
