Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


for identifying endometriosis, and it can identify implants as small as 3mm in size (83, 84). It also has been shown to differentiate benign from malignant lesions, with excellent sensitivity and specificity, and is the method of choice for preoperative evaluation of any adnexal mass (85, 86). Because of the large disparity in cost of an MRI versus a transvaginal ultrasound, physicians may resort to using an MRI in cases of ultrasonographically indeterminate pelvic masses (3). Much research has been devoted to discovering a serum marker that will allow diagnosis and monitoring of treatment, to no avail. Monoclonal antibodies raised against a high molecular weight ovarian cancer epithelial cell antigen, CA-125, have been used as a biochemical marker of endometriosis. Moderate and severe endometriosis is associated with elevated levels of CA-125 in the peripheral blood (87). Unfortunately, this marker is relatively non-specific, being increased in ovarian cancer and other gynecologic malignancies (fallopian tube carcinoma, germ cell tumors, adenocarcinoma of the cervix, sertoli-leydig cell tumors), benign gynecologic conditions (benign pelvic neoplasms, adenomyosis, pregnancy, pelvic inflammation), liver disease, colitis, colon cancer, diabetes, congestive heart failure, some autoimmune and rheumatologic disorders, ascites, breast cancer, lung cancer, and even during menstruation of women without any disease. Although it may help define progression of disease in individual patients, its diagnostic utility is limited. Studies have reported an increased density of nerve fibers exist in the eutopic endometrium of patients with endometriosis, but there is controversy as to whether aberrant innervation in the endometrium is a reflective of gynecologic pathology in general (53, 90, 91, 94, 95) or a specific feature of endometriosis (55, 92-97). It was once thought that endometrial biopsies may prove to be useful in the diagnosis of endometriosis, but recent studies demonstrated the presence of neuronal markers in endometrial pipelle biopsies from women both with and without endometriosis (98). CLINICAL APPEARANCE Grossly, peritoneal endometriosis can take on many visual appearances. Classically, it was taught that endometriosis implants were blue-black “powder-burns” or “mulberry lesions” of the peritoneum. More recently, several stages of implant development have been appreciated, each with a corresponding appearance. Early, active lesions can appear as papular excrescences or vesicles, and can range in color from clear to pink, or bright red (98). About a third of these lesions are in phase with the eutopic endometrium, and have a tendency to spontaneously grow and regress, suggesting a fluctuation of proliferation in
