Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


red (98). About a third of these lesions are in phase with the eutopic endometrium, and have a tendency to spontaneously grow and regress, suggesting a fluctuation of proliferation in association with the cyclic hormone production during the menstrual cycle (99). Advanced, active lesions are associated with inflammation, fibrosis and hemorrhage, and take on a more classic appearance identifiable at surgery. These lesions can express a myriad of colors, from black to brown, purple, red, or green. These are due to the presence of heme degradation products as the foci undergo hemorrhage and fibrosis. Dormant and healed lesions take on either a white or calcified appearance, and represent remnants of glands embedded in fibrous tissue (98). The surface of peritoneum may also be puckered or contain windows (Allen-Masters windows). A specific manifestation is the endometrioma or chocolate cyst. These ovarian cysts gained their moniker by the characteristic chocolate syrup appearance of their contents often seen at rupture. They arise after implantation of ectopic endometrial tissue and subsequent invasion into the normal ovarian cortex. The cell types present in these cysts include endometrial epithelium, both as glands and flattened cells, endometrial stroma, and hemosiderin-laden macrophages. In some cases, ciliated cells, similar to those of oviduct epithelium, have been observed (56 100). Under scanning electron microscopy, microscopic lesions have been found in the normal appearing peritoneum of women with and without endometriosis (101). The clinical significance of these findings is presently unknown, but the existence and potential tissue activity in these occult lesions may contribute to the recurrence/occurrence of endometriosis or persistence/recurrence of symptoms in women even after successful ablation or excision of visible lesions. Fig 2 a Fig 2 b Fig 2 c Figure 2. Intraoperative appearance of endometriosis. (a) The vesicular appearance of early, active lesions. (b) Peritoneal windows. (c) The characteristic blue-black appearance of more advanced, active implants. HISTOLOGY Although the histopathologic finding of ectopic endometrial glands and stroma is the sine qua non for establishing the diagnosis of disease, only about 50-70% of presumed endometriosis specimens fulfill these criteria. Many specimens harbor fibrosis, chronic inflammation, and/or hemosiderin-laden macrophages. Most pathologists and clinicians accept these latter findings as highly suggestive of disease status. Eutopic endometrium and endometriotic implants are histologically similar, but as mentioned previously, they are functionally, biochemically, and hormonally different from each other. CLASSIFICATION The scheme most widely used to classify the extent of disease is the
