Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


histologically similar, but as mentioned previously, they are functionally, biochemically, and hormonally different from each other. CLASSIFICATION The scheme most widely used to classify the extent of disease is the one derived from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM), revised in 1996 (103)(Fig. 3 and 4). This scheme designates disease extent based upon the total 3-dimensional volume of endometriosis. Importance is placed upon the size, depth of invasion, bilaterality, ovarian involvement, extent of cul-de-sac involvement, as well as density of associated adhesions. From this system, point scores are assigned and tallied, with scores of 1-15 representing minimal or mild disease, 16-40 moderate, and >40 severe. It is important to note that this staging system was established to predict fertility outcomes and does not correlate with the more common symptom of pelvic pain. Unfortunately, the classification system is not good at predicting which women will suffer from infertility, as infertility may even occur in women with mild endometriosis. Commonly, practitioners classify endometriosis as minimal (isolated small implants), mild (superficial implants <5cm total, only located on the ovaries and peritoneum, no adhesions), moderate (multiple superficial and invasive implants with or without adhesions), or severe (endometriomas), and the classification system by the ASRM is sometimes reserved for use in studies, where standardization of the classification is important. Use of the ASRM classification system should be encouraged, however, because it best describes the full extent and location of endometriotic lesions. It provides clinicians caring for women with endometriosis with a detailed description of the location and extend of disease. Figure 3 The American Fertility Society Revised Classification of Endometriosis. (Reprinted by permission from Fertil Steril 1985;43:351). Figure 4 Examples and guidelines for use of the American Fertility Society Revised Classification of Endometriosis. (Reprinted by permission from Fertil Steril 1985;43:352). TREATMENT Treatment for endometriosis differs depending on the symptom being targeted and whether or not the patient is trying to become pregnant in the near future . Treatment is either aimed at pain reduction, fertility restoration, or evaluation and treatment of a pelvic mass. Unfortunately, there are few treatment options for those who desire both fertility in the near future and the treatment of pelvic pain. However, sometimes pregnancy will temporarily relieve the pain associated with endometriosis. Pain Pain is the most commonly reported symptom of endometriosis, an estrogen-dependent condition characterized by chronic peritoneal and pelvic inflammation. Since endometriosis is a chronic disease, it
