Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


associated with endometriosis. Pain Pain is the most commonly reported symptom of endometriosis, an estrogen-dependent condition characterized by chronic peritoneal and pelvic inflammation. Since endometriosis is a chronic disease, it would be most beneficial to use agents that can be safely used long-term. Dysmenorrhea is one of the most common complaints in women with endometriosis, so many of the hormonal agents aim to cause amenorrhea. These treatments may also relieve deep dyspareunia, non-cyclic pelvic pain, and dyschezia. Hormonal agents may have an additional effect on reducing the nerve fiber density present in endometriotic lesions, which is believed to be one of the factors involved in the origin of the pain caused by endometriosis (104). Oral contraceptives, progestins, danazol, gestrinone, medroxyprogesterone acetate, and GnRH agonists are all supported by clinical trials showing approximately equal benefit over placebo (Fig. 5). These hormonal agents create a hypoestrogenic (GnRH agonist), hyperandrogenic (danazol, gestrinone) or hyperprogestogenic (oral contraceptives, medroxyprogesterone acetate) state that suppresses endometrial cell proliferation. Their side-effect profiles and costs lead one agent to be preferred over another. However, once the agent is discontinued, the symptoms tend to recur. A definitive diagnosis of endometriosis can only be made with surgery. If there is sufficient clinical suspicion of endometriosis, it is reasonable to try empiric therapy with a single agent or a combination of agents. Oftentimes, the pain will improve and surgery can be avoided. The combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) has been used for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain for several years. Its efficacy in reducing symptoms of pain is well-established and works by decreasing retrograde menstruation, inducing a pseudo-pregnant state and causing decidualization and subsequent atrophy of eutopic and ectopic endometrium. Advantages include a mild side-effect profile, several combinations from which to choose, and the choice of cyclic or continuous administration. However, not all women are candidates for the use of COCPs. COCPs are FDA approved for contraception, but they are used off-label for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. There are many progestins (synthetic derivatives of progesterone) that have been used to treat endometriosis-associated pain. Examples include norethindrone (norethisterone), medroxyprogesterone, and levonorgestrel. There are several routes of administration. They do not contain estrogen; thus, they are believed to be safer for use in women who have a contraindication to estrogen. Norethindrone acetate is a progestin that is taken orally and is initiated at the dose of 5 mg/day and can be increased by
