Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


women who have a contraindication to estrogen. Norethindrone acetate is a progestin that is taken orally and is initiated at the dose of 5 mg/day and can be increased by increments of 2.5 mg to achieve amenorrhea or to a total dose of 20 mg/day. Side effects include break-through bleeding and breast tenderness. Favorable effects on bone-mineral density (short term) and lipid metabolism have been reported (105). Norethindrone acetate is FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. Medroxyprogesterone, a 17-hydroxy derivative of progesterone, taken orally, has moderate androgenic activity and minor effects on the lipid profile. The dose may range from 15-50 mg/day. Side effects may include breakthrough bleeding and depression/anxiety. The intramuscular dose or subcutaneous dose of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate is 150 mg given every 3 months. There is concern about the decrease in bone mineral density with long-term use of medroxyprogesterone. However, studies have shown that after discontinuation of this medication, the bone mineral density profile improves. It takes an average of 7 months for menses to return. The abnormal bleeding and lipid profiles are still concerns for long-term use (105). Medroxyprogesterone is FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. The levonorgestrel-containing intrauterine device releases 20 µg/day and induces amenorrhea by causing the endometrium to become atrophic and inactive. It has been shown to improve dysmenorrhea, relieve deep dyspareunia, and, as expected, reduce monthly blood loss. Approximately one third of users will develop amenorrhea. Reasons for discontinuation include irregular bleeding, pelvic pain, breast tenderness, and weight gain. There is a 5% expulsion rate and a 1.5% infection rate associated with use of the intrauterine device. Advantages of this system are that it doesn’t induce a systemic hypoestrogenic state and it is effective, without any further medical intervention, for five years. It is currently being evaluated for postoperative use in women who undergo laparoscopy for endometriosis (105). It is not FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain, but it is approved for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding. For the relief of pain caused by the deep infiltrative type of endometriosis, a combination of different types of agents may be of benefit. A study with continuous oral ethinyl estradiol 0.01 mg/day with cyproterone acetate 3 mg/day or only norethisterone 2.5 mg/day demonstrated that both regimens substantially decreased dysmenorrhea, non-cyclic pelvic pain, deep dyspareunia, and dyschezia, but both caused slight weight gain and undesirable changes in lipid
