Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


or only norethisterone 2.5 mg/day demonstrated that both regimens substantially decreased dysmenorrhea, non-cyclic pelvic pain, deep dyspareunia, and dyschezia, but both caused slight weight gain and undesirable changes in lipid profiles. The group treated by norethisterone reported slightly better symptom improvement but also registered additional androgenic side effects (105). GnRH agonists have been shown to decrease dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and non-cyclic pelvic pain by creating a hypoestrogenic environment. Some agonists are given subcutaneously either once a month at a dose of 3.75 mg or once every three months at a dose of 11.25 mg. The side effects of GnRH agonists include a reduction in bone mineral density and, therefore are not recommended for periods longer than 6 months. Other side effects include hot flushes, emotional lability, vaginal dryness, insomnia, and loss of libido. “Add-back therapy” with a low dose estrogen/progestin combination has been introduced to prevent the loss of bone mineral density and control the other side effects resulting from the hypoestrogenic environment, while continuing to control the symptoms of endometriosis (105). GnRH agonists are FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. GnRH antagonists are newer compounds and avoid the undesirable “flare” caused by the agonists. Unfortunately, they are not as well studied and must be administered subcutaneously at least once a week at a dose of 3 mg (105). More recent studies have looked at oral formations of GnRH antagonists (106). These show promising results in terms of reduced dysmenorrhea and non-menstrual pelvic pain. However, much is still unknown regarding reversibility of adverse outcomes such as decreased bone mineral density and altered lipid profiles. Thus far, it appears that oral GnRH antagonists have less complete suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis compared to GnRH agonists. It may be inferred that hypoestrogenic side effects may be less with GnRH antagonists compared to GnRH agonists; however, studies showed incomplete suppression of ovulation, and pregnancy may still occur with the use of GnRH antagonists (106). Clinical trials are on-going, but currently GnRH antagonists are not FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. Danazol, an oral agent, induces an amenorrheic state by suppressing the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis, and is characterized by hyperandrogenemia and hypoestrogenemia. The hormonal cyclicity of the menstrual cycle is interrupted, thereby disrupting steroidogenesis and estrogen production from the ovary that leads to the undesirable painful symptoms in endometriosis. Its use is losing favor because of its undesirable side effects. Weight gain,
