Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


disrupting steroidogenesis and estrogen production from the ovary that leads to the undesirable painful symptoms in endometriosis. Its use is losing favor because of its undesirable side effects. Weight gain, fluid retention, breast atrophy, acne, oily skin, hot flushes, hirsutism, and unfavorable changes in the lipid profile are among the side effects of danazol. Alternative routes of delivery may result in a beneficial relief of symptoms, while significantly reducing the side effect profile. Studies have looked at a danazol-releasing intrauterine device, vaginal ring, or vaginal capsules, but these preparations are not available at this time (105). Danazol is FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. Gestrinone, an oral agent, is a 19-norsteroid derivative that was originally designed as an oral contraceptive. It has the ability to block follicular development and estradiol production by causing both agonist and antagonist effects when bound to progesterone receptors. Its ability to bind to androgen receptors, however, is responsible for its undesirable side effects: an unfavorable lipid profile, weight gain, hirsutism, seborrhea, and acne. Like danazol, this medication is not frequently used (105). Gestrinone is available in many countries for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain, but is not approved for use in the US. Aromatase inhibitors have recently become part of the armamentarium against endometriosis-associated pain. Aromatase is the enzyme responsible for the conversion of androgens into estrogens, and is normally expressed in granulosa cells, skin fibroblasts, adipocytes, and syncytiotrophoblasts. Although, steroidogenic factor-1 is found in endometriotic tissue, it is not found in eutopic endometrium. Steroidogenic factor-1 activates aromatase gene transcription, thereby increasing the production of estrogen. Because endometriosis is estrogen-dependent, and aromatase is responsible for estrogen production, aromatase inhibitors have therefore been employed to alleviate the painful symptoms caused by endometriosis. Combination therapy of an aromatase inhibitor with a progestin, oral contraceptive agent, or GnRH agonist is recommended in the treatment of endometriosis in pre-menopausal women because of their ovarian stimulatory properties in this population and to prevent pregnancy. Aromatase inhibitors have a tolerable side-effect profile and don’t reduce bone mineral density (105). Aromatase inhibitors are not FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain, but clinical trials are ongoing. Historically, there has been a well-established role for prostaglandin inhibitors, such as ibuprofen, in the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. Recently, a Cochrane Review evaluated non-steroidal anti-inflammatory use for the treatment of endometriosis (107) . It discovered two studies that met their inclusion criteria.
