Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


in the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. Recently, a Cochrane Review evaluated non-steroidal anti-inflammatory use for the treatment of endometriosis (107) . It discovered two studies that met their inclusion criteria. They found inconclusive evidence to show that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are effective for the treatment of pain associated with endometriosis. Despite this review, prostaglandin inhibitors are relatively safe, have a tolerable side-effect profile, and can generally be taken on a long-term basis by most patients, so they remain part of the first-line therapy for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. However, their use is associated with undesirable and potentially severe gastrointestinal side-effects that may cause them not to be candidates for use in every patient. Motrin (ibuprofen), a commonly used prostaglandin inhibitor is FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. View in own window Figure 5: Options for the Treatment of Pain Associated with Endometriosis Agent Route Side-Effects Oral Contraceptive Agents Oral Mild nausea, vomiting Progestins Oral, Injection, or Intrauterine Breakthrough bleeding, breast tenderness Some have unfavorable effects on bone mineral density and lipid profile Some have androgenic side-effects GnRH Agonists Injection or Intranasal Symptoms of a hypoestrogenic state (hot flushes, mood irritability, vaginal dryness, sleep disturbances, and decreased bone mineral density) GnRH Antagonists* Oral Symptoms of hypoestrogenic state (hot flushes, decreased bone mineral density, unfavorable changes in the lipid profile) Aromatase Inhibitors Oral Ovarian stimulation in pre-menopausal women Danazol Oral Weight gain, fluid retention, breast atrophy, acne, oily skin, hot flushes, hirsutism Unfavorable changes in the lipid profile Gestrinone Oral Unfavorable changes in the lipid profile Weight gain, hirsuitism, seborrhea, and acne Prostaglandin Inhibitors Oral Unfavorable gastrointestinal side-effects Figure 5. Pharmacologic options in the treatment of pain associated with endometriosis. *GnRH antagonists are not yet FDA approved, but may be a potential future treatment. As previously mentioned, endometriosis is associated with a peritoneal and pelvic inflammatory cascade, and anti-inflammatory compounds may alleviate the pain associated with endometriosis. Since the cyclo-oxygenase-2 pathway is upregulated, COX-2 inhibitors may have a role in treatment, but their main role in treatment of this disease is not well established. Other emerging therapies have targeted the molecular steps involved in endometriosis pathogenesis. This includes agents that enhance cell-mediated immunity, agents that counteract tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), anti-angiogenic agents, metalloproteinase inhibitors, hypocholesterolemic agents, and selective progesterone modulators. A Cochrane Review examined the use of TNF-α inhibitors for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain and found no benefit.
