Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


(TNF-α), anti-angiogenic agents, metalloproteinase inhibitors, hypocholesterolemic agents, and selective progesterone modulators. A Cochrane Review examined the use of TNF-α inhibitors for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain and found no benefit. (108). Several antiangiogenic agents are in preclinical testing and show promise. Statin medications are also being evaluated as well as trichostatin A and valproic acid (109). These agents are not FDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pain. From the available evidence, it is clear that medical treatment is effective for endometriosis-associated pelvic pain. In general, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent alone or in combination with an oral contraceptive agent or a progestin derivative should be considered as first-line therapy. GnRH analogues with add-back therapy and possibly aromatase inhibitors (with oral contraceptive agents, progestins, or a GnRH analog in premenopausal patients), should be regarded as second-line agents. Danazol and gestrinone should be reserved for cases that have failed other medical treatments. If a patient continues to have symptoms of pain despite medical therapy, or needs pain relief but desires pregnancy and thus must avoid hormonal compounds that interfere with ovulation, then conservative surgery should be performed with resection or ablation of lesions and lysis of adhesions. In double-blind randomized control trials, laparoscopic laser treatment of pelvic pain associated with minimal-moderate endometriosis was found to decrease pain significantly(109, 111). Follow up re-operation rates after initial surgical removal of lesions was 21%, 47%, and 55% at 2, 5, and 7 years of follow-up, respectively (112). The highest predictor of re-operation was associated with younger age of the patient. The evidence shows that both ablation and resection of lesions are equally effective techniques. Excision of ovarian endometriomas, however, is associated with better pain relief, lower recurrence, and higher pregnancy rates than cyst vaporization or coagulation (113 ). There is no evidence supporting the performance of a uterosacral nerve ablation; however, if there is significant midline pain, presacral neurectomy may be of benefit (114). It should be noted that presacral neurectomy requires excellent surgical skills, as there is significant risk of damaging the neurovascular plexus or causing retroperitoneal bleeding severe enough to require transfusion or re-operation. Resection of rectovaginal lesions had an approximate 10% complication rate especially when a colorectal resection is performed (115, 116). Good pain relief is usually achieved during the first year after bowel resection for deep endometriosis, but in a systematic literature review, pain recurrence was observed in one out of
