Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


Good pain relief is usually achieved during the first year after bowel resection for deep endometriosis, but in a systematic literature review, pain recurrence was observed in one out of four patients and re-intervention was required in one out of five of these recurrences (117). A debatable issue is the use of medical therapy, such as a GnRH agonist or medroxyprogesterone acetate, as a neoadjuvant or adjuvant to surgical management. Preoperative medical therapy may be helpful to decrease the pelvic vascularity and size of the endometriotic implants, reducing intraoperative blood loss and surgical resection required. However, by reducing the endometriotic load, the disease may be understaged, which may affect management. Postoperative medical therapy may eradicate the residual implants. A Cochrane Review, however, found insufficient evidence to show a benefit of hormonal suppression either before or after surgery when compared with surgery alone for long-term difference in pain relief from endometriosis (118). There were two trials that compared pre-surgical medical therapy with surgery alone, but American Fertility Society scores were significantly improved in the medical treatment group in one study and not in the other. Post-surgical hormonal suppression of endometriosis versus surgery alone (either no medical therapy or placebo) showed a modest reduction in pain after one year, but results were inconsistent and pain recurrence in both groups indicated no benefit beyond one year after treatment (119). Further, there was no evidence that medical therapy pre- or post-surgery improves pregnancy rates. There have been no trials comparing medical and surgical treatment to reduce endometriosis-associated pain. The studies employing each treatment modality, though, have similar success rates. With this in mind, it is reasonable to conclude that the treatments are equally effective. With the development of newer medical therapies with better tolerated side-effect profiles, surgery may be avoided or delayed. Ultimately, in women who no longer desire future childbearing, hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, often is considered as definitive therapy for the treatment. Narcotics should never be considered for treatment of the chronic pain associated with endometriosis. Referral to a multidisciplinary pain center may be of value. In the absence of other factors, if the pain continues to be present after surgery, a diagnosis of adenomyosis should be considered. Figure 6 Treatment algorithm for pain associated with endometriosis Infertility The treatment of infertility, in the absence of pain, may involve expectant management, surgery, ovulation induction/stimulation with intrauterine insemination (IUI), or assisted reproductive techniques,
