Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


for pain associated with endometriosis Infertility The treatment of infertility, in the absence of pain, may involve expectant management, surgery, ovulation induction/stimulation with intrauterine insemination (IUI), or assisted reproductive techniques, such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) . Infertility clinics differ in their use of diagnostic laparoscopy in the evaluation of the etiology of infertility, at which time asymptomatic endometriosis may be diagnosed and excised or ablated. Physicians that do not perform diagnostic laparoscopy as part of their evaluation for infertility would argue that there are significant anesthetic and surgical risks afforded by laparoscopy, ovarian reserve may be compromised by the incidental removal/destruction of normal ovarian tissue, surgery is a cause of adhesions, and that the practice of restoring normal tubal anatomy has fallen out of favor as the success of IVF continues to rise. In women with stage I/II endometriosis, laparoscopic ablation of lesions may offer a small, but significant improvement in live birth rates. A Cochrane Review evaluated two trials in which women were randomized to operative laparoscopy or diagnostic laparoscopy (120). The two randomized trials addressed the question of whether laparoscopic surgery improved outcomes in patients with otherwise unexplained infertility (121, 122). When combining live birth rates and clinical on-going pregnancy rates after 20 weeks, the meta-analysis demonstrated an advantage of laparoscopic surgery when compared to diagnostic laparoscopy alone, with an odds-ratio (OR) of 1.64 [95% Confidence Interval (CI) 1.05-2.57]. However, the two studies had incompatible results, which should be taken into account in this interpretation. One study (121) reported a large positive effect, while the other (122) reported a small negative effect. The number needed to treat, resulting from this analysis, was 12 laparoscopies for one additional pregnancy. The decision to perform surgery should, therefore, be balanced with the patient’s age, history, health status, and wishes, and should be entered into with informed consent about the risks and possible benefits. For those that do undergo surgery, the Endometriosis Fertility Index (EFI), an intraoperative staging system, can be used to help predict future pregnancy rates. Based on the EFI, a patient may be better counseled regarding her likelihood of spontaneous conception and, if her prognosis is poor, more readily seek appropriate treatment (123). Suppressive medical therapy (such as in the treatment for pain) should not accompany surgery or be involved in the treatment of infertility, as it does not improve fertility and may increase the time to pregnancy.
