Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


in the treatment for pain) should not accompany surgery or be involved in the treatment of infertility, as it does not improve fertility and may increase the time to pregnancy. Viable options for the medical treatment of endometriosis-related infertility are discussed. Ovulation induction in women with stage I/II endometriosis confers a fertility benefit. The three randomized trials in the literature addressing this issue, employing either GnRH agonists with follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone, clomiphene citrate/IUI, or follicle-stimulating hormone/IUI, all showed increased pregnancy rates relative to the control arm, where the patient did not receive treatment (114). Thus, both ovulation induction plus IUI and assisted reproductive technology have a place in the treatment of women with endometriosis-associated infertility. If the patient is under the age of 35, initial treatment options include expectant management or controlled ovarian stimulation with clomiphene citrate or gonadotropins combined with IUI. In a woman over the age of 35, because of the age-associated decrease in fecundity, controlled ovarian stimulation combined with intrauterine insemination or IVF are reasonable therapies. In women with stage III/IV endometriosis, surgery is likely to be of benefit and is recommended by the ASRM Practice Committee, but there are no randomized controlled trials to document efficacy and some studies show a negative effect of surgery on pregnancy rates. (65, 124). Advanced staged disease is often associated with a complex surgical history which, combined with an extensive amount of disease, causes the operation to be difficult, sometimes requiring advanced laparoscopic techniques or laparotomy. These higher acuity surgeries have increased risk of serious complications. In situations when the initial surgery fails to restore fertility, IVF, rather than another operation for infertility, is likely a better option. However, randomized controlled trials are lacking. If surgery is performed, then the subsequent treatment for infertility should be controlled ovarian stimulation (with gonadotropins) and IUI, or IVF, especially in women of advanced reproductive age (66). If the plan is to go directly to IVF, then surgery may not show a benefit, as the slight possible benefit afforded by the surgery is greatly overshadowed by the benefits of IVF and indirect evidence suggests that surgery may not be beneficial in women with deep infiltrating disease (125). There has been some debate about the management of endometriomas in stage IV disease in the absence of pain. Only case series have been published, but the overall likelihood of pregnancy following endometrioma excision is
