Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


about the management of endometriomas in stage IV disease in the absence of pain. Only case series have been published, but the overall likelihood of pregnancy following endometrioma excision is around 50% (125); though this may be an overestimate with women achieving pregnancy through IVF. The question then remains, should the endometriomas be removed prior to IVF? A meta-analysis evaluated five studies that compared surgery versus no treatment for an endometrioma (121). In this analysis, there were no differences in the pregnancy rates or responses to controlled ovarian stimulation in the two groups, favoring against surgical resection. There are no randomized controlled trials that evaluate this question. Surgery for endometriomas should be performed to relieve pain and to confirm the diagnosis in situations when it is in question. Overall, endometriosis is a common indication for IVF. IVF allows the abnormal anatomy to be overcome by avoiding the tubes; the oocyte is retrieved directly from the ovaries, and the embryos are placed directly in the endometrial cavity, thereby bypassing the effects of the abnormal peritoneal environment. Despite this, endometriosis is associated with overall lower chances of success. This may be due to the negative impact of endometriosis on folliculogenesis and endometrial receptivity (126). A meta-analysis demonstrated significantly lower pregnancy rates for women with endometriosis compared to women with tubal factor infertility controls. Pregnancy rates were also significantly lower for women with severe endometriosis versus women with milder disease (127). However, the difference in pregnancy rates does not appear to be attributable to differing aneuploidy rates. A recent retrospective cohort study demonstrated no difference in aneuploidy rates between age-matched controls of women with endometriosis undergoing IVF compared to those without endometriosis (128). Figure 7 Treatment algorithm for infertility associated with endometriosis. Other Therapeutic Modalities There have been many studies exploring complementary alternative medicine (CAM) for the treatment of symptoms associated with endometriosis. Although these approaches are not FDA or USDA approved for the treatment of endometriosis, they may offer relief by suppressing cytokines and inflammatory pathways, inhibiting cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) pathways, acting as antioxidants, and alleviating pain by other mechanisms (129). High frequency transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, acupuncture, vitamin B1, magnesium, reflexology, traditional Chinese medicine, herbal treatments, and homeopathy are examples of CAM that have been explored for use in endometriosis-associated pain. Even though the risks associated with some of these modalities appear minimal, the standards of evidence-based medicine on aspects of safety
