Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


that have been explored for use in endometriosis-associated pain. Even though the risks associated with some of these modalities appear minimal, the standards of evidence-based medicine on aspects of safety and efficacy have not been applied to most studies involving CAM. A promising note for CAM is that there is now a National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Hopefully, this will allow for proper evidence-based evaluation, so that their safety and efficacy can be compared with the more traditional approaches (129). Another therapeutic modality that may be considered is patient self-help and support groups. Information can be found at www.endometriosis.org (76). ENDOMETRIOSIS-ASSOCIATED OVARIAN CANCER Although it is not considered a pre-malignant condition, there are data to suggest that endometriosis has neoplastic potential (130). Endometriosis shares several similarities with malignant diseases such as reduced apoptosis, invasion of endometrial cells into adjacent organs (bowel, bladder), increased angiogenesis, ability to spread distantly, etc. (131-133). Women with endometriosis have twice the risk of developing epithelial ovarian cancer compared to controls, and a 4-fold increased risk if they also have subfertility (134). The association is limited to clear cell (OR 3.05, 95% CI 2.43-3.84), endometroid (OR 2.04, 95% CI 1.67-2.48), and low-grade serous (OR 2.11, 95% CI 1.39-3.2) tumors (135). The carcinogenic pathways, however, poorly understood. There is thought that oxidative stress, inflammation and the estrogen dependent environment may play a role (136). In women without malignant appearing features on ultrasound, 1-3% are found to have atypical endometriotic cells (125). Generally, endometriosis associated malignancies arise from endometriomas. Reactive oxygen species generated by catalytic iron from phagocytosed heme causes cell damage, DNA mutations, and genetic instability may be aided by the local ovarian environment of endometriomas (137-139). This oxidative stress is thought to activate proto-oncogenes or disrupt tumor suppressor genes, such as ARID1A (140-142). Clear cell and endometroid tumors also develop due to hormonally dependent and independent pathways. Endometroid cell types are often estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptor positive. Clear cell tumors, however, generally have low receptor expression (143). Endometroid histology is also thought to be estrogen-dependent based on the fact that there is a higher than expected rate of synchronous primary, estrogen-dependent endometrial endometroid carcinoma (144) concurrently with endometriosis-associated ovarian endometroid carcinoma. (145-147). Clear cell carcinomas overexpress hepatocyte nuclear factor 1ß, which is a transcriptional factor that increases survival of endometrial cells during oxidative
