Endometriosis
KEYWORDS: endometriosis, pain, women, treatment, pelvic, disease, lesions, associated, ovarian, surgery, reprod, infertility, fertil, steril, fertil steril


carcinoma (144) concurrently with endometriosis-associated ovarian endometroid carcinoma. (145-147). Clear cell carcinomas overexpress hepatocyte nuclear factor 1ß, which is a transcriptional factor that increases survival of endometrial cells during oxidative stress by inhibiting apoptosis, whereas endometroid cell types do not overexpress hepatocyte nuclear factor 1ß (137). Knowing the increased risk of carcinoma in endometriosis patients, the question remains as to how to prevent progression. There are limited data available regarding medical and surgical interventions for prevention. It is known that oral contraceptives are associated with an 80% reduction in risk among women with endometriosis when used for greater than 10 years. Since endometroid subtypes are ER and PR positive, whereas clear cell subtypes are not, those at risk for the endometroid subtype are more likely to benefit from hormonal therapy while those more likely to develop the clear cell subtype would benefit from surgery. In Western countries the endometroid subtype is more prevalent than clear cell, 10-20% versus 5-10%, respectively. However, the opposite is true in Asian countries. This could suggest a population based treatment approach (144-146). CONCLUSION Endometriosis is an enigmatic disease, the pathophysiology of which we are just beginning to understand. Symptomatic women with endometriosis, suffering from infertility or pain, are often difficult patients to treat because we have few treatment options to offer. The therapies themselves are imperfect, with none that permanently eradicate the disease. A multidisciplinary approach is often required for the diagnosis and management of this disease. In deciding how to treat women with pelvic pain or infertility, we must consider the best available evidence to form our decisions. In women with pelvic pain and suspected endometriosis, first line treatment would be non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications with/without oral contraceptives or progestins. Continuous combined oral contraceptives have been shown to provide significant pain reduction from baseline over cyclic combined oral contraceptives(148). If these conservative approaches fail, three alternative treatments would be empiric: GnRH agonist therapy with estrogen and progestin add-back therapy, aromatase inhibitors, or operative laparoscopy. The laparoscopy should include lysis of adhesions and excision or ablation of endometriosis. Surgery for pain may be followed by medical treatment with GnRH agonist and add-back therapy (Fig. 6). It is important to note that at no time are narcotics advocated for the treatment of endometriosis-associated pelvic pain except immediately pre-operatively or post-operatively. If the above measures fail, patients should be enrolled into a multi-disciplinary chronic pelvic pain treatment group.
