NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. Published in final edited form as: Liver Transpl. 2012 January ; 18(1): 9–21. doi:. Cell Therapies for Liver Diseases Jiangsu Province, P.R. China 3Brami Biomedical Inc., Minneapolis, MN Abstract Cell therapies, which include bioartificial liver support and hepatocyte transplantation, have emerged as potential treatments for a variety of liver diseases. Acute liver failure (ALF), acute-on- chronic liver failure, and inherited metabolic liver diseases are examples of liver diseases that have been successfully treated with cell therapies at centers around the world. Cell therapies also have the potential for wide application in other liver diseases, including non-inherited liver diseases and liver cancer, and in improving the success of liver transplantation. Here we briefly summarize current concepts of cell therapy for liver diseases. Overview Cell therapies can be categorized by the cell organization and the route of therapy as summarized in Table 1. Extracorporeal or ex vivo therapies, such as the bioartificial liver, are intended for short-term intermittent support of patients in liver failure, while implantable or in vivo therapies, such as cell transplantation, may be used for either short-term, long- term, or permanent liver replacement. Both ex vivo and in vivo forms of cell therapy can be further classified by the cell organization utilized for therapy, which include individually isolated cells, cellular aggregates, synthetically-engineered liver tissue constructs, and naturally occurring liver organs. Synthetic liver tissue, also referred to as cellular scaffold or liver tissue construct, may be vascularized or avascular and supported by diffusion. Liver organs may be used as intact whole organs or divided along well defined lobar and segmental planes. The current review will address each category and subcategory based on features including cell sources (primary hepatocytes, cell lines, stem cells, other progenitor cells, and other non-parenchymal cells types) and liver diseases that may be appropriate for each cell therapy as summarized in Table 2. Sections of this review will summarize historic, current and future forms of these cell therapies with an emphasis on clinical therapies and emerging therapies currently under evaluation in animal models. Need for Liver Support Therapies Tens of millions of patients are affected by liver disease worldwide. Many of these patients can be treated or their disease phenotype can be prevented with therapy involving biologically active living cells. Liver transplantation, the ultimate cell therapy, is presently the only proven treatment
