NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


patients can be treated or their disease phenotype can be prevented with therapy involving biologically active living cells. Liver transplantation, the ultimate cell therapy, is presently the only proven treatment for many medically refractory liver diseases including end-stage liver disease and many inherited liver diseases. However, there is a profound shortage of transplantable donor livers. This shortage leads to approximately 40% of listed patients per year not receiving a liver transplant with a significant number of these patients either dying or becoming too sick to transplant (www.unos.org). Therefore, new therapies are needed to supplement whole-organ liver transplantation and reduce the waiting list mortality rate. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Furthermore, a number of innovative cell-based therapies and animal model studies of human liver disorders highlight the remarkable regenerative capacity of hepatocytes in vivo. These studies indicate the feasibility of cell therapies as a means of replacing lost or diseased hepatic tissue (1, 2). Historic Overview The story of ex vivo cell therapy and in vivo cell transplantation for the treatment of liver disease has many parallels. Treatment of liver failure with an ex vivo device composed of living liver tissue was first reported by Eiseman in 1965 (3). Mata’s et al first performed hepatocyte transplantation in a rodent model in 1976 (4), nine years after the first human solid organ liver transplant was performed by Starzl (5). Many other forms of liver support therapy and artificial liver support were also evaluated over the past 50 years (6). A partial list of these techniques included hemodialysis (7), hepatodialysis (8), extracorporeal heterologous (9) and homologous (10) liver perfusion, cross circulation (11), activated charcoal hemoperfusion (12, 13), simple exchange transfusion (14), and plasmapheresis with plasma exchange (15). At least two positive observations were made from these early improved, temporarily; however, long-term survival was not significantly impacted in comparison with historical controls (16). As expected, underlying liver disease did influence survival, with noncirrhotic patients having improved survival over cirrhotic patients in the days prior to liver transplantation. Second, toxin removal correlated with recovery from hepatic encephalopathy. In fact, many of these early therapies appeared to have benefit in case reports and small series, but none stood the test of a randomized prospective trial (17). Charcoal hemoperfusion is a good example of an artificial support therapy that appeared hopeful in small series but it could not stand the test of a
