NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


randomized prospective trial (17). Charcoal hemoperfusion is a good example of an artificial support therapy that appeared hopeful in small series but it could not stand the test of a randomized prospective trial (18). The limitations of early liver support therapies fell into the categories of safety, immune response, reproducibility, functionality, cell dose and duration of therapy. For example, the reproducibility of heterologous and homologous liver perfusion was highly variable due to the inconsistent quality of organs and the lack of modern preservation techniques. To overcome the safety problems of cross-circulation, in which the patient’s blood was directly exchanged with the blood of another human, a membrane was introduced as a barrier to prevent transmission of infection and to block immune mediated responses. Lessons learned from those early clinical treatments have helped select better and safer membranes for new BAL devices (19–21). As a result, modern BAL devices employ a membrane to avoid the need for immunosuppression yet prevent the harmful immune response of direct contact of blood or plasma with its hepatocytes. The term bioartificial liver was first coined by Matsumura in 1987 when he perfused a suspension of porcine hepatocytes in an extracorporeal suspension bioreactor (22). Treatment duration of this first BAL device was limited to a few hours due to the death of anchorage dependent hepatocytes in suspension culture. Limitations of suspension culture have been addressed by using spherical aggregates of cells, called hepatocyte spheroids, which will be detailed later in the review. Spheroids allow for greater dose of cells and higher functionality. Spheroid cell aggregates also allow for longer duration of therapy and obviate the need for frozen storage of isolated cells prior to extracorporeal use. The first successful clinical hepatocyte transplantation was reported by Fox et al in a child with Crigler-Najjar disease (23) nine years after the first BAL report. Since these pioneering reported in the treatment of ALF, chronic and end-stage liver diseases, and metabolic liver disorders. Moreover, current cell sources are vast in variety. Modern cell sources include Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript primary hepatocytes, immortalized cell lines, and an array of stem cells, including liver stem cells, bone marrow stem cells, embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. Cell Sources for liver diseases therapy Primary Hepatocytes Isolated hepatocytes have been utilized as the cell source
