NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


bone marrow stem cells, embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. Cell Sources for liver diseases therapy Primary Hepatocytes Isolated hepatocytes have been utilized as the cell source for both extracorporeal and injectable cell transplantation procedures. As an anchorage-dependant epithelial cell type, primary hepatocytes must attach to an extracellular support matrix to avoid programmed cell death, termed anoikis (24). Suspension-based bioartificial liver systems were the first to be tested because of their simplicity and convenience, but these therapies were of limited duration due to the short viability of hepatocytes in suspension even under ideal conditions. In contrast, transplantation of individual hepatocytes allows rapid attachment of transplanted cells to existing extracellular matrix in vivo. Hepatocyte transplantation is a promising alternative to liver transplantation for the treatment of some liver diseases. Primary hepatocytes can be isolated from non-transplantable human livers, human liver resections, human fetal livers, and healthy donor animals such as the pig. Non-transplantable whole human livers are the most common source of primary hepatocytes for cell therapy. But the quality and metabolic/functional activity of the isolated primary hepatocytes is variable. Bhogal et al. reported that the time delay between hepatectomy and beginning of liver perfusion is the most important factor in determining the likelihood of success of the procedure and the shortest possible digestion time is desirable (25). The overall success rate for attempted human hepatocyte isolation from different liver sources was 54% (25). Their data further highlighted that tissue from patients with biliary cirrhosis provides high yields of hepatocytes (success rate 71%), so these cirrhotic livers could be also a valuable source of human hepatocytes for experimental use. Isolated hepatocytes can also be cryopreserved and stored in hepatocyte banks, allowing for scheduled or emergency transplantation. But hepatocytes are highly susceptible to the freeze-thaw process, and the functionality after frozen cryopreservation is significantly reduced compared to freshly isolated hepatocytes. It has been suggested that cryopreservation is a further stimulus for apoptosis of freshly isolated hepatocytes (26). Several cryopreservation methods for hepatocyte have been reported (27–30), but hepatocyte functional activities after thawing are still unsatisfactory and an optimal cryopreservation technique requires further research. Tumor Cell Lines A critical barrier to success of hepatocyte transplantation and the bioartificial liver is the limited supply of high-quality human hepatocytes. Conventional methods of obtaining hepatocytes cannot meet clinical demand because of the shortage of livers from which high quality hepatocytes can be isolated,
