NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


the limited supply of high-quality human hepatocytes. Conventional methods of obtaining hepatocytes cannot meet clinical demand because of the shortage of livers from which high quality hepatocytes can be isolated, and hepatocytes are not easily maintained in culture for extended periods of time. The demand for human hepatocytes, therefore, heavily outweighs their availability. Hence, some investigators have made immortalized human hepatocytes via spontaneous transformation; telomerase constructs introduction, or retroviral transfection. To date the C3A line, a subclone of the HepG2 hepatoblastoma cell line, is the only human- based cell line that has been tested clinically in a bioartificial liver device named ELAD™ (31–33). These clinical studies have suggested safety as no evidence of C3A cell transmission has ever been reported. Of some concern, C3A cells demonstrate reduced levels of ammonia detoxification and urea cycle activity, P450 activity, and amino acid metabolism when compared to adult porcine hepatocytes (34). Reduced ammonia removal by immortalized C3A hepatocytes appears to be due to reduced expression of its urea cycle genes (35). To enhance their ammonia detoxification activity, the glutamine synthetase gene was transfected into C3A cells and transfected cells showed higher ammonia removal Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript of immortalized cell lines such as C3A have been limited to extracorporeal devices which possess a membrane to block cell spread to the patient. Of note, a pivotal randomized trial of the ELAD device is ongoing at the time of publication of this review. Immortalized Hepatocyte Lines from Normal Human Hepatocytes In an attempt to bypass the limitations associated with tumor cells derived from immortalized human hepatocytes, researchers have tried to immortalize hepatocytes from non-tumor derived hepatocytes. Chen et al transplanted immortalized human fetal hepatocytes (HepCL cells) to prevent ALF in 90% hepatectomized mice. They demonstrated that HepCL cells functioned similar to primary human fetal hepatocytes and showed no tumorigenicity; suggested superiority of HepCL to HepG2 cells with regard to metabolic support during ALF (37). The immortalized human hepatocytes from non-tumor derived hepatocytes may also be useful as a potential source of liver support in bioartificial liver systems. Xenotransplantation with Primary Pig Hepatocytes Due to the shortage of human hepatocytes for cell therapies, xenogeneic cells have also been considered as a potential cell source for bioartificial liver systems and for treating liver disease. Primary porcine hepatocytes have been used in several
