NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


cell therapies, xenogeneic cells have also been considered as a potential cell source for bioartificial liver systems and for treating liver disease. Primary porcine hepatocytes have been used in several liver support devices hepatocytes maintain hepatocyte-specific metabolic function including ammonia detoxification (38). However, concerns of porcine hepatocyte usage are the risk of humoral and cellular immunologic response (39) and potential function mismatch between porcine hepatocyte-released proteins and their human counterparts. Transmission of porcine endogenous retrovirus from pig cell to human patient is a potential risk during pig cell therapy. However, no such transmission was identified in a extensive examination of human tissues from pig cell therapies (40). Stem Cells Recent advances in cell biology have led to the concept of regenerative medicine, based on the therapeutic potential of stem cells. Stem cells, which are hallmarked by their ability to self-renew and differentiate into a wide variety of cell types, have been proposed as an ideal cell source to generate unlimited numbers of hepatocytes as illustrated in Figure 1. Different types of stem cells are theoretically eligible for liver cell replacement. Liver Stem Cells A large number of studies have utilized liver-derived stem cells including fetal liver stem cells and adult liver stem cells to generate primary hepatocytes (41, 42). Fetal liver stem cells, also named “hepatoblasts”, appear upon differentiation of the hepatic endoderm and growth of the liver bud. Hepatoblasts are bipotent, being able to give rise to both hepatocytes and bile duct cells. Murine hepatoblast cell lines have been established by various research groups, and their capacity to repopulate the liver upon transplantation is well studied in animal models (41). Weber et al reported that human fetal liver cells can be isolated and cultured (43). These cells also engraft and differentiate into mature hepatocytes in situ after transplantation into immunodeficient mice. The adult liver has a particularly extensive regenerative potential in response to injury and parenchymal loss, mainly granted by mature hepatocytes. However, whenever the replication ability of hepatocytes is experimentally inhibited or impaired by advanced chronic injury, liver regeneration can still be accomplished by the activation, expansion, and Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript differentiation of the so-called “hepatic progenitor/stem cells”. Oval cells represent the majority of these hepatic progenitor cells. Like hepatoblasts, oval cells are also bipotent (42). Although there have been great advances
