NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


of the so-called “hepatic progenitor/stem cells”. Oval cells represent the majority of these hepatic progenitor cells. Like hepatoblasts, oval cells are also bipotent (42). Although there have been great advances in liver stem cell biology, these cells are rare within liver tissue as hepatoblasts only comprise about 0.1% of fetal liver mass, and oval cells comprise 0.3% – 0.7% of adult liver mass making isolation of both difficult and expansion unfavorable for large-scale applications (44, 45). Hepatocyte-like Cells from Bone Marrow-derived Stem Cells In the last decade, a series of studies suggested that cells derived from the bone marrow could originate hepatocytes. At least four different bone marrow-derived cell populations have been described: hematopoietic stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells, multipotent adult progenitor cells and very small embryonic-like cells. Transplantation of non-liver stem cells, such as bone marrow-derived stem cells, has also demonstrated the feasibility of generating functioning hepatocytes. Hong Li et al demonstrated that adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells can be transduced by recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors, engrafted into recipient livers, contribute to liver regeneration, and serve as a platform for transgene expression without eliciting an immune response (46). Mesenchymal stem cells are rare multipotent residents of the bone marrow and other tissues, such as adipose tissue, that can rapidly expand in culture and are able to develop into several tissue types. Mesenchymal stem cells might become a more suitable source for stem cell-based therapies than hematopoietic stem cells because of their favorable immunological properties, ease of access, and their potential for trans-differentiation. Hepatocyte-like cells from Annex Stem Cells Another promising source of human stem cells may be human placental tissues, which contain cells of higher proliferation and differentiation potential than adult stem cells and do not seem to form teratomas or teratocarcinomas in humans. Several studies indicated that umbilical cord and umbilical cord blood, placenta and amniotic fluid are an easily accessible source of pluripotent stem cells, which may be readily available for transplantation, or for further expansion and manipulation prior to cell therapies. Using flow cytometry, histology, immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR for human hepatic markers to monitor human cell engraftment into animals, Piscaglia demonstrated that human umbilical cord blood stem cells could colonize the liver and differentiate into hepatocytes after acute toxic liver damage in NOD/SCID mice and in immunocompetent rats (47, 48). Hepatocyte-like cells from Embryonic Stem Cells Other studies have induced embryonic stem cells to differentiate into
