NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


after acute toxic liver damage in NOD/SCID mice and in immunocompetent rats (47, 48). Hepatocyte-like cells from Embryonic Stem Cells Other studies have induced embryonic stem cells to differentiate into hepatocyte-like cells. So far, many promising studies have shown the therapeutic potential of differentiated derivatives of embryonic stem cells in ameliorating a range of disease in animal models. These derivatives are able to colonize the injured liver and function as mature hepatocytes (41). Hepatocyte-like Cells from iPS Cells Human iPS cells could prove to be an unlimited source of hepatocytes. For clinical application, the all-autologous setting seems to be the most promising approach. Because iPS cells can bypass the ethical concerns of embryo destruction related to the derivation of embryonic stem cells and potential issues of allogenic rejection, iPS cells may represent a more ideal source to produce patient-specific and disease-specific adult cells for future clinical applications. Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Hepatocyte-like cells generated from iPS cells have been shown to secrete human albumin, synthesize urea, and express human cytochrome P450 enzymes, which could represent a very promising cell population for future therapeutic transplantation (49). Differentiated cell types produced from a patient’s iPS cells have many potential therapeutic applications, including their use in tissue replacement and gene therapy. Investigators have recently reported that iPS cells can treat type 1 diabetes and several inherited liver diseases (50). Transplantation of hepatocytes derived from human iPS cells could represent an alternative either to liver transplantation in ALF, or for the correction of genetic disorders resulting in metabolically deficient states. Hepatocyte-like Cells from Other Sources Several efforts have been made to generate hepatocyte-like cells from other sources, such as monocyte-derived hepatocyte-like cells. Ehnert et al demonstrated that transplantation of hepatocyte-like cells derived from peripheral blood monocyte may represent a possible therapy for patients suffering from acute or acute-on-chronic liver disease bridging the time for whole organ transplantation or supporting the regeneration of the liver (51). Expansion Options of Primary Hepatocyte Although other cell types have shown promise as alternatives to primary hepatocytes, primary hepatocytes continue as the dominant source of cells for liver cell therapy. Unfortunately, isolated primary hepatocytes show little proliferation capacity ex vivo no matter which architectural configuration is employed, and the most significant problem with cultured hepatocytes is that they rapidly lose their differentiated structures and
