NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


show little proliferation capacity ex vivo no matter which architectural configuration is employed, and the most significant problem with cultured hepatocytes is that they rapidly lose their differentiated structures and liver-specific functions following isolation. Therefore, research into the most effective culture method for primary hepatocytes continues. Small Scale: in vitro Primary Hepatocyte Culture Techniques The most common primary hepatocyte culture technique is to seed the cells as a single layer on collagen gel-coated dishes in conditioned medium. When primary hepatocytes are cultured on a single collagen layer, they produce albumin and urea, and show cytochrome P450 activity, but their liver-specific functions steadily decline within the first week of culture. To mimic the matrix surrounding the hepatocytes in the sinusoid, a second layer of collagen was added on top of the cultured hepatocytes, termed a collagen “sandwich” configuration. This scheme maintains hepatocyte function, polarity and induces distinct apical and lateral membrane formation (52). In an effort to recreate the interactions between parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells, several liver non-parenchymal cells such as fibroblasts, stellate cells, Kupffer cells, and endothelial cells have been co-cultured with hepatocytes and showed remarkable liver-like structure and function (53). Morin et al have shown that parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells self-organize in roller bottles to form simple epithelial structures consisting of an outer layer of biliary epithelial cells, a middle layer of hepatocytes and connective tissue, and an inner layer of endothelial cells (54). Large Scale: Bioreactor Options for Cell Culture Generating a system for culturing large numbers of hepatocytes may be required for clinical applications such as the development of a bioartificial liver or hepatic tissue engineering. The bioartificial liver is designed for use either prior to liver transplantation, until recovery of the native liver, or as a chronic supportive therapy. The bioartificial liver functions outside of the patient’s body similar to hemodialysis in the treatment of kidney failure, but is unique in that it contains metabolically active liver cells (i. e., hepatocytes) that provide liver Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript functions to the patient. Hepatocytes are the functional component of bioartificial liver. BAL design configurations include flat-plate membrane, the hollow fiber cartridge, encapsulation technology, and cell aggregates, such as spheroids, either attached to a support or in suspension culture (55). Flat Membrane Culture Systems The use of a flat membrane bioreactor allows for
