NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


technology, and cell aggregates, such as spheroids, either attached to a support or in suspension culture (55). Flat Membrane Culture Systems The use of a flat membrane bioreactor allows for control of the internal flow distribution and perfusion of all hepatocytes under a stable oxygen and hormone gradient in vitro. Hepatocytes cultured using this technique demonstrated specific in vivo zonal differentiation characteristics such as the expressions of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the upstream oxygen-rich region, and cyp2B in the downstream oxygen-poor region. Recently, this system was applied to study the effects of acetaminophen toxicity on metabolically zonated hepatocytes (56). Hollow Fiber System Most bioartificial liver devices tested clinically employ hollow fiber cartridges containing either porcine or human hepatocytes. The hollow fiber cartridge provides a large surface area for mass transfer of waste molecules from the patient to hepatocytes in the bioartificial liver. The hollow fibers also serve as a semipermeable barrier to separate cells in these devices from cytotoxic proteins and cells in the patient’s blood. Most cell-based ex vivo devices require an oxygenator membrane in the flow circuit to meet the cell’s large demand for oxygen. Nyberg et al. utilized a device where hepatocytes in a supporting matrix are seeded in the intrafiber space of hollow fibers allowing for oxygenated plasma to flow over the outer surface of the fibers (57). This technology is being used to culture other cell types, including mesenchymal stem cells, embryonic stem cells, and also stem cells in various stages of hepatic differentiation (58). Encapsulation Technology Hepatocyte microencapsulation techniques within synthetic semipermeable membranes have been developed to provide physical separation and protection of xenogeneic cells from the recipient’s immune system within a support system. In theory, the biomaterial excludes high molecular weight components of the immune system while allowing free passage of low molecular weight nutrients and oxygen across the semipermeable membranes (59, 60). Spherical Aggregate Culture Systems Hepatocyte spheroids, spherical multi-cellular aggregates of hepatocytes measuring greater than 50μm in diameter, provide a useful 3-dimensional tissue construct for cell transplantation and for use in a BAL. Several methods are employed for spheroid formation from mammalian hepatocytes, such as culturing hepatocytes on non-adherent plastic surfaces for self assembly (61), or rotational culture via spinner flasks (62). More recently, Nyberg et al reported preliminary observations that hepatocytes form spheroids spontaneously when rocked in suspension culture (63). Hepatic spheroids as well as encapsulated hepatocyte aggregates can be maintained
