NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


More recently, Nyberg et al reported preliminary observations that hepatocytes form spheroids spontaneously when rocked in suspension culture (63). Hepatic spheroids as well as encapsulated hepatocyte aggregates can be maintained in suspension culture at high cell density under oxygenated bioreactor conditions. Suspension culture systems can be easily scaled up to cell mass levels appropriate to sustain the patient’s life. In vivo Incubators: humanized animal liver As stated earlier, a large demand exists for an abundant, routinely available, high quality source of human hepatocytes for therapeutic and diagnostic applications. To meet this Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript demand, in vivo (i.e., animal) models were proposed for expanding primary human hepatocytes. However, engraftment of human hepatocytes after transplantation into animals was very low, only corresponding to about 0.5% of the recipient liver mass under normal conditions. Various approaches have been employed to improve engraftment of human hepatocyte in animal models. Repeated hepatocyte transplantation has been shown to increase the number of engrafted cells above 5%, a level sufficient to correct some metabolic defects. Primary adult hepatocytes lose function and viability following isolation and culture, and have limited proliferation potential in vitro. Yet hepatocytes have a remarkable regenerative capacity in vivo. Based on the in vivo properties of hepatocytes, animal models have been developed with the specific intent of selective expansion of transplanted human hepatocytes. One such model is the immunodeficient urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) transgenic mouse (64), in which an Alb promoter directs high- level toxic expression of uPA. The hepatotoxicity in this model creates a permissive environment for the expansion of transplanted hepatocytes, which undergo greater than 12 cell divisions on average. Azuma et al introduced another method whereby primary human hepatocytes were efficiently expanded to near complete (>90%) hepatocyte replacement in livers of mice triply mutant for fumaryl acetoacetate hydrolase (Fah), Rag2, and the common γ-chain of the interleukin receptor. In the absence of the protective drug 2- (2- nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedione (NTBC) (65), the native mouse hepatocytes die while transplanted human hepatocytes expand. The unique capacity of expansion of primary human hepatocytes in this model is based on two essential features: extensive and continuous liver injury, and a strong selective advantage for the transplanted cells to survive as compared to the host cells. However, a limitation in the repopulated of FAH-deficient mouse is related to the absolute
