NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


a strong selective advantage for the transplanted cells to survive as compared to the host cells. However, a limitation in the repopulated of FAH-deficient mouse is related to the absolute number of primary human hepatocytes that can be obtained. Thus, an alternative to mice for large-scale expansion of primary human hepatocytes would be a FAH-deficient pig (66). Pigs offer a 1000-fold scale-up in the potential for expansion of primary human hepatocytes. The strategy that we have used for cloning and herd development of heterozygote and homozygote Fah-null pigs is illustrated in Figure 2. Perfusion of Decellularized Liver Matrix and Hepatocytes Recent progress in hepatic tissue engineering has been hampered by low initial hepatocyte engraftment and insufficient blood supply in vivo. Uygun et al (67) demonstrated a novel approach to generate transplantable liver grafts using decellularized liver matrix. The decellularization process preserves the structural and functional characteristics of the native microvascular network, allowing efficient recellularization of the liver matrix with adult hepatocytes. The recellularized graft supports liver-specific function including albumin secretion, urea synthesis and cytochrome P450 expression at comparable levels to normal liver in vitro. Recellularized liver grafts have been perfused with minimal ischemic damage after transplantation into rats (68). Bao et al developed an intact 3D scaffold of an extracellular matrix derived from a decellularized liver lobe, repopulated with hepatocytes and successfully implanted this tissue construct into the portal system. The tissue-engineered liver provided sufficient volume for transplantation of cell numbers representing up to 10% of whole-liver equivalents. Treatment of extended hepatectomized rats with a tissue- engineered liver improved liver function and prolonged survival. These results provide a proof of principle for the generation of a transplantable liver graft as a potential treatment for liver disease. Cell Therapies for Liver Failure The potential indications for cell-based therapies are ALF, acute on chronic liver failure, and acute decompensation after liver resection. Acute on chronic liver failure is defined as an Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript acute deterioration of a chronic liver disease. Pareja et al have demonstrated that hepatocyte transplantation may decrease the mortality rate among patients with end-stage liver disease awaiting liver transplantation, or possibly even avoid it among cases of ALF (69). So far, a total of more than thirty cases of hepatocyte transplantation in children and adults have been reported. In addition to hepatocyte
