NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


avoid it among cases of ALF (69). So far, a total of more than thirty cases of hepatocyte transplantation in children and adults have been reported. In addition to hepatocyte transplantation for ALF treatment, Jin et al have suggested that bone marrow mononuclear cell transplantation combined with HGF administration also exhibits a synergistic beneficial effect on improving both functional and histological liver recovery in a mouse model of ALF (70). Moreover, stem cells including mesenchymal stem cells show promising roles in attenuating ALF. Parekkadan et al provide the first experimental evidence of the medicinal use of mesenchymal stem cells-derived molecules in the treatment of an inflammatory condition and support the role of chemokines and altered leukocyte migration as a novel therapeutic modality for ALF (71). Shi et al demonstrated that encapsulation of hepatocytes and mesenchymal stem cells improved hepatocyte-specific functions in vitro and in vivo and that transplantation of such cells might be a promising strategy for cell-based therapy for acute liver diseases (72). Another cell-based therapy for ALF is the bioartificial liver. The bioartificial liver system removes toxins by filtration or adsorption (artificial liver) while performing biotransformation and synthetic functions of biochemically active hepatocytes. Several improved configurations are under development (76, 77). Cell Therapies for Inherent Liver Diseases A major indication for hepatocyte transplantation is inherited metabolic liver diseases in children. Hepatocyte transplantation has been performed as a treatment for inherent liver diseases, either for bridging to whole organ transplantation or for long-term correction of the underlying metabolic deficiency (23). Some genetic diseases that have been treated by hepatocyte transplantation include familial hypercholesterolemia, Crigler–Najjar syndrome type I, glycogen storage disease type 1a, urea cycle defects and congenital deficiency of coagulation factor VII. Dhawan and Waelzlein have observed that the most encouraging outcomes of hepatocyte transplantation have been in patients with inborn errors of metabolism (78). Research regarding hepatocyte transplantation for inherent liver diseases is actively being pursued. In a thorough review, Flohr et al summarize the animal experiments using hepatocyte transplantation to treat inherent liver diseases (79). Development of iPS cells from adult somatic tissues may provide a unique approach to create patient and disease-specific treatment for inherent liver diseases. iPS-based cell therapies have been applied in several animal models of liver-based metabolic disorders, with encouraging results (80). An example of how to potentially individualize the treatment of inherited liver disease using iPS cell technologies is illustrated in Figure
