NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


models of liver-based metabolic disorders, with encouraging results (80). An example of how to potentially individualize the treatment of inherited liver disease using iPS cell technologies is illustrated in Figure 3. Cell Therapies for Non-inherent Liver Diseases Cell therapy for Hepatitis Fernandez-Ruiz et al reported that genetic engineering of endothelial progenitor cells to overexpress cytokine cardiotrophin-1 enhances the hepatoprotective properties of endothelial progenitor cells and constitutes a therapy that deserves consideration for fulminant hepatitis (81). Longhi and Protzer used autoantigen-specific regulatory T cells (Tregs) and engineered “designer” T cells, respectively, as a potential tool for immune- tolerance reconstitution in type-2 autoimmune hepatitis and chronic hepatitis B (82). Farag et al demonstrated that vaccination with ex vivo activated dendritic cells may be a promising tool for therapeutic or prophylactic approaches against the Hepatitis B virus (83). Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Cell Therapy for Liver Cirrhosis Chronic liver disease is usually accompanied by progressive fibrosis. Paradoxically, the intravenous injection of bone marrow cells, particularly mesenchymal stem cells appears to be therapeutically useful to animals with ongoing hepatic damage. Phase I trials involving the injection of autologous bone marrow cells to cirrhotic patients have reported modest improvements in clinical scores (84). Terai et al reported an improvement in Child-Pugh score and albumin levels in 9 patients with cirrhosis, who received portal vein infusion of unsorted autologous mesenchymal stem cells (85). Also, a significant increase of liver function post liver resection has been documented in patients with cirrhosis pre-treated with autologous mesenchymal stem cells transplantation (86). Transplanted mesenchymal stem cells have been shown to improve insulin resistance thereby contributing to glucose homeostasis and amelioration of liver cirrhosis in rodent models of CCl4-induced liver disease (87). Autologous peripheral bone marrow cells transplantation has also been shown to be a novel and potentially beneficial treatment for patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis (88). Cell Therapy for Liver Cancer The possible therapeutic interest of bone marrow stem cells in liver cancer was first investigated in 2005 when autologous CD133+ bone marrow stem cells were transplanted via the portal vein in patients with liver cancer prior to undergoing portal venous embolization. Following embolization, these patients underwent extensive liver resection that caused a subsequent degree of clinical improvement (89). Fürst et al concluded that a combination of portal vein embolization and CD133+ bone marrow stem
