NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


patients underwent extensive liver resection that caused a subsequent degree of clinical improvement (89). Fürst et al concluded that a combination of portal vein embolization and CD133+ bone marrow stem cells administration increased the degree of hepatic regeneration in comparison with embolization alone in patients with malignant liver lesions (90). Similarly, patients with hepatocellular carcinoma first receiving autologous bone marrow stem cells experience a significant increase of liver function post liver resection (86). Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells transplantation produces a graft-versus-tumor effect in patients with solid tumors. The most optimal graft-versus-tumor effect was demonstrated in patients with advanced primary liver cancer who had previously undergone liver transplantation. Suppression of the tumor and its progression may be undertaken before and after stem cell transplantation combined with adjuvant cell therapies, as donor-derived immune cells allow the allogeneic graft-versus- tumor effect (91). There is no survival data currently. More clinical trials are needed to evaluate such issues in the future. Cell Therapy for Inducing Immunity Tolerance after liver transplantation Liver transplantation has evolved over the past four decades into the most effective method to treat end-stage liver failure. Despite this advancing evolution, liver transplantation has numerous limitations, including rejection. Although immunosuppressive drugs are highly effective in protecting allografts from acute rejection, the current immunosuppression targets all arms of the immune system. In addition to the high cost, immunosuppression has side effects that can worsen patient morbidity and mortality. Therefore, it is important to induce tolerance special to the donor antigen allowing for the avoidance of immunosuppression. A couple of alternatives to pharmacologic immunosuppression are described in the following paragraphs. 1. Regulatory T cels (Tregs)—Compelling evidence from animal transplant models and clinic data show that manipulating the balance between regulatory and responder T cells is a potentially effective strategy to control immune responsiveness after transplantation as Tregs play a critical role in promoting immunologic unresponsiveness to allogeneic organ transplants. CD4+CD25+ Tregs represent a subset of T cells without specific antigen Liver Transpl. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 January 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript stimulation that can suppress immune responses through a mechanism of cell-to-cell contact. Thus, CD4+CD25+ Tregs may have effects on both induction and maintenance of tolerance. Such studies could help to clarify whether the enhancement of Tregs also correlates with the immunologic features associated with clinical transplant tolerance (92). 2. Mesenchymal stem cells—Mesenchymal stem cells exert
