NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: liver, cells, hepatocytes, cell, stem, transplantation, stem cells, human, author manuscript, manuscript, author, hepatocyte, nih-pa, nih-pa author, therapy


Such studies could help to clarify whether the enhancement of Tregs also correlates with the immunologic features associated with clinical transplant tolerance (92). 2. Mesenchymal stem cells—Mesenchymal stem cells exert strong immunosuppressive effects including the suppression of B, T, and NK cell activity, the complement pathway, and the differentiation and maturation of dendritic cells - the most important antigen- processing cells. Mesenchymal stem cells also exert a profound inhibitory effect on T-cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, a major breakthrough recently was the discovery that mesenchymal stem cells induce the generation of Tregs both in vivo and in vitro (93–95). Cell Therapy for Liver Regeneration Living donor liver transplantation has been developed to increase the number of donor livers. However, living donor liver transplantation makes use of small-for-size liver transplantation. Thus, small-for-size liver transplantation makes use of size mismatched grafts that may not compensate for the recipient’s required level of liver function. The size of the graft in small-for-size liver transplantation has an inverse relationship to the degree of non-function. Poorly functioning grafts show delayed and impaired regeneration, which frequently leads to liver failure. Therefore, immediate regeneration of the mismatched graft is required in living donor liver transplantation. Current work has established the feasibility of using iPS cells generated in a clinically acceptable fashion for rapid and stable liver regeneration (96). Similarly, mesenchymal stem cell-based therapies may provide a novel approach for hepatic regeneration and hepatocyte differentiation and thereby support hepatic function in diseased individuals (97). Conclusions Despite notable achievements of hepatocyte transplantation and bioartificial liver therapy in treating various liver diseases, either as a bridge to transplantation or to allow recovery without transplantation, the limited supply of primary human hepatocytes remains a major barrier to successful expansion of liver cell therapies. Stem cells are promising tools for the treatment of many liver diseases and to the service of regenerative medicine. However, the in vivo functionality of stem cells-derived hepatocyte-like cells is largely unknown. Normal differentiation of iPS cells to hepatocyte-like cells and on to mature hepatocytes has yet to be reported. It is likely that normal and complete differentiation of liver progenitor cells to mature hepatocytes requires an in vivo milieu. Moreover, critical aspects need to be addressed including the long-term safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of engraftment of primary hepatocytes and stem cells in diseased human livers. Efficacy of novel cell-based treatments must be established in clinical
