www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: cancer, studies, colorectal, hepatocellular, colorectal cancer, carcinoma, il-, hepatocellular carcinoma, polymorphisms, polymorphism, yes, gene, population, il- gene, retrospective


T and −1082G > A polymorphisms in IL-10 gene with colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma under the allelic model. Influential analysis. For three studied polymorphisms in IL-10 gene associated with colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma, influential analyses confirmed the overall changes in direction and magnitude under both allelic and dominant models. Meta-regression analysis. By modeling age, gender, smoking, drinking and family history of cancer, HBV and HCV (HBV and HCV for hepatocellular carcinoma only), the meta-regression analyses failed to detect any positive signals for three studied polymorphisms in association with both colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma under both allelic and dominant models (Supplementary Table S1). Publication bias. As weighed by the Egger’s test, there was a low probability of publication bias for three studied polymorphisms, except for − 1082G > A polymorphism in association with hepatocellular carcinoma under the allelic model (Egger’s test: P = 0.042). As estimated by the trim-and-fill method, no missing studies were required to make the filled funnel plots symmetrical for three studied polymorphisms under both allelic (Fig. 5) and dominant (Fig. 6) models. Discussion Through a comprehensive meta-analysis of three promoter polymorphisms in IL-10 gene with colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma, we found that the − 592C > A polymorphism might be a susceptibility locus for colorectal cancer in East Asians. Besides ethnic heterogeneity, study design might be another potential source of clinical heterogeneity for the association between − 592C > A polymorphism and colorectal cancer. To our knowledge, this is so far the largest meta-analysis that has evaluated IL-10 gene multiple promoter polymor- phisms with colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma risk. Differing from the findings of previous meta-analysis by Zhang et al. who enrolled subjects of only Caucasian descent14, we observed a significant association of − 592C > A polymorphism with colorectal cancer in East Asians rather than in Caucasians. One possible reason for this failed confirmation in Caucasians might be the enlarged sample size, as the contrast of 3938 cases and 6192 controls in the current meta-analysis with 1469 cases and 2566 controls in the meta-analysis by Zhang et al.14. Another possible reason might be the confounding impact of source of controls since after restricting analysis to population-based studies, significance was detected in the meta-analysis by Zhang et al.14 but not in the current meta-analysis. However, a note of caution should be sounded for the significant association of − 592C > A polymorphism
