www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: cancer, studies, colorectal, hepatocellular, colorectal cancer, carcinoma, il-, hepatocellular carcinoma, polymorphisms, polymorphism, yes, gene, population, il- gene, retrospective


the meta-analysis by Zhang et al.14 but not in the current meta-analysis. However, a note of caution should be sounded for the significant association of − 592C > A polymorphism with colorectal cancer in East Asians in this study since only two studies are available for analysis11,41 and a possible chance of publication bias cannot be excluded, albeit no evidence of between-study heterogeneity observed. A large-scale study in East Asian popula- tions is thereby required to confirm this preliminary finding. Through exhaustive data explorations, there is no hint of significance for the association of three studied polymorphisms in IL-10 gene with hepatocellular carcinoma in this meta-analysis, inconsistent with the findings of the previous meta-analysis by Wei et al.15, as they observed a susceptible role of − 592C > A polymorphism in hepatocellular carcinogenesis by pooling individual effect-size estimates of four Asian populations. In contrast to the 7 East Asian populations12,21,22,24,25,28,38,39 in this meta-analysis, our findings didn’t lend any credence to this susceptible role. Besides the enhanced statistical power in this meta-analysis, it might be the confounding impact of unaccounted heterogeneity in East Asians (I2 = 37.2% in contrast to 0.0% in Wei et al’s meta-analysis15). Scientific RepoRts | 6:30809 | DOI: 9 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Figure 6. Filled funnel plots of the −592C > A, −819C > T and −1082G > A polymorphisms in IL-10 gene with colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma under the dominant model. Moreover, as a corroboration of our negative findings, the association magnitude between − 592C > A polymor- phism and hepatocellular carcinoma risk was identical between the small and the large studies in our stratified analysis. Nevertheless, in spite of the negative findings in this study, it does not mean that the three studied polymorphisms in IL-10 gene are not biologically functional, and it is possible that the relative risk attributable to a single allele is small42. To yield statistically reliable evidence, further studies incorporating a wide range of candidate genes responsible for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma are required to get a clear picture of its underlying genetic architecture. Finally, some possible limitations need to be acknowledged when interpreting and extrapolating our meta-analytical findings. First, our literature retrieval was only limited to articles published in English, and doing so might introduce a selection bias43. However, the Egger’s test and the filled funnel plots for three studied pol- ymorphisms indicated no evidence of publication bias in this
