Sokhanvari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:850 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: bla, colistin, bla bla, patient, crkp, oxa-, pneumoniae, klebsiella, infection, genes, ndm, patients, case, resistance, resistant


infectious million IU every 12 h) and nebulizer (1 million IU every specialist with the suspicion of nosocomial infection. On 12 h). The patient was continued on colistin for 14 days. the 12th day of his ICU stay, the patient was successfully Also, simultaneously with the administration of colistin, extubated. He developed fever (39.5°C) and leukocyto- rifampin (10 mg/kg once daily, 10 days) was also started sis (18,200 per µL) on the 23rd day, and blood and urine for the patient. Two days after the duration of treatment were obtained for microbiological culture. with colistin, a TC culture was sent from the patient, On day 26 of his ICU stay, the urine culture showed which was negative. The patient was discharged from the heavy growth of CRKP isolate (minimum inhibitory con- hospital on day 46. centrations [MICs] 16 and 2 μg/ml for meropenem and colistin, respectively) that was also resistant to piperacil- Materials and Methods lin/tazobactam, ceftazidime, cefepime, amikacin, gen- Antimicrobial susceptibility testing tamicin, ciprofloxacin, and levofloxacin. After acquiring The antibiotic susceptibility of two K. pneumoniae iso- susceptibility results, the combination antibiotic ther- lates was determined by Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion assay apy was adjusted to colistin (9 million IU) divided into according to Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute two daily doses and meropenem (1 g IV every 8 h). The guidelines . Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) patient was continued on meropenem and colistin for against meropenem and colistin (Sigma Aldrich Chemi- on day 33. broth method. Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 was used as quality control. Case 2 String test On May 16, 2021, a 39-year-old woman with a history of String test was performed on the blood culture to iden- multiple sclerosis (MS) and psychiatric illness presented tify the hypermucoviscous phenotype, and a positive to the emergency department with complaints of pro- result was defined by the formation of viscous strings > 5 gressive decrease in consciousness, weakness, arthralgia, mm in length . abdominal distension, and tenderness in the right lower quadrant and left lower quadrant. Molecular detection of carbapenemase and ESBL‑encoding The patient underwent surgery for necrosis and gan- genes grene of the small bowel, specifically a resection and The presence of ESBLs genes (bla , bla , bla ) CTX-M TEM SHV ileostomy on May 16th. Due to positive findings on and carbapenemases (bla , bla , bla , bla and KPC VIM IMP NDM High-Resolution Computed Tomography, there
