Sokhanvari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:850 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: bla, colistin, bla bla, patient, crkp, oxa-, pneumoniae, klebsiella, infection, genes, ndm, patients, case, resistance, resistant


CTX-M TEM SHV ileostomy on May 16th. Due to positive findings on and carbapenemases (bla , bla , bla , bla and KPC VIM IMP NDM High-Resolution Computed Tomography, there was sus- bla ) genes were investigated by polymerase chain OXA-48 picion of COVID-19 pneumonia (Covid PCR negative). reaction (PCR) as previously described . Pathological findings were also observed on brain CT, and the patient received treatment with remdesivir and Determination of capsular serotypes, virulence Genes methylprednisolone. The genotypes of capsular serotype in K1, K2, K5, K20, During the hospitalization, the patient was empiri- K54, and K57 and virulence-associated genes, includ- cally treated with a full course of piperacillin/tazobactam ing iucA, peg-344, iutA, iroB, magA, rmpA and alls. were (3.375 g IV every 6 h), metronidazole (400 mg IV every determined using PCR . setalosi ainomuenp .K tnatsiser-menepabrac owt eht fo scitsiretcarahc cimoneg dna lacigoloiborciM elbaT fo CIM elfiorp ecnatsiseR seneg esamatcal‑β TSLM seneg ecneluriV raluspaC tset gnirtS nemicepS sniartS stneitaP /gµ( slaiborcimitna epytores )lm LOC MEM TIN ,VEL ,PIC ,MG ,MA ,ZTP ,MPC ,ZAC , alb , alb , alb 61TS geN geN evitageN enirU 1ON 1-esaC VHS MET M-XTC alb , alb ekil-84-AXO MDN < ≥ VEL ,PIC ,MG ,MA ,ZTP ,MPC ,ZAC alb , alb , alb 733TS Apmr ,2Apmr ,Acui 2K evitisoP laehcarT 2ON 2-esaC ekil-84-AXO MDN VHS niotnarufortin TIN ,nicaxoflovel VEL ,nicaxoflorpic PIC ,nicimatneg MG ,nicakima MA ,matcabozat/nillicarepip ZTP ,emipefec MPC ,emidizatfec ZAC ,nitsiloc LOC ,meneporem MEM ,evitagen geN Multilocus sequence typing genes such as bla bla , and bla . Similar to CTX-M, NDM OXA-48 A multilocus sequence typing (MLST) analysis of the a previous report in Thailand , hypervirulence genes isolated strains was performed with PCR amplification, (iucA, peg-344, iutA, iroB, magA, rmpA and alls) were as previously described. House-keeping genes, includ- not identified in the ST16 isolate in the current study. ing gapA, infB, mdh, pgi, phoE, rpoB, and tonB, were This strain was phenotypically intermediate to colistin sequenced and compared with the MLST allele profiles with a MIC value of 2 µg/ml, according to the CLSI rec- available at http:// www. paste ur. fr/ mlst. ommendations. Since the physician had no choice but to use colistin, a combination treatment experimentally of Results meropenem (without determining the MIC) with colistin In this study, both patients were admitted to a shared ICU was started for the patient’s UTI. lates were remarkably resistant to
