Sokhanvari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:850 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: bla, colistin, bla bla, patient, crkp, oxa-, pneumoniae, klebsiella, infection, genes, ndm, patients, case, resistance, resistant


Results meropenem (without determining the MIC) with colistin In this study, both patients were admitted to a shared ICU was started for the patient’s UTI. lates were remarkably resistant to almost all tested anti- ered from the TC sample of case 2 was positive for vir- microbial agents. The MIC results showed that the NO1 ulence-determinant genes iucA, rmpA2 and rmpA and isolate was intermediate to colistin and the NO2 isolate capsular genes of K2 corresponding to invasive K. pneu- was susceptible. Also, both isolates were reported to be moniae ST337 clone producing bla and bla . NDM OXA-48like susceptible to tigecycline. Analysis of resistance deter- The outbreak of bla -carrying ST337 CRKP was NDM-5 minants revealed that NO1 isolate carried the bla , identified from neonates in previous studies , how- NDM bla , bla , bla , bla while NO2 isolate ever, no report has described NDM-1 and OXA-48-pro- OXA-48-like CTX-M TEM SHV was positive for bla , bla , bla . ducing CRKP ST337 clone. This is the first identification of NDM OXA-48-like SHV MLST analysis showed that NO1 and NO2 strains harbouring bla and bla CRKP strain belong- NDM OXA-48-like belonged to ST16 and ST337, respectively. Only, ST337 ing to hypervirulent ST337. This highlights that CRKP iso- isolate demonstrated hypermucoviscosity by string lates with bla and bla genes continue to be a NDM OXA-48-like length > 5 mm in the string test. The serotype of the cap- problem in Iran, especially in VAP in ICUs. In this study, sule was K2. This strain was positive for virulence genes case 2 was intubated twice which can cause lung infection. iucA, rmpA2 and rmpA. ST16 strain was negative for vir- According to a previous study, reintubation is associated ulence and capsular serotype genes. with increases in the likelihood of VAP . In this study, the first patient was treated with the com- Discussion bination of colistin plus meropenem, while the second CRKP is one of the most common carbapenem-resistant patient was treated with the combination of colistin plus Gram-negative pathogens associated with clinical infec- rifampin. Previous studies have shown that colistin combi- tions such as ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), nation therapy with other antibiotics has the potential as a urinary tract infection (UTI) and wound infection in the treatment option for infection with CRKP. Therefore, colis- healthcare setting . Colistin is one of the last resort tin-meropenem combination may
