Sokhanvari et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:850 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: bla, colistin, bla bla, patient, crkp, oxa-, pneumoniae, klebsiella, infection, genes, ndm, patients, case, resistance, resistant


urinary tract infection (UTI) and wound infection in the treatment option for infection with CRKP. Therefore, colis- healthcare setting . Colistin is one of the last resort tin-meropenem combination may be an appropriate option antimicrobial agents for the treatment of infections if the MIC is ≤ 32 mg/L . According to previous caused by these pathogens. However, worldwide rates reports in Iran, there is a possibility that NDM-1 and OXA- of colistin resistance varied between 2.8 and 10.5% for 48-producing CRKP ST337 clone may be a new clone in K. pneumonia over the last decade . In Iran, because our country. While ST16 has been previously reported in the only choice for treating patients infected with these Iran and seems to be an endemic strain in Iran, it should be strains in most hospitals is colistin there is a concern noted that our previous study showed that clone ST16 is a that the rate of resistance to this antibiotic will increase high-risk endemic clone in our hospital . very quickly. In recent years, there has been an increase Considering the prevalence of carbapenemases in in Enterobacterales that co-produce two or more types both isolates it is expected that both strains were resist- of carbapenemases, and this poses a much greater public ant to the β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitor combinations. of isolate with two carbapenemases is frequent, especially but a limitation of our study is not having tested these among CRKP isolates . The increase in the preva- antibiotics. lence of carbapenemase-producing isolates may lead to This study has some limitations. First, due to the limited the need to use more colistin in our country. capacity of the laboratory and lack of budget, we could In previous studies the spread of CRKP ST16 co-har- not use techniques such as whole-genome sequencing for boring both bla and bla has been reported, further genomic investigations. Second, due to the lack of NDM-1 OXA-48 calling for careful monitoring of these highly resistant innovative β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitor combinations clones . Consistent with our research, ST16 K. discs in Iran, we could not check the antibiotic resistance pneumoniae often carried ESBL and carbapenemase profile of these drugs for CRKP isolates. In conclusion, to the best of our knowledge, this hypervirulence-associated determinants, and resistance mechanisms. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2017;7:483. case is the first report of K2-ST337 hvKP coproducing 3. Shen P, Berglund B, Chen Y, Zhou Y, Xiao T,
