Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


Loss of Vision and Hearing Joseph Cook, Kevin D. Frick, Rob Baltussen, Serge Resnikoff, Andrew Smith, Jeffrey Mecaskey, and Peter Kilima Although the loss of vision and hearing has multiple causes, account uncorrected refractive errors,but this change has not and the burden ofthese diseases is complex,three major points yet been approved. emerge from the outset: The major causes of adult-onset blindness are cataract (47.8percent),glaucoma (12.3 percent),macular degeneration • Impairments of the essential senses of vision and hearing (8.7 percent), diabetic retinopathy (4.8 percent), trachoma contribute to early demise and are important causes ofmor- (3.6 percent), and onchocerciasis (0.8 percent). Uncorrected bidity for individuals who are blind or deaf. refractive errors are also a major cause ofmorbidity related to • Cost-effective interventions are available to address several vision,but this type of disability is not included in the global causes ofthese burdens now. burden ofdisease by definition.It has been estimated to be on • The number of cost-effectiveness analyses of interventions the order of15 percent ofthe total blind population and could to preserve hearing or vision in developing countries is quite add 50 percent to the low-vision population. However, there limited. are no published data to do more than speculate. The major causes of childhood vision loss have marked Table 50.1 summarizes the conditions causing the sensory regional variations.They include vitamin A deficiency (xeroph- deficits, the proposed interventions and sites of delivery, and thalmia) and ophthalmia neonatorum in low-income coun- the cost and effectiveness ofthese interventions to the extent of tries,retinopathy of prematurity and hereditary conditions in current knowledge.Earlier work by Evans and others (1996) in middle-income countries, and congenital cataract and glau- Myanmar does not appear because the cost data are quite old coma everywhere. Table 50.3 shows the estimated number of and because the cost-effectiveness data were in dollars per case blind persons worldwide in 2002. ofblindness averted rather than dollars per disability-adjusted Vision loss is chronic and,almost invariably,without remis- life year (DALY) averted,which the latest information provides. sion.The extent ofmorbidity is related to the level ofalteration ofvision function.However,80 percent ofcases are avoidable, either through treatment (cataract and refractive errors) or NATURE, CAUSES, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY through primary prevention (onchocerciasis,trachoma,glau- OFVISION LOSS coma, and diabetic retinopathy). Strictly speaking, blindness attributable to glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy can be pre- Table 50.2 provides definitions of visual impairment, vented. However, prevention depends on the availability of a blindness, and low vision according to the
