Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


averted for all regions studied.Targeted treatment with Cataract. Surgery to remove the opacified lens is the only antibiotics (be it on the basis ofazithromycin or tetracycline) is effective treatment for cataracts.Neither diet nor medications not cost-effective, and mass treatment of all children (not have been shown to stop cataract formation.There are several entire communities) is cost-effective only when azithromycin is possible approaches for the surgical extraction of cataracts. donated.In Myanmar,tetracycline has been shown to be mod- Intracapsular cataract extraction using aphakic glasses is a erately cost-effective (Evans and others 1996). Cost-effective- technique by which the whole lens is removed from the eye. ness studies are not available on mass treatment ofentire com- After surgery, special eyeglasses are provided to patients to munities, the approach now most commonly in use with restore sight. A disadvantage of this intervention is the non- donated azithromycin.Recent studies by Solomon and others compliance ofpeople who need to wear glasses,which has been (2004) report a 70 percent fall in prevalence in an area in found to be between 18 and 73 percent.Although this behavior Tanzania; moreover, the total community burden of ocular may be characterized as noncompliance, it must be said that Chlamydia trachomatis infection (measured by polymerase some programs do not provide glasses or provide aphakic chain reaction)fell to 8.7 percent of pretreatment levels at six glasses of inferior quality. Also, replacing needed aphakic months after treatment. Additionally, Chidambaram and glasses is impossible for some patients.It is also true that apha- others (2004) have demonstrated that,after mass azithromycin kic glasses cause tremendous distortions in vision,thus impair- treatment of a population in Ethiopia, an indirect protective ing compliance. effect occurred among untreated children who resided in vil- In extracapsular cataract extraction with implantation of a lages in which most individuals had been treated.As noted in posterior chamber intraocular lens,the lens and the front por- table 50.1, greater efficacy of azithromycin than that used to tion ofthe capsule are removed and then replaced with an arti- calculate cost-effectiveness ofmass treatment ofchildren alone ficial lens.Baltussen,Sylla,and Mariotti (2004) have evaluated may lead to better cost-effectiveness than shown in the table.To work on the cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery. That work date, if governments purchased the drug, mass distribution (done by WHO regions rather than by World Bank regions) would be excessively expensive from a societal perspective. showed that both intracapsular and extracapsular surgeries are However,from the perspective ofthe governments ofcountries
