Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


WHO regions rather than by World Bank regions) would be excessively expensive from a societal perspective. showed that both intracapsular and extracapsular surgeries are However,from the perspective ofthe governments ofcountries cost-effective ways to reduce the impact of cataract blindness. in which azithromycin (donated by Pfizer Inc. through the However, extracapsular surgery is both less costly and more International Trachoma Initiative) is being distributed, mass effective than intracapsular surgery and can therefore be con- distribution appears to be relatively cost-effective. sidered the best choice for cataract control. Its cost-effective- Trichiasis scarring is amenable to surgical repair.To date,the ness ratios are below US$200 per DALY averted in low- and cost-effectiveness analyses that have been done suggest that middle-income countries and below US$2,400 in high-income surgery is not particularly expensive per case ofblindness pre- countries. vented,assuming that the eyelid correction prevents blindness Trachoma. WHO recommends an integrative approach to tra- and that the individuals with operated trichiasis are not more choma control through its SAFE strategy (surgery,antibiotics likely to be affected by other conditions (for example,dry eye) to control the infection,facial cleanliness,and environmental that might lead to corneal opacification.Baltussen and others improvements). The facial cleanliness and environmental (2005) suggest that trichiasis surgery—with cost-effectiveness improvements are preventive public health measures aimed at ranging between approximately US$4 and US$82 per DALY reducing the incidence ofinfection.Antibiotic treatment,espe- avertedacross trachoma-endemic areas—would be even more cially when given on a mass or community basis,is both pri- cost-effective than cataract surgery. mary prevention (reducing transmission in the community) From these cost-effectiveness evaluations, one could con- and secondary prevention (treating active infection to avoid clude that it is best simply to correct lid damage attributable to 956 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joseph Cook, Kevin D. Frick, Rob Baltussen, and others trachoma.Surgery (tertiary prevention) would then remain a tribution.A coordination group of nongovernmental organi- take into account the possibility of eliminating this blinding programs and with national counterparts in virtually all disease.The implementation ofthe full SAFE strategy includes endemiccountries.If presenteffortsinendemiccountriesare primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention, and although successfullycompleted,thediseasewillbebroughtundercon- more costly at the outset,it could eliminate infection,pain,and trolby2010. blindness (and the need and cost oflid surgery) into the future. The WHO Alliance for the Global Elimination of Trachoma NATURE, CAUSES, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY was established in 1997 to support the work of a OFHEARING LOSS broad spectrum of collaborating international organizations, nongovernmental development organizations, and founda- In this chapter,the
