Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


NATURE, CAUSES, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY was established in 1997 to support the work of a OFHEARING LOSS broad spectrum of collaborating international organizations, nongovernmental development organizations, and founda- In this chapter,the term hearing loss,used by itself,denotes any tions in implementing the SAFE strategy. Kumaresan and or all levels of severity of hearing difficulty. These levels of Mecaskey (2003) report that 10 countries have initiated tra- hearing impairment comprise mild (26–40 decibel hearing choma elimination programs using donated azithromycin,and level,dBHL),moderate (41–60 dBHL),severe (61–80 dBHL), many more programs are expected.They make the point that and profound (81 dBHL or greater).The term deafnessdenotes the promise ofelimination provides the justification for invest- profound hearing impairment (WHO 1991, 1997). Disabling ing in trachoma control. hearing impairment in adults is defined as “a permanent unaided hearing threshold level for the better ear of 41 dB or Childhood Blindness. In 1993,WHO estimated that as many greater; for this purpose, the hearing threshold level is to be as 13.8 million children have some degree of eye damage taken as the better ear average hearing threshold level for the because ofvitamin A deficiency;however,the number ofchil- four frequencies 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 kHz.” Disabling hearing dren with actual blindness is much lower—less than 500,000 in impairment in children under the age of15 years is defined as 1992.Recent WHO studies (Resnikoffand others 2004) include a permanent,unaided hearing threshold level for the better ear vitamin A deficiency among causes of childhood blindness. of31 dB or greater;for this purpose,the hearing threshold level Cost-effectiveness studies of vitamin A supplementation,dis- is to be taken as the better ear average hearing threshold level cussed in chapter 56,focus only on deaths averted unrelated to for the four frequencies 0.5,1,2,and 4 kHz. Mathers and others (2003)estimatethatin2002,255million cost-effective. people worldwide had disabling hearing loss (moderate or worsehearinglossinthebetterear).Those192millionpeople Onchocerciasis. Onchocerciasis, or “river blindness,” is withadult-onsetloss(age20yearsandabove)and63million endemic in 28 countries in tropical Africa,where 99 percent of peoplewithchildhood-onsetlossmakeupalmost4.1percentof infected people live. Isolated foci of infection also occur in the world’s population and just over 40 percent of all people Latin America (six countries) and Yemen.Although it accounts globallywithhearinglossofanyseverity.Theprevalencerates for only 0.8 percent of world blindness (Resnikoff and others of adult-onset hearing loss were estimated by subtracting the 2004), the distribution of ivermectin, given at no cost by prevalence rate for childhood onset (estimated in terms of Merck,has so far proved successful in drastically reducing this prevalenceinagesaround15to19).Numberswithchildhood- cause of blindness. Additionally, patients suffer
