Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


given at no cost by prevalence rate for childhood onset (estimated in terms of Merck,has so far proved successful in drastically reducing this prevalenceinagesaround15to19).Numberswithchildhood- cause of blindness. Additionally, patients suffer severe skin onsethearinglossbycausehavesofarnotbeenestimatedsepa- lesions and pruritus,also remedied by the annual dosing with rately but are included among sequelae of other diseases (for ivermectin.Studies have shown that the cost per DALY averted example, infectious diseases such as meningitis, otitis media, is as little as US$40 when adjusted for inflation (Waters, congenital conditions). It has been estimated that at least Rehwinkel,and Burnham 2004). 50percentoftheburdenofhearinglosscouldbepreventedby During the past 25 years considerable progress has been primary,secondary,andtertiarypreventivemeasures(Brobby made by the Onchocerciasis Control Program inWestAfrica, 1989;WHO1991). both through control of the black-fly vector (insecticide spraying) and through the distribution of ivermectin. This Causes and Characteristics terms, was the motivating rationale for the launching in Hearing loss is grouped according to International Classi- Onchocerciasis Control. The objective is to create, by 2007, version for 2003 (ICD-10) into conductive and sensorineural sustainable community-directed distribution systems using loss and other hearing loss,ICD-10 codes 90–91 . ivermectin.In LatinAmerica,the Onchocerciasis Elimination The main causes are shown in table 50.6 according to the pro- Program in theAmericas is successfully using ivermectin dis- portion that these contribute to the total burden . Loss of Vision and Hearing | 957 Table 50.6 Main Causes of Hearing Loss, by Proportion of the effect of noise (Mizoue, Miyamoto, and Shimizu 2003). poorhygiene,andovercrowding,allofwhichcanleadtoupper High proportion Moderate proportion Low proportion respiratory tract infections,otitis media,and other infections Genetic causes Excessive noise Nutritionally related that may cause hearing loss, such as measles and meningitis. Otitis media Ototoxic drugs and chemicals Trauma related Detailed risk factors and indicators have been developed for Presbycusis Prenatal and perinatal problems Menière’s disease neonatesandinfants(JointCommitteeonInfantHearing2000); Infectious causes Tumors these include conditions that should require admission to a Wax and foreign bodies Cerebrovascular disease neonatal intensive care unit, stigmata of syndromes causing hearingloss,positivefamilyhistory,craniofacialanomalies,cer- Source:WHO 1986. taininuteroandpost-natalinfections(cytomegalovirus,herpes, rubella, syphilis, toxoplasmosis, meningitis), hyperbilirubine- Chronic otitis media (COM, as in ICD-10 codes H65–H67) mia,conditionsrequiringprolongedmechanicalventilationor includes chronic suppurative otitis media and otitis media with oxygenation,persistentotitismediawitheffusion,andothers. effusion.These forms ofotitis media,together with some other Ototoxic medications, low birth-weight, and low Apgar middle ear diseases,such as perforation ofthe tympanic mem- scoreshavealsobeencitedasriskfactorsforneonates(Vohrand brane,cholesteatoma,and otosclerosis,are the major causes of others 2000). Offspring of consanguineous marriages have a conductive hearing loss.In most WHO estimates ofthe burden significantly higher incidence of autosomal recessive diseases, of otitis media,the data
