Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


major causes of others 2000). Offspring of consanguineous marriages have a conductive hearing loss.In most WHO estimates ofthe burden significantly higher incidence of autosomal recessive diseases, of otitis media,the data are not disaggregated into acute and includinghearingimpairment.Suchdiseasesareanimportant chronic otitis media. causeincommunitieswhereconsanguinityiscommon(Shahin Hearing loss is a chronic and often lifelong disability that, andothers2002;Zakzouk2000).Certainethnicgroups(First depending on the severity and frequencies affected,can cause NationspeoplessuchasInuitandNorthAmericanIndians,as profounddamagetothedevelopmentofspeech,language,and wellasAustralianAboriginalpeople)appeartobeathigherrisk cognitive skills in children, especially if commencing prelin- ofdevelopingCOM(WHO1998). gually.Thatdamage,inturn,affectsthechild’sprogressinschool and,later,hisorherabilitytoobtain,keep,andperformanoccu- Age, Geographic, and Gender Burdens pation.Forallagesandforbothsexes,itcausesdifficultieswith interpersonalcommunicationandleadstosignificantindividual The prevalence ofdisabling hearing impairment that increases socialproblems,especiallyisolationandstigmatization.Allthese markedly with age is mainly related to the effect ofpresbycusis. difficultiesaremuchmagnifiedindevelopingcountries,where The current shortage ofdata,particularly in developing coun- therearegenerallylimitedservices,fewtrainedstaffmembers, tries,prevents accurate assessment ofthe global distribution of andlittleawarenessabouthowtodealwiththesedifficulties. the burden and causes. In addition to its individual effects, hearing loss substan- Male-to-female ratios of age-standardized adult-onset tially affects social and economic development in communities prevalence rates were found to be greater than 1 in most stud- and countries. Ruben (2000), taking into account rehabilita- ies in all WHO regions (Mathers, Smith, and Concha 2005). tion,special education,and loss ofemployment,estimated the This finding may be related to occupational noise-induced cost to the U.S.economy in 1999 ofcommunication disorders hearing loss,which differentially affects men. (hearing, voice, speech, and language disorders) at between US$176 billion and US$212 billion (2004 dollars;2.5–3 percent Mortality ofthe gross national product ofthe United States in that year). Barnett and Franks (1999) have found evidence that adults Hearing loss accounted for about one-third of the prevalence with postlingual onset of deafness have higher mortality than ofthese communication disorders. nondeafadults.A 10-year longitudinal analysis ofparticipants (age 55 to 74 years) in the U.S.National Health and Nutrition Risk Factors Examination Survey I found that,at baseline,hearing loss pre- Occupationsexposedtohighlevelsofnoiseorototoxicchemi- dicts mortality; relative risk (cid:3) 1.17 (Mui and others 1998). calsarealsoatrisk,andnoiseexposurepotentiateschemicaloto- Other studies have reported that the association disappears toxicity in some cases (Fechter 1995; Morata 1998). Certain after controlling for age,and in any case,any relationship that lifestyles(forexample,useofpersonalstereos,noisytoys,fire- may exist is too small to appear in published WHO estimates of crackers)andhobbies(forexample,hunting)arealsolinkedto deaths by cause (WHO 2004a,annex table 2) and by years of levelsof noiseexposurethatcancausehearingloss(Berglund life lost, or YLLs (Mathers, Smith, and Concha 2005), in any andothers2000;Goelzer,Hansen,andSehrndt2001).Smoking region.A small number of deaths (4,000 globally in 2002) are maybeariskfactorforhigh-frequencyhearingloss,addingto recorded for otitis media ,but these deaths are 958 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joseph Cook, Kevin D. Frick, Rob Baltussen, and others mainly due to infective complications
