Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


for otitis media ,but these deaths are 958 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joseph Cook, Kevin D. Frick, Rob Baltussen, and others mainly due to infective complications and, hence, are not starts later in life and for which later surveillance is needed directly caused by hearing loss. .No publications were found that have addressed the DALY burden that might be avoided by implementing Years Lived with Disability and DALYs neonatal hearing screening. Data on years oflife lived with disability (YLDs) and DALYs are ArecentWHOmeetingofexpertsonnoise-inducedhearing available only for adult-onset hearing loss.The disease model loss(WHO1998)concludedthatexposuretoexcessivenoiseis used,the assumptions and methods used for calculation,and the major avoidable cause of permanent hearing impairment the disability weights are described elsewhere (Mathers,Smith, worldwide.Theyagreedthat,indevelopingcountries,occupa- and Concha 2005).Total global YLDs for adult-onset hearing tionalnoiseandurbanenvironmentalnoiseareincreasingrisk loss in 2001 are estimated to be 25.87 million,or 4.7 percent of factorsforhearingimpairment.Expertsattendingthemeeting total YLDs attributable to all causes,which makes hearing loss recommendedthatallcountriesimplementnationalprograms a leading cause ofYLDs.Because YLLs are taken to be zero for for prevention of noise-induced hearing loss,including effec- all regions,the DALY figures are identical to the YLD figures. tive hearing conservation. However, there are no published The most comprehensive data available are for all adult-onset reportsyetontheeffectivenessofsuchprogramsindeveloping hearing loss (WHO 2004b;Mathers,Smith,and Concha 2003). countries.The United States has produced a guide to hearing Fewer data on the burden are available at present for childhood conservationprogramsintheworkplace(Franks,Stephenson, hearing loss and specific causes. andMerry1996).Itadviseshowtoappraiseprogramsbyassess- ing the completeness of their components and by evaluating Interventions boththeindividualaudiometricdataforthresholdshiftandthe Effective interventions include screening programs,education, groupdataforvariabilitycomparedwithanonexposedpopu- surgery,medications,and assistive devices. lation.Evenindevelopedcountries,therehavebeenfew,ifany, clinical trials and little convincing evidence of the efficacy of Population-Based Interventions. Neonatal or early infant occupationalhearingconservationprograms(Dobie1995). hearing screening is important because early identification of hearing loss (before 6 months of age,with early intervention) PersonalServices. Chronicsuppurativeotitismediaisoneof is associated with significantly better language development themostcommoncausesofhearingimpairmentindeveloping and may lead to better school and occupational performance countries. Opportunities for prevention arise at all levels of than that ofchildren identified after 6 months with early inter- nationalhealthsystems,particularlyinthecommunityandat vention (Keren and others 2002; Yoshinaga-Itano and others theprimarylevelthroughprimaryearandhearingcare(PEHC) 1998). Implementation of neonatal hearing screening raises (WHO1998).Appropriatehealthpromotionmeasuresinclude from 20 to 80 percent the numbers of children with normal breastfeeding, immunization, adequate nutrition, personal development oflanguage,compared with children whose hear- hygiene, improved housing, reduced overcrowding, and ade- ing loss is detected later (Yoshinaga-Itano and Gravel 2001). quateaccesstocleanwater.Primaryhealthcareworkerscanbe Early identification of hearing impairment can reduce the givenappropriatetrainingandbasicequipmentforearlydetec- median age of identification of hearing impairment from tionandmanagementofchronicsuppurativeotitismedia,but between 12
