Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


ing loss is detected later (Yoshinaga-Itano and Gravel 2001). quateaccesstocleanwater.Primaryhealthcareworkerscanbe Early identification of hearing impairment can reduce the givenappropriatetrainingandbasicequipmentforearlydetec- median age of identification of hearing impairment from tionandmanagementofchronicsuppurativeotitismedia,but between 12 and 18 months to 6 months or less. Universal the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of this intervention in neonatal hearing screening is highly sensitive, but depending developingcountrieshasnotyetbeenassessed. on the test method used,it may result in many false positives Although WHO does not currently recommend treating (which may increase parental anxiety and lead to unnecessary what is commonly called chronic middle ear infection with follow-up tests and interventions).It has a low positive predic- antibiotics at the primary level ,evidence suggests tive value. Some screening protocols may decrease false- that antibiotics,especially topical quinolones,are more effec- positive rates (Kennedy and others 2000). Universal neonatal tive and cost-effective than ear toilet alone (Acuin,Smith,and hearing screening has been endorsed in developed countries Mackenzie 2000).WHO is reviewing these recommendations (Joint Committee on Infant Hearing 2000), although some . New methods of delivery of effective but experts urge caution ;however,it is expensive to expensive topical antibiotics may lower the cost in poor com- implement and, for most developing countries, is not yet an munities,but treatment failure may be due to a high reinfec- option. Hearing screening targeted at high-risk neonates is tion rate attributable to poor hygienic conditions. To be neonatal screening,but screening may fail to detect 50 percent implementedonalargescale,withgoodcoverageofthetargeted or more ofcases ofimpairment (Lutman and Grandori 1999). population (van Hasselt and van Kregten 2002). Ear surgery Neonatal screening programs will not detect the 10 to 20 per- plays an essential part in the prevention of further hearing cent ofcases ofpermanent childhood hearing impairment that impairment and,sometimes,in the improvement ofhearing. Loss of Vision and Hearing | 959 Services at the secondary level of intervention include pro- Intervention Cost and Cost-Effectiveness. All the data on the vision of hearing aids in developing countries, which should costs and cost-effectiveness of interventions related to hearing assign priority to children with moderate or severe hearing loss (including school-age screening,treatment ofCOM,surgi- loss, followed by adults (Arslan and Genovese 1996; WHO cal interventions, hearing aids, and cochlear implants) come 2004c).However,even though globally about 6 million hearing from developed countries.Although they can be summarized aids are dispensed annually ,there have been no quite readily,it is not clear whether and how they relate to the published randomized,controlled trials of the effectiveness of costs that would be
