Chapter
KEYWORDS: hearing, loss, countries, impairment, hearing loss, burden, vision, cataract, causes, surgery, percent, visual, blindness, treatment, trachoma


Broek at this point, we can strongly recommend surgery both for 1997) and,when accompanied by aural (re)habilitation,leads cataract (the primary option) and for trachoma (apparently a to higher rates of mainstream placement in schools and lower better use ofresources than mass treatment with antibiotics— dependence on special education support services (Francis and even if not acceptable on a humanitarian basis).For example, others 1999). Multichannel implants are superior to single- clearing the backlog of cataract surgery globally could reduce channel implants (Cohen,Waltzman,and Fisher 1993) and are the DALYs associated with vision loss by more than half. more beneficial when implanted in young children (Richter Hearing loss interventions have only begun to demonstrate and others 2002). There has been no economic analysis of their potential effectiveness in developing countries, and no cochlear implants in developing countries,and such interven- cost work has been done in these settings. Furthermore, tions are currently not a priority in most parts ofthe develop- although the means to reduce the burden of adult-onset ing world (Berruecos 2000;WHO 2004c;Zeng 1995). hearing loss are not as straightforward nor as easily applied, 960 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joseph Cook, Kevin D. Frick, Rob Baltussen, and others eliminating adult hearing loss would avoid slightly more YLDs Dobie,R.A.1995.“Prevention ofNoise-Induced Hearing Loss.”Archives of than eliminating the cataract surgery backlog.The data suggest Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery121 (4):385–91. that these interventions (particularly cataract surgery) are rela- Evans, T. G., M. K. Ranson, T. A. Kyaw, and C. K. Ko. 1996. “Cost Effectiveness and Cost Utility of Preventing Trachomatous Visual tively cost-effective,but a lack ofpolitical will,a failure to rec- Impairment:Lessons from 30 Years of Trachoma Control in Burma. ognize that steps can be taken now,insufficient capacity within British Journal ofOphthalmology80 (10):880–89. ministries ofhealth to carry out the known beneficial interven- Fechter, L. D. 1995. “Combined Effects of Noise and Chemicals.” tions,and,finally,a lack ofequipment or funding for the pro- Occupational Medicine10 (3):609–21. grams still remain barriers to alleviating disabilities related to Fotouhi, A., H. Hashemi, K. Mohammad, and K. H. Jalali. 2004.“The Prevalence and Causes ofVisual Impairment in Tehran:The Tehran vision and hearing loss. Eye Study.”British Journal ofOphthalmology88 (6):740–45. Francis,H.W.,M.E.Koch,J.R.Wyatt,and J.K.Niparko.1999.“Trends in Educational Placement and Cost-Benefit Considerations in Children
