The ESC Textbook of Cardiovascular Imaging (3 edn)
KEYWORDS: view, left, doppler, valve, fig, ventricular, right, transducer, long-axis, mitral, long-axis view, aortic, views, colour-coded, chamber


the lower the compression (= less grey levels in a predefined range) the better the contrast. 2D-Brightness— 2D gain—the With increasing gain distances and areas In dark rooms, e.g. a typical ultrasound brightness of the higher the gain, will be measured too small than they laboratory, normally lower gain settings ultrasound image the brighter normally can be visualized. With should be used than in bright rooms, is influenced by and thicker the decreasing gain structures cannot be e.g. in the theatre or emergency the brightness of reflection detected in bright surroundings. department. the surrounding. patterns of the The more light in ultrasound the surroundings, image. the more brightness is necessary to detect cardiac structures. Sharpness of the Doppler With increasing Doppler frequencies In general, Doppler spectra have to be pw- and cw frequency—the penetration will be reduced. Thus, adjusted with an optimal alignment to Doppler spectrum higher the depending on the acoustic properties the central blood stream. In cases of —the sharpness of Doppler and by using inadequate adjustment of doubt avoid ranges of lower the Doppler frequency, the scale, low velocity reject and gain, signals compression and adjust Doppler spectrum is better the can be lost out of the detection range. frequencies and sample volume (if pw influenced by sharpness of With decreasing compression maximum Doppler is used) with respect to the multiple the spectrum. velocities in pw Doppler spectra will not penetration of the ultrasound. ultrasound be visualized, if the alignment of the settings. Scale—the ultrasound beam is not exactly in the better the regions of the central blood flow with the adjustment of highest velocities. the signal amplitude to the scale, the better the resolution of the spectrum. Low velocity reject—the higher low velocity reject, the less tissue Doppler signals. It has to be adjusted with alterations of the scale. Sample volume —The larger the sample volume, the brighter the pw Doppler signal and the lower the sharpness. Doppler gain— the higher the Doppler gain, the brighter the spectrum. Doppler compression— the lower the compression, the brighter the spectrum. Brightness of Colour Doppler With increasing colour Doppler gain Colour Doppler gain has to be adjusted colour-coded gain—the distances and areas will be measured too at clear boundaries to tissue. Normally Doppler signal in higher the large than they normally can be adjustment should be performed in the relation to the colour Doppler visualized (e.g. especially jet flow
