The ESC Textbook of Cardiovascular Imaging (3 edn)
KEYWORDS: view, left, doppler, valve, fig, ventricular, right, transducer, long-axis, mitral, long-axis view, aortic, views, colour-coded, chamber


be well visualized by the subcostal approach. Due to the excellent Doppler angle, Doppler spectra through the pulmonary valve can be achieved in this view ( Fig. 1.30a–e). By counter-clockwise rotation from the subcostal 4-chamber view the longitudinal section of the inferior caval vein should be documented for estimation of the preload of the right ventricle ( Fig. 1.31a–b). In the presence of normal right atrial pressure, the central venous pressure is normal, which can be documented by pulsatile wall movement and a complete breath-dependent inspiratory collapse of the inferior caval vein. The right atrial pressure is increased in patients with cardiac stasis on the right side, documented by partial collapse or a complete loss of collapse of the inferior caval vein during deep inspiration. Fig. 1.28 Standardized grey-scale apical 4-chamber view during systole (a) and diastole (b). Standardized subcostal short-axis view at the aortic valve level during systole (c) and diastole (d), as well as the corresponding colour-coded images during systole (e) and diastole (f). Additional comments in the text. Fig. 1.29 Standardized subcostal short-axis view at the mitral valve level during diastole (a) and systole (b), as well as the corresponding colour-coded images during diastole (c) and systole (d). Standardized subcostal short-axis view at the mid- papillary level during diastole (e) and systole (f), as well as the corresponding colour-coded images during diastole (g) and systole (h). Additional comments in the text. Fig. 1.30 The standardized subcostal short-axis view through the pulmonary valve and the pulmonary trunk at diastole (a) and systole (b). The corresponding colour-coded views are displayed in (c) and (d). In (e) the pulsed-wave Doppler spectrum of the right ventricular outflow tract is shown. Additional comments in the text. Fig. 1.31 The subcostal longitudinal view of the inferior caval vein during expiration (a) and inspiration (b). Additional comments in the text. Principles of transoesophageal echocardiography—practical aspects A transthoracic echocardiography should be generally performed prior to a transoesophageal p. 25 echocardiography, if it is possible. The main reason for the transthoracic pre-examination in adult patients is the fact that multiple cineloops and Doppler spectra can be achieved and documented in a high and often better image quality in the transthoracic than in the transoesophageal approach. This mainly concerns the short-axis views of the left ventricle and the mitral valve, which often will be visualized by oblique views in the transgastric documentation and the Doppler spectra of
