The ESC Textbook of Cardiovascular Imaging (3 edn)
KEYWORDS: view, left, doppler, valve, fig, ventricular, right, transducer, long-axis, mitral, long-axis view, aortic, views, colour-coded, chamber


better than in transthoracic echocardiography. The small layers of the oesophageal and left atrial wall result in an almost direct proximity to the heart. Thus, transoesophageal echocardiography is normally performed in the fundamental mode due to the absence of tissue interferences of the ultrasound. The transoesophageal study should normally start in the transverse position (0°) with a 5-chamber view or an p. 29 oblique foreshortened 4-chamber view in the lower transoesophageal p. 30 p. 31 approach ( Fig. 1.35a–d). With a minimal deeper insertion of the probe, the longitudinal section of the coronary sinus can be visualized ( Fig. 1.35e–h). The standardized 4-chamber view is obtained by a rotation of the plane of about 0°–40° ( Fig. 1.36a–b), straightening the tip of the probe and retracting the probe to the mid-oesophageal window to get the apex into the centre of the scanning sector. The transoesophageal 2- chamber view is shown by rotating the plane a further 60° without any movement of the tip and/or the shaft (60°–100°) ( Fig. 1.36c–d). Then, the left ventricular apex is still in the centreline of the scanning sector. The transoesophageal long-axis view is obtained by further plane rotation of about 60° (120°–160°) ( Fig. 1.36e– f). The angle distance between the views is like in transthoracic echocardiography—60° if the left ventricular apex is in the centre of the scanning sector. If this is not possible and the left ventricular apex is rotating from the right side of the sector in the 4-chamber view to the left side of the sector in the long-axis view, which occurs if the correct position in the upper oesophagus cannot be achieved, the angle differences between the planes of the left ventricle will change. This is the reason why the 2-chamber view in transoesophageal echocardiography often seems to be perpendicular to the long-axis view. The normal 60°-angle difference between the standardized views of the left ventricle can be documented by the triplane approach, which will show exactly the standardized views with 60°-angle difference if the left ventricular apex is centred in the scanning sector ( Fig. 1.36g–h). Fig. 1.35 The mid-oesophageal 5-chamber view during systole (a) and diastole (b) and the corresponding colour-coded views during systole (c) and diastole (d). A slight deeper insertion of the probe at 0° displays the inflow of the coronary sinus. The following views of the right atrium and the right ventricular inflow tract
