BRITISII ME.DICAL JOURNAL VOLU.ME2i2-88 23 JUNE 1984 1915
KEYWORDS: united, disease, wilson, patients, normal, neurological, nmol, rhis, thc, specimens, antituberculous, concentrations, copper studies, cortisol, capsule


BRITISII ME.DICAL JOURNAL VOLU.ME2i2-88 23 JUNE 1984 1915 capsule is then pushed forward through the ccrtiloplasmin and sertum copper studies were Lg!100)1ml); for reasons ofnron-conspliance furthelr biopsy channel until it reaches the third normal, radioactive copper studies wscre thought spccimenis wcrc not obtained, but he had no portion of the duodenum (about 10 to 15 cm to he in keeping with Wilson's discase anid he has evidenice of hypoadrenalism throughout his ahead of the distal tip). After firing the been treated with penicillamine cvcr sinice. He is treatmlent. After six moniths of antituberculous still alive in a hospitail for physically and mentally cihemotherapy, howevcr, which included 450 mg capsule in the usual way it is extubated handicappedpeopleandhasshownnoimprovelnenlt of rifampicin d;aily, hie died fromn a massive together with the gastroscope. in his mental status. 'T'hiis man, now 2Q years old, haemoptysis secondary to pulmolnarv tuberculosis. We havc successfully used this techniique is therefore the only known casc ot prohahle At postmortemii examiiination the adrenals were in all of our last 30 patients undergoing Wilson's disease in the region. rhe prevalence macroscopically atrophic, weights at the lower jejunal biopsy. The whole procedure takes no (not incidence, as stated in the leader) would limit of normial, and histolog,ically therc were longer than five to seven minutes, is devoid of appear to be very low (two in a million) in this fibrotic cha-Inges consistenlt with old ttuberculosis. complications, and does not require region and even allowing for underdiagnosis this In the recentt series ofdeaths occurring in newly fluoroscopy. In addition it allows concurrent is still far short of thc estimate of 30 in a million notified paticnts with pulmonary tuberculosis by suggested by Schcinberg.' He also suggests (from Humplhrics etrca! ()9,, wcre noted to haveoccurred upper gastrointestinal endoscopy to be per- his own series and from that of Wailshc) that the within the tirst month of chemothcrapy.i These formed. percentagc ofcascs of Wilson's discasc presenting patients were white and mainly elderly with N LEVY with neurological feitures is close to 40,' neutrophils), cortisol concentrations in patients before and normal concentrations of urea and electrolytes, I was keen to repeat this cxpericnce when I from three to four weeks after commencing bilirubin concentration 20 imoelll (12 mg/I) and returned to the United Kingdom from the United antituberculous chemotherapy. 'rhis is thc time alkalinephosphatase activity 118 IU/1. Asicklecell States in 1965 but to my regret I
