www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: microti, rpa, blood, detection, samples, method, fluorescence, pcr, fluorescent, dna, amplification, patients, fluorescence rpa, primers, nested pcr


City, Henan Province, nested PCR detected 20 B. microti-positive cases while fluorescent RPA detected 21. The Kappa value for agreement between the methods was 97.05% (91.31% − 100%), and McNemar’s test indicated no statistically significant difference in their detection rates (S = 1, P > 0.1). Based on the combined results of both tests, the molecular positivity rate for B. microti in this sample set was 17.65%, with co-infections involving Bunya virus present, accounting for 10.08% of the tested samples. The fluorescence RPA method provides a rapid, sensitive, and specific tool for detecting B. microti and is effective for field screening. Keywords Babesiosis, Babesia microti, Recombinase polymerase amplification, Fluorescence RPA technology Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research), Shanghai 200025, China. 3Laboratory of Parasite Scientific Reports | (2026) 16:14188 | 1 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Diseases, National Center for International Research on Tropical Diseases, Ministry of Science and Technology, Yang and Kun Qiang contributed equally to this work. email: ; . cn; Babesiosis is a parasitic zoonosis caused by infection with Babesia (Babesia spp.) species. The definitive hosts of Babesia’s are various species of ticks, while the intermediate hosts are primarily mammals, including cattle, dogs, and sheep. Humans can also serve as intermediate hosts1–4. Within the intermediate host, Babesia infects erythrocytes, where it exists as trophozoites and merozoites5,6. The incubation period following infection is generally prolonged, often lasting more than a week, with fever and anemia being the predominant symptoms4,7. B. microti and Babesia venatorum are the most common species reported in China, with hundreds of confirmed cases8. Most B. venatorum, cases have been found in Northeast China, while B. microti infections have been reported in southern provinces, including Yunnan, Guangxi, and Fujian8,9. Molecular screening for Babesia has revealed more than 100 positive cases in studies of patients with fever or tick bites8. Although only about 320 cases of Babesia infections are reported in China, prioritizing prevention, control, and rapid diagnosis is critical8. The early symptoms of Babesia microti infection, such as fever and fatigue, are easily confused with malaria or other febrile illnesses. Highly sensitive diagnostic tests enable rapid confirmation during the low parasitemia stage, preventing treatment delays that may lead to severe complications (e.g., hemolytic anemia, organ failure) or even death10. B. microti is a zoonotic pathogen. Highly sensitive detection technologies (such as fluorescent recombinase polymerase
