www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: microti, rpa, blood, detection, samples, method, fluorescence, pcr, fluorescent, dna, amplification, patients, fluorescence rpa, primers, nested pcr


from patients infected with P. falciparum and P. ovale were collected and preserved by the same institute. Blood samples from healthy donors were provided provided by the Zhejiang Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Samples from patients with fever and thrombocytopenia were collected and provided by the Henan Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Ethics statement The animal and human blood collection study was reviewed and approved by The Laboratory Animal Welfare & Ethics Committee (LAWEC) of the Chinese Centre for Tropical Diseases Research (permit Number: IPD-2019- Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research) (Ethical approval number 2019004). All methods were carried out in accordance with relevant guidelines and regulations. The informed consent was obtained from all subjects and/or their legal guardian(s). Establishment of the fluorescence RPA method Design primers for RPA detection of B. microti Primers were designed for the 18S rRNA, regions of B. microti. According to RPA primer design principles, RPA method primers are typically longer than conventional PCR primers but are generally designed between Scientific Reports | (2026) 16:14188 | 2 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ 27–35 bp to avoid dimer formation caused by excessive length. Additionally, the CG base content at both ends of the primer should be optimized. Specifically, excessive clustering of G bases at the 5’-end should be avoided, while the CG ratio at the 3’-end should be increased to enhance amplification efficiency. Using Primer Premier 6.0 and DNAMAN, along with manual design, six sets of primers were generated (Supplementary Table 1). Design primers and probes for fluorescence RPA detection of B. microti Based on the RPA amplification results, primers and probes for fluorescent RPA were designed for the fragments corresponding to the better-performing primer groups 2 and 7. To identify the optimal primers and probe for B. microti fluorescent RPA, two pairs of primers (27–35 bp in length) and a probe (modified with a tetrahydrofuran [THF] site and labeled with a FAM fluorophore at the 5′end) were designed for each of the two selected fragments (groups 2 and 7), resulting in three candidate pairs per group (e.g., 2 − 1, 2–2, 2–3;7 − 1, 7 − 2, 7 − 3). Screening was conducted using B. microti genomic DNA as the template under the following conditions: 39 °C for 40 min. The optimal primers and probe were determined by comparing the fluorescence intensity curves generated during the reaction. The sequences of the selected
