www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: microti, rpa, blood, detection, samples, method, fluorescence, pcr, fluorescent, dna, amplification, patients, fluorescence rpa, primers, nested pcr


the following conditions: 39 °C for 40 min. The optimal primers and probe were determined by comparing the fluorescence intensity curves generated during the reaction. The sequences of the selected primers and probes are shown in Table 1. DNA extraction the DNA was extracted from blood samples using a blood & tissue nucleic acid extraction kit (Qiagen Company, Germany), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The extracted DNA was eluted in 50 µL of AE elution buffer and stored at -20 °C until use. DNA concentration and purity were assessed using a NanoDrop spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Wilmington, DE, USA). Establishment of a fluorescent RPA reaction system The fluorescent RPA reaction was prepared in a 50 µL reaction volume following the TwistAmp exo Kits (T’wistDx, Cambridge, UK) protocol. The reaction mixture included 2.1 µL each of forward and reverse primers (10 µmol/µL), 0.6 µL fluorescent probe (10 µmol/µL), 25 µL buffer, and 15.2 µL deionized water. After gentle mixing and centrifugation, the solution was transferred to a lyophilized pellet tube, aliquoted into a BIO-RAD eight-tube strip (TLS0851), and briefly centrifuged to remove bubbles. Subsequently, 2 µL DNA template and 3 µL magnesium acetate (280 mmol/L) were added to the tube cap and centrifuged. The reaction was incubated at 39 °C for 4 min in a metal bath, inverted repeatedly for homogenization, and briefly centrifuged. The reaction was performed utilizing a CFX96 fluorescence quantitative PCR instrument (Bio-Rad, USA) at 39 °C for 40 cycles (60 s per cycle, total 40 min). Optimization of temperature and time parameters, and sensitivity evaluation for fluorescent RPA To optimize the temperature, nucleic acid amplification were performed at various temperatures (37℃, 38℃, 39℃, 40℃, 41℃, and 42℃) to determine the optimal conditions for the reaction using the genomic DNA of B. microti as a template. Sensitivity was evaluated by diluting B. microti genomic DNA into eight concentrations: 1 ng/µL, 100 pg/µL, 10 pg/µL, 1 pg/µL, 100 fg/µL, 10 fg/µL, 1 fg/µL, and 0.1 fg/µL, blank controls were double distilled water. Fluorescence RPA reactions were initially set for 40 min and monitored. At 20 min, clear amplification was observed for the 1 fg/µL group, allowing for the reduction of reaction time. Subsequent testing was conducted for 20 min to assess the method’s performance within this time frame. Parallel nested PCR was performed using the same samples. The nucleotide sequence of the 18 S rRNA-specific fragment was amplified using
