www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: microti, rpa, blood, detection, samples, method, fluorescence, pcr, fluorescent, dna, amplification, patients, fluorescence rpa, primers, nested pcr


extracted from each diluted blood sample. The established fluorescent RPA detection method for B. microti was applied to detect the samples, using 2 µL of template DNA from each of the 14 diluted blood groups. Normal mice blood DNA served as negative controls. To evaluate the performance of the fluorescent RPA method in detecting B. microti DNA in blood, nested PCR was implemented as a parallel control. The minimum detection limit of nested PCR for B. microti DNA in the 14 blood groups was determined by observing agarose gel electrophoresis results. This limit was then compared with that of the fluorescent RPA method. Detection of B. microti in an infected mouse model Mice were infected with B. microti using an inoculum lower than the minimum detection limit of nested PCR to create a low-infection-rate animal model. Blood was collected from the tail tip of the mice on days 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 21 post-infection. Thin blood smears were prepared, and samples were stained with Giemsa, The number of infected cells per 1000 red blood cells was counted. The infection rate was then calculated using the same method according to scribed protocols19. Three slides were observed for each group. DNA was extracted for subsequent testing. Nested PCR and fluorescence RPA detection were performed until all mice tested positive. Detection rates were determined by recording the time at which positive results were first obtained through nested PCR, fluorescence RPA, and microscopy. The number of positive mice identified by each method was recorded at each time point. Detecting of B. microti in clinical patients using fluorescent RPA method To assess the diagnostic accuracy of the established fluorescent RPA method for confirmed B. microti infections, blood samples from two microscopy-positive patients in Zhejiang Province were analyzed. Molecular detection was initially performed using touchdown PCR with the genus-specific primers BJ1 (5’- G T C T T G T A A T T G G A A T G A T G G-3’) and BN2 (5’- T A G T T T A T G G T T A G G A C T A C G-3’). The 50 µL reaction mixture comprised 25 µL of PCR mix (2× Taq PCR MasterMix (Tiangen Biotech, Beijing, China)), 22 µL of deionized water, 1 µL each of forward and reverse primers (10 µmol/µL), and 1 µL of DNA template. Thermal cycling conditions included an initial
