www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: microti, rpa, blood, detection, samples, method, fluorescence, pcr, fluorescent, dna, amplification, patients, fluorescence rpa, primers, nested pcr


Supplementary Fig. 1A, all but the fifth primer group targeting 18 S rRNA produced a single, distinct Scientific Reports | (2026) 16:14188 | 4 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ band. RPA amplification primers were designed for six primer groups-1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th-which produced favorable PCR results. The amplified products were electrophoresed on agarose gel, as shown in Supplementary Figs. 1B. The 2nd, 7th, primer groups yielded clear, distinct bands. Optimization of RPA fluorescence primers and probes Based on RPA primer design principles, two pairs of primers were created for each of the positively amplified fragments (2, 7) from basic RPA screening. Primer optimization tests conducted for each fragment group. Fluorescence RPA results (Supplementary Fig. 2) showed that none of the primers for fragment 2 produced effective fluorescence curves. Among the three sets of primers for fragment 7, the first pair (7-1-F/7-1-R) generated the highest fluorescence intensity and an earlier peak time, making it the best choice for this fragment. Fluorescence RPA temperature optimization To optimize the reaction temperature, B. microti genomic DNA was amplified at six different temperatures using group 7 sequences 7: 37 °C, 38 °C, 39 °C, 40 °C, 41 °C, and 42 °C. The results (Supplementary Fig. 3) indicated that 39 °C was the optimal temperature for the 7th group sequences, as this temperature produced the highest fluorescence intensity. Thus, 39 °C was chosen as the ideal reaction temperature for subsequent experiments. Fluorescence RPA sensitivity experiment To determine the minimal detection limit and optimal time for fluorescence RPA, reactions were performed with serially diluted B. microti genomic DNA. The results (Fig. 1A) from a 40-minute reaction showed that the assay could detect genomic DNA at a concentration as low as 1 fg/µL, with clear amplification observed for this concentration by 20 min. A subsequent sensitivity test with a fixed 20-minute reaction time confirmed the detection limit of 1 fg/µL (Fig. 1C). In parallel, nested PCR performed on the same dilution series had a lowest detectable concentration of 10 fg/µL (Fig. 1D), but no bands were observed at lower concentrations. Evaluation of fluorescence RPA detection method for B. microti Specificity of fluorescence RPA Samples from 8 P. falciparum and 8 P. ovale patients showed no peaks, with fluorescence intensities far below the threshold set for B.microti genomic DNA concentrations of 1 fg/µl (Supplementary Fig. 4). Determination of the parasite density minimum detection limit for fluorescent RPA The temporal detection sensitivity
