www.nature.com/scientificreports
KEYWORDS: microti, rpa, blood, detection, samples, method, fluorescence, pcr, fluorescent, dna, amplification, patients, fluorescence rpa, primers, nested pcr


malaria and babesiosis, preventing misdiagnoses and guiding appropriate treatment strategies for these two similar, yet distinct, diseases. We further used the established RPA method to detect B. microti of blood samples collected from 119 patients with fever and thrombocytopenia symptoms in Xinyang City, Henan Province, China30. Both Babesia and Bunyavirus are tick-borne pathogens, but this retrospective study did not collect information on patient tick- Scientific Reports | (2026) 16:14188 | 8 www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Fig. 4. Detecting of B. microti in Clinical Patients Using Fluorescent RPA Method. (A) Results of patients with B. microti by nest PCR.1–2 the patients with B. microti, + the positive control, - The negative control, M DNA makers. (B) The amplification profile of B. microti genomic DNA from the blood samples of patients infected and the controls. Curves 1 and 2 represent the patients with B. microti in Zhejiang Province, + represents the positive control, - represents the negative control, H represents the blank control. Full-length gel of part A was included in a Supplementary Information file. B. microti Pathogen B. microti positive negative total Bunyavirus positive 12 59 71 Bunyavirus negative 9 39 48 Total 21 98 119 Table 3. Pathogen infection in patients with fever with thrombocytopenia in Xinyang City, Henan Province, 2015. bite history. Future studies should gather these data. The study conducted by Seo et al. was conducted to identify the distribution profile of ticks and tick-borne pathogens in Daejeon and the adjacent areas in South Korea, they found Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Virus (SFTSV, a Bunyavirus) (2 cases), Borrelia spp. (32 cases), and B. microti (7 cases), this indicates that co-infection with SFTSV (a Bunyavirus) and B. microti may occur in regions where both pathogens are endemic.Laboratory diagnostics for patients with fever and thrombocytopenia should consider Babesia infection, particularly when other pathogens like Bunyavirus are not detected31,32. Therefore, in areas where both pathogens circulate, diagnostic workups for febrile patients with thrombocytopenia should include tests for B. microti, especially when tests for Bunyavirus are negative, and should consider the possibility of co-infection in Bunyavirus-positive cases. While recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) offers rapid and sensitive detection of Babesia spp., several limitations must be acknowledged. First, RPA is prone to false positives due to non-specific amplification in resource-limited settings where contamination risks are higher, as well as false negatives caused by inhibitors in untreated blood samples or extremely low parasitemia levels (< 0.01%) that
