Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


diabetes population. Although a number of lifestyle education programs have been designed and implemented in the country since Diabetes in America’s last publication, more creative ideas are still necessary for sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective national programs. INTRODUCTION This chapter presents an overview of the prevalence of lifestyle characteristics of people with diabetes in the United States. Information about these characteristics as risk factors for diabetes can be found in Chapters 11 Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes and 13 Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes. The chapter describes existing data and presents new findings on various facets of lifestyle characteristics, such as nutrition status, physical activity level, smoking, and health-seeking behaviors. Published studies were selected for inclusion due to their large sample sizes and nationally representative populations. Since the last edition of Diabetes in America, several new studies have been published in this area. DATA SOURCES AND LIMITATIONS Data sources used in this chapter include both original and published analyses of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES), a yearly nationally representative survey that uses interviews and physical examinations to assess health status. New analyses for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, using NHANES data from 2007–2010 used glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c), fasting plasma glucose, and oral glucose tolerance tests to classify undiagnosed (previously undetected) diabetes two ways: one based only on A1c and fasting plasma glucose (defined by A1c ≥6.5% [≥48 mmol/mol] or fasting plasma glucose ≥126 mg/dL [≥6.99 mmol/L]), tests which are more likely to be used in the clinical practice community, and another based on adding a glucose toler­ ance test (defined by A1c ≥6.5%, fasting plasma glucose ≥126 mg/dL, or 2-hour plasma glucose from an oral glucose toler­ ance test ≥200 mg/dL [≥11.10 mmol/L]), 10–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition tests more likely to be used in a research setting by virtue of the added glucose tolerance test. In the actual clinical prac­ tice community, tests would be repeated to confirm diagnoses. Prediabetes was defined by A1c 5.7%–<6.5% (39–<48 mmol/mol), fasting plasma glucose 100–<126 mg/dL (5.55–<6.99 mmol/L), or a 2-hour plasma glucose from an oral glucose tolerance test of 140–<200 mg/ dL (7.77–<11.10 mmol/L). Data were also examined for those with self-reported diagnosed diabetes (diagnosed before being examined in the NHANES) and those with normal glucose levels. Other original and published analyses of nationally representative data include the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), a yearly telephone
