Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


examined in the NHANES) and those with normal glucose levels. Other original and published analyses of nationally representative data include the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), a yearly telephone survey that assesses risk factors for state-level surveil­ lance, and the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), a survey using personal interviews to monitor disease trends. Other data sources include published analyses of the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study (SEARCH), a multicenter study of youth age <20 years with physician-diagnosed type 1 or type 2 diabetes; the baseline assess­ ment of Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes), a multicenter trial of overweight and obese adults age 45–75 years with confirmed type 2 diabetes; the Strong Heart Study (SHS), a study of cardiovas­ cular disease and risk factors in American Indians; and the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), a multicenter trial of people with type 1 diabetes age 13–39 years at baseline. Despite the richness of the data on life­ style characteristics among individuals with diabetes in the United States, there are still many limitations. Considering the evidence on nutrition characteris­ tics among people with diabetes, most dietary markers have not been analyzed consistently or with standardized methods, making comparisons among studies difficult to assess. It is also hard to draw general conclusions about the level of physical activity among people with diabetes, because the definitions and assessment methods have changed frequently over time. Most data on physical activity are self-reported, and only the NHANES objectively measures physical activity. Furthermore, data about health-seeking behaviors are frequently collected but rarely analyzed. In all areas, the estimates are subject to reporting bias due to social desirability. Future data collection strategies should focus on consistent, comparable methods of objec­ tive measures of lifestyle characteristics among people with diabetes. NUTRITION Data on nutrition among people with diabetes span several categories, including total calories, macronutrients, cholesterol, fiber, alcohol, micronutrients, fruits and vegetables, and other foods. Although smaller studies on these topics exist, most were excluded from discus­ sion in this chapter because they are not generalizable to the U.S. population. The population-based studies used a variety of methods to assess nutrition intake, including 24-hour dietary recall (NHANES and SHS), food frequency questionnaires (Look AHEAD and SEARCH), diet history (DCCT), dietary screeners, and self-re­ ported intake (BRFSS). When reading the data, it is important to keep in mind that people with diabetes tend to be
