Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


age 45–75 years with type 2 diabetes* FFQ Median percentage calories from saturated fat: 13% Met recommendation of ≤10% of calories from saturated fat: 15% Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. DCCT, Diabetes Control and Complications Trial; FFQ, food frequency questionnaire; Look AHEAD, Action for Health in Diabetes; NHANES, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey; SEARCH, SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study; SHS, Strong Heart Study. * Type 2 diabetes was confirmed by medical record, current diabetes treatment, confirmation from a primary health-care provider, fasting glucose of 126 mg/dL or more, symptoms of hyperglycemia with nonfasting plasma glucose of 200 mg/dL or more, or 2-hour plasma glucose of 200 mg/dL or more after ingestion of a 75-g oral glucose solution on at least two tests. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Community-based studies showed that the percentage of calories from saturated fat in people with both types of diabetes ranged between 11.7% and 14% (1,3,4,6). The ADA recommends that people with diabetes and normal glucose levels consume less than 10% of their daily calories from saturated fat; thus, many people with diabetes are not meeting current guidelines (7). Diabetes in America analysis of NHANES 2007–2010 data indicated that people with self-reported diagnosed diabetes consumed 11.4% of their daily calories from saturated fat compared to 10.8% for people without diabetes (Figure 10.5). Across diabetes status groups, non- Hispanic whites consumed a greater percentage of calories from saturated fat compared to non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics (Appendix 10.8). New analysis of the data from the NHANES 2007–2010 for Diabetes in America found that people with self- reported diagnosed diabetes consumed a mean of 24.1 g of saturated fat per day, while people without diabetes consumed 26.5 g per day (Table 10.3). Across diabetes status groups, younger adults consumed more saturated fat than older adults, men consumed more saturated fat than women, non-Hispanic whites consumed more saturated fat than non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics, and those with more education usually consumed more saturated fat than those with less education (Appendix 10.9). Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes 10–7 Unsaturated and Trans Fats Studies investigating the percentage of daily calories consumed from other fats did not find significant differences across age groups and types of diabetes. In these studies, the percentages of daily calories from other types of fat among people with type 1 and type
