Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


find significant differences across age groups and types of diabetes. In these studies, the percentages of daily calories from other types of fat among people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes were in the range of 14.2%–15% for monounsaturated fat, 5.5%–7.6% for polyunsaturated fat, and 2.3%–2.8% for trans fat (Table 10.4, trans fat data not shown) (3,4). An anal­ ysis of NHANES data reported trends in saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fat intake among people with self-reported diagnosed diabetes and found no significant changes from 1988 to 2004 (Table 10.4) (2). Overall, these data suggest that people with diabetes consume less fat than people without diabetes, but because they eat fewer calories, people with diabetes obtain a higher percentage of their calo­ ries from fat than people without diabetes. For carbohydrates, people with diabetes consume fewer grams and a smaller percentage of calories from carbohydrates than people without diabetes, but the amount has been increasing over time. Like fat, people with diabetes consume less protein than people without diabetes, but they consume a larger percentage of calories from protein. People with diabetes also consume less saturated fat than people without diabetes, but they obtain a larger percentage of their calories from saturated fat. Regardless of diabetes status, most Americans on average consume too much saturated fat. CHOLESTEROL The ADA recommends people with diabetes follow the cholesterol recom­ mendation for the general population, which is <300 mg per day (10). The median amount of cholesterol consumed in people with diabetes was 297 mg per day in the Look AHEAD population (6) and 228 mg per day in the SHS. In these two studies, more than half of people with diabetes did not meet the recom­ mended guidelines for daily cholesterol consumption. NHANES data indicated no significant change in cholesterol intake from 1988 to 2004 among people with diabetes, with intake ranging from 301 mg to 352 mg per day, respectively (2). Diabetes in America analysis of NHANES 2007–2010 data indicated that people with diagnosed diabetes consumed an average 256 mg of cholesterol per day, people with clinical undiagnosed diabetes consumed 286 mg per day, people with research undiagnosed diabetes consumed 282 mg per day, people with prediabetes consumed 303 mg per day, and people with normal glucose levels consumed 292 mg per day (Appendix 10.10). Across the diabetes status groups, younger adults consumed more choles­ terol per day than older adults,
