Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


One community-based study used a tele­ phone survey to examine fast food habits and unplanned eating in adolescents with diabetes. In this population, 48% reported eating fast food four or more times a month, 32% had fast food two or three times a month, and 20% consumed fast food zero or one time in the past month. In the same sample, 76% reported overeating at least once a week, and 69% consumed unplanned snacks at least once per week. Only 38% reported no daily soda consumption, while 42% reported less than a serving per day versus 20% having more than a serving per day (18). Diabetes in America analysis of the NHANES 2009–2010 dietary screener showed that on average, all diabetes status groups reported consuming less than one serving of regular soda per day (Appendix 10.22). Across diabetes status groups, younger adults reported consuming more soda than older adults. Women with self-reported diabetes consumed more soda than men with diabetes, but women with normal glucose levels consumed less soda than men without diabetes. Although there were no consistent patterns by race/ethnicity, those with a college education consumed less soda than those with less education across diabetes groups. PHYSICAL ACTIVITY Several nationally representative studies examined self-reported physical activity among people with diabetes (Table 10.9). Although these published studies were based on U.S. represen­ tative data, it was difficult to interpret and compare their results because the studies came from different time periods and considered different recommendation guidelines on physical activity. Sources of physical activity data include previously described studies, such as the BRFSS, NHANES, and NHIS. Other studies described in Table 10.9 include the Health and Retirement Study, a longitudinal panel study that surveys adults age >50 years on health, social, and financial issues every 2 years; the Regenstrief Physical Activity Questionnaire, a survey of older adults designed to develop physical activity measures to use in a low- income primary care population; the U.S. portion of the Joint Canada/United States Survey of Health, a telephone survey based on the NHIS; the Study to Help Improve Early Evaluation and Management of Risk Factors Leading to Diabetes (SHIELD), a population-based study that measures health behav­ iors, provider recommendations, and intentions to follow recommendations among people with type 2 diabetes; and the Treatment Options for Type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) study, a multisite randomized trial that evaluates treatments for type 2
