Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


groups, respectively; persons with more education were more likely to meet the recommendations than those with less education (Appendix 10.23). Persons with normal glucose levels engaged in more weekly physical activity minutes than those with diabetes or predi­ abetes (Appendix 10.24). NHANES 2007–2010 data also demon­ strated disparities in physical activity between people with and without diabetes, where 36.0% of those with self-reported diagnosed diabetes met the physical activity standards compared to 56.6% of those without diabetes (Table 10.11). When the category of Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes 10–15 those without diabetes was expanded, a smaller percentage of people with clin­ ical and research undiagnosed diabetes (38.0%–38.3%) met the physical activity recommendations compared to individ­ uals with prediabetes (55.9%) and normal glucose levels (60.9%) (Appendix 10.25). Across diabetes status groups, more young adults met the physical activity recommendations than older adults, more men met the standards than women, and persons with more education met the recommendations more often than those with less education; no consistent patterns were observed by race/ethnicity (Appendix 10.26). Although most data on physical activity are self-reported, the NHANES 2003– 2006 used a physical activity monitor to obtain objective data. A published study found that people with diabetes on average engaged in 311.3 minutes of physical activity per day, but only 12.27 minutes of moderate-vigorous activity per day (29). New data analysis for Diabetes in America showed that individuals with diagnosed diabetes engaged in fewer daily minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity compared to those with undiag­ nosed diabetes, prediabetes, and normal glucose levels (Appendix 10.27). People with diagnosed diabetes also spent more minutes per day being sedentary than the other diabetes groups. Across diabetes status groups, younger people engaged in more minutes of total and moderate- vigorous physical activity than older adults (Appendix 10.28). Men participated in more minutes of moderate-vigorous phys­ ical activity but fewer total minutes than women (latter data not shown). Persons with less education engaged in more total activity (data not shown) than the more educated but usually less moderate- vigorous physical activity (latter data in Appendix 10.28). Data from 2001–2006 were analyzed to determine the number of Metabolic Equivalent of Task (MET) hours that the different diabetes status groups expended each week. A MET is the ratio of the metabolic rate during phys­ ical activity to the resting metabolic rate. Regardless of the way the group with no diabetes
