Chapter 10: Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, people, plasma, plasma glucose, years, activity, adults, undiagnosed, undiagnosed diabetes, fasting, defined, age, people diabetes, health


of BRFSS 1999 data found that 88.3% of people with self-reported diabetes had regularly visited their physician in the past year compared to only 68.5% of people without diabetes (21). NHIS 2009–2010 data supported these findings, as 87.1% of people with self-reported diabetes, 82.3% of people with self-reported prediabetes, and 64.6% of people without diabetes/prediabetes regularly visited their physician (Figure 10.13). A greater percentage of older adults were more likely to visit their physician regularly than younger adults, and the percentage of Hispanics doing so was smaller than the other racial/ethnic groups (Appendix 10.40). There were greater differences by demographics in the population without diabetes than with diabetes. Diabetes in America analysis using NHANES 2007–2010 data showed that a greater percentage of people with diabetes had a yearly health care visit compared to people with undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, and normal glucose levels (Appendix 10.35). There was little variance by demographics for people with diabetes, but greater differences were found for people in the other diabetes status groups (Appendix 10.41). IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH PROFESSIONALS These new analyses of national data sets plus the review of published literature on lifestyle characteristics of people with diabetes should capture the attention of academics, students, health care providers, and policymakers. It is imper­ ative to have reliable health information at the national level to accurately monitor lifestyle characteristics among the diabetes population and to encourage the development of strategies to improve these risk factors. Health professionals and policy makers can then translate these strategies into clinical and public health settings, respectively. FIGURE 10.13. Prevalence of Visiting a Physician Regularly Among Adults Age ≥18 Years, by Diabetes Status, U.S., 2009–2010 Diabetes status is based on self-report. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. SOURCE: National Health Interview Surveys 2009–2010 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A1c . . . . . . . . . .glycosylated hemoglobin ADA . . . . . . . . .American Diabetes Association BRFSS . . . . . . .Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System DCCT . . . . . . . .Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Look AHEAD . .Action for Health in Diabetes MET . . . . . . . . .metabolic equivalent of task NHANES . . . . .National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey NHIS . . . . . . . .National Health Interview Survey SEARCH . . . . .SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study SHIELD
