Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


in adult patients. For complete coverage of this and all related ares of Endocrinology, please see our FREE web-book www.endotext.org. CLINICAL PRESENTATION OF HYPOCALCEMIA Hypocalcemia can present as an asymptomatic laboratory finding or as a severe, life-threatening condition ( Table 1 ). Distinguishing acute from chronic hypocalcemia and asymptomatic from severely symptomatic hypocalcemia is critical for determining appropriate therapy. In the setting of acute hypocalcemia, rapid treatment may be necessary. In contrast, chronic hypocalcemia may be well tolerated, but treatment is necessary to prevent long-term complications. Table 1 Clinical Features Associated With Hypocalcemia View in own window Neuromuscular irritability Chvostek's sign Trousseau's sign Paresthesias Tetany Seizures (focal, petit mal, grand mal) Muscle cramps Muscle weakness Laryngospasm Bronchospasm Neurological signs and symptoms Extrapyramidal signs due to calcification of basal ganglia Calcification of cerebral cortex or cerebellum Personality disturbances Irritability Impaired intellectual ability Nonspecific EEG changes Increased intracranial pressure Parkinsonism Choreoathetosis Dystonic spasms Mental status Confusion Disorientation Psychosis Fatigue Anxiety Poor memory Reduced concentration Ectodermal changes Dry skin Coarse hair Brittle nails Alopecia Enamel hypoplasia Shortened premolar roots Thickened lamina dura Delayed tooth eruption Increased dental caries Atopic eczema Exfoliative dermatitis Psoriasis Impetigo herpetiformis Smooth muscle involvement Dysphagia Abdominal pain Biliary colic Dyspnea Wheezing Ophthalmologic manifestations Subcapsular cataracts Papilledema Cardiac Prolonged QT interval on EKG Congestive heart failure Cardiomyopathy Adapted from Schafer AL and Shoback D: Hypocalcemia: definition, etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and management. Primer on the Metabolic Bone Diseases and Disorders of Mineral Metabolism, C. J. Rosen (ed), John Wiley and Sons, Eighth Edition. pp 572-578, 2013. The hallmark of acute hypocalcemia is neuromuscular irritability. Patients often complain of numbness and tingling in their fingertips, toes, and the perioral region. Paresthesias of the extremities may occur, along with fatigue and anxiety. Muscle cramps can be very painful and progress to carpal spasm or tetany. In extreme cases of hypocalcemia, bronchospasm and laryngospasm with stridor may occur. Muscle symptoms can be so severe as to present with a polymyositis-like picture with elevated muscle isoenzymes. These symptoms are corrected by calcium replacement. Clinically, neuromuscular irritability can be demonstrated by eliciting Chvostek's or Trousseau's signs. Chvostek's sign is elicited by tapping the skin over the facial nerve anterior to the external auditory meatus. Ipsilateral contraction of the facial muscles occurs in individuals with hypocalcemia. Chvostek's sign is also present in 10% of normal individuals. Trousseau's sign is elicited by inflation of a blood pressure cuff
