Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


of the facial muscles occurs in individuals with hypocalcemia. Chvostek's sign is also present in 10% of normal individuals. Trousseau's sign is elicited by inflation of a blood pressure cuff to 20 mm Hg above the patient's systolic blood pressure for 3-5 minutes. Carpal spasm presents as flexion of the wrist and of the metacarpal phalangeal joints, extension of the interphalangeal joints, and abduction of the thumb. It can be very painful. Acute hypocalcemia may have cardiac manifestations. Prolongation of the QT-interval due to lengthening of the ST-segment on electrocardiogram is fairly common in hypocalcemic patients. T-waves are abnormal in approximately 50% of patients (1). A pattern of acute anteroseptal injury on EKG without infarction has been associated with hypocalcemia and other electrolyte abnormalities (2). Hypomagnesemia in concert with hypocalcemia may magnify the EKG abnormalities. Rarely, congestive heart failure may occur (1,3,4). Reversible cardiomyopathy due to hypocalcemia has been reported (5). In patients with mild, asymptomatic hypocalcemia, calcium replacement can result in improved cardiac output, and exercise tolerance (6). Chronic hypocalcemia may have an entirely different presentation (7,8). Patients with idiopathic hypoparathyroidism or pseudohypoparathyroidism may develop neurological complications, including calcifications of the basal ganglia and other areas of the brain (9,10), and extrapyramidal symptoms. Grand mal, petit mal, or focal seizures have been described. Increased intracranial pressure and papilledema may be present. If the patient has pre-existing subclinical epilepsy, hypocalcemia may lower the excitation threshold for seizures (11). Electroencephalographic changes may be acute and nonspecific or present with distinct changes in the electroencephalogram (EEG). EEG changes may be present with or without symptoms of hypocalcemia. The relationship between calcification of basal ganglia (9,10-12), cerebral cortex, or cerebellum with pre-existing epileptic or convulsive disorders is not well understood. Epidermal changes are frequently found in patients with chronic hypocalcemia. These include dry skin, coarse hair, and brittle nails. If hypocalcemia has occurred prior to the age of 5, dental abnormalities may be present. Dental abnormalities include enamel hypoplasia, defects in dentin, shortened premolar roots, thickened lamina dura, delayed tooth eruption, and an increase in the number of dental caries. Alopecia has been noted following surgically-induced hypoparathyroidism and is also associated with autoimmune hypoparathyroidism. Other skin lesions reported in patients with hypoparathyroidism include atopic eczema, exfoliative dermatitis, impetigo herpetiformis, and psoriasis. Restoration of normocalcemia is reported to improve these skin disorders. Changes in smooth muscle function with low serum levels of calcium may
