Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


atopic eczema, exfoliative dermatitis, impetigo herpetiformis, and psoriasis. Restoration of normocalcemia is reported to improve these skin disorders. Changes in smooth muscle function with low serum levels of calcium may cause irritability of the autonomic ganglia and can result in dysphagia, abdominal pain, biliary colic, wheezing, and dyspnea. Subscapular cataracts occur in chronic, longstanding hypocalcemia (12) and with treatment, especially when the calcium x phosphate product is chronically elevated. Paravertebral ligamentous ossification has been noted in 50% of cases with hypoparathyroidism, and antalgic gait may be noted. In some cases of chronic hypoparathyroidism, psychoses, organic brain syndrome, and subnormal intelligence have been noted. Treatment of the hypocalcemia may improve mental functioning and personality, but amelioration of psychiatric symptoms is inconsistent. Delayed development, subnormal IQ, and poor cognitive function could also be a component of a syndrome that includes hypoparathyroidism as one of its features (7,8). This is critically important to consider in young patients being evaluated for the condition. In the elderly population, disorientation or confusion may be manifestations of hypocalcemia. ETIOLOGY OF HYPOCALCEMIA Hypocalcemia can result from disorders of vitamin D metabolism and action, hypoparathyroidism, resistance to parathyroid hormone (PTH), or a number of other conditions ( Table 2 ) (13,14). These topics are discussed in separate sections below. Table 2 Causes of Hypocalcemia View in own window Inadequate vitamin D production and action Nutritional deficiency Lack of sunlight exposure Malabsorption Post-gastric bypass surgery End-stage liver disease and cirrhosis Chronic kidney disease Vitamin D-dependent rickets type 1 and type 2 Inadequate PTH production/Hypoparathyroidism—see Table 3 Functional hypoparathyroidism Magnesium depletion Magnesium excess PTH resistance - Pseudohypoparathyroidism Miscellaneous etiologies Neonatal hypocalcemia Hyperphosphatemia Phosphate retention in acute or chronic renal failure Excess phosphate absorption caused by enemas, oral supplements Massive phosphate release caused by tumor lysis or crush injury Drugs Intravenous bisphosphonate therapy or denosumab therapy – especially in patients with vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency Foscarnet Rapid transfusion of large volumes of citrate-containing blood Acute critical illness “Hungry bone syndrome” Post-thyroidectomy for Grave’s disease Post-parathyroidectomy Osteoblastic metastases Acute pancreatitis Rhabdomyolysis Mitochondrial gene defects Adapted from: Schafer AL, Shoback, D: Hypocalcemia: definition, etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and management. Primer on the Metabolic Bone Diseases and Disorders of Mineral Metabolism, C. J. Rosen (ed), John Wiley and Sons, Eighth edition, pp 572-578, 2013. VITAMIN D DISORDERS RESULTING IN HYPOCALCEMIA Both inherited and acquired disorders of vitamin D and its metabolism may be associated with
