Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


John Wiley and Sons, Eighth edition, pp 572-578, 2013. VITAMIN D DISORDERS RESULTING IN HYPOCALCEMIA Both inherited and acquired disorders of vitamin D and its metabolism may be associated with hypocalcemia (15,16). Data from the 2005-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) estimates that the true prevalence of vitamin D deficiency (25-hydroxy vitamin D level ≤20 ng/mL [50 nmol/L]) is 41.5% (17). Nutritional Vitamin D Deficiency The fortification of milk, cereals, breads, and other foods with vitamin D and the use of supplements are why there are so few cases of vitamin D deficiency in children in the United States. Vitamin D deficiency has been recognized in the United States in children who have restricted diets or specialized diets (18). In countries that do not fortify foods, childhood vitamin D deficiency is more common. Vitamin D deficiency is recognized as a worldwide problem in older adults as well (15,16). Exclusively breastfed infants are at high risk for vitamin D deficiency, as there is little vitamin D in human milk. Lack of Sunlight Absorption Decreased synthesis of vitamin D in the skin is not uncommon and may be due to the lack of sun exposure due to excessive sunscreen usage, skin pigmentation, protective clothing, winter season, increased latitude or aging. Patients who are unable to be exposed to solar ultraviolet B radiation are at risk for vitamin D deficiency. In cultures where traditional dress includes long garments, hoods or veils, this may result in reduced sun exposure and vitamin D deficiency (19,20). Malabsorption Fat malabsorption accompanying hepatic dysfunction, sprue, Whipple's disease, Crohn's disease, and gastric bypass surgery may result in intestinal malabsorption of vitamin D and result in lower concentrations of circulating 25-hydroxy (25[OH]) vitamin D (21). Liver Disease Liver disease is not a common cause of inadequate 25(OH) vitamin D levels, as over 90% of the liver has to be dysfunctional before the 25(OH) vitamin D drops to subnormal levels. However, intestinal fat malabsorption occurs in both parenchymal and cholestatic liver disease, and this may cause vitamin D deficiency. Certain anticonvulsant drugs can alter the kinetics and hepatic metabolism of 25(OH) vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency is usually easily corrected by additional vitamin D administration. Renal Disease Nephrotic syndrome with excretion of large amounts of protein has also been associated with lower levels of 25(OH) vitamin D and may be due to excretion of vitamin D binding protein. Chronic
