Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


with excretion of large amounts of protein has also been associated with lower levels of 25(OH) vitamin D and may be due to excretion of vitamin D binding protein. Chronic renal failure with a reduction in glomerular filtration rate to <30% of normal may present with decreased production of 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D. In the setting of chronic renal failure, hyperphosphatemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism occur. Serum calcium tends to be in the low normal range. Hypocalcemia is usually not observed in the presence of low levels of 25(OH) vitamin D due to the compensatory rise of PTH, which will mobilize the calcium from skeletal stores. Hypocalcemia only occurs when these stores are severely depleted. Inherited Disorders of Vitamin D Metabolism and Action Inherited disorders can result from the deficiency in the renal production of 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D (vitamin D-dependent rickets type 1) or a defect in the vitamin D receptor (VDR) (vitamin D-dependent rickets type 2). Both disorders are exceedingly rare. Patients with vitamin D-dependent rickets (VDDR) type 1 usually present with rickets, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, elevated alkaline phosphatase, and as a result of their hypocalcemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism. Because type 1 VDDR results from a defect in the renal production of 1-alpha-hydroxylase (15,16), 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D levels are decreased or undetectable. In contrast, patients with VDDR type 2 have disrupted production or impaired function of the VDR, resulting in end-organ resistance to 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D. The clinical presentation includes severe hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and resultant secondary hyperparathyroidism with elevated alkaline phosphatase and rickets. In this disorder, however, the constant stimulation of renal 1-alpha-hydroxylase from the chronic hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and increased PTH levels results in elevated serum levels of 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D (15,16). HYPOPARATHYROIDISM The causes of hypoparathyroidism are summarized in Table 3 (7,8,22). Postsurgical Hypoparathyroidism and Hypocalcemia One of the most common causes of hypocalcemia is inadvertent removal of, damage to, or inadvertent devascularization of the parathyroid glands during surgery for parathyroid or thyroid disease. This may be short-term, in which case it is parathyroid gland “stunning.” If persistent (beyond 6 months), postoperative permanent hypoparathyroidism is the diagnosis. Other causes of postoperative hypocalcemia include the “hungry bone syndrome” with low serum calcium levels resulting from remineralization of the bone, as the stimulus for high bone turnover (e.g., high PTH or thyroid hormone levels) is removed are discussed below. There may be edema in the surgical field resulting in hypocalcemia due to the surgery
