Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


high bone turnover (e.g., high PTH or thyroid hormone levels) is removed are discussed below. There may be edema in the surgical field resulting in hypocalcemia due to the surgery itself, which may remit as the swelling subsides. The vascular supply to the remaining parathyroid glands may be compromised resulting in hypocalcemia. In chronic hyperparathyroidism, the dominant hyperactive parathyroid adenoma may have suppressed the remaining normal parathyroid glands. After removal of the adenoma, the remaining suppressed parathyroid glands will eventually regain their functional capacity, although this may take time. After surgery for primary hyperparathyroidism, hypocalcemia can be a significant source of morbidity. Risk factors for the development of early post-operative hypocalcemia have been assessed by several groups (23-27). In one study, patients with hypocalcemia within the 4 days after surgery were more likely to have had higher pre-operative levels of serum osteocalcin, bilateral (as opposed to unilateral) surgery, and a history of cardiovascular disease (23). Other studies have identified pre-operative vitamin D deficiency [25 (OH) vitamin D level <20 ng/mL] (24) and a drop in intraoperative PTH level of >80% (25) as significant risk factors for post-operative hypocalcemia. Employing more specific case definitions, one group classified cases of post-operative hypocalcemia as either “hungry bone syndrome” (hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia) or hypoparathyroidism (hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia). Independent risk factors for the development of hungry bone syndrome were pre-operative alkaline phosphatase level, blood urea nitrogen level, age, and parathyroid adenoma volume (26,27). Additional research is needed to understand better the risks for post-surgical hypoparathyroidism. While the gold standard for the surgical treatment of primary hyperparathyroidism was once bilateral neck exploration, advances in surgical technique, pre-operative localization capabilities, and intra-operative PTH monitoring have allowed for more limited parathyroid surgical approaches, including unilateral neck exploration and minimally invasive parathyroidectomy with a high degree of success. Unilateral neck exploration was shown to cause less early severe symptomatic hypocalcemia than bilateral neck exploration in a randomized controlled trial (28). Intraoperative PTH monitoring has also been shown to reduce the rate of complications (including hypoparathyroidism) in patients undergoing reoperations for primary hyperparathyroidism (29). Neck explorations for reasons other than hyperparathyroidism are associated with hypocalcemia. Thyroid surgery, for example, is associated with hypocalcemia, presumably due to surgical disruption or vascular compromise of the parathyroid glands. Transient hypocalcemia is observed in 16-55% of total thyroidectomy cases (30,31). One group recently reported that of the 50% of patients who developed post-operative hypocalcemia,
