Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


compromise of the parathyroid glands. Transient hypocalcemia is observed in 16-55% of total thyroidectomy cases (30,31). One group recently reported that of the 50% of patients who developed post-operative hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism persisted beyond one month in 38% (30). In another retrospective study, transient hypocalcemia was observed in 35% of patients undergoing total thyroidectomy, 3% had chronic hypocalcemia 6 months post-operatively, and 1.4% had permanent hypoparathyroidism 2 years post-operatively (31). The type of surgery performed is associated with the risk of developing hypocalcemia. For example, risk of hypocalcemia is higher after completion thyroidectomy or total thyroidectomy with node dissection (30). Transient hypocalcemia was observed more frequently after thyroidectomy for Graves’ disease than for nontoxic multinodular goiter, although incidence of permanent hypoparathyroidism was not different between groups (32). With hospital stays after surgery typically short, it is important to know how long to monitor a postoperative thyroid or parathyroid surgical patient for hypocalcemia. Bentrem et al. performed a chart review of 120 patients undergoing total/near-total thyroidectomy and/or parathyroidectomy, and they found that a low ionized calcium level 16 hours post-operatively was sufficient to identify patients at risk for post-operative hypoparathyroidism (33). Another review of outcomes following thyroidectomy reported that a low intact PTH level 1 hour post-operatively predicted symptomatic hypocalcemia with an 80-87% diagnostic accuracy, and none of the patients studied experienced symptomatic hypocalcemia when the 1-hour post-op PTH level was greater than 10 pg/mL. In the same study, a low ionized calcium level the morning after surgery predicted biochemical hypocalcemia with 78-95% diagnostic accuracy (34). Another study attempted to use both perioperative PTH levels and serum calcium levels to predict hypocalcemia after total or near-total thyroidectomy (31). PTH levels after surgical resection of the second thyroid lobe, age, and number of parathyroid glands identified intraoperatively were independently associated with decreased serum calcium levels measured at the nadir on postoperative day 1 or 2. Low levels of intraoperative PTH and serum calcium less than 2.00 mmol/L predicted biochemical hypocalcemia with a similar sensitivity (90% vs 90%) and specificity (75% vs 82%). Developmental Disorders of the Parathyroid Gland Developmental abnormalities in the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches result in the DiGeorge syndrome (35,36). Aplasia or hyperplasia of the thymus, aplasia or hypoplasia of the parathyroid glands and associated conotruncal cardiac malformation are hallmarks of this disorder. Severe hypocalcemia resulting in seizures and tetany can occur. Immunodeficiency due to thymic defects and hypoplasia can
