Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


the parathyroid glands and associated conotruncal cardiac malformation are hallmarks of this disorder. Severe hypocalcemia resulting in seizures and tetany can occur. Immunodeficiency due to thymic defects and hypoplasia can lead to recurrent infections. Other common associated cardiac defects include tetralogy of Fallot and truncus arteriosus. Abnormal patterns of aortic arch arteries, improper alignment of the aortic pulmonary outflow vessels, and defects in septation of the ventricles can occur. Occasionally, partial forms of the DiGeorge syndrome occur, and an EDTA challenge test may be necessary to confirm the diagnosis and unmask the hypoparathyroidism. Fluorescence in situ hybridization is one test that can be used to make the diagnosis. DiGeorge syndrome is the most frequent contiguous gene deletion syndrome in humans and occurs in 1 in 4000 live births. The microdeletion is found in chromosome 22q11.2. The phenotypic presentation is variable. In a small cohort of 16 patients who met clinical criteria for DiGeorge syndrome, correlation was made with a microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2 and immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent respiratory infections and absent thymus gland. Cell-mediated immunodeficiency and infections characterize this disorder (37). Other studies suggest that newborns with DiGeorge syndrome have preserved T-cell function, but the numbers of T cells are decreased. There is variable improvement in peripheral blood T-cell counts as the patients increase in age. A gene involved in the the features of the DiGeorge syndrome or sequence is the transcription factor TBX1 (35,38-40). Transgenic mice haploinsufficient for TBX1 demonstate some components of the DiGeorge syndrome (41). Complete knockout of the gene is lethal in mice and results in a high incidence of cardiac outflow tract abnormalities (42). Table 3 Differential Diagnosis of Hypoparathyroidism View in own window Iatrogenic Post I-131 radiation Surgically induced Infiltrative/Destructive Diseases Hemochromatosis Iron overload due to transfusion dependence in thalassemia Wilson's disease Metastatic carcinoma Neonatal Maternal hyperparathyroidism Maternal FHH Autoimmune Isolated Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS-1) Genetic or developmental disorders DiGeorge Syndrome Activating calcium-sensing receptor mutation Hypoparathyroidism, deafness, and renal anomalies (HDR) syndrome Hypoparathyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism (HRD) syndrome Mitochondrial gene defects Adapted from Schafer AL and Shoback D: Hypocalcemia: definition, etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and management. Primer on the Metabolic Bone Diseases and Disorders of Mineral Metabolism, C. J. Rosen (ed), John Wiley and Sons, Eighth Edition, pp 572-578, 2013. Genetic Etiologies of Hypoparathyroidism Hypoparathyroidism in Association with Syndromes Hypoparathyroidism has been described in association with specific disorders such as the Kearns-Sayre syndrome, which presents
