Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


Eighth Edition, pp 572-578, 2013. Genetic Etiologies of Hypoparathyroidism Hypoparathyroidism in Association with Syndromes Hypoparathyroidism has been described in association with specific disorders such as the Kearns-Sayre syndrome, which presents with heart block, retinitis pigmentosa and ophthalmoplegia. The Kenny-Caffey syndrome has also been associated with hypoparathyroidism and includes medullary stenosis of the long bones and growth retardation (43). Familial Isolated Hypoparathyroidism A few rare cases of familial isolated hypoparathyroidism have been described and are heterogeneous in their modes of inheritance: X-linked recessive, autosomal recessive, and autosomal dominant (7,8,44-51). X-linked recessive idiopathic hypoparathyroidism was reported in 2 related kindreds from Missouri, USA (47). Epilepsy and hypocalcemia were discovered in affected males during infancy. The disorder appears to be due to an isolated congenital defect of the parathyroid gland development, and linkage studies established this recessive idiopathic hypoparathyroidism was linked to a gene Xq26-q27 (44). In one kindred of autosomal dominant isolated hypoparathyroidism, the primary molecular defect was a mutation in the prepro-PTH gene (48). A highly charged arginine residue replaced cysteine within the hydrophobic core of the prepro-PTH signal peptide sequence. This sequence is critical for the movement of newly formed prepro-PTH through the endoplastic reticulum. The inability to progress through the cell secretory pathway could explain why these patients lacked expression of bioactive PTH. Other mutations in the signal peptide of prepro-PTH gene have also been reported (49). Another example leading to apoptosis in the affected cells was also described. An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance has been described in isolated hypoparathyroidism in a Bangladesh-Asian kindred (50). The prepro-PTH gene mutation resulted in a substitution of G to C in the first nucleotide position of the prepro-PTH intron 2. This mutation resulted in an aberrant prepro-PTH mRNA so that the entire signal sequence would be absent preventing PTH secretion. The patients were homozygous for the mutant allele and were the product of a consanguineous marriage. A recent case of hypoparathyroidism was described in which the affected patient was found to have a homozygous mutation in PTH at residue 25 (arginine substituted with cysteine). The proband (from among 3 affected siblings in the same family) produced very high or frankly low levels of PTH, depending on the immunoassay used to measure the hormone (51). This made the diagnosis confusing as the possibility of pseudohypoparathyroidism was raised because the patient had both hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia. The circulating hormone displayed dramatically impaired ability
