Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


the hormone (51). This made the diagnosis confusing as the possibility of pseudohypoparathyroidism was raised because the patient had both hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia. The circulating hormone displayed dramatically impaired ability to activate the PTH/PTH-related protein (PTHrP) type 1 receptor (PTH/PTHrP-R1) in transfected cells. Ding and coworkers described a large kindred with hypoparathyroidism due to a homozygous mutation in the glial cells missing-2 (GCM2) transcription factor mapped to 6p23-24 (52). GCM2 is expressed in parathyroid cells, and its expression is essential to the development of a PTH-secreting cell. Additional kindreds with other loss of function mutations in GCM2 have been described (53-56), further supporting the importance of this molecule in parathyroid gland development and in considering it diagnostically in kindreds affected by autosomal recessive hypoparathyroidism. There have been additional patients with GCM2 mutations in which the mutant transcription factor behaves as a dominant negative and the disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner (54). Mutations Affecting the Extracellular Calcium-Sensing Receptor and Other Molecules in Its Signaling Pathway The calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) is critical to the regulation of PTH secretion and parathyroid cell function. This receptor is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily and is strongly expressed in the kidney and parathyroid gland as well as other tissues. If hypercalcemia occurs, the CaSR activates the G-protein signaling pathway, resulting in increased intracellular calcium levels and the suppression of PTH gene transcription. Heterozygous inactivating mutations of Casr result in familial benign hypocalciuric hypercalcemia. Homozygous inactivating mutations cause neonatal severe hyperparathyroidism. Autosomal dominant and sporadic hypoparathyroidism can result from gain of function mutations of the Casr (57). The clinical presentation in these patients ranges from asymptomatic to life-threatening hypocalcemia. PTH levels are frankly low to low normal, and hypercalciuria may be present out of proportion to the degree of hypocalcemia. Activating mutations typically are in the amino-terminal extracellular domain of the receptor. Hypercalciuria can be exacerbated resulting in nephrocalcinosis and impairment of renal function if patients are treated with vitamin D or its analogues. Casr mutations are considered to be second to post-surgical hypoparathyroidism in frequency as a cause of hypoparathyroidism in the adult. Recently mutations have been described in the gene encoding the G protein alpha subunit (Ga11 or GNA11) that couples the CaSR to downstream signaling molecules and specifically to activation of intracellular calcium mobilization (58,59). The patients described have heterozygous point mutations in G a 11 with these
