Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


that couples the CaSR to downstream signaling molecules and specifically to activation of intracellular calcium mobilization (58,59). The patients described have heterozygous point mutations in G a 11 with these substitutions (Arg181Gln; Phe341Leu, Arg60Cys, and Ser211Trp), and they demonstrate mild hypocalcemia clinically. When these mutant G-protein alpha subunits are expressed in transfected cells, there is an apparent gain of function in extracellular calcium-activated signal transduction compatible with the suppression of PTH secretion in vivo. Hypoparathyroidism, Sensory Neural Deafness, Renal Dysplasia Syndrome The HDR (hypoparathyroidism, sensory neural deafness and renal dysplasia) syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant inherited syndrome which includes a variety of renal anomalies and varying degrees of hearing deficits as well as hypoparathyroidism (60-65). Linkage and mutational analysis have identified the gene responsible for the syndrome as GATA3 , which encodes a zinc finger transcription factor involved in embryonic development of the parathyroid glands, kidney and otic vesicle (60). Patients are usually asymptomatic with inappropriately normal, given their level of hypocalcemia, or frankly low PTH levels. Autoimmune Hypoparathyroidism The classic association of autoimmune parathyroid disease, adrenal disease and mucocutaneous candidiasis is termed autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS-1) (66-69) ( Table 4 ). The presence of 2 of the 3 classic endocrine features of the disease establishes the diagnosis. APS-1 is typically inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, and most cases are due to mutations in AIRE (autoimmune regulator of endocrine function), a gene located on chromosome 21q22.3. This gene encodes a transcription factor which is involved in the mechanisms of central tolerance to self-antigens in the thymus. APS-1 has also been reported in association with the presence of a thymoma (70). APS-1 has the onset of at least one disease component typically in early childhood with almost 100% penetrance. There are other autoimmune disorders associated with this syndrome including gonadal failure, hepatitis, malabsorption, type 1 diabetes, alopecia (totalis or aerata) and vitiligo. Table 4 Features of Autoimmune Polyendocrine Syndrome Type I View in own window Classic Triad Hypoparathyroidism Candidiasis Adrenal insufficiency (Addison's disease) Associated with 2 or 3 of the following Type 1 diabetes mellitus Primary hypogonadism (especially ovarian failure) Autoimmune thyroid disease Chronic active hepatitis Alopecia (totalis or aerata) Vitiligo Bilezikian J et al: Hypoparathyroidism in the adult: epidemiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology, target organ involvement, treatment and challenges for future research. J Bone Min Res 26: 2317-37, 2011; and Betterle C, Garelli S, Presotto F: Diagnosis and
