Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


the adult: epidemiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology, target organ involvement, treatment and challenges for future research. J Bone Min Res 26: 2317-37, 2011; and Betterle C, Garelli S, Presotto F: Diagnosis and classification of autoimmune parathyroid disease. Autoimm Rev 13: 417-22, 2014. The most common age of onset of APS-1 is 8 years, and it occurs equally in males and females. There is a temporal sequence of development of APS-1 with chronic cutaneous candidiasis frequently the herald event. Hypoparathyroidism may occur next and may present as a seizure during an acute illness. Addison's disease (adrenal insufficiency) follows. These disorders occur at the average of 5, 9 and 14 years of age, respectively (71). There may be variation within individual families in the clinical presentation. As many as 50% of patients with APS-1 experience keratoconjunctivitis (72). Keratoconjunctivitis can intermittently recur but also can be chronic and disabling. Some propose that this is a hypersensitivity response to the candidiasis as opposed to a component of APS-1 per se. Histopathological features have been evaluated in corneal buttons obtained at keratoplasties. Severe atrophy of the corneal epithelium was evident. The anterior corneal layers, epithelium, the Bowman's membrane and anterior corneal stoma only are affected. The anterior corneal stroma is replaced by scar tissue with features of chronic inflammation consisting of lymphocytes and plasma cells (73). There are reported cases of keratoconjunctivitis in the absence of a candida infection. Other ocular abnormalities include retinitis pigmentosa, exotropia, pseudo-optosis, cataracts, papilledema, strabismus, recurrent blepharitis, and loss of eyebrows and eyelashes (74). In children with APS-1, other ectodermal disorders have been described, but they are also found in patients with non-autoimmune mediated hypocalcemia. These include alopecia totalis or areata, piebaldism, vitiligo, cataracts and papilledema. In APS-1, approximately 20 to 30% of individuals have some form of alopecia. Vitiligo has been reported in 10% of affected individuals (66-69). Another immune problem associated with APS-1 is delayed sensitivity due to T-cell abnormalities. Dental dysplasia, including enamel hypoplasia, may predate the onset of hypoparathyroidism. Fifteen percent of affected individuals have gastric atrophy and pernicious anemia. Ten percent of APS-1 individuals develop chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis which may be a significant cause of mortality. Due to intestinal malabsorption, management may be difficult due to malabsorption of calcium and vitamin D. Autoantibodies occur routinely in APS-1 and are its hallmark. One group studied individuals with hypoparathyroidism and APS-1 and showed that >50% of these
