Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


to malabsorption of calcium and vitamin D. Autoantibodies occur routinely in APS-1 and are its hallmark. One group studied individuals with hypoparathyroidism and APS-1 and showed that >50% of these patients demonstrated antibodies to NALP5 (nacht leucine repeat protein 5), a molecule potentially involved in signal transduction in parathyroid cells (75,76). One of the strongest markers for the presence of APS-1, in patients with one or more features of the disease and even prior to disease onset in high-risk individuals, is the presence of neutralizing anti-interferon alpha or omega antibodies (69,77,78). These antibodies are thought to play a pathogenic role in the disease features including impaired mucosal immune responses and recognition of self by the thymus based on findings in mouse models (79,80). Treatment of patients with hypoparathyroidism due to an autoimmune mechanism can be difficult. In children with autoimmune hypoparathyroidism, the symptoms of Addison's disease can be masked, and lack of glucocorticoid therapy can result in a fatal outcome. In adrenocortical insufficiency, serum calcium concentrations may be elevated and decrease rapidly to hypocalcemic levels after the introduction of corticosteroid replacement therapy. The introduction of hormone replacement therapy for premature ovarian failure can also lead to a diminution in serum calcium levels. Vitamin D malabsorption can occur secondary to diarrhea due to intestinal malabsorption. Patients with features of APS-1 should be screened regularly for associated autoimmune abnormalities. It is recommended that healthy siblings be screened in the first decade of life biochemically or preferable with genetic testing or testing for the presence of autoantibodies. Several forms of autoimmune hypoparathyroidism can occur either with or without other endocrinopathies (i.e., as isolated hypoparathyroidism) (69). PSEUDOHYPOPARATHYROIDISM Pathophysiology Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) was initially described by Dr. Fuller Albright and colleagues in 1942, and the disorders involved according to current classification are shown in Table 5 . These patients have clinical and biochemical features consistent with hypoparathyroidism but have neither a hypercalcemic nor phosphaturic response to exogenous parathyroid extract. PTH resistance is the biochemical hallmark of PHP, and in untreated patients, serum levels of PTH are elevated sometimes very markedly so. Biological resistance to PTH causes inadequate flow of calcium into extracellular fluids and deficient phosphate excretion by the kidney. Hypocalcemia is due to impaired mobilization of calcium from bone, reduced intestinal absorption of calcium, and increased urinary losses. Table 5 Comparison of Features of Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) and Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism (PPHP) View in own window PHP 1a
