Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


of calcium from bone, reduced intestinal absorption of calcium, and increased urinary losses. Table 5 Comparison of Features of Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) and Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism (PPHP) View in own window PHP 1a PHP 1b PHP 2 PPHP AHO + - - + Serum calcium ↓ ↓ ↓ NL cAMP Response to PTH ↓ ↓ ↓ NL Urinary Phosphate ↓ ↓ ( ↓ ) NL NL Response to PTH Hormone Resistance PTH, TSH and other Gs-alpha coupled hormones PTH target tissues only PTH target tissues only None Molecular defect Reduced functional Gs-alpha levels Abnormalities in Gs-alpha gene transcription Unknown Gs-alpha AHO = Albright’s hereditary osteodystrophy PTH = parathyroid hormone NL = normal R = receptor Gs alpha = alpha subunit of the stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding protein + = present; = decreased PHP = pseudohypoparathyroidism; PPHP = pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism Adapted from Juppner H and Bastepe M: Pseudohypoparathyroidism. Primer on the Metabolic Bone Diseases and Disorders of Mineral Metabolism, C. J. Rosen (ed), John Wiley and Sons, Eighth Edition, pp 590-600, 2013. In PHP 1, there is autosomal dominant inheritance of the mutation. However, there is imprinting of the GNAS locus with silencing of the paternal allele, which influences the expression of the phenotype. In PHP 1a, if the mutation is inherited from the mother, the disease in the offspring manifests as PHP 1a with low serum calcium, high serum phosphate and high PTH levels plus the presence of features of Albright’s hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO) (described below). If the mutation is passed down from the father, that allele is silenced in the proximal tubules of the kidney (through imprinting). The normal sequence from the maternal allele is expressed, and the biochemical and mineral abnormalities are absent. Only the AHO phenotype is present in such an individual. This is called pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism (PPHP). The hallmark of the diagnosis of PHP 1a is a markedly attenuated urinary cyclic AMP response to exogenous administration of PTH. The resistance to PTH is caused by a defect in the PTH hormone receptor-adenylate cyclase complex that produces cyclic AMP. Receptors communicate with the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase through guanyl nucleotide binding regulatory proteins (G-proteins). There are many G-proteins, some of which are stimulatory (Gs) or inhibitory (Gi) to receptor dependent activation of adenylate cyclase. The original description by Albright of PHP focused on PTH resistance. However, patients with PHP 1a may display partial resistance to other hormones and present with short
