Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


of adenylate cyclase. The original description by Albright of PHP focused on PTH resistance. However, patients with PHP 1a may display partial resistance to other hormones and present with short stature, hypothyroidism, hypogonadism, and mental retardation (81-84). Patients with PHP 1a also can have ovulatory, gustatory and auditory dysfunction. The defect is in Gs alpha, a ubiquitous protein required for functional cyclic AMP production and the amounts of G-protein present can be measured in plasma membrane of accessible cells. Patients with PHP 1a have an ~50% reduction in Gs alpha in all tissues studied. A variety of mutations in the Gs alpha gene ( GNAS ) have been identified by sequencing analysis. Patients with PHP also have a constellation of developmental and somatic defects that are referred to as AHO. Short stature, round facies, brachydactyly ( Figure ), obesity, and subcutaneous calcifications are classic features of AHO (81-84). Phenotypes can vary and presentations may be subtle. A variant phenotype of patients with features of AHO but lacking hormone resistance is considered to have PPHP. These patients have normal serum calcium levels. Figure X-rays demonstrate congenital shortening of the third, fourth and fifth metacarpals on the right hand. This patient was a 40-year-old female with normal serum calcium, phosphate and alkaline phosphatase. Her findings are consistent with pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism. Individuals classified as PHP 1b typically lack features of AHO. Typically patients with PHP1b have the same biochemical presentation with hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia with elevated levels of PTH. They lack the appropriate increase in urinary cyclic AMP in response to PTH infusion. These patients have been studied extensively and in affected kindreds the disorder has been mapped to the GNAS1 locus (81-84). The disease is thought to be due to abnormalities in DNA methylation of the GNAS1 promoter, altering levels of Gs alpha expression in key target tissues. There is also a group with specific promoter DNA methylation defects which lead to a reduction in GNAS1 transcription due to the loss of methylation. In PHP 2, there is reduced phosphaturic response to administration of exogenous PTH, but a normal increase in urinary cyclic AMP excretion. PHP 2 is a clinically heterogenous syndrome. The molecular pathophysiology is poorly understood. These patients may demonstrate normal cyclic AMP but absent phosphaturic responses to PTH. Hypocalcemia, decreased calcium mobilization from bone in response to PTH, and decreased serum 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D are the prominent features of PTH
