Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


cyclic AMP but absent phosphaturic responses to PTH. Hypocalcemia, decreased calcium mobilization from bone in response to PTH, and decreased serum 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D are the prominent features of PTH resistance. Signs and Symptoms Patients with PHP can present with signs and symptoms of hypocalcemia. Neuromuscular irritability, with an onset in mid childhood (average age ~8 years), has been described. Other patients may remain asymptomatic and not be diagnosed with PHP until adulthood. Symptoms of hypocalcemia such as carpopedal spasms, paresthesias, convulsions, muscle cramps and stridor can all be found in PHP. In some severe cases, life-threatening laryngeal spasm has been reported in children. Posterior subscapular cataracts can occur in patients with longstanding untreated hypocalcemia. Basal ganglia calcifications have been found in 50% of patients with PHP and may produce extrapyramidal movement disorders. In some patients with PHP, normal serum calcium levels may be present. Hypocalcemia may develop insidiously and be preceded by increasing levels of serum PTH. Psychiatric problems such as depression, paranoia, psychosis and delusions have been described in the presence of hypocalcemia. Cognitive defects such as mental retardation and memory impairment have been encountered. Dental defects include dental and enamel hypoplasia, blunted tooth root development, and delay of tooth eruption. In patients with radiographic evidence of osteitis fibrosis cystica, there is clearly skeletal sensitivity to PTH. In such individuals, serum alkaline phosphatase levels and biochemical markers of bone turnover, especially of bone resorption, may be increased. Bone mineral density (BMD) may be normal or decreased. Especially in those with skeletal sensitivity to PTH, there may be decreased BMD, especially at cortical sites. Reproductive abnormalities have been described. In patients with AHO and PHP, 76% of patients were oligomenorrheic or amenorrheic, had delayed sexual development, and only 2 of 17 patients had a history of pregnancy. All of these patients had typical PTH resistance and a 50% reduction in Gs alpha activity. These patients were mildly hypoestrogenemic with normal to slightly elevated serum gonadotropin levels. It was proposed that the reproductive dysfunction was due to partial resistance to gonadotropins since administration of the synthetic GnRH analogue produced normal FSH and LH responses (85). Phenotypic variability is another problem with the diagnosis of AHO even among affected individuals in a kindred. Nonspecific physical characteristics include short stature and obesity. Brachydactyly is a more specific criterion and can be diagnosed by physical or radiographic examination. In AHO, the most commonly
