Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


a kindred. Nonspecific physical characteristics include short stature and obesity. Brachydactyly is a more specific criterion and can be diagnosed by physical or radiographic examination. In AHO, the most commonly shortened bones are the distal phalanx of the thumb and the fourth metacarpal. On a radiograph of a normal hand, a line drawn tangential to the distal ends of the fourth and fifth metacarpals passes distal to the head of the third metacarpal. Archibald’s sign is present if the line instead runs through the distal end of the third metacarpal (86). Heterotopic ossification can also occur, but little is known about the cause. Diagnosis and Management of Pseudohypoparathyroidism Patients who present with hypoparathyroidism and an elevated serum level of PTH should be suspected for possible PHP. The typical phenotype of AHO (short stature, brachydactyly of the hands and feet, subcutaneous calcifications) should suggest PHP 1a or PPHP. Hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, elevated levels of PTH and normal renal function lead one to be highly suspicious of the diagnosis. A positive family history lends further support. The biochemical hallmark is failure of bone and kidney to respond adequately to PTH. The classic tests of Ellsworth and Howard and of Chase, Melson, and Aurbach (87) involved administration of 200 to 300 USP units of bovine parathyroid extract with measurements of urinary cyclic AMP and phosphate. The test hormone is now synthetic human PTH (1-34). After administration of human PTH (1-34), normal subjects and patients with hypoparathyroidism display 10- to 20-fold increases in urinary cyclic AMP. Patients with PHP 1a and 1b have markedly blunted responses. The definitive test for the diagnosis of PHP 1 is the analysis of the Gs-alpha protein levels or sequencing of GNAS1 , which can be done in reference laboratories. Treatment of hypocalcemia in patients with PHP is the same as for other types of hypoparathyroidism. However, patients with AHO may require specific therapies related to skeletal abnormalities. Approximately 30% of patients with AHO have ectopic calcification and occasionally, large extraskeletal osteomas require surgical removal to relieve symptoms (88). Ossification of ligaments may also require surgery to relieve neurological problems (89). Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism Patients who express only the AHO phenotype are described as having PPHP ( Table 5 ). These subjects have normal serum calcium levels and have no other evidence of hormone resistance. These patients have the same mutant allele that can cause Gs alpha deficiency in other affected family
