Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


glands can occur during intrauterine life due to the increased calcium delivery to the fetus. The infant's parathyroid glands are not able to respond to the hypocalcemic stimulus after birth and maintain normal serum calcium levels. A typically benign autosomal dominant disorder, familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH), can paradoxically produce neonatal hypocalcemia. FHH is usually due to heterozygous inactivating mutations in the Casr . There is a report of an infant with late onset life-threatening hypocalcemia secondary to relative hyperparathyroidism. The hypoparathyroidism was thought to be due to fetal parathyroid suppression secondary to high maternal calcium levels in a mother with FHH due to a heterozygous Casr mutation (92). Factitious Hypocalcemia Due to Hypoalbuminemia In patients with chronic illness, malnutrition, cirrhosis, or volume over-expansion, serum albumin may fall with a reduction in the total, but generally not the ionized, fraction of serum calcium. This is referred to as "factitious" hypocalcemia. Patients do not have any of the signs or symptoms listed above of hypocalcemia. There is a correlation between the extent of hypoalbuminemia and hypocalcemia such that one can calculate the corrected total serum calcium. If the serum albumin levels fall to <4.0 g/dL, the usual correction is to add 0.8 mg/dL to the measured total serum calcium for every 1.0 g/dL by which the serum albumin is lowered. This is not a completely precise method, and serum ionized calcium measurements can confirm whether true hypocalcemia is present. Hypomagnesemia Magnesium depletion is relatively common in the hospitalized patient, occurring in 10% of this population. Hypocalcemia is commonly associated with magnesium depletion. Hypomagnesemia may be caused by excessive losses through the gastrointestinal tract. Chronic diarrhea of essentially any etiology can cause hypomagnesemia. Non-tropical sprue, radiation therapy, bacterial and viral dysentery, and severe pancreatitis can cause hypomagnesemia. Bypass or resection of the small bowel may also result in intestinal magnesium loss. Mutations in several genes important in magnesium conservation may also cause intestinal magnesium loss (93,94). Loss of magnesium through renal mechanisms may be due to osmotic diuresis or glycosuria, and it may also occur in hypoparathyroidism. Many drugs cause renal magnesium wasting such as diuretics, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatinum, cyclosporin, and pentamidine (7,8). A rare etiology is primary familial hypomagnesemia, which usually is diagnosed at a very young age. Hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia, due to a mutation in TRPM6 , was described simultaneously by two groups (95,96). TRPM6 is a protein of
