Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


is diagnosed at a very young age. Hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia, due to a mutation in TRPM6 , was described simultaneously by two groups (95,96). TRPM6 is a protein of the long transient receptor potential channel (TRPM) family. It is highly similar to TRPM7, a bifunctional protein combining calcium- and magnesium-permeable cation channel activities with protein kinase activity. TRPM6 is present in both kidney tubules and intestinal epithelia and maps to chromosome 9q. This autosomal recessive disorder can sometimes present with the triad of hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, and hypocalcemia. It is treatable with life-long magnesium supplementation. Recognition and treatment can prevent long-term neurological defects. Several other inherited disorders causing hypomagnesemia have been elucidated and are described in recent reviews (93,94). Patients with severe hypocalcemia due to magnesium depletion should be treated with intravenous magnesium at a dose of 48 mEq over 24 hours. Although magnesium can be administered intramuscularly, these injections are usually painful. Even though intravenous magnesium administration may result in prompt normalization of magnesium levels, hypocalcemia may not be corrected for 3-7 days. This may be because cellular uptake of magnesium is slow, and magnesium is predominantly an intracellular cation. Repletion of magnesium thus requires sustained correction of the deficiency state. Magnesium therapy may be continued until the biochemical signs of depletion (hypocalcemia and hypokalemia) resolve. Hyperphosphatemia Hyperphosphatemia can lower serum calcium. There are many causes of hyperphosphatemia, including increased intake of phosphate, decreased excretion of phosphate or increased translocation of phosphate from tissue breakdown into the extracellular fluid. Renal insufficiency is probably the most common cause of hyperphosphatemia. The use of phosphate-containing enemas or zealous use of oral phosphate may also lead to hyperphosphatemia. Vitamin D administration, especially of vitamin D metabolites like calcitriol, may also cause hyperphosphatemia. The transcellular shift of phosphate from cells into the extracellular fluid compartment is seen in tissue destruction or increased metabolism. Examples of transcellular shifts include changes in phosphate that accompany treatment of acute leukemias or lymphomas or large bulky solid tumors with effective chemotherapy. Rapid release of cellular phosphate may occur causing the tumor lysis syndrome (97). In rhabdomyolysis due to crush injury, hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia may occur. Severe intravascular hemolysis may lead to a similar syndrome. In diabetic ketoacidosis, ketone-induced urinary losses of phosphate deplete total body stores, but patients may present with hyperphosphatemia. When the volume shifts during the correction of hyperglycemia and acidosis, the shift of phosphate
