Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


ketone-induced urinary losses of phosphate deplete total body stores, but patients may present with hyperphosphatemia. When the volume shifts during the correction of hyperglycemia and acidosis, the shift of phosphate back into cells can result in mild transient hypophosphatemia. Hyperphosphatemia alters the calcium-phosphate product and the solubility of these ions. This may lead to calcium salt deposition in soft tissues. Ectopic calcifications in tissues may form, including in blood vessels, heart valves, skin, periarticular tissues, and the cornea (band keratopathy). Hyperphosphatemia inhibits 1-alpha-hydroxylase activity in the kidney. The resulting lower circulating concentrations of 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D may further aggravate the hypocalcemia by impairing intestinal absorption of calcium. Hypocalcemia and tetany may occur if serum phosphate rises rapidly. Treatment should be directed towards reducing the hyperphosphatemia in order to correct the hypocalcemia. Hyperphosphatemia-induced hypocalcemia inhibits vitamin D bioactivation in the kidney and the resulting low 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D levels may result in increased PTH secretion. Secondary hyperparathyroidism from long-term hyperphosphatemia has been well described and is usually associated with renal insufficiency. Ectopic calcifications in tissues may occur. Medications and Toxins There are many drugs associated with hypocalcemia. One class of such agents is inhibitors of bone resorption. These drugs include bisphosphonates, calcitonin, and denosumab, the neutralizing monoclonal antibody to the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand (RANK-L) (98-101). Calcitonin, given in multiple doses daily is a short-term treatment for hypercalcemia, so hypocalcemia is an expected therapeutic outcome with such a dosing regimen. Hypocalcemia after administration of an intravenous bisphosphonate like pamidronate or zoledronic acid is uncommon but if it occurs can be prolonged (99,100). This is especially true in patients with underlying vitamin D deficiency. Patients receiving denosumab for osteoporosis or metastatic cancer to bone are at risk for hypocalcemia, especially if there is underlying chronic kidney disease (101). Oral or parental phosphate preparations can also lower serum calcium. Hypocalcemia and osteomalacia have been described with prolonged therapy with anticonvulsants such as phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) or phenobarbital. Hypocalcemia has also been found in patients undergoing pheresis and plasmapheresis with citrated blood. Fluid overdoses during dialysis, over-fluorinated public water supplies, and ingestion of fluoride-containing cleaning agents have all been associated with low serum calcium levels. In this case, hypocalcemia is thought to be due to excessive rates of skeletal mineralization secondary to formation of calcium difluoride complexes. Chemotherapeutic agents such as the combined use of 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin, may result in
