Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


to be due to excessive rates of skeletal mineralization secondary to formation of calcium difluoride complexes. Chemotherapeutic agents such as the combined use of 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin, may result in mild hypocalcemia. The hypomagnesemia caused by cisplatinum can induce hypocalcemia. "Hungry Bone Syndrome" Rapid remineralization of the bone occurring postoperatively, after thyroidectomy for thyrotoxicosis or parathyroidectomy for hyperparathyroidism, is referred to as "hungry bone syndrome" (26,27,102). It is due to a rapid increase in bone uptake of serum minerals after the removal of a stimulus of high rates of bone remodeling (thyroid hormone or PTH). When the stimulus is removed, there is a dramatic increase in bone formation. Hypocalcemia can occur if the rate of skeletal mineralization exceeds the rate of osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. This syndrome can be associated with severe and diffuse bone pain and tetany. A similar pathophysiology (net rapid uptake of calcium into bone) is the cause of hypocalcemia due to osteoblastic metastases. This may occur in patients with prostate or breast cancer (7). Acute leukemia or osteosarcoma can also result in hypocalcemia. In patients with vitamin D deficiency and symptoms of osteomalacia, institution of vitamin D therapy can result in hypocalcemia. All these disease states result in hypocalcemia due to rapid mineralization of large amounts of unmineralized osteoid. Pancreatitis Pancreatitis can be associated with lipid abnormalities, hypocalcemia, and even tetany. With the development of animal models, the mechanism of hypocalcemia is known (103). When the pancreas is damaged, free fatty acids are generated by the action of pancreatic lipase. There are insoluble calcium salts present in the pancreas, and the free fatty acids avidly chelate the salts resulting in calcium deposition in the retroperitoneum. In addition, hypoalbuminemia may be part of the clinical picture so that there is a reduction in total serum calcium. If there is concomitant alcohol abuse, emesis or poor nutrition, hypomagnesemia may augment the problem. PTH levels can be normal, suppressed or elevated. If PTH levels are normal or suppressed, hypomagnesemia may be present. If PTH levels are elevated, this is a reflection of the hypocalcemia. In the treatment of these patients, parenteral calcium and magnesium replacements are indicated. Vitamin D status should be assessed to rule out malabsorption or nutritional deficiencies. Hypocalcemia Associated With Critical Illness There are multiple reasons why a patient with acute illness may experience hypocalcemia. Acute or chronic renal failure, hypomagnesemia, hypoalbuminemia ("factitious hypocalcemia"), medications, or transfusions
