Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


Hypocalcemia Associated With Critical Illness There are multiple reasons why a patient with acute illness may experience hypocalcemia. Acute or chronic renal failure, hypomagnesemia, hypoalbuminemia ("factitious hypocalcemia"), medications, or transfusions with citrated blood may all alter levels of serum calcium. Pancreatitis, as stated above, may also result in hypocalcemia. Another setting in which hypocalcemia can occur is sepsis and usually confirms a grave prognosis (104). In gram negative sepsis or in the "toxic shock syndrome", there is a reduction in both total and ionized serum calcium. The mechanism of action remains unknown, but elevated levels of the cytokines IL-6 or TNF-alpha may be mediators of hypocalcemia. In a study of patients with acute illnesses, the 3 most common factors identified with low calcium levels were hypomagnesemia, presence of acute renal failure, and transfusions. The level of hypocalcemia correlated with patient mortality (105). To assess the incidence of hypocalcemia in critically ill patients, Zivin and colleagues (105) compared the frequency and degree of hypocalcemia in nonseptic critically ill patients. Three groups of hospitalized patients were studied: critically ill patients admitted to medical, surgical, trauma, neurosurgical, burn, respiratory and coronary intensive care units (ICUs) (n=99); non-critically ill ICU patients discharged from an ICU within 48 hours (n=50) and non-ICU patients (n=50). Incidences of levels of low ionized calcium were 88%, 66% and 26% for the 3 groups, respectively. The occurrence of hypocalcemia correlated with mortality/hazard ratio for death, 1.65 for calcium decrements of 0.1 mmol/L, (p<0.002). No specific illness (renal failure, blood transfusions) was associated with hypocalcemia. Transfusion-Related Causes of Hypocalcemia During surgical procedures, hypocalcemia may occur with the rapid infusion of citrated blood, with physiologic increases in serum PTH levels. Symptoms are variable in this setting, and it is thought that the phenomenon is due to acute hemodilution by physiological saline and complexation of calcium by the large amounts of citrate infused. This is noted also during hepatic transplantation when the liver’s capacity for clearance of citrate is interrupted. Hypocalcemia due to hypoparathyroidism is well recognized in transfusion-dependent patients with beta-thalassemia (106-108). It is thought that hypoparathyroidism and the other endocrinopathies seen in patients with thalassemia are due to iron overload. Their presence correlates with disease duration and extent of transfusions. TREATMENT OF HYPOCALCEMIA The decision to treat is dependent on presenting symptoms, and the severity and rapidity with which hypocalcemia develops. All treatment requires close monitoring. If intravenous infusions are
