Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


TREATMENT OF HYPOCALCEMIA The decision to treat is dependent on presenting symptoms, and the severity and rapidity with which hypocalcemia develops. All treatment requires close monitoring. If intravenous infusions are contemplated, hospitalization in an intensive care unit or specialized unit with access to cardiac monitoring and rapid ionized calcium determinations is ideal for optimal management and safety. Acute Hypocalcemia Acute hypocalcemia can be life-threatening, as patients may present with tetany, seizures, cardiac arrhythmias, laryngeal spasm, or altered mental status. Calcium gluconate is the preferred intravenous calcium salt as calcium chloride often causes local irritation. Calcium gluconate contains 90 mg of elemental calcium per 10 mL ampule, and usually 1 to 2 ampules (180 mg of elemental calcium) diluted in 50 to 100 mL of 5% dextrose is infused over 10 minutes. This can be repeated until the patient's symptoms have cleared. With persistent hypocalcemia, administration of a calcium gluconate drip over longer periods of time may be necessary. The goal should be to raise the serum ionized calcium concentration into the low normal range (~1.0 mM), maintain it there, and control the patient’s symptoms. Drip rates of 0.5-2.0 mg/kg/hour are recommended. As soon as possible, oral calcium supplementation should be initiated and, if warranted, therapy with vitamin D or its analogues. Intravenous administration of calcium is not without problems. Rapid administration could result in arrhythmias so intravenous administration should be carefully monitored. Local vein irritation can occur with solutions >200 mg/100 mL of elemental calcium. If local extravasation into soft tissues occurs, calcifications due to the precipitation of calcium phosphate crystals can occur (109). Calcium phosphate deposition can occur in any organ and is more likely to occur if the calcium-phosphate product exceeds 55. Calcium phosphate deposition in the lungs, kidney or other soft tissue may occur in patients receiving intravenous calcium especially in the presence of high serum phosphate levels. It is essential to measure serum magnesium in any patient who is hypocalcemic, as correction of hypomagnesemia must occur to overcome PTH resistance before serum calcium will return to normal. Chronic Hypocalcemia In chronic hypocalcemia, patients can often tolerate remarkably severe hypocalcemia and remain asymptomatic. For patients who are asymptomatic or with mildly symptomatic hypocalcemia, calcium homeostasis can be restored with oral calcium and vitamin D or an activated vitamin D metabolite such as calcitriol (7,8). Oral calcium carbonate is often the most commonly administered salt, although many different
