Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


restored with oral calcium and vitamin D or an activated vitamin D metabolite such as calcitriol (7,8). Oral calcium carbonate is often the most commonly administered salt, although many different calcium salts exist. Oral doses calcium should be in the amount of 1 to 3 grams of elemental calcium in 3 to 4 divided doses with meals to ensure optimal absorption. Calcium carbonate contains 40% elemental calcium by weight and is relatively inexpensive. Lower amounts of elemental calcium are present in other types of calcium such as calcium lactate (13%), calcium citrate (21%) and calcium gluconate (9%), requiring a larger number of tablets. There are expensive forms of calcium supplements that have relatively few additional advantages. Liquid calcium supplements are available such as calcium glubionate that contains 230 mg of calcium per 10 mL or liquid forms of calcium carbonate. In patients with achlorhydria, a solution of 10% calcium chloride (1- to 30 ml) every 8 hours can also effectively raise calcium levels. Calcium phosphate salts should be avoided. The overall goal of therapy is to maintain serum calcium in the low normal range, especially in patients with hypoparathyroidism (7,8,110). Serum calcium should be tested every 3 to 6 months or when any changes in the medical regimen are made. One potential side effect of therapy in patients with hypoparathyroidism is hypercalciuria which can be complicated by nephrocalcinosis, nephrolithiasis, and or renal insufficiency. A 24-hour urine calcium along with creatinine determination should be done at least annually, once stable doses of supplements are established. The target for urinary calcium excretion is <4 mg/kg/24 hr. Serum levels of calcium are poor indicators of the presence of hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis (110). The patient should also regularly see an ophthalmologist to screen for cataracts. When treating hypocalcemia in the presence of hyperphosphatemia, special care must be taken (sometimes with the use of a phosphate binder) to avoid soft tissue calcium phosphate precipitation. Soft tissue calcification can occur in any tissue, but involvement of vital organs such as the lungs, kidney, heart, blood vessels, or brain can result in substantial morbidity or mortality (10). For patients with hypoparathyroidism, vitamin D2 or D3 (ergocalciferol or cholecalciferol, respectively) or vitamin D metabolites [calcitriol or 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D or 1 alpha-OH vitamin D (not available in the US)] are often required. Calcitriol, the active metabolite of vitamin D, is rapid-acting and physiologic and is often used for
