Hypocalcemia: Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: hypocalcemia, calcium, patients, hypoparathyroidism, pth, vitamin, levels, serum, syndrome, parathyroid, bone, treatment, renal, disease, serum calcium


D or 1 alpha-OH vitamin D (not available in the US)] are often required. Calcitriol, the active metabolite of vitamin D, is rapid-acting and physiologic and is often used for initial therapy. Where rapid dose adjustment is necessary, such as growing children, this may be the most convenient approach (111). Most patients require 0.25 mcg twice daily and may require up to 0.5 mcg 4 times a day of calcitriol. Among other options, ergocalciferol is a less expensive choice and has a long duration of action. The usual dose is 50,000 to 100,000 IU/day. When therapy needs to be administered acutely, calcitriol should be given for the first 3 weeks but then tapered off as the dose of ergocalciferol becomes effective. If calcitriol is the vitamin D metabolite administered, then the serum 25 (OH) vitamin D level should be checked periodically to assure that vitamin D sufficiency is maintained. Serum 25 (OH) vitamin D levels should be kept stable at >20 ng/mL. Thiazide diuretics can increase renal calcium reabsorption in patients with hypoparathyroidism. This approach may be needed to achieve a urinary calcium of <4 mg/kg/day. Furosemide and other loop diuretics can depress serum calcium levels and should be avoided. Other factors that may precipitate hypocalcemia are glucocorticoids since they can antagonize the action of vitamin D and its analogues. Administration or withdrawal of exogenous estrogen can also influence calcium and vitamin D replacement therapy. Estrogen increases calcium absorption at the level of the intestine and indirectly through stimulation of renal 1-alpha-hydroxylase activity. Dose adjustment may be required after changes in estrogen therapy due to alteration in calcium homeostasis. During the pre- and postpartum period in pregnant patients with hypoparathyroidism, doses of vitamin D often need frequent adjustments. This is due to placental production of 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D in pregnancy, the increasing levels of PTH-rP from placental, maternal and fetal tissues later in pregnancy, and the high levels of PTH-rP in conjunction with the estrogen-deficient state of lactation (110). How well current treatment strategies (calcium salts, vitamin D and its metabolites) maintain quality of life in patients with hypoparathyroidism has been assessed to a limited extent (112). In a cross-sectional, controlled study, 25 women with postsurgical hypoparathyroidism on stable calcium and vitamin D treatment were compared to 25 control subjects with a history of thyroid surgery. Quality of life, urinary calcium excretion and renal calcifications, serum creatinine, and the presence
