Respiratory Infections Precede Adult-Onset Asthma
KEYWORDS: asthma, infections, respiratory, lrtis, risk, past, months, respiratory infections, study, onset, personal, age, allergy, population, past months


the private-practicing pulmonary physicians in the region as onsetofadultasthmainapopulation-based incidentcase-control well as public health care centers. As an additional route of case study of a working age population. In addition, potential recruitment, the National Social Insurance Institution of Finland interaction between atopy and infections for the adult-onset invited all patients, who had received reimbursement rights for asthma was evaluated. asthma medication during our study period, but had not yet PLoSONE | www.plosone.org 1 December2011 | Volume 6 | Issue 12 | e27912 RespiratoryInfectionsandAsthma participated. The diagnostic criteria for asthma are given in was judged using the reference values derived from the Finnish Table 1 [2,12–19]. population . The medical records of all cases were checked, and only those with no previously diagnosed asthma or long-term use of any Assessment of the occurrence of respiratory infections asthma medication were included in the study to ensure that the Occurrence of respiratory infections was assessed based on the caseshadasthmadiagnosedforthefirsttimeatrecruitment.Atthe following question: How often did you experience the following infections TampereUniversityHospital,caseswererecruitedevenbeforethe during the past 12 months and the past 3 months? The list of infections diagnosis (at their first visit due to suspected asthma) and the included common cold, tonsillitis, sinusitis, otitis media, acute diagnosiswasthenverifiedinclinicalexaminations.Atotalof521 bronchitis, and pneumonia. The infections were categorized cases participated (responserate 86%). according to at least one infection ($1) versus no infection (the reference), except for common colds according to at least two Selection of controls infections ($2) versus zero to one infection (the reference). Thecontrolswererandomlydrawnfromthesourcepopulation Respiratory infections were classified as lower respiratory tract using the national population registry, which has full coverage of infections(LRTI;includingacutebronchitis,andpneumonia)and the population. The general eligibility criteria were applied for upperrespiratorytractinfections(URTI;includingcommoncold, controls (living in Pirkanmaa, age 21–63 years). Recruitment of tonsillitis,sinusitis, andotitis media). controls took place by a letter at six-month intervals throughout thestudyperiod.Atotalof1016subjectsparticipatedinthestudy Statistical methods (response rate 80%). Previous orcurrent asthma was reported by We used exposure odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence 76(7.5%),sixpersonswereolderthan64yearsandtworeturned interval(CI)derivedfromlogisticregressionmodelstoquantifythe incompletequestionnaire.Afterexcludingthesepersons,ourstudy relationsbetweenoccurrenceofinfectionsandtheriskofasthma. population included 932controls. Sex, age, education (as an indicator of socio-economic status), personal smoking, mold problems in the home or at work, Methods exposuretoSHSinthehomeoratwork,andanyhistoryofpetsin thehome were adjustedforas covariates. Questionnaire We also studied independent and joint effects of both personal The study subjects answered a self-administered questionnaire allergic disease and parental allergic disease and LRTIs by [2,13,15–17,19–21] that included six sections: 1) personal comparing the risk of asthma in four exposure categories: (1) no diseases,3)activesmokingandsecondhandtobaccosmoke(SHS) months(thereferencecategory);(2)personal/parentalallergyand exposure, 4) occupation
