Respiratory Infections Precede Adult-Onset Asthma
KEYWORDS: asthma, infections, respiratory, lrtis, risk, past, months, respiratory infections, study, onset, personal, age, allergy, population, past months


and parental allergic disease and LRTIs by [2,13,15–17,19–21] that included six sections: 1) personal comparing the risk of asthma in four exposure categories: (1) no diseases,3)activesmokingandsecondhandtobaccosmoke(SHS) months(thereferencecategory);(2)personal/parentalallergyand exposure, 4) occupation and work environment, 5) home no LRTIs; (3) no personal/parental allergy but experienced environment, and6)dietary questions. LRTIs in past 12 months; and (4) personal/parental allergy and LRTIs. ORs were calculated by contrasting each of the three Lung function measurements exposurecategorieswiththereferencecategory.Estimatesforthe The same diagnostic protocol was applied for all patients with independent effects and joint effect were derived from the same suspicion of asthma (Table 1). The spirometry and bronchodila- logisticregressionmodel,adjustingforthecovariates.Jointeffects tion test were recorded with a pneumotachograph spirometer were assessedon additivescale fromthese models. usingdisposableflowtransducer(Medikro905,Medikro,Kuopio, Personal allergy was defined as a history of allergic rhinitis or Finland) according to the standards of the American Thoracic dermatitisdiagnosedbyadoctor.Parentalallergywasdefinedasa Society . The details of this and other lung function historyofmaternalorpaternalasthma,hayfever,allergiceczema, measurementsaregivenelsewhere.Presenceofobstruction or allergicconjunctivitis. Table1. Diagnostic criteriaforasthma. 1.Occurrenceofatleastoneasthma-likesymptom:prolongedcough,wheezing,attacksoforexercise-induceddyspnea,ornocturnalcoughor wheezing and 2.Demonstrationofsignificantreversibilityinairwaysobstructioninlungfunctioninvestigations: Significantimprovementinresponsetoshort-actingbronchodilatingmedicationinabronchodilatortestafterbaselinespirometryorattheendofmethacholine challenge.Thecriteriaforsignificantchangeswere:FEV$15%,FVC$15%,PEF$23% and/or $20%dailyvariationaand/or$15%improvementainresponsetoshort-actingbronchodilatingmedicationduringatleasttwodaysina2-weekdiurnalPEFmonitoring and/or Significantimprovementinspirometriclungfunction(for%criteriaseeabove) and/or $20%improvementintheaveragePEFlevelinresponsetoa2-weekoralsteroidtreatment FEV1=forcedexpiratoryvolumeinonesecond;FVC=forcedvitalcapacity;PEF=peakexpiratoryflow. aCalculatedaccordingtothestandardpracticeoftheTampereUniversityHospital:maximumdailyvariation=(highestPEFvalueduringtheday–lowestPEFvalue duringtheday)/highestPEFvalueduringtheday;bronchodilatorresponse=(highestPEFvalueafterbronchodilatingmedication–highestPEFvaluebefore medication)/highestPEFvaluebeforemedication. doi: PLoSONE | www.plosone.org 2 December2011 | Volume 6 | Issue 12 | e27912 RespiratoryInfectionsandAsthma StatisticalanalyseswereperformedusingSASstatisticalpackage to no (LRTIs) or zero to one infections (URTIs) in the past 12 using the free software package R (R Development Core Team, LRTIs (trend test: Wald Chi-square 146.8, P,0.0001) and a 2006). suggestive exposure-relation for URTIs (trend test: Wald Chi- square 3.59,P=0.0581). Results BothLRTIsandURTIswerealsomorecommonincasesthan controlswhenexperiencedduringthepastthreemonths(9.4%vs. Respiratory infections and the risk of asthma 2.6%and44.4%vs.34.8%,respectively).AdjustedORswere4.03 Characteristics of the cases and controls are presented in (95%CI:2.35–6.92)forLRTIsand1.51(95%CI:1.19–1.92)for Table 2. Table 3 shows that cases of adult-onset asthma had URTIs.Whenanalyzedaccordingtoeachinfectionseparately,all experiencedmorecommonlybothLRTIsandURTIsinthepast other respiratory infections in the past 3 months significantly 12 months compared to controls (35.8% vs. 7.3% and 33.8% vs. increased the risk of adult-onset asthma, expect tonsillitis 17.8%, respectively). The risk of asthma onset was significantly (altogether only 25 episodes of tonsillitis were reported). An OR increasedinrelationtoLRTIs(adjustedOR7.18;95%CI:5.16– for pneumonia could not be calculated, because only two 9.99) and URTIs (adjusted OR 2.26; 95% CI: 1.72–2.97) in the pneumonias were reported in the last three months, but both of past 12 months. Significant increases of asthma risk were also these were among asthmacases (Table 3). detected when infections were considered separately, i.e. acute bronchitis, pneumonia, common cold, sinusitis, and otitis media. Joint effect of LRTIs and allergic diseases OnlytheadjustedORfortonsillitisdidnotreachsignificance.We We analyzed the joint effect of LRTIs experienced during the evaluated exposure-response patterns by estimating ORs of past 12months andpersonal
