Respiratory Infections Precede Adult-Onset Asthma
KEYWORDS: asthma, infections, respiratory, lrtis, risk, past, months, respiratory infections, study, onset, personal, age, allergy, population, past months


have been primary inducers of inflammation leading to the development of reported in children [24–26]. In those studies the highest risk of asthma, or they may act as triggers of onset in subjects already asthma was seen in children who were both atopic and experiencing inflammation due to other factors, such as environ- experienced early LRTIs. Atopy and LRTIs seem to be mental exposures. independent determinants of asthma onset suggesting different The risk of asthma related to both LRTIs and URTIs was inflammatory pathways. However, an interaction of these stronger when assessing occurrence of infections in the past 12 disparate inflammatory stimulihasasynergisticeffecton asthma monthsascomparedtoinfectionsinthepast3months.Thiscould risk. be explained partly by the smaller number of infections Overall, our results suggest that reducing occurrence of experienced in the past 3 months, so the estimates for the latter respiratory infections in adults could prevent onset of asthma, may be less stable. On the other hand, the stronger effect of especially in individuals with atopic diseases or a hereditary infections in the past year could be compatible with a causal propensity to it. This could have major public health impact as influence, as a chronic inflammatory response induced by an asthmaisamongthemostcommonchronicdiseasesinworking- infectious agent could be expected to need more than three ageadults.Preventionofcommonrespiratoryinfectionsreceives months to become severe enough to cause a clinical disease with surprisingly little attention in current public health agendas. A symptoms and measurable changes in lung function. Thus, the question worth studying in the future is whether active PLoSONE | www.plosone.org 4 December2011 | Volume 6 | Issue 12 | e27912 RespiratoryInfectionsandAsthma Figure1.Exposure-responsepatternsforLRTIsandURTIsinthepast12months.Xaxisshowsincreasingnumberofinfections(reference category:noinfectionsforLRTIsandzerotooneinfectionsforURTIs)andYaxisshowslogarithmicORswith95%confidenceintervalsforasthma onset. doi: treatment of respiratory infections could diminish development Table4. Jointeffect ofLRTIs ($1 infections)experienced of asthma. duringthe past12 monthsand personal allergic diseases (currently orinthe past) onthe riskof asthma. Validity of results In this study a high proportion of all new asthma cases in a geographically defined area were recruited by the health case CrudeOR AdjustedOR Excess system and with the help of the National Social Insurance Allergy LRTI (95%CI) (95%CI)a risk(%) Institution(responserate86%).Theresponserateamongcontrols No No 1 1 was also relatively high (80%). Thus, any major selection bias is unlikely inthisstudy population. Yes No 1.93(1.49–2.50) 1.98(1.49–2.62) 98 Asthma was defined on the basis of the occurrence of asthma No Yes 7.65(4.81–12.16) 8.49(5.16–13.97) 749 symptoms and objective findings in extensive lung function Yes Yes 11.69(7.63–17.90) 11.38(7.25–17.85) 1038 measurements performed in accordance with the national guidelines(Table1).Thisreducesmisclassificationoftheoutcome. aAdjustedforsex,age,education,smoking,SHSexposure(work/home),pets, andexposuretomold(work/home). Information about the frequency and
