Respiratory Infections Precede Adult-Onset Asthma
KEYWORDS: asthma, infections, respiratory, lrtis, risk, past, months, respiratory infections, study, onset, personal, age, allergy, population, past months


8.49(5.16–13.97) 749 symptoms and objective findings in extensive lung function Yes Yes 11.69(7.63–17.90) 11.38(7.25–17.85) 1038 measurements performed in accordance with the national guidelines(Table1).Thisreducesmisclassificationoftheoutcome. aAdjustedforsex,age,education,smoking,SHSexposure(work/home),pets, andexposuretomold(work/home). Information about the frequency and type of respiratory doi: infections during the past 12 months and past 3 months was PLoSONE | www.plosone.org 5 December2011 | Volume 6 | Issue 12 | e27912 RespiratoryInfectionsandAsthma Table5.JointeffectofLRTIs($1infections)experiencedduringthepast12monthsandparentalallergicdiseasesontheriskof asthma. Parentalallergy LRTI CrudeOR(95%CI) AdjustedOR(95%CI)a Excessrisk(%) No No 1 1 Yes No 1.97(1.49–2.61) 1.91(1.42–2.58) 91 No Yes 7.94(5.43–11.63) 7.97(5.31–11.95) 697 Yes Yes 9.93(5.94–16.59) 9.97(5.80–17.13) 897 aAdjustedforsex,age,education,smoking,SHSexposure(work/home),pets,andexposuretomold(work/home). doi: based on reporting in the questionnaire. Self-reported infections studiesofchildrenwhowereathighriskforasthma,andshowed mayincludesomemisclassification.Ifbothcasesandcontrolstend that wheezing episodes with a viral cause experienced during the tomisreporttheirinfectionstosomedegree,thiswouldleadtoan firstthreeyearsofagepredictedasignificantriskofasthmaatsix underestimate of the real effect. If being diagnosed with asthma years of age. Another birth cohort study by Nafstad et al. would influence the recall of respiratory infections so that these showed that respiratory infections in the first year of life were subjects would recall more infections, an information bias could linkedtoincreasedriskofhavingbronchialobstructionattheage take place leading to overestimation of the risk. However, it is of two and asthma at the age of four. Consistently with present unlikelythatsuchbiaswouldleadtosostrongincreasesinriskthat resultsinadults,theriskofasthmawasrelatedespeciallytolower wereobservedinthisstudy.Inaddition,thisstudyaimedinitially respiratory infections. to investigate occupational exposures and asthma, so no special attention was paid to infections as potential determinants. Conclusions Furthermore, the majority of the cases filled in the questionnaire We present here new evidence that recently experienced before the diagnosis of asthma was made. We did not analyze respiratory tract infectionsare a strongdeterminant forthe onset specificinfectiousagents,butthiswouldbeinterestingtostudyin ofadultasthma.Astronglyincreasedriskofasthmawasdetected thefuture. especially in relation to lower respiratory tract infections, but all Inthemultivariateanalyses,alltherelationswereadjustedfora typesofrespiratoryinfectionsstudied,i.e.commoncold,sinusitis, number of potential confounders in order to eliminate these otitis, acute bronchitis, and pneumonia increased the risk of factors as potential explanationsfor ourresults. asthma onset. This could mean that reducing occurrence of respiratoryinfectionsmightpreventonsetofasthmainadulthood, Synthesis with previous knowledge especially in individuals with an atopic disease or hereditary Theroleofrespiratoryinfectionsinexacerbationsofasthmahas propensity toit. been established in both children and adults [6,27–29], but the presentstudyisthefirstonedescribingtheroleofacuterespiratory Author Contributions infectionsin theonsetof adultasthma.Our resultsare consistent withpreviousstudiesthathaveshownanincreasedriskofasthma Conceived and designed the experiments: AR JJ MJ. Performed the onset in relation to respiratory infections in children . experiments:ARJJMJ.Analyzedthedata:ARJJ.Wrotethepaper:ARJJ Lemanske et al. and Jackson et al. reported birth-cohort MJ.
