Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114.
KEYWORDS: ev-, respiratory, strains, infections, reported, patients, detected, studies, strain, tract, cases, genetic, acute, lineage, recent


considering that most of connected by seven loop structures: the BC, CD, the VP1 sequences available in GenBank are from DE, EF, FG, GH, and HI loops . The loop struc- strains detected in recent years, the rapid increase tures,includingtheBCandDEloops,aregenerally inVP1sequencevariationmightsimplybearesult locatedontheviralsurfaceandareassociatedwith of sampling greater numbers of viruses from antigenic epitopes [25–27]. Therefore, it has been different geographical locations. Careful observa- suggested that unique sequence variations in the tions are required to draw any conclusions from BC and DE loops might cause altered antigenicity these data. intheseviruses.Subsequently,weconfirmed Compared with the VP1 region, VP2, VP3, and that there are antigenic differences between the re- VP4 have been less intensively studied, and only cently detected EV-D68 strains and the Fermon alimitednumberofsequenceshavebeendeposited strain,aswellasamongthelineagesofrecentlyde- inGenBank.Wepreviouslyreportedananalysisof tected strains . VP2 and VP3 amino acid sequences from EV-D68 Selection analyses conducted on the VP1 amino . Unique amino acid mutations in the VP2 and acidsequencesinseveralstudieshaverevealedthat VP3regionsthatcandifferentiaterecentlydetected mostofthepositivelyselectedcodonsarefoundin strains from the Fermon strain, as well as recent theBCandDEloopregions.Thesefindings strains of one genetic lineage from another, have suggestthatantigenicepitopesmightbelocatedin been identified; however, such mutations were the BC and DE loop regions. However, more de- found less frequently than those in the VP1 tailed studies are required to determine the anti- region . genic epitopes of the virus. The5′UTRisgenerallythemostconservedgeno- Recent studies using the Bayesian Markov chain mic region in enteroviruses and is commonly Monte Carlo approach have estimated that genetic usedasatargetregionforRT-PCRandsequencing diversity in the VP1 region increased after the late for screening purposes . The majority of the EV- 1990s, which may have resulted in the emergence D68detectionsreportedinrecentyearswerebased of the three lineages . The emergence of geneti- on positive results from RT-PCR and sequencing cally variant EV-D68 strains might be associated targeting the 5′UTR of EV-D68. The 5′UTR se- with the increasing trend of EV-D68 detections in quencesofEV-D68areknowntobesimilartothose © 2014 The Authors.Reviews in Medical Virologypublished Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114. by John Wiley & Sons Ltd. DOI: EV-D68 in acute respiratory infections 105 ofhuman rhinoviruses(HRV); therefore,some Receptor specificity oftherecentEV-D68 strainsweredetectedbyPCR It was previously reported that EV-D68 strongly andsequencingusingprimersdesignedagainstthe agglutinates guinea pig erythrocytes . We addi- 5′UTR of HRV . As the most conserved re- tionally confirmed that EV-D68 agglutinates those gion, it was reported that the 5′UTR sequences from turkey, but not chicken or sheep (Imamura were similar among the strains detected during etal.,unpublisheddata).However,themechanisms the same outbreaks . However, some genetic controlling the agglutination activity of EV-D68 variations have been reported at
