Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114.
KEYWORDS: ev-, respiratory, strains, infections, reported, patients, detected, studies, strain, tract, cases, genetic, acute, lineage, recent


women been reported from different parts of the world against the Fermon strain decreased as the col- , including Asia [6,10–15], Africa , Europe lection year progressed . We found that anti- [8,16–21], Oceania , and the USA since genic differences were also present among the the late 2000s (Table 1). Initially, it was pointed EV-D68 strains circulating in recent years: the out that the increasing trend of EV-D68 detections HI and NT titer differed significantly among in recent years might be due to sampling bias or the strains from three different genetic lineages. the introduction of highly sensitive detection Emergence of antigenically variant EV-D68 methodssuchasPCR.However,retrospectivetest- strains may be one of the reasons underlying ing using stored respiratory samples from Yama- the worldwide increase in detection of this virus gata, Japan, and the Netherlands revealed that in recent years. EV-D68 detection had actually increased in recent years . In those studies, EV-D68 had been de- Pathogenesis in animal models tected with no more than 10 cases per year until Schieble et al. examined the pathogenesis of EV- 2009, however, a significantly increased numberof D68 in suckling mice by inoculating them with positive cases were reported in 2010: 40 in Yama- four strains of EV-D68 (Fermon, Franklin, Robin- gata and 24in the Netherlands. son, and Rhyne) via the intracerebral and intra- It is not fully understood whether EV-D68 has peritoneal routes . The mice were observed cyclic patterns of increased detections. The retro- for 2weeks post-inoculation, after which the spective studies in Yamagata and the Netherlands muscle and brain tissue subsequently harvested suggested that EV-D68 was circulating every year, were passaged to new mice. No evidence of although the number of cases was significantly pathogenicity was observed for the Fermon, larger in 2010 for unknown reasons. In the Philip- Franklin, or Robinson strain during passages of pines, we identified EV-D68 three times: first in up to three times. However, mice inoculated 2008–2009 , second in 2011 , and third in with the Rhyne strain, which had been passaged 2013–2014(FuruseandChaimongkol etal.,unpub- twice in mice, developed limb tremor and weak- lished data). It is possible that EV-D68 outbreaks ness. Notably, mice developed paralysis and died occur in cyclic patterns at 2-year intervals in the after inoculation with the Rhyne strain that had Philippines, suggesting that the frequency of out- been passaged three times . This demonstrates breaks may vary between countries. the neuro-virulence
