Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114.
KEYWORDS: ev-, respiratory, strains, infections, reported, patients, detected, studies, strain, tract, cases, genetic, acute, lineage, recent


genetic lineages. In Yamagata, Japan, strains be- is still unclear whether the present outbreak is longing to all three lineages were detected during associated with any changes that may have oc- a period of increased detection in 2010 (Figure 3). curred in EV-D68 viruses that have been circulat- In Italy, England, Thailand, and the Philippines, ing in this country. co-circulation of lineages 2 and 3 strains was re- ported (Figure 3). In contrast, strains of only one MOLECULAR EPIDEMIOLOGY lineage were detected each year in some of the The EV-D68 strains circulating in recent years are study sites, including New Zealand (lineage 3 classified into three genetic groups as mentioned only); New York, USA (lineage 3); China (lineage earlier.FortheVP1region,strainsbelonging 3);andOsaka,Japan(lineage1;Figure3).Enterovi- to lineages 1 and 2 are likely to form clusters con- rus71(EV71),whichalsobelongstothegenusEn- tainingvirusesfromthesamegeographicalorigins terovirus, is known to have three genogroups and on the phylogenetic tree. Strains from Yamagata, several genotypes . None of the specific Japan(bluelines),formaclusterinlineage1,those genogroups or genotypes has been reported to be from the Philippines form a cluster in lineage 2 associated with an increased risk of severe illness. (green lines), and those from Italy form a cluster However, it is likely that genotype replacement is in lineages 1and 2(orange lines; Figure 1). In con- associated with the occurrence of large outbreaks trast, strains belonging to lineage 3 are less likely . Nevertheless, such a replacement of EV-D68 toshowgeographicalclusteringpatterns(Figure1). lineageshasnotbeenobservedinanyoftheprevi- These data suggest that transmission at the global ous studies in which multiple EV-D68 lineages level might be more common for lineage 3 than were detected. In Yamagata, Japan, the majority for lineages 1and 2. oftheEV-D68strainsdetectedduringtheincreased TheEV-D68strainsidentifiedineachgeographi- detectionsin2010belongedtolineage1,whichwas cal area are likely to consist of strains of multiple the same genetic lineage as the strains detected in Figure3. CirculationofdifferentgeneticlineagesofenterovirusD68(EV-D68)strainsinrecentyears.ThenumberofEV-D68casesde- tectedinayearateachstudysiteisindicatedinthebox.EachyearforwhichEV-D68testingwasconductedandnoEV-D68-positivecases werefoundisshownas“0,”withoutaboxinthecolumn.EachyearwhennoEV-D68testingwasreportedisleftblank © 2014 The Authors.Reviews in Medical Virologypublished Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114. by John Wiley & Sons Ltd. DOI: EV-D68 in acute respiratory infections 111 thesameareabefore2010.Themechanismsre- and Chicago . Many of these patients had might differ from those of viruses of the same ge- including difficulty of breathing, hypoxia, admis- nus, such as EV71. sion to an intensive care unit, and the requirement for mechanical ventilation. Such reports from the CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE USA are consistent with previous studies indicat- Detection of EV-D68 has been exclusively reported ing that EV-D68 infections are associated with se- instudieswhererespiratorysamplesfrompatients vere respiratory illnesses. It is noteworthy that, of with acute respiratory infections or asthma
