Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114.
KEYWORDS: ev-, respiratory, strains, infections, reported, patients, detected, studies, strain, tract, cases, genetic, acute, lineage, recent


pediatric fatality from meningo- infections occasionally develop into severe lower myeloencephalitis (with radiological evidence of respiratorytractinfections, whereasEV-D68recog- pneumonia) who was positive for EV-D68 in CSF nizesα2,6SAs,whicharemorecommonintheup- ,andtheotherwaswhereEV-D68wasdetected per respiratory tract. It is known that patients in serum collected from pneumonia patients who infected with influenza A(H1N1)pdm 2009, which were positive for EV-D68 in respiratory samples recognizes α2,6 SAs in the upper respiratory tract, . Any association between the presence of EV- occasionallydevelopseverelowerrespiratorytract D68inserumanddiseaseseverityhasnotbeende- fined. However, that EV-D68 was detected in the illnesses such as acute respiratory distress syn- drome . Enhanced immune response induced CSF of a patient raises the possibility that EV-D68 in the airway could be the possible mechanisms might be capable of causing systemic spread alsoforsevereEV-D68infections.However,details through viremia. EV-D68 infections can result in oftheimmuneresponsesinducedbyinfectionwith very severe outcomes once the virus is spread to EV-D68 have not been documented in vivo or the CNS from the respiratory tract. It was recently invitro.Thefunctionsofthenon-structuralproteins reportedthatEV-D68wasdetectedinnasopharyn- of EV-D68 have also been poorly documented. In- geal specimens collected from pediatric patients deed, only two previous studies have analyzed with polio-like illnesses in the USA: two patients in California in 2012–2013 and four in Colorado in the role of the 3C protease of EV-D68 in antiviral development . A more comprehensive un- 2014 . Preceding respiratory illnesses were derstanding of the pathogenesis of EV-D68 is cur- reported in those patients, by which systemic rently difficult to obtain because of the lack of spread of EV-D68 from the respiratory tract was suitable animal models for EV-D68 respiratory in- suggested as the underlying mechanism for those fections. Therefore, further studies are required to cases, as was also suggested for the fatal case of fully definethe pathogenesis of EV-D68. EV-D68-positive meningomyeloencephalitis in New York . It was previously shown that one of the four EV-D68 strains detected in 1962 (the CONFLICT OF INTEREST Rhyne strain) replicated in the brains and muscles The authors have no competing interest. ofsucklingmiceandcausedparalysisinthosemice .ItmightbepossiblethatEV-D68hasanaffinity This work was supported by a grant-in-aid from CONCLUSIONS the Japan Initiative for Global Research Network ThenumberofreportedcasesofEV-D68greatlyin- onInfectious Diseases fromthe Ministry ofEduca- creased in the late 2000s, and the etiological tion, Culture,Sports, Science, and Technology. © 2014 The Authors.Reviews in Medical Virologypublished Rev.Med. Virol.2015; 25:102–114. by John Wiley & Sons Ltd. DOI: EV-D68 in acute respiratory infections 113
