Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


Clinical Infectious Diseases IDSA FEATURES Treatment of Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease: An Official ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA Clinical Practice Guideline Charles L. Daley,1,2,a Jonathan M. Iaccarino,3 Christoph Lange,4,5,6,7,a Emmanuelle Cambau,8,a Richard J. Wallace, Jr,9,a Claire Andrejak,10,11 Erik C. Böttger,12 Jan Brozek,13 David E. Griffith,14 Lorenzo Guglielmetti,8,15 Gwen A. Huitt,1,2 Shandra L. Knight,16 Philip Leitman,17 Theodore K. Marras,18 Kenneth N. Olivier,19 Miguel Santin,20 Jason E. Stout,21 Enrico Tortoli,22 Jakko van Ingen,23 Dirk Wagner,24 and Kevin L. Winthrop25 Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) represent over 190 species and subspecies, some of which can produce disease in humans of all ages and can affect both pulmonary and extrapulmonary sites. This guideline focuses on pulmonary disease in adults (without cystic fibrosis or human immunodeficiency virus infection) caused by the most common NTM pathogens such as Mycobacterium avium complex, Mycobacterium kansasii, and Mycobacterium xenopi among the slowly growing NTM and Mycobacterium abscessus among the rapidly growing NTM. A panel of experts was carefully selected by leading international respiratory medicine and infec- microbiology, laboratory medicine, and patient advocacy. Systematic reviews were conducted around each of 22 PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome) questions and the recommendations were formulated, written, and graded using the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. Thirty-one evidence-based recommendations about treatment of NTM pulmonary disease are provided. This guideline is intended for use by healthcare professionals who care for patients with NTM pulmonary disease, including specialists in infectious diseases and pulmonary diseases. Keywords. nontuberculous; Mycobacterium avium complex; Mycobacterium kansasii; Mycobacterium abscessus; Mycobacterium xenopi. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Society of America (IDSA) jointly sponsored the development The American Thoracic Society (ATS), European Respiratory of this Guideline to update the treatment recommendations for and Infectious Diseases (ESCMID), and Infectious Diseases adults. NTM represent over 190 species and subspecies (http:// www.bacterio.net/mycobacterium.html), many of which can produce disease in humans of all ages and can affect both pul- Received 17 February 2020; editorial decision 18 February 2020; accepted 5 March 2020; aC. L. D., C. L., E. C., R. J. W. are cochairs of this guideline committee. a broad array of species and disease in a guideline using cur- (). rent guideline development methods is impossible. Therefore, Clinical Infectious Diseases® 2020;71(4):e1–e36 this guideline focuses on pulmonary disease in adults (without © The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society cystic fibrosis or human immunodeficiency virus [HIV] in- This is a joint publication between Clinical Infectious Diseases and
