Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society cystic fibrosis or human immunodeficiency virus [HIV] in- This is a joint publication between Clinical Infectious Diseases and the European Respiratory fection) caused by the most common NTM pathogens com- Journal. The articles are identical except for minor stylistic and spelling differences in keeping prising Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), Mycobacterium with each journal’s style. Either citation can be used when citing this article. DOI: kansasii, and Mycobacterium xenopi among the slowly growing Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e1 Table 1. Interpretation of Strong and Conditional (Weak) Recommendations Recommendations Strong Conditional Patients • Most individuals in this situation would want the recommended • The majority of individuals in this situation would want the suggested course of action, and only a small proportion would not. course of action, but many would not. Clinicians • Most individuals should receive the intervention. • Recognize that different choices will be appropriate for individual • Adherence to the recommendation according to the guideline patients and that you must help each patient arrive at a management could be used as a quality criterion or performance indicator. decision consistent with his or her values and preferences. Decision aids may be useful in helping individuals to make decisions consistent • Formal decision aids are not likely to be needed to help individuals with their values and preferences. make decisions consistent with their values and preferences. Policy makers • The recommendation can be adopted as policy in • Policy making will require substantial debate and involvement of var- most situations. ious stakeholders. Source: Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation Working Group . NTM and Mycobacterium abscessus among the rapidly DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR NTM PULMONARY DISEASE growing NTM. Twenty-two PICO (Population, Intervention, mendations are included in the Guideline. A panel of experts microbiologic criteria for diagnosing NTM pulmonary di- was carefully selected and screened for conflicts of interest and sease . The current guideline also recommends use of included specialists in pulmonary medicine, infectious dis- these criteria to classify patients as having NTM pulmonary disease (Table 2). The significance of NTM isolated from the sputum of individuals who meet the clinical and radio- tient advocacy. The recommendations were developed based graphic criteria in Table 2 must be interpreted in the context on the evidence that was appraised using GRADE (Grading of of the
