Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


tient advocacy. The recommendations were developed based graphic criteria in Table 2 must be interpreted in the context on the evidence that was appraised using GRADE (Grading of of the number of positive cultures and specific species iso- Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) lated. Because NTM can be isolated from respiratory spe- and are summarized below . Recommendations were ei- cimens due to environmental contamination and because ther “strong” or “conditional” (Table 1), and as suggested by some patients who have an NTM isolated from their res- GRADE, the phrase “we recommend” was used for strong recommendations and “we suggest” for conditional recom- >1 positive sputum culture is recommended for diagnostic mendations . purposes, and the same NTM species (or subspecies in the This executive summary is a condensed version of the panel’s case of M. abscessus) should be isolated in ≥2 sputum cul- recommendations for the 22 PICO questions. A detailed de- tures. Clinically significant MAC pulmonary disease is un- scription of background, methods, evidence summary, and ra- likely in patients who have a single positive sputum culture tionale that support each recommendation can be found online during the initial evaluation [5–7] but can be as high as 98% in the full text and accompanying supplementary material. in those with ≥2 positive cultures . Table 2. Clinical and Microbiologic Criteria for Diagnosis of Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Diseasea Clinical Pulmonary or Systemic Symptoms Radiologic Nodular or cavitary opacities on chest radiograph, or a high-resolution computed tomography scan that Both Required shows bronchiectasis with multiple small nodules and Appropriate exclusion of other diagnoses Microbiologicb 1. Positive culture results from at least two separate expectorated sputum samples. If the results are nondiagnostic, consider repeat sputum AFB smears and cultures or 2. Positive culture results from at least one bronchial wash or lavage or 3. Transbronchial or other lung biopsy with mycobacterial histologic features (granulomatous inflammation or AFB) and positive culture for NTM or biopsy showing mycobacterial histologic features (granulomatous inflammation or AFB) and one or more sputum or bronchial washings that are culture positive for NTM Source: Official ATS/IDSA statement . Abbreviation: AFB, acid-fast bacilli; NTM, Nontuberculous mycobacteria. aExpert consultation should be obtained when NTM are recovered that are either infrequently encountered or that usually represent environmental contamination. Patients who are sus- pected of having NTM pulmonary disease but do not meet the diagnostic criteria should be followed until the diagnosis is
