Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


or that usually represent environmental contamination. Patients who are sus- pected of having NTM pulmonary disease but do not meet the diagnostic criteria should be followed until the diagnosis is firmly established or excluded. Making the diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease does not per se, necessitate the institution of therapy, which is a decision based on the potential risks and benefits of therapy for individual patients. bWhen 2 positive cultures are obtained, the isolates should be the same NTM species (or subspecies in the case of M. abscessus) in order to meet disease criteria. e2 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al The pathogenicity of NTM varies significantly from or- Recommendations ganisms like M. gordonae, which rarely cause disease in hu- mans, to M. kansasii, which should usually be considered 1. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest pathogenic . For species of low pathogenicity such as susceptibility-based treatment for macrolides and amikacin M. gordonae, several repeated positive cultures over months, over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low along with strong clinical and radiological evidence of di- certainty in estimates of effect). sease, would be required to determine if it was causing di- 2. In patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest sease, whereas a single positive culture for M. kansasii in the susceptibility-based treatment for rifampicin over empiric proper context may be enough evidence to initiate treatment therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in . The pathogenicity of NTM species may differ between ge- estimates of effect). ographic areas . 3. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, the panel Importantly, just because a patient meets diagnostic criteria members felt there is insufficient evidence to make a recom- for NTM pulmonary disease does not necessarily mean anti- mendation for or against susceptibility-based treatment. biotic treatment is required. A careful assessment of the path- 4. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease we suggest ogenicity of the organism, risks and benefits of therapy, the susceptibility-based treatment for macrolides and amikacin patient’s wish and ability to receive treatment as well as the goals over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low of therapy should be discussed with patients prior to initiating certainty in estimates of effect). For macrolides, a 14-day in- treatment. In some instances, “watchful waiting” may be the cubation and/or sequencing of the erm(41) gene is required in preferred course of action. order to evaluate for
