Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


a 14-day in- treatment. In some instances, “watchful waiting” may be the cubation and/or sequencing of the erm(41) gene is required in preferred course of action. order to evaluate for potential inducible macrolide resistance. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC PICO Remark: Although in vitro-in vivo correlations have not yet QUESTIONS been proven for all major antimycobacterial drugs, baseline Twenty-two PICO questions are addressed in this Guideline re- susceptibility testing to specific drugs is recommended ac- commendations are organized by the drugs to be included in the (CLSI) guidelines for NTM isolates from patients with regimen, frequency of administration, and duration of therapy. definite disease. Testing of other drugs may be useful, but there is insufficient data to make specific recommendations. Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Questions I–II) i: Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated with Mycobacterium avium Complex (Questions III–IX) antimicrobial therapy or followed for evidence of progression iii: Should patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmo- (“watchful waiting”)? nary disease be treated with a 3-drug regimen with a macrolide or without a macrolide? Recommendation Recommendation 1. In patients who meet the diagnostic criteria for NTM pul- monary disease (Table 2), we suggest initiation of treatment 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary rather than watchful waiting, especially in the context of disease, we recommend a 3-drug regimen that includes positive acid-fast bacilli sputum smears and/or cavitary lung a macrolide over a 3-drug regimen without a macrolide disease (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of estimates of effect). effect). Remarks: The decision to initiate antimicrobial therapy for Remarks: Although no well-designed randomized trials of mac- NTM pulmonary disease should be individualized based on a rolide therapy have been performed, macrolide susceptibility vidual patient priorities. Any treatment decision should include nary MAC [16–18]. Loss of the macrolide from the treatment a discussion with the patient that outlines the potential side ef- regimen is associated with a markedly reduced rate of conver- fects of antimicrobial therapy, the uncertainties surrounding sion of sputum cultures to negative and higher mortality [16– the benefits of antimicrobial therapy, and the potential for re- 18]. Therefore, the panel members felt strongly that a macrolide currence including reinfection (particularly in the setting of should be included in the regimen. nodular/bronchiectatic disease) [11–13]. iV: In patients with newly diagnosed macrolide-susceptible ii: Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated MAC pulmonary disease, should an
