Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


macrolide-based reg- medications there are few options other than parenteral imen be used for treatment? aminoglycosides for “intensifying” standard oral MAC therapy. Recommendations The committee thought that the benefits outweighed risks in those patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease and that ad- macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest ministration of at least 2–3 months of an aminoglycoside was a 3 times per week macrolide-based regimen rather than a the best balance between risks and benefits. daily macrolide-based regimen (conditional recommenda- Vi: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). disease, should a regimen with inhaled amikacin or a regimen 2. In patients with cavitary or severe/advanced nondular without inhaled amikacin be used for treatment? bronchiectatic macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease we suggest a daily macrolide-based regimen Recommendations rather than 3 times per week macrolide-based regimen 1. In patients with newly diagnosed MAC pulmonary disease, (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in esti- we suggest neither inhaled amikacin (parenteral formula- mates of effect). tion) nor amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) Remarks: Intermittent therapy has similar sputum conversion be used as part of the initial treatment regimen (conditional rates as daily therapy for nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmo- recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). nary disease and is also better tolerated than daily therapy [22, 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed 23]. A critically important finding from the available studies is therapy after at least 6 months of guideline-based therapy, the lack of development of macrolide resistance with intermit- we recommend addition of ALIS to the treatment regimen tent therapy. There is not similar evidence to justify or support rather than a standard oral regimen, only (strong recommen- intermittent therapy for cavitary MAC pulmonary disease and dation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). it is not recommended. Remarks: Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated iX: In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- the efficacy and safety of ALIS when added to guideline-based sease, should patients be treated with <12 months of treatment therapy for treatment refractory MAC pulmonary disease [19, after culture negativity or ≥12 months of treatment after culture 20]. ALIS is currently approved by the United States Federal negativity? e4 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al Recommendation risk of adverse effects associated with parenteral amikacin or streptomycin, the committee
