Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


approved by the United States Federal negativity? e4 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al Recommendation risk of adverse effects associated with parenteral amikacin or streptomycin, the committee felt strongly that the use of these 1. We suggest that patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC parenteral agents is not warranted, unless it is impossible to use pulmonary disease receive treatment for at least 12 months a rifampicin-based regimen or severe disease is present. after culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very Xii: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- low certainty in estimates of effect). nary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluor- oquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? Remarks: The optimal duration of therapy for pulmonary MAC disease is not currently known. The panel felt that in the ab- Recommendations sence of evidence identifying an optimal treatment duration that the recommendation from the 2007 Guideline should be 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pul- followed . monary disease, we suggest using a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide instead of a Mycobacterium kansasii (Questions X–XIV) fluoroquinolone (conditional recommendation, very low X: In patients with rifampcin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- certainty in estimates of effect). nary disease, should an isoniazid-containing regimen or a 2. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intoler- macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? ance to one of the first-line antibiotics we suggest a fluoro- quinolone (eg, moxifloxacin) be used as part of a second-line Recommendation regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- nary disease, we suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, Remarks: Treatment success of M. kansasii pulmonary disease and either isoniazid or macrolide (conditional recommenda- with a rifamycin-based drug regimen is usually excellent but the tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). optimal choice of companion drugs is not clear. While etham- butol is usually the preferred companion drug, the choice of an Remarks: Isoniazid is widely used at present for treatment of additional companion drug may be isoniazid, a macrolide or M. kansasii pulmonary disease, and in the experience of the panel a fluoroquinolone. As there is more experience and better evi- members, there have been good outcomes when using a regimen dence for treatment regimens that include isoniazid or a mac- consisting of rifampicin, ethambutol, and isoniazid irrespective rolide as a companion drug, these
