Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


been good outcomes when using a regimen dence for treatment regimens that include isoniazid or a mac- consisting of rifampicin, ethambutol, and isoniazid irrespective rolide as a companion drug, these drugs are preferred [25–28]. of the result of minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) for For rifampicin-resistant disease, a regimen such as ethambutol, isoniazid and ethambutol . Based on the in vitro activity of azithromycin, and a fluoroquinolone would be likely to lead to macrolides against M. kansasii, and 2 studies that demonstrated successful treatment. good treatment outcomes when clarithromycin was substituted Xiii: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pul- for isoniazid , the panel suggests that either isoniazid or monary disease, should a 3 times per week or daily treatment a macrolide can be used in combination with rifampicin and regimen be used? ethambutol. Xi: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- Recommendations nary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be in- cluded in the treatment regimen? 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with a rifampicin, eth- Recommendation ambutol, and macrolide regimen, we suggest either daily or 3 times weekly treatment (conditional recommendation, very 1. We suggest that neither parenteral amikacin nor strepto- low certainty in estimates of effect) mycin be used routinely for treating patients with M. kansasii 2. In patients with cavitary M. kansasii pulmonary disease pulmonary disease (strong recommendation, very low cer- treated with a rifampicin, ethambutol, and macrolide-based tainty in estimates of effect). regimen, we suggest daily treatment instead of 3 times weekly treatment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty Remarks: Regimens of 3 oral agents, rifampicin and etham- in estimates of effect). butol, and either isoniazid or a macrolide, achieve high rates 3. In all patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with of sustained culture conversion and treatment success in the an isoniazid, ethambutol, and rifampicin regimen, we suggest treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease. Therefore, given treatment be given daily instead of 3 times weekly (conditional the good outcomes observed with oral regimens and the high recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e5 Remarks: Because there are no randomized trials available and Recommendation the small size of the single study that evaluated 3 times weekly therapy , the committee did not feel that they could rec- 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest a ommend
