Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


conversion. Because sputum conversion at mortality, the committee considered the general acceptability 4 months of rifampicin-based regimens is usually observed and feasibility of parenteral therapy, and potential costs and to convert to negative by that time. XViii: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for <12 months or ≥12 months after Mycobacterium xenopi (Questions XV–XVIII) culture conversion? XV: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest without a fluoroquinolone be used? that treatment be continued for at least 12 months beyond culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very low Recommendation certainty in estimates of effect). 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we sug- Remarks: Data suggest that treatment outcomes improve if gest using a multidrug treatment regimen that includes the duration of treatment increases . The panel felt that moxifloxacin or macrolide (conditional recommendation, this outweighs the risk of adverse events associated with longer low certainty in estimates of effect). treatment and agrees with previous recommendations . Remarks: There is in vitro evidence that macrolides and Mycobacterium abscessus (Questions XIX–XXI) fluoroquinolones are active against M. xenopi, whereas ri- XiX: In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should a fampicin and ethambutol are inactive in vitro alone and in macrolide-based regimen or a regimen without a macrolide be combinations . Preliminary data from a study in France used for treatment? that randomized patients to receive either moxifloxacin or clarithromycin plus ethambutol and rifampicin reported no Recommendations difference in the treatment success between the study arms . XVi: In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a 2-, 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains 3-, or 4-drug regimen be used for treatment? without inducible or mutational resistance, we recommend a e6 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al macrolide-containing multidrug treatment regimen (strong rec- consensus on the optimum duration of therapy. In addition, the ommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). panel members felt that some subgroups of patients should be con- 2. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by sidered separately in determining the length of therapy such as: pa- strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we tients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus cavitary disease, patients suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being affected by lung
