Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


such as: pa- strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we tients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus cavitary disease, patients suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being affected by lung disease caused by different M. abscessus subspe- used for its immunomodulatory properties although the cies and importantly, depending on susceptibility to macrolides macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug and amikacin. The panel members suggest that an expert in the regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in management of patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease be estimates of effect). consulted. Remarks: M. abscessus infections can be life-threatening, and Surgical Resection (Question XXII) the use of macrolides is potentially of great benefit. Macrolides XXii: Should surgery plus medical therapy or medical therapy are very active in vitro against M. abscessus strains without alone be used to treat NTM pulmonary disease? a functional erm(41) gene, and evidence supports use of Recommendation macrolides in patients with disease caused by macrolide- susceptible M. abscessus . It is important to perform in 1. In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we sug- vitro macrolide susceptibility testing including detection of a gest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after functional or nonfunctional erm(41) gene [40–42]. expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low XX: In patients with M. abscessus complex pulmonary disease, certainty in estimates of effect). how many antibiotics should be included within multidrug regimens? Remarks: Selected patients with failure of medical manage- Recommendation ment, cavitary disease, drug resistant isolates, or complications such as hemoptysis or severe bronchiectasis may undergo sur- gical resection of the diseased lung. The decision to proceed 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we sug- with surgical resection must be weighed against the risks and gest a multidrug regimen that includes at least 3 active drugs benefits of surgery. The panel suggests that surgery be per- (guided by in vitro susceptibility) in the initial phase of treat- formed by a surgeon experienced in mycobacterial surgery . ment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in es- timates of effect). BACKGROUND Remarks: Given the usual disease severity of M. abscessus pul- The genus Mycobacterium consists of a diverse group of species monary disease, the variable and limited in vitro drug suscep- and subspecies ( tibility of these organisms, the potential for the emergence of With the exception of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, drug resistance, and the potential for more
