Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


vitro drug suscep- and subspecies ( tibility of these organisms, the potential for the emergence of With the exception of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, drug resistance, and the potential for more rapid progression Mycobacterium leprae complex, and Mycobacterium ulcerans of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the panel members suggest the rest of the species are referred to as NTM, and they can be using a regimen consisting of three or more active drugs. The found throughout our environment. The most common clin- panel members felt strongly that treatment regimens should be ical presentation is that of pulmonary disease, often occurring designed in collaboration with experts in the management of in the setting of underlying structural airway disease such as these complicated infections. bronchiectasis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . XXi: In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, should The incidence and prevalence of NTM pulmonary disease are shorter or longer duration therapy be used for treatment? increasing in many areas of the world with rates particularly high in older individuals and those with underlying bronchi- Recommendation ectasis [44–48]. The reasons for the increases in prevalence are not fully understood but are likely multifactorial including 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest environmental, host, and microbial factors. Regardless of the that either a shorter or longer treatment regimen be used and reasons for the increase, it is clear that healthcare providers will expert consultation obtained (conditional recommendation be encountering these patients increasingly frequently in the for either the intervention or the comparison, very low cer- coming years. tainty in estimates of effect). The availability of gene sequencing has improved taxonomy of mycobacteria, with an extraordinary increase in the number Remarks: The lack of studies, the variation in drug availability, of validly published NTM species. Of the many known NTM resources, and practice settings made it difficult to come to a species, only a small number appear to cause pulmonary disease Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e7 in humans. The most common slowly growing NTM to do so systematic reviews and prepared evidence summaries following are members of Mycobacterium avium complex which now the GRADE approach . consists of 12 separate species . The most common to cause maera. Other important NTM causing pulmonary disease are The committee developed potential questions to be ad- M. kansasii and M. xenopi. M. abscessus and its subspecies dressed in
