Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


to cause maera. Other important NTM causing pulmonary disease are The committee developed potential questions to be ad- M. kansasii and M. xenopi. M. abscessus and its subspecies dressed in the guideline using the 2007 guideline docu- causative agents of pulmonary disease due to rapidly growing Committee members were asked to rank questions in order mycobacteria. of importance and priority with all questions deemed impor- Diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease requires the synthesis tant and high priority included for the guideline. Twenty- IDSA developed a set of criteria to help guide clinicians in pertinent to the treatment of NTM pulmonary disease. determining which patients are likely to have progressive di- Some of these questions had been previously addressed in sease . Unfortunately, the predictive values of these criteria 2007 but required updating based on new evidence, whereas are not well studied, and thus they serve primarily as a guide others were new questions that the committee felt were to clinicians. The laboratory remains a critical component in critical topics for NTM management. Outcomes of interest the diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease given the many spe- were selected a priori by the panel based on their experience species level and in the case of M. abscessus, to the subspe- GRADE working group . Literature Search and Review of Evidence information. A medical librarian (S.K.) designed a search strategy using Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease varies depending medical subject heading keywords and text words (see online on the species (in some cases subspecies), extent of disease, supplement) limited to human studies and articles with English drug susceptibility results (with limitations), and under- abstracts. Databases searched included MEDLINE, EMBASE, lying comorbidities. Regimens require the use of multiple antimicrobial agents that are often associated with clin- Assessment, and the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects ically significant adverse reactions and must be adminis- from 1946 through July 2015. An update was performed in tered for prolonged periods. Even so, treatment outcomes May 2016 prior to the final meeting at the ATS International are often suboptimal, and reinfection with another strain or Conference and a final update was performed in June 2018 species is common. In many settings, expert consultation prior to manuscript submission. is helpful. Development of Clinical Recommendations METHODS The committee developed recommendations that considered Committee Composition the certainty of the evidence from the GRADE evidence pro- This guideline was developed by
