Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


is helpful. Development of Clinical Recommendations METHODS The committee developed recommendations that considered Committee Composition the certainty of the evidence from the GRADE evidence pro- This guideline was developed by a multidisciplinary committee files, as well as other domains that inform decision-making. consisting of physicians and researchers with recognized NTM The GRADE evidence-to-decision framework was used to or- expertise (C.A., E.B., E.C., C.D., D.G., L.G., G.H., J.I., C.L., ganize and document discussion for each recommendation [2, T.M., K.O., J.S., M.S., E.T., D.W., K.W., R.W.), methodologists 50]. The committee considered each of the following in recom- (J.L.B. and J.M.I.), and a representative from an NTM nonprofit mendation development: the quality of the evidence, the bal- organization the goal of which is patient support, education, and ance of desirable and undesirable consequences of compared research in NTM (P.L.). The patient representative was a full management options, the values and preferences associated vote on specific recommendations. The committee was chaired equity, the acceptability of the intervention to stakeholders, and by C.D. (ATS) and cochaired by C.L. (ERS), E.C. (ESCMID), the feasibility of implementation (see online supplement). The and R.W. (IDSA), representing their respective societies. The committee developed recommendations based on the GRADE committee worked with a medical librarian (S.K.) who had ex- evidence profiles for each question, with recommendations and pertise in evidence synthesis and the guideline development their strength decided by committee consensus during face-to- process. All of the members who had potential financial and/ face meetings. or intellectual conflicts recused themselves or were excused by Recommendations were either “strong” or “conditional,” ac- the chairs from discussions related to the recommendation for- cording to the GRADE approach (Table 1) . Strength of the mulation and grading, and voting on recommendations related recommendations was based upon the confidence in the esti- to the potential conflict. The methodology team conducted mates of effect, the outcomes studied and associated importance e8 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al to patients, the desirable and undesirable consequences of treat- LABORATORY DIAGNOSIS OF NONTUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIAL PULMONARY DISEASE ment, the cost of treatment, the implications of treatment on of treatment to important stakeholders. In instances where NTM pulmonary disease. A detailed review of the subject is be- there was low certainty in the estimates of effect, the committee yond the scope of the Guideline but a brief review of clinically determined whether a strong recommendation was warranted
