Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


there was low certainty in the estimates of effect, the committee yond the scope of the Guideline but a brief review of clinically determined whether a strong recommendation was warranted relevant laboratory issues is below. based on paradigmatic situations outlined by Andrews et al . As suggested by GRADE, the phrase “we recommend” was used Obtaining Respiratory Samples for strong recommendations and “we suggest” for conditional Given the slow course of NTM pulmonary disease, a prolonged recommendations . The Guideline, which was funded by interval ensures that repeat positive cultures are unlikely to reflect ATS, ERS, ESCMID, and IDSA, will be reevaluated in 4 years to a transient contamination of the tracheobronchial system after a determine if an update is necessary. single environmental exposure. To distinguish NTM pulmonary disease from occasional presence of NTM in the tracheobronchial DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR NTM tract, at least 3 respiratory samples are investigated, over an in- PULMONARY DISEASE terval of at least a week. For cavitary NTM pulmonary disease, crobiologic criteria for diagnosing NTM pulmonary disease lavage fluid and bronchial washing cultures have been reported . The current guideline also recommends use of these cri- in several small studies to be more sensitive than spontaneously teria to classify patients as having NTM pulmonary disease expectorated sputum culture to diagnose nodular/bronchiectatic (Table 2). The significance of NTM isolated from the sputum NTM disease [51–54]. However, in the largest study, the yield of of individuals who meet the clinical and radiographic criteria sputum culture and bronchial washing culture were equivalent in Table 2 must be interpreted in the context of the number of . Bronchoscopy is performed only in patients suspected of positive cultures and specific species isolated. Because NTM having NTM pulmonary disease from whom sputum specimens can be isolated from respiratory specimens due to environ- cannot be obtained spontaneously or through induction. mental contamination and because some patients who have an NTM isolated from their respiratory tract do not show ev- Sample Processing and Culture idence of progressive disease, >1 positive sputum culture is Decontamination by 0.25% N-acetyl-L-cysteine and 1% NaOH recommended for diagnostic purposes and the same NTM (NALC-NaOH) is the preferred method. An increase of NaOH species (or subspecies in the case of M. abscessus) should be concentrations lowers contamination rates but decreases sensi- isolated in ≥2 sputum cultures collected over an interval of a tivity of culture . week or more.
