Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


of M. abscessus) should be concentrations lowers contamination rates but decreases sensi- isolated in ≥2 sputum cultures collected over an interval of a tivity of culture . week or more. Clinically significant MAC pulmonary disease is Culture of respiratory samples is performed on both liquid unlikely in patients who have a single positive sputum culture and solid media, to improve sensitivity. A meta-analysis of during the initial evaluation [5–7] but can be as high as 98% in 9 studies [58–65] showed an increase in the sensitivity of culture those with ≥2 positive cultures . for NTM of 15% if a solid medium was incubated alongside a The pathogenicity of NTM varies significantly from organ- liquid culture system. In the few studies that applied multiple isms like M. gordonae, which rarely cause disease in humans, solid media and reported results per medium, the Löwenstein- to M. kansasii, which should usually be considered pathogenic Jensen medium was found to be most sensitive for the detec- to determine if it was causing disease whereas a single positive peratures of 36 ± 1 °C for slow growers and 28 ± 2 °C for rapid culture for M. kansasii in the proper context may be enough growers : higher temperatures (ie, 42°C) might accelerate evidence to initiate treatment . The pathogenicity of NTM growth of M. xenopi but lower incubation temperatures have not species may differ between geographic areas . proven useful in diagnosing NTM pulmonary disease . Importantly, just because a patient meets diagnostic criteria In patients with a high suspicion of NTM pulmonary disease for NTM pulmonary disease does not necessarily mean antibi- but negative cultures, review of decontamination procedures otic treatment is required. A careful assessment of the pathoge- and use of supplemented media and molecular detection may nicity of the organism, patient’s symptoms, risks and benefits be helpful although supplemental media are rarely necessary of therapy, the patient’s wish and ability to receive treatment as to diagnose NTM pulmonary disease. For molecular detection, well as the goals of therapy should be discussed with patients most use a mycobacterium genus specific assay used in con- prior to initiating treatment. In some instances, “watchful junction with nucleic acid sequencing, to distinguish M. tuber- waiting” may be the preferred course of action. culosis complex from NTM . Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e9 Species Identification complex is due to
