Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


waiting” may be the preferred course of action. culosis complex from NTM . Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e9 Species Identification complex is due to point mutations in the 23S rRNA (rrl) gene Correct identification of NTM is important, as it can predict . For amikacin, acquired resistance is due to resistance the clinical relevance of an isolate as well as aid in the conferring mutations in the 16S rRNA (rrs) gene and are mostly selection of a treatment regimen. Both molecular and mass isolated from patients with extensive exposure to amikacin and/ spectrometry-based methods can be applied. Molecular or related aminoglycosides . The breakpoint for resist- identification is the preferred method and can be achieved ance is a MIC ≥ 64 µg/mL for parenteral amikacin and ≥128 ug/ using probes or gene sequencing. Probe-based assays are mL for amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) , easier to perform and implement but lack discriminatory and finding such MICs would lead to cessation of intravenous power, leading to misidentification and an oversimplified or nebulized amikacin therapy . Tentative breakpoints for view of NTM phylogeny and epidemiology . Gene linezolid and moxifloxacin are also provided by CLSI but for sequencing allows a higher level of discrimination, often up these, in vitro-in vivo correlations have not been established to subspecies level but is only feasible for laboratories with . access to sequencing facilities. Several target genes have For M. kansasii, rifampicin and clarithromycin are the key been described, eg, 16S rRNA, hsp65, rpoB, and the 16S–23S drugs to test. Rifampicin resistance (MIC > 2 µg/mL) is rare but internal transcribed spacer (ITS) [72–75]. 16S rRNA gene can occur in isolates from patients with significant rifamycin sequencing alone offers limited discriminatory power, par- exposures and failure of treatment with a rifamycin containing ticularly for the M. abscessus-M. chelonae group . The regimen . Resistance to clarithromycin is defined as an hsp65 and rpoB genes and ITS are more discriminative . MIC ≥ 32 µg/mL . When rifampicin resistance has been Complementing 16S rRNA sequencing with additional tar- identified, susceptibilities to amikacin, ciprofloxacin, doxy- gets where required yields the best discriminatory power, cycline, linezolid, minocycline, moxifloxacin, rifabutin, and allowing identifications up to subspecies level (eg, for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole are tested . M. abscessus) . In M. abscessus pulmonary disease the association between The discriminatory power of the matrix-assisted laser in vitro drug
