Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


to subspecies level (eg, for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole are tested . M. abscessus) . In M. abscessus pulmonary disease the association between The discriminatory power of the matrix-assisted laser in vitro drug susceptibility and in vivo outcome of treatment desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass is evident for macrolides and amikacin . Parenteral spectrometry method for NTM has increased with recent drugs with in vitro activity include amikacin, imipenem, improvements in protein extraction protocols and data- cefoxitin, and tigecycline. Oral drugs with some activity are bases but not all species and subspecies can be differen- the macrolides, oxazolidinones (linezolid) and clofazimine. tiated with this approach . These procedures work Clofazimine shows in vitro activity, acts synergistically with well for pure cultures ; however, if applied to newly amikacin and macrolides , and prevents the emergence positive liquid cultures, only 50% of isolates can be imme- of amikacin-resistant M. abscessus in vitro . diately identified . For the remainder, subculture on Strains of M. abscessus subsp. abscessus and M. abscessus solid media until the occurrence of visual growth is needed subsp. bolletii have an erythromycin resistance methylase (erm) to obtain good MALDI-TOF results . gene, named erm(41), that results in inducible resistance to All clinically relevant isolates of NTM should be identi- macrolides . This inducible resistance can be measured in fied by molecular methods, including follow-up isolates of vitro by prolonged (ie, up to 14 days) incubation of microdilution patients undergoing NTM pulmonary disease treatment. trays or can be investigated by molecular detection and Where possible, isolates from patients who are being characterization of the erm(41) gene. In M. abscessus subsp treated for NTM pulmonary disease are frozen and saved massiliense, the erm(41) gene is nonfunctional owing to a large in order to distinguish reinfection from relapse when re- deletion, thus rendering the strains macrolide susceptible. currence occurs. A nonfunctional gene also occurs in some M. abscessus subsp abscessus as a result of a C instead of a T at the nucleotide 28 po- Drug Susceptibility Testing sition (Arg10 instead of Trp10) in the erm(41) gene . All In general, drug susceptibility testing is performed for drugs of the 3 M. abscessus subspecies can develop constitutive mac- used in treatment regimens and for which there are clear cor- rolide resistance owing to 23S RNA (rrl) gene mutations . relations between in vitro activity and the in vivo outcomes of Susceptibility testing panels
