Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


for which there are clear cor- rolide resistance owing to 23S RNA (rrl) gene mutations . relations between in vitro activity and the in vivo outcomes of Susceptibility testing panels for M. abscessus include at least treatment. Such correlations have become increasingly clear for amikacin, cefoxitin, imipenem, clarithromycin, linezolid, dox- NTM, especially for macrolides and amikacin. CLSI provides ycycline, tigecycline, ciprofloxacin, and moxifloxacin. guidelines for test procedures . CLSI recommends that drug susceptibility testing be per- For M. avium complex, there is a clear correlation between formed by broth microdilution . For patients whose NTM baseline macrolide susceptibility of the causative strain and the isolate is deemed to be clinically significant, drug susceptibility outcome of treatment with macrolide-ethambutol-rifampicin testing is performed for primary isolates as well as relapse/ regimens . Acquired macrolide resistance in M. avium failure isolates. e10 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC PICO spontaneous sputum conversion during a median follow-up of QUESTIONS 5.6 years . Predictors of spontaneous sputum culture con- Twenty-two PICO questions are addressed in this Guideline. For version included younger age, higher body mass index, and additional details please see the online supplement, which in- negative sputum acid-fast bacilli smears at initial diagnosis. cludes supporting supplemental evidence profiles for each ques- Observational cohorts have noted wide variability in the tion (Tables E3.1–22) and evidence to decision tables (Tables proportion of patients with NTM pulmonary disease who are E4.1–22) for each recommendation. For specific pathogens offered treatment (20–81%) likely contributing to selection bias (M. avium complex, M. kansasii, M. xenopi, and M. abscessus), the [95, 98–105]. NTM pulmonary disease has been associated with PICO questions are organized by the drugs to be included in the diminished quality of life that correlates with the severity of regimen, frequency of administration, and duration of therapy. lung impairment . A single study using standardized methods for quality of life assessment demonstrated improve- Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Questions I–II) ment of quality of life associated with treatment of M. abscessus Question I. Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated infection . with antimicrobial therapy or followed for evidence of progression Justification and Implementation Considerations: The decision (“watchful waiting”)? to initiate antimicrobial therapy for NTM pulmonary disease Background: Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease with anti- should be individualized based on a combination of clinical microbial agents offers the possibility of cure of
