Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


therapy for NTM pulmonary disease Background: Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease with anti- should be individualized based on a combination of clinical microbial agents offers the possibility of cure of the disease. factors, the infecting species, and individual patient priorities. However, the potential benefits of antimicrobial treatment must Factors associated with relatively poor prognosis (eg, cavitary be weighed against the potential adverse effects of treatment, disease, low body mass index, low albumin, and/or elevated low cure rates for some forms of infection, uncertain effect of inflammatory markers) , isolation of an treatment on quality and quantity of life, high costs of treat- organism that is more virulent and/or more responsive to anti- ment, and the potential for reinfection. microbial therapy (eg, M. kansasii), and underlying immune suppression were felt to move the balance toward antimicrobial treatment. Major symptoms such as severe fatigue with marked Recommendation decrease in quality of life can also be major factors in starting therapy. Conversely, mild signs and symptoms of disease, higher 1. In patients who meet the diagnostic criteria for NTM pul- potential for medication intolerance/toxicity and organisms less monary disease (Table 2), we suggest initiation of treatment responsive to treatment (eg, M. abscessus) were felt to move the rather than watchful waiting, especially in the context of balance toward watchful waiting. Any treatment decision should positive acid-fast bacilli sputum smears and/or cavitary lung include a discussion with the patient that outlines the potential disease (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in adverse effects of antimicrobial therapy, the uncertainties sur- estimates of effect). rounding the benefits of antimicrobial therapy, and the potential for recurrence including reinfection (particularly in the setting Summary of the Evidence: No randomized, controlled trials of nodular-bronchiectatic disease) [11–13]. have been conducted to examine the impact of treatment on either survival or quality of life. Limited retrospective observa- Question II. Should patients with NTM pulmonary disease be treated tional data have failed to demonstrate that treatment of NTM empirically or based on in vitro drug susceptibility test results? pulmonary disease prolongs survival over watchful waiting [95, Background: Drug susceptibility testing for NTM is useful 96]. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% confi- but only for antibiotics for which correlations between in vitro dence intervals (CIs) for each outcome (Table E3.1) and dis- activity and microbiological response to treatment have been cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and well documented .
