Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


vitro dence intervals (CIs) for each outcome (Table E3.1) and dis- activity and microbiological response to treatment have been cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and well documented . These include the macrolides health inequality (Table E4.1) can be found in the supplement. (clarithromycin and azithromycin) and amikacin [19, 20, Not all patients who have NTM isolated from a respiratory 87] with MAC and M. abscessus , and rifampicin with specimen or who meet ATS/IDSA diagnostic criteria will de- M. kansasii . velop progressive NTM pulmonary disease. For example, among 488 patients with MAC pulmonary disease in Taiwan Recommendations who met ATS/IDSA disease criteria and were followed for at least 1 year, 305 (62.5%) demonstrated progression of disease 1. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest . Progression was more likely to occur in patients who were susceptibility-based treatment for macrolides and amikacin acid-fast bacilli smear positive, had fibrocavitary disease or over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very low more extensive radiographic disease. Among those patients who certainty in estimates of effect). met the 2007 ATS/IDSA criteria for MAC pulmonary disease 2. In patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease, we suggest and in whom treatment was not initiated, 51.6% underwent susceptibility-based treatment for rifampicin over empiric Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e11 estimates of effect). and safety of ALIS in patients with refractory pulmonary di- 3. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, the committee sease due to MAC (or M. abscessus) reported that when there members feel there is insufficient evidence to make a recom- was an A1408G mutation in the 16S rRNA gene and/or the MIC mendation for or against susceptibility-based treatment. was >64 μg/mL in MAC isolates, no patients achieved culture 4. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease we suggest conversion on ALIS; responses were seen with MIC values up susceptibility-based treatment for macrolides and amikacin to and including 64 μg/mL . Treatment failure occurred over empiric therapy (conditional recommendation, very in 2 patients whose isolates had become resistant by mutation low certainty in estimates of effect). For macrolides, a 14-day to amikacin . In a randomized trial comparing intravenous incubation and/or sequencing of the erm(41) gene should streptomycin with placebo added to a standard 3-drug regimen, be performed to evaluate for potential inducible macrolide there was no association of treatment outcome with MIC to resistance. streptomycin; however, exact MIC
