Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


placebo added to a standard 3-drug regimen, be performed to evaluate for potential inducible macrolide there was no association of treatment outcome with MIC to resistance. streptomycin; however, exact MIC values were not determined if above 4 μg/mL . Summary of the Evidence: Only one study was identified For M. kansasii pulmonary disease, resistance to rifam- that reported treatment outcomes based on empiric treatment picin has been associated with treatment failure , versus the results of drug susceptibility results . The study although no randomized trials have been conducted that as- was a retrospective observational study of 31 patients with var- sociate baseline MICs to clinical outcome. For M. xenopi lung ious species causing NTM pulmonary disease who met the disease, few studies have correlated in vitro activity of specific 1997 ATS case definition. Patients were treated with a variety antimycobacterial drugs with treatment outcomes [36, 101, of treatment regimens (13 different combinations were used). 122, 123]. No association could be found between in vitro ac- Adjusting treatment according to the results of drug suscep- tivity and treatment failure/relapse in a randomized trial com- tibility tests was not associated with any difference in median paring rifampicin plus ethambutol with or without isoniazid. survival (75% with adjustment and 80% without). However, the The study had important limitations including a small sample study suffers from serious methodological flaws including lack size and the use of discrete thresholds (based on M. tubercu- of randomization, use of the 1997 ATS diagnostic criteria, and losis) rather than considering MIC values as a continuous var- methods of determining and interpreting drug susceptibility iable . that are no longer recommended. Discussion of value prefer- Recent studies have reported poor treatment outcomes E4.2) can be found in the supplement. tional or inducible resistance related to the presence of a Although only 1 study was identified that attempted to eval- functional erm(41) gene in M. abscessus subsp. abscessus uate the outcomes of treatment based on drug susceptibility re- and bolletii. In a retrospective cohort treated with a standard sults there are other studies that have correlated outcomes with in regimen, the presence of in vitro resistance to clarithromycin vitro activity. Trials of monotherapy with clarithromycin, rifam- was associated with worse outcomes . In a follow-up picin, ethambutol, or clofazimine for HIV-associated dissemin- study, patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense were ated MAC demonstrated that only clarithromycin susceptibility more likely
