Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


worse outcomes . In a follow-up picin, ethambutol, or clofazimine for HIV-associated dissemin- study, patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense were ated MAC demonstrated that only clarithromycin susceptibility more likely to convert cultures to negative compared with results correlated with treatment outcomes . In MAC patients infected with M. abscessus subsp. abscessus (85% pulmonary disease, retrospective case series [83, 84, 112, 117, vs 25%, P < .001), presumably because of the presence of 118] have also shown that in vitro resistance to clarithromycin a nonfunctional erm(41) gene in the former (gene with was associated with worse outcomes than susceptibility to major deletions) and inducible macrolide resistance due to clarithromycin, and a randomized trial found no association be- a functional erm(41) gene in the latter [38, 40–42]. In ad- tween in vitro susceptibility to either rifampicin or ethambutol dition, culture conversion rates were significantly higher and failure/relapse . However, the latter study applied a drug in patients infected with an M. abscessus subsp. abscessus susceptibility method not recommended for NTM and presented C28 sequevar isolate that does not exhibit inducible resist- and analyzed only aggregate resistance data for all groups (MAC, ance to macrolides . Alternatively, when M. abscessus M. xenopi, and M. malmoense) utilizing uniform discrete thresh- subsp. massiliense develops mutational macrolide resistance olds rather than considering MICs as a continuous variable to be with a mutation in the 23S rRNA gene, culture conversion explored for an association across species. is similar to that seen with subsp. abscessus and functional Amikacin is an important drug used for treatment of erm(41) gene . M. abscessus pulmonary disease. Resistance to amikacin is Justification and Implementation Considerations: Although caused by a specific mutation (A1408G) in the 16S rRNA (rrs) in vitro-in vivo correlations have been proven only for gene that has been associated with a high MIC (>64 μg/mL) and macrolides, amikacin and rifampicin (the latter only for previous exposure to amikacin . M. kansasii), baseline susceptibility testing is recommended e12 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al by CLSI guidelines for NTM isolates from patients with def- receive standard doses of rifampicin and ethambutol with either inite disease . Based on studies reviewed above, there clarithromycin or ciprofloxacin . The results showed that is evidence of poor outcomes in cases of macrolide-resistant the clarithromycin group had a lower failure/relapse rate than MAC and M. abscessus and poor outcomes the ciprofloxacin
