Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


results showed that is evidence of poor outcomes in cases of macrolide-resistant the clarithromycin group had a lower failure/relapse rate than MAC and M. abscessus and poor outcomes the ciprofloxacin group (13% vs 23%) and was tolerated better. in rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii . Similarly, re- However, all-cause mortality was higher in the clarithromycin cent data from randomized clinical trials evaluating ALIS group for unclear reasons (48% vs 30%). At 5 years only 30% of have demonstrated that high MICs of amikacin are asso- the clarithromycin group and 21% of the ciprofloxacin group ciated with poor microbiological response as reported in a were known to have completed therapy and been alive. previous retrospective analysis of patients treated with par- In a second small prospective trial from Japan , 27 pa- enteral amikacin . Based on the studies and re- tients with MAC pulmonary disease were treated for 1 year commendations above, laboratories should provide drug with rifampicin and ethambutol plus either gatifloxacin or susceptibility test results for the macrolides and amikacin low dose (600 mg) clarithromycin. The treatment outcomes for MAC and M. abscessus and rifampicin for M. kansasii. were not significantly different between study arms: 11/13 Precise subspeciation is helpful for M. abscessus as identifica- (84.6%) in the gatifloxacin group and 9/14 (64%) patients in the tion of subsp. massiliense is associated with a nonfunctional clarithromycin group achieved sputum culture conversion to erm(41) gene and in vitro susceptibility (MIC below 4 µg/ negative. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs mL) , and thus the macrolides are active if constitutive for each outcome (Table E3.3) and discussion of value prefer- the erm(41) gene can provide information (eg, truncated or E4.3) can be found in the supplement. C28 sequevar) that can exclude inducible macrolide resist- The committee was concerned about several aspects of these ance. Although other drugs are sometimes tested in order to 2 studies including, (a) small sample size, (b) underdosing of guide M. abscessus therapy, there are insufficient data to make the macrolide, (c) populations not representative of nodular specific recommendations in this regard. bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease patients encountered dressed M. xenopi pulmonary disease and in the absence of drug is not approved for use or no longer marketed in many countries susceptibility testing guidelines and breakpoints for M. xenopi, worldwide, and (e) the high overall mortality seen in one study the panel was unable
