Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


or no longer marketed in many countries susceptibility testing guidelines and breakpoints for M. xenopi, worldwide, and (e) the high overall mortality seen in one study the panel was unable to provide recommendation for or against , which raised questions about the validity of the study. susceptibility-based treatment. There have been other noncomparator trials of macrolide- containing regimens that have reported varying culture con- Treatment of MAC Pulmonary Disease (Questions III–IX) version rates. A recent systematic review reported a sustained Question III. Should patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC sputum culture conversion incidence rate ratio of 0.54 (95% CI pulmonary disease be treated with a 3-drug regimen with a macro- .45–.63) for macrolide-containing regimens versus 0.38 (0.25– lide or without a macrolide? 0.52) for macrolide-free regimens . Sputum conversion in- Background: Macrolides (clarithromycin and azithromycin) creased in the macrolide-containing regimens compared with have been the basis of therapy against MAC pulmonary disease macrolide-free regimens as study quality improved. Another because they were demonstrated in multiple trials to be effec- systematic review reported overall treatment success using tive in prophylaxis and multidrug treatment of disseminated macrolide-containing regimens was 52.3% (95% CI 44.7%– MAC infection [126–130]. 59.9%) and success increased to 61.4% if treated with an ATS/ IDSA 3-drug regimen, and to 65.7% if further treated for at least Recommendation 12 months . The companion drugs and length of treatment are important factors in treatment success. Only regimens using 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- rifamycin and ethambutol or clofazimine and ethambutol have sease, we recommend a 3-drug regimen that includes a mac- been shown to prevent the emergence of macrolide resistance rolide over a 3-drug regimen without a macrolide (strong during treatment . recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Perhaps the strongest available evidence for the importance of the macrolide in the treatment regimen is demonstrated by Summary of the Evidence: In spite of the widespread use of its loss from the regimen. In the setting of macrolide-resistant macrolides for treating MAC disease, there have been only disease, the sputum culture conversion rate falls from approxi- two randomized controlled trials comparing a macrolide- mately 80% to only 5–36% [16–18, 136]. containing regimen with a nonmacrolide-containing regimen Justification and Implementation Considerations: Case se- . A British Thoracic Society trial randomized 170 ries have demonstrated that macrolide-containing regimens patients with primarily cavitary MAC pulmonary disease to are associated with higher culture
