Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


Considerations: Case se- . A British Thoracic Society trial randomized 170 ries have demonstrated that macrolide-containing regimens patients with primarily cavitary MAC pulmonary disease to are associated with higher culture conversion rates than Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e13 nonmacrolide-containing regimens . Macrolide sus- clarithromycin . The drug-drug interactions are partic- ceptibility has been a consistent predictor of treatment suc- ularly relevant when a rifamycin (rifampicin or rifabutin) is cess for MAC pulmonary disease, whereas susceptibility given concurrently; azithromycin serum concentrations are to most other drugs has not been a predictor . In a affected less by concurrent rifampicin or rifabutin administra- postmarketing study from Japan, among 271 patients with tion than clarithromycin, but the interaction is bidirectional for macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease who received clarithromycin and rifabutin, leading to increased concentra- a clarithromycin-based regimen, sputum culture conver- tion of rifabutin (but not rifampicin), which has been associated sion to negative occurred in 95% . Although no well- with uveitis [111, 143–145]. Other considerations that would designed randomized trials of macrolide therapy have been favor azithromycin over clarithromycin include a lower pill performed, the panel felt that macrolides are a critical com- burden, once daily dosing, and possibly lower costs. ponent of MAC treatment based on poor patient outcomes Justification and Implementation Considerations: The prefer- if macrolides are not included in the treatment regimen. As ence for azithromycin is primarily based on the expert panel’s such the panel members voted unanimously to make a strong perception of better tolerability of azithromycin and fewer recommendation despite the very low certainty of estimates drug-drug interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 of effect. system than with clarithromycin. Both azithromycin and clarithromycin have been reported to be associated with severe Question IV. In patients with newly diagnosed macrolide-susceptible adverse effects, including sudden death presumably mediated MAC pulmonary disease, should an azithromycin-based regimen or by QTc prolongation . However, a systematic re- a clarithromycin-based regimen be used? view that evaluated adverse events in people taking macrolides Background: The macrolides are considered to be key compo- versus placebo for any indication reported no increase in car- nents in treatment regimens against MAC pulmonary disease. diac disorders or mortality when compared with placebo . The 2007 Guideline expressed a preference for azithromycin Electrocardiographic monitoring may be considered for pa- over clarithromycin in initial treatment regimens . tients when concurrent medications that prolong
