Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


placebo . The 2007 Guideline expressed a preference for azithromycin Electrocardiographic monitoring may be considered for pa- over clarithromycin in initial treatment regimens . tients when concurrent medications that prolong the QTc in- terval are being used. In the same systematic review noted Recommendation above , hearing loss was reported more frequently in pa- tients taking macrolides than placebo; however, the differences 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- were not statistically significant, and there were no studies of sease we suggest azithromycin-based treatment regimens clarithromycin to address differences between macrolides. In rather than clarithromycin-based regimens (conditional rec- older patients, hearing loss and gastrointestinal symptoms have ommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). been associated with higher doses (600 mg daily) and serum concentrations of azithromycin , whereas bitter taste, Summary of the Evidence: Both clarithromycin and nausea, and elevated hepatic enzymes have been associated with azithromycin have demonstrated activity in MAC pulmonary higher doses (1000 mg twice daily) of clarithromycin . Of disease, with early studies demonstrating some efficacy for note, all studies included some patients who did not tolerate monotherapy , and subsequent studies demonstrating azithromycin and were successfully switched to clarithromycin efficacy as part of multi-drug regimens administered both and vice-versa. Switching from one agent to the other is a daily and 3 times weekly . Limited data are strategy that may be considered in case of intolerance. The panel available from comparisons of treatment outcomes in patients felt that azithromycin was preferred over clarithromycin be- treated with clarithromycin versus azithromycin , and cause of likely better tolerance, less drug interactions, lower pill no significant difference was found in either microbiologic ef- burden, single daily dosing, and equal efficacy. In places where ficacy or tolerability, although there was a nonsignificant trend azithromycin is not available, clarithromycin is an acceptable toward lower tolerability for clarithromycin in 1 study . alternative although more drug interactions are possible. The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.4) and discussion of value preferences, feasi- Question V. Should patients with MAC pulmonary disease be treated with a parenteral amikacin or streptomycin-containing regimen or be found in the supplement. without a parenteral amikacin or streptomycincontaining regimen? A recent systematic review reported no clinically signifi- Background: MAC isolates are usually susceptible in vitro cant differences between azithromycin and clarithromycin in to amikacin. Streptomycin was used in early
