Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


A recent systematic review reported no clinically signifi- Background: MAC isolates are usually susceptible in vitro cant differences between azithromycin and clarithromycin in to amikacin. Streptomycin was used in early noncomparative sputum culture conversion at 6 months, end of therapy, or on treatment trials during the initial months of treatment for sustained conversion after treatment nor was there a differ- both cavitary and nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary di- ence in the acquisition of macrolide resistance . However, sease . Parenteral aminoglycoside therapy was recom- azithromycin has less potential for drug-drug interactions than mended in some previous NTM guidelines during the initial e14 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al months of MAC therapy . In the 2007 Guideline , par- ethambutol and possibly rifampicin and clofazimine, to pre- enteral aminoglycosides were recommended for initial therapy vent the emergence of acquired mutational resistance and of fibrocavitary MAC pulmonary disease and severe or previ- predictable treatment failure . Based on the results of ously treated MAC pulmonary disease . Amikacin or strep- one randomized trial and the experiences of the panel tomycin administration have been viewed as an intensification members, the benefits were felt to outweigh risks in those pa- of oral therapy although that assumption has not been rigor- tients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic disease ously tested. or those with macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease. Administration of at least 2–3 months of an aminoglycoside Recommendation was considered the best balance between risks and benefits. Question VI. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmo- 1. For patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic nary disease, should a regimen with inhaled amikacin or a regimen or macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest without inhaled amikacin be used for treatment? that parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the Background: Amikacin is active against MAC and has been initial treatment regimen (conditional recommendation, recommended for intravenous treatment of cavitary or severe moderate certainty in estimates of effect). bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease . However, systemic use of parenteral amikacin has been associated with a high fre- Summary of the Evidence: One randomized controlled trial quency of renal, auditory, and vestibular toxicity . Delivery was performed evaluating the impact of streptomycin addition of amikacin by hand-held nebulization may be a potential way to macrolide-based oral therapy for the initial three months of to improve efficacy and decrease drug-related toxicity. therapy . One hundred forty-six patients with MAC
