Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


may be a potential way to macrolide-based oral therapy for the initial three months of to improve efficacy and decrease drug-related toxicity. therapy . One hundred forty-six patients with MAC pulmo- nary disease (both nodular/bronchiectatic and cavitary disease) Recommendations were randomized to receive clarithromycin, ethambutol, and a rifamycin daily with (73) or without (73) streptomycin (15 mg/ 1. In patients with newly diagnosed MAC pulmonary disease, kg 3 times per week during the initial 3 months of therapy). we suggest neither inhaled amikacin (parenteral formula- The sputum culture conversion rate was significantly higher tion) nor ALIS be used as part of the initial treatment reg- for patients who received streptomycin than for those who re- imen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in ceived oral therapy only (71.2% vs 50.7%). There were, however, estimates of effect). no significant differences in microbiologic recurrence rates or 2. In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed clinical improvement (which included both clinical symptoms therapy after at least 6 months of guideline-based therapy, and radiological findings). There were also no significant dif- we recommend addition of ALIS to the treatment regimen ferences in adverse reactions and abnormal laboratory findings instead of a standard oral regimen, only (strong recommen- between the 2 groups. Two additional retrospective studies have dation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect). suggested that the inclusion of a parenteral aminoglycoside ad- ministered for ≥6 months in addition to adjunctive surgery Summary of the Evidence: Reports evaluating the use of inhaled improves outcome for patients with macrolide-resistant MAC amikacin as part of a multidrug regimen for NTM pulmonary pulmonary disease . There are no published data exam- disease, including patients with MAC pulmonary disease, have ining the relative efficacy of streptomycin versus amikacin for primarily targeted patients with treatment refractory disease. treating MAC pulmonary disease; streptomycin is no longer Five retrospective case series (N = 138 patients, 55 with MAC) available in several countries. The relative and absolute effect with no comparator arm most commonly used inhaled doses estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.5) and dis- of commercially available amikacin (parenteral forumation) cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and ranging from 250 to 500 mg once daily up to 15 mg/kg once health inequality (Table E4.5) can be found in the supplement. daily added to their oral antibiotic regimen [155–159]. Clinical Justification and Implementation Considerations: In the ab- responses
