Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


15 mg/kg once health inequality (Table E4.5) can be found in the supplement. daily added to their oral antibiotic regimen [155–159]. Clinical Justification and Implementation Considerations: In the ab- responses were reported in 20–100% and sputum conversion sence of comparably effective oral medications there are few op- was reported in 18–67% of treatment refractory MAC pulmo- tions other than parenteral aminoglycosides for “intensifying” nary disease. Reported side effects in these series ranged from standard oral MAC therapy. Although the evidence is limited, 8 to 38% and included hoarseness, throat irritation, bitter taste, it appears that there is some improvement in microbiologic re- and thrush. Ototoxicity occurred in 0 to 19% of patients with sponse with the addition of three months of streptomycin to nephrotoxicity reported in only 1 patient and vertigo in 2 pa- macrolide-based oral MAC therapy and when adminis- tients [155–159]. The relative and absolute effect estimates and tered for a longer duration in the setting of macrolide resistant 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.6) and discussion of value with adequate companion medications, such as a macrolide, (Table E4.6) can be found in the supplement. Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e15 A Phase II controlled trial randomized treatment refractory acquired mutational amikacin resistance with either inadequate patients (eg, with culture positivity after at least 6 months of companion medications or poor and irregular antibiotic depo- guideline-based treatment that included a macrolide) with pre- sition in the lung with areas of low amikacin concentration. In dominantly MAC (n = 57) or M. abscessus (n = 32) pulmonary patients who fail treatment with an initial MAC regimen, in- disease to investigational ALIS (n = 44) versus placebo (empty haled therapy should be used as part of a salvage regimen to ag- liposomes, n = 45) . Although the primary endpoint of re- gressively treat MAC pulmonary disease in those whose isolates duction in semiquantitative mycobacterial culture growth from retain in vitro susceptibility to amikacin. The results of phase baseline was not achieved, significantly more patients who re- II and phase III randomized trials of ALIS show that ceived ALIS achieved culture conversion by day 84 and had addition of ALIS to patients with MAC pulmonary disease that greater improvement in distance achieved on 6-minute walk failed to convert sputum cultures after 6 months of GBT leads test. Adverse events were common (~90%) in both
