Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


pulmonary disease that greater improvement in distance achieved on 6-minute walk failed to convert sputum cultures after 6 months of GBT leads test. Adverse events were common (~90%) in both groups, but to culture conversion in 29% of patients in comparison to 9% patients receiving ALIS had more dysphonia and oropharyn- in patients who continue GBT only. Because 10% of patients geal discomfort, cough, wheezing, chest discomfort, acute ex- in the ALIS-arm developed amikacin resistance, the addition acerbations of bronchiectasis, and fatigue . of another companion drug to prevent resistance development A randomized controlled phase III trial recently reported needs to be considered in these patients, although the preven- that ALIS, when added to guideline-based regimen for treat- tive effect of an additional medication has not been determined ment refractory MAC pulmonary disease, was associated with a in this situation. Where ALIS is not yet available, addition of higher proportion of patients with negative cultures at 6 months inhaled parenteral amikacin is a reasonable alternative. compared to those who continued to take the standard reg- imen only : Culture conversion was achieved by 65 of 224 Question VII. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmo- patients (29.0%) with ALIS + guideline-based therapy (GBT) nary disease, should a 3-drug or a 2-drug macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? compared with 10 of 112 (8.9%) with GBT alone (odds ratio, Background: The poor response to treatment in AIDS patients 4.22; 95% CI [2.08,8.57]; P < .001). Adverse reactions were with disseminated MAC in the premacrolide era and the rapid very common in both treatment arms: treatment-emergent ad- development of resistance with clarithromycin monotherapy verse events (TEAE) were reported in 98.2% and 91.1% of pa- reinforced the need for multiple drugs for treatment success. In tients in the ALIS+GBT and GBT-alone arms, respectively. The contrast to the need for multidrug therapy, there is an opposing most common TEAEs overall were respiratory events reported pressure to reduce the number of agents in MAC regimens to by 87.4% and 50.0% of patients in the ALIS+GBT and GBT- minimize drug-related adverse effects, the cost of the drug reg- alone arms, respectively. TEAEs reported in ≥10% of patients imen, and the pill burden seen with 12–18 months of therapy. in the ALIS+GBT arm included dysphonia, cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, and oropharyngeal pain. These events infrequently led to early discontinuation of ALIS Recommendation (dyspnea, 3.1%; dysphonia, 2.2%;
