Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


therapy. in the ALIS+GBT arm included dysphonia, cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, and oropharyngeal pain. These events infrequently led to early discontinuation of ALIS Recommendation (dyspnea, 3.1%; dysphonia, 2.2%; all others <1%) or withdrawal from the study. Audiological TEAEs were generally similar in 1. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary di- both arms although tinnitus was reported in 17 patients (7.6%; sease, we suggest a treatment regimen with at least 3 drugs 20 events) in the ALIS+GBT arm compared with one event (including a macrolide and ethambutol) over a regimen with (0.9%) in those receiving GBT alone. Vestibular TEAEs (dizzi- 2 drugs (a macrolide and ethambutol alone) (conditional rec- ness, balance disorder, vertigo), although infrequent, were also ommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). more common in the ALIS+GBT arm than in the GBT alone arm. Serious TEAEs were reported in 45 patients (20.2%) and Summary of the Evidence: There are 2 randomized studies that 20 patients (17.9%) in the ALIS+GBT and GBT-alone arms, re- compared a 2-drug regimen with a 3-drug regimen , but spectively. During the study, more patients in the ALIS+GBT only 1 of these studies included a macrolide-containing regimen arm had MAC isolates with postbaseline amikacin MIC > 64 μg/ . In this single center open label study from Japan, patients mL than those receiving GBT alone (10.3% vs 2.7%). Of these with previously untreated nodular/bronchiectatic or fibrocavitary 26.9% subsequently had MAC isolates with an MIC less than MAC pulmonary disease were randomly assigned to either a 64 mg/ml. Based on the phase II and III trial results, ALIS was daily 3-drug (clarithromycin/ethambutol/rifampicin) or a daily approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treat- 2-drug (clarithromycin/ethambutol) regimen for 12 months . ment of MAC pulmonary disease in patients who have failed The drug doses (especially clarithromycin at 200 mg 3 times daily therapy after at least 6 months of GBT. or twice daily based on body weight) were all lower than ATS/ Justification and Implementation Considerations: There are IDSA recommended dosing. The primary endpoint was sputum insufficient data to support the use of inhaled antibiotics as conversion (ie, 3 consecutive negative cultures). Fifty-nine pa- an initial treatment option. There may be a risk of developing tients were assigned to a 3-drug regimen and 60 to a 2-drug e16 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al regimen with lung cavitation present
