Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


risk of developing tients were assigned to a 3-drug regimen and 60 to a 2-drug e16 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al regimen with lung cavitation present in approximately 50% of recommended for patients with cavitary disease, patients previ- patients in both arms. In the intent to treat analysis, the sputum ously treated, or patients with moderate or severe disease . culture conversion rate was 40.6% with the 3-drug regimen and 55.0% with the 2-drug regimen. The incidence of adverse events Recommendations leading to the discontinuation of treatment was 37.2% and 26.6% for the 3-drug and the 2-drug regimens, respectively. In the per 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic protocol analysis (those who completed therapy) 24/32 (75%) macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest converted on 3 drugs, and 33/40 (82.5%) converted on 2 drugs. a 3 times per week macrolide-based regimen rather than a No isolates in either group developed macrolide resistance, al- daily macrolide-based regimen (conditional recommenda- though the study was underpowered to detect a difference. This tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). study has significant limitations making interpretation difficult. 2. In patients with cavitary macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmo- The study was unblinded with a small sample size, had signifi- nary disease we suggest a daily macrolide-based regimen rather cant drop out during the course of the study, and used low doses than 3 times per week macrolide-based regimen (conditional of clarithromycin administered in a nonstandard frequency of recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect) dosing . When combined with rifampicin in the 3-drug regimen, this would have led to low and potentially ineffective Summary of the Evidence: No randomized trials have been clarithromycin levels. The relative and absolute effect estimates performed that address this question; however, there are sev- and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.7) and discussion of eral cohort studies that have reported treatment outcomes with quality (Table E4.7) can be found in the supplement. case series of patients receiving intermittent azithromycin- Justification and Implementation Considerations: A priority containing therapy for MAC pulmonary disease was reported in in MAC pulmonary disease therapy is preventing the develop- 1998 . These preliminary results were followed by the re- ment of macrolide resistance. Ethambutol is the best companion sults of 3 prospective noncomparative studies of azithromycin- drug for preventing the emergence of macrolide resistance [16, containing regimens (including rifabutin or rifampicin, and 18,
