Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


Ethambutol is the best companion sults of 3 prospective noncomparative studies of azithromycin- drug for preventing the emergence of macrolide resistance [16, containing regimens (including rifabutin or rifampicin, and 18, 161]. A 2-drug regimen including a macrolide and etham- ethambutol) for MAC pulmonary disease . Patients re- butol is the regimen with the fewest possible drugs for treating ceived either intermittent azithromycin with daily companion MAC. The role of a rifamycin, or another third drug, is un- medications, intermittent azithromycin with intermittent com- clear. One possibility is that a third drug provides additional panion medications, or daily azithromycin with daily com- protection to that provided by ethambutol for preventing the panion medicines. Conversion of sputum cultures to negative emergence of macrolide resistance. In a randomized controlled was observed in 17/29 (59%), 11/20 (55%), and 28/43 (65%) of trial of rifabutin added to clarithromycin and ethambutol for patients, respectively. The microbiologic outcomes for the 3 re- treatment of disseminated MAC infection, response rates, with gimens were not significantly different. In a subsequent study, or without rifabutin, were equivalent but development of mac- 41 patients completed 6 months of therapy with clarithromycin rolide resistance was lower (P = .055) in patients on the 3-drug 1000 mg, rifabutin 300–600 mg, and ethambutol 25 mg/kg ad- regimen . Until additional evidence is provided showing ministered 3 times per week . Thirty-two (78%) of these that acquired macrolide resistance is equally common among patients converted sputum cultures to negative. Adverse events macrolide containing 3-drug and 2 drug regimens, the panel associated with this regimen were primarily due to rifabutin, prefers a 3-drug regimen. A PCORI-funded randomized con- and in 41% of patients the dosage was decreased or the drug discontinued. These initial 3 studies included both cavitary and trolled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a 2 versus 3 nodular bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease patients [139, drug regimen is currently underway ( 140, 164]. Question VIII. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmo- A large retrospective case series that included 180 patients with nary disease, should a daily or 3-times weekly regimen be used for nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease reported out- treatment? comes with either daily or intermittent macrolide-containing (ei- Background: The intermittent administration of antimy- ther azithromycin or clarithromycin) regimens (with rifampicin cobacterial drugs has been a standard approach to drug sus- and ethambutol) for a minimum of 12 months . Conversion ceptible
