Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


of antimy- ther azithromycin or clarithromycin) regimens (with rifampicin cobacterial drugs has been a standard approach to drug sus- and ethambutol) for a minimum of 12 months . Conversion ceptible tuberculosis therapy in North America for more than 2 of sputum cultures to negative occurred in 147/172 (85%) of pa- decades therefore, it seems reasonable that macrolide sus- tients treated with the intermittent regimen compared to 7 of 8 ceptible MAC pulmonary disease might also be effectively treated (88%) patients who completed therapy with daily medication. with intermittent antibiotic administration. In the prior Guideline A significantly greater number of patients treated with daily , 3 times weekly therapy was recommended for patients with medications experienced medication intolerance and required nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease but was not a switch in regimen to intermittent therapy. None of the NTM Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e17 strains from patients in the study developed macrolide resistance. evidence to justify or support intermittent therapy for cavitary Another retrospective study compared daily (earlier temporal pe- MAC pulmonary disease and it is not recommended. riod, 99 patients) with intermittent (later temporal period, 118 patients) administration of clarithromycin, rifampicin, and eth- Question IX. In patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary ambutol for nodular/bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease disease, should patients be treated with <12 months of treatment after culture negativity or ≥12 months of treatment after culture . Significantly more patients on daily therapy required reg- negativity? imen modification because of medication intolerance than pa- Background: Although MAC species are the most common tients on intermittent therapy (46% vs 21%). Seventy-six percent organisms causing NTM pulmonary disease, the optimal treat- of patients receiving daily therapy, and 67% of patients receiving ment duration for MAC pulmonary disease has not been evalu- intermittent therapy converted cultures to negative. Acquired ated in a prospective randomized clinical trial. Although the macrolide resistance was not reported in the study. duration of treatment of MAC pulmonary disease that is needed In addition to the 2 recent studies showing that intermittent to achieve relapse-free cure is likely highly variable among indi- macrolide-containing regimens are better tolerated than daily regimens, there may be other benefits to intermittent regimens. dation of a general treatment duration. A case series suggested that intermittent ethambutol adminis- tration was less often associated with ethambutol-related ocular Recommendation toxicity than daily ethambutol administration . A recent systematic review reported that
