Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


duration. A case series suggested that intermittent ethambutol adminis- tration was less often associated with ethambutol-related ocular Recommendation toxicity than daily ethambutol administration . A recent systematic review reported that the default rate was 12.0% (95% 1. We suggest that patients with macrolide-susceptible MAC CI 8.9%–15.0%) in patients receiving 3 times weekly therapy pulmonary disease should receive treatment for at least compared to 16.0% (95% CI 12.3–19.7%) with daily adminis- 12 months after culture conversion (conditional recommen- tration . A small study from South Korea on patients who dation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). were failing an intermittent regimen after 12 months of treat- ment reported that sputum culture conversion to negative was Summary of the Evidence: There are no randomized studies observed in approximately 30% of patients after switching to or case series that address this question although there is one daily therapy . study that reported outcomes based on whether the patient re- Treatment outcomes with intermittent therapy are not as ceived <12 months of treatment . In a single center retro- favorable in patients with cavitary pulmonary disease. A pro- spective observational cohort study that evaluated and reported spective open label multicenter trial reported a low culture treatment outcomes of patients with nodular/bronchiectatic conversion rate in patients with MAC pulmonary disease MAC pulmonary disease, 27 patients received treatment for treated with 3 times weekly therapy . Sputum culture con- <12 months and 180 patients for ≥12 months of a clarithromycin version occurred in only 4% of patients with cavitary disease. or azithromycin-based combination therapy, either daily or 3 Patients with noncavitary disease were approximately 4 times times a week. Sputum culture conversion to negative was ob- more likely than patients with cavitary disease to demonstrate served in 6 of the 27 patients (22%) who received treatment for sputum culture conversion and high-resolution computed to- <12 months, compared with 154 of 180 (86%) of patients who mography (CT), or symptom improvement. A recent case series completed at least 12 months of therapy (P < .001). The rela- from South Korea reported a high sputum culture conversion tive and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome rate in patients with recurrent nodular/bronchiectatic disease (Table E3.9) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, In this case series, 86% of the recurrences were likely due to found in the supplement. reinfection which would possibly explain the good outcomes.
