Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, In this case series, 86% of the recurrences were likely due to found in the supplement. reinfection which would possibly explain the good outcomes. A recent systematic review reported that treatment suc- The relative and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each cess was higher in persons who received at least 12 months of outcome (Table E3.8) and discussion of value preferences, feasi- macrolide-based therapy compared with <12 months . be found in the supplement. evaluated treatment outcomes by duration of treatment after Justification and Implementation Considerations: These re- culture conversion . In a postmarketing study from commendations are based on several noncomparative case Japan, bacteriologic relapse was noted in 5% of patients series with consistent microbiologic results showing that in- when treatment was continued for <15 months after sputum termittent therapy is similar to daily therapy for nodular/ culture conversion and in zero patients who continued treat- bronchiectatic MAC pulmonary disease and also better toler- ment for >15 months . Given the lack of data on the ated than daily therapy. A critically important finding from the optimal duration of therapy, the panel voted unanimously available studies is the lack of development of macrolide resist- to continue to follow the recommendations from the 2007 ance with intermittent therapy . There is not similar Guideline. e18 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al Justification and Implementation Considerations: The optimal Summary of the Evidence: No randomized clinical trials have duration of therapy for MAC pulmonary disease is currently not directly compared an isoniazid-containing regimen with a known. Semiquantitative sputum culture scores from the third macrolide-containing regimen, but there are case series that month of treatment onwards are predictive of sustained sputum reported treatment outcomes of these regimens for treating conversion at 12 months of treatment, so regular (eg, monthly) M. kansasii pulmonary disease. A 3-drug regimen that includes sputum cultures are recommended during the treatment of isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol was recommended in the MAC pulmonary disease . There is currently not suffi- 2007 Guideline . Treatment outcomes with the 3-drug reg- cient evidence to support bronchoscopy to obtain specimens imen when administered for 9–18 months have been excellent for mycobacterial culture to determine the duration of therapy. with cure rates of 80–100% and low relapse rates of 2.5–6.6% Treatment outcome definitions have now been published to pro- when administered for at
