Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


to determine the duration of therapy. with cure rates of 80–100% and low relapse rates of 2.5–6.6% Treatment outcome definitions have now been published to pro- when administered for at least 12 months [27–29]. mote uniform outcome reporting in studies and gather more re- Untreated strains of M. kansasii are susceptible to macrolides, liable data on optimal duration of therapy in MAC pulmonary as minimal inhibitory concentrations of clarithromycin for disease . In patients who fail to convert sputum cultures to M. kansasii range from 0.125 to 0.25 μg/mL . Two small ret- negative after 6 months of treatment or who have extensive di- rospective cohort studies evaluated treatment outcomes of regi- sease, expert consultation should be obtained. mens that substituted clarithromycin for isoniazid and reported similar cure rates of 80–100% . Among subjects who Treatment of MAC Pulmonary Disease-summary completed the treatment regimen, cure was 100%. Discussion macrolide-susceptible MAC pulmonary disease (Tables 3 and 4). inequality (Table E4.10) can be found in the supplement. For patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic or Justification and Implementation Considerations: Isoniazid is macrolide-resistant MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest that par- widely used at present for treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary di- enteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the initial treatment sease, and in the experience of the expert panel, there have been good regimen. The parenteral agent is typically administered for at least outcomes when using a regimen consisting of rifampicin, etham- 2–3 months. We suggest a 3 times per week regimen in patients with butol, and isoniazid irrespective of the result of MICs for isoniazid nodular/bronchiectatic disease but a daily macrolide-based regimen and ethambutol . Based on the in vitro activity of macrolides in those with cavitary disease. We suggest that treatment be admin- against M. kansasii, and 2 studies that demonstrated good treatment istered for at least 12 months after culture conversion. If sputum cul- outcomes when clarithromycin was substituted for isoniazid , tures have not converted to negative after 6 months of guideline-based the panel suggests that either isoniazid or a macrolide can be used in treatment, we recommend the use of ALIS as part of the continuation combination with rifampin and ethambutol. treatment regimen. In the setting of disease caused by macrolide- resistant MAC, the expert panel suggests seeking expert consultation. Question XI: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be Treatment
