Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


disease caused by macrolide- resistant MAC, the expert panel suggests seeking expert consultation. Question XI: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmonary disease, should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be Treatment of M. kansasii Pulmonary Disease (Questions X–XIV) included in the treatment regimen? Question X. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii Background: Amikacin or streptomycin is sometimes used pulmonary disease, should an isoniazid-containing regimen or a for treating NTM pulmonary disease. Studies that included macrolide-containing regimen be used for treatment? 2–3 months of streptomycin added to a multidrug oral reg- Background: M. kansasii was one of the first NTM to be recognized imen demonstrated high rates of culture conversion and cure to cause pulmonary disease . Initially, a M. tuberculosis-like reg- in patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease . imen including isoniazid was used, but treatment success was unsat- However, their use in M. kansasii disease has not been recom- isfactory until the introduction of rifampicin . Once mended since the introduction of highly effective rifampicin- rifampicin was included in the regimen, treatment outcomes im- based regimens . proved dramatically, and thus a rifampicin-based regimen is recom- mended . Because of the uncertain value of isoniazid and Recommendation excellent in vitro activity of the macrolides [174–177], some clinicians have begun to substitute a macrolide for isoniazid in rifampicin- 1. We suggest that neither parenteral amikacin nor strepto- containing regimens . mycin be used routinely for treating patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease (strong recommendation, very low cer- Recommendation tainty in estimates of effect). 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- nary disease, we suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, Summary of the Evidence: There have been no randomized and either isoniazid or macrolide (conditional recommenda- clinical trials addressing the use of amikacin or streptomycin tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). for treating M. kansasii pulmonary disease, however three case Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e19 Table 3. Dosing Guidelines for Drugs Used in the Management of Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease Drug Daily Dosing Thrice Weekly Dosing Hepatic Impairment Renal Impairment Oral Azithromycin 250–500 mg per day 500 mg per day N/A N/A Ciprofloxacin 500–750 mg twice per day N/A N/A 250–500 mg dosed at inter- vals according to CrCl Clarithromycin 500 mg twice per day 500 mg twice per day N/A Reduce dose by 50% if CrCl < 30 mL/min Clofaziminea 100–200 mg
