Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


daily dosing c The use of the described regimens for 15 weeks was associated with permanent ototoxicity in approximately one third of patients, and the risk was associated with age and cumulative dose . Given the high rates of ototoxicity, risks and benefits should be carefully considered in light of the goals of therapy. Clinicians should consider lower dose ranges and probably rely on intermittent dosing when more prolonged therapy is employed. dDrug level monitoring: Trough < 5 mg/L; Peak with daily dosing 35–45 μg/mL; Peak with intermittent dosing 65–80 μg/mL . series reported results with parenteral-containing regimens [28, adverse events were reported in one study (14.7%), leading to 29, 179]. In one retrospective study including a mixture of NTM discontinuation of the parenteral agent in 9.5% . Studies that species, 16 patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease were have used oral regimens without inclusion of aminoglycosides treated for 6 months to 2.5 years with regimens including strep- have also demonstrated high culture conversion rates and cure tomycin (n = 14) or capreomycin (n = 2) . In the other 2 with low relapse rates [25–27]. The relative and absolute effect studies, 115 patients were treated with a rifampicin-based reg- estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.11) and dis- imen that included isoniazid and ethambutol for 12 months, sup- cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and plemented with streptomycin 3 days a week for the first 2 months health inequality (Table E4.11) can be found in the supplement. . The pooled culture conversion rate was 95.5% (42 of 44 Justification and Implementation Considerations: In general, re- patients in 2 studies) , and recurrences were observed gimens of 3 oral agents, rifampicin and ethambutol, and either in 4.7% (6 of 127 patients in 3 studies) . Significant isoniazid or a macrolide, achieve high rates of sustained culture e20 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al Table 4. Recommended Treatment Regimens for Mycobacterium avium complex, M. kansasii, and M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease Organism No. of Drugs Preferred Drug Regimena Dosing Frequency M. avium complex Nodular-bronchiectatic 3 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) 3 times weekly Rifampicin (rifabutin) Ethambutol Cavitary ≥3 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) Daily (3 times weekly may be used with Rifampicin (rifabutin) aminoglycosides) Ethambutol Amikacin IV (streptomycin)b Refractoryc ≥4 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) Daily (3 times weekly may be used with Rifampicin (rifabutin) aminoglycosides) Ethambutol Amikacin liposome inhalation suspension or amikacin IV (streptomycin)b
