Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


(rifabutin) aminoglycosides) Ethambutol Amikacin IV (streptomycin)b Refractoryc ≥4 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) Daily (3 times weekly may be used with Rifampicin (rifabutin) aminoglycosides) Ethambutol Amikacin liposome inhalation suspension or amikacin IV (streptomycin)b M. kansasii 3 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) Daily Rifampicin (rifabutin) Ethambutol 3 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) 3 times weekly Rifampicin (rifabutin) Ethambutol 3 Isoniazid Daily Rifampicin (rifabutin) Ethambutol M. xenopi ≥3 Azithromycin (clarithromycin) and/or moxifloxacin Daily (3 times weekly may be used with Rifampicin (rifabutin) aminoglycosides) Ethambutol Amikacinb aSee Table 3 for recommended dosages. Alternative drugs for patients who are intolerant of or whose isolate is resistant to first-line drugs include clofazimine, moxifloxacin, and linezolid. Some experts would consider bedaquiline or tedizolid. bConsider for cavitary, extensive nodular/bronchiectatic disease or macrolide-resistant MAC. Amikacin or streptomycin may be given 3 times a week. cRefractory disease is defined as remaining sputum culture positive after 6 months of guideline-based therapy. Amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) has been shown to improve culture conversion when added to guideline-based therapy in treatment refractory patients with MAC pulmonary disease. conversion and treatment success in the treatment of M. kansasii pul- Recommendations monary disease. Therefore, given the good outcomes observed with oral regimens, the lack of data supporting the benefit of amikacin or 1. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pul- streptomycin, and the potential risk of adverse effects associated with monary disease, we suggest using a regimen of rifampicin, amikacin or streptomycin, the panel members felt strongly that the ethambutol, and either isoniazid or macrolide instead of a use of these parenteral agents is not warranted, unless it is impossible fluoroquinolone (conditional recommendation, very low to use a rifampicin-based regimen or severe disease is present. certainty in estimates of effect). 2. In patients with rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intolerance Question XII. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii to 1 of the first-line antibiotics we suggest a fluoroquinolone pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a (eg, moxifloxacin) be used as part of a second-line regimen fluoroquinolone or a regimen without a fluoroquinolone be used? (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates Background: In vitro testing shows susceptibility of clinical of effect). M. kansasii isolates to fluoroquinolones , and fluoroquinolones are currently recommended as part of Summary of evidence: Although there is good in vitro activity a multidrug regimen to treat rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii of the fluoroquinolones against M. kansasii, no randomized pulmonary disease . It is not known whether the in
