Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


good in vitro activity a multidrug regimen to treat rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii of the fluoroquinolones against M. kansasii, no randomized pulmonary disease . It is not known whether the in vitro clinical trial or case series have been published in which a fluor- activity translates into treatment success that would lead to a oquinolone was used for the treatment of M. kansasii pulmo- change in the current treatment recommendation. nary disease. Discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e21 in the supplement. per week (14/14 evaluable patients converted sputum cultures Justification and Implementation Considerations: Treat- and remained relapse free after 46 ± 8.0 months); 9 of the 14 pa- ment success of M. kansasii pulmonary disease with a tients had cavitary disease . The relative and absolute effect rifamycin-based drug regimen is usually excellent but the estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.13) and dis- optimal choice of companion drugs is not clear. Although cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and choice of an additional companion drug may be isoniazid, a Justification and Implementation Considerations: Cavitary macrolide, or a fluoroquinolone. As there is more experience NTM pulmonary disease has higher morbidity and mortality and better evidence for treatment regimens that include iso- and warrants a more aggressive treatment approach than niazid or a macrolide as a companion drug, these drugs are noncavitary disease . It is unclear to what extent this preferred. For rifampicin-resistant disease, a regimen such principle applies to patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease as ethambutol, azithromycin, and a fluoroquinolone would given that 3 times weekly treatment can be effective in patients likely to lead to successful treatment. with nodular/bronchiectatic or cavitary disease . However, because there are no randomized trials available and the small Question XIII. In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii size of the single study that evaluated 3 times weekly therapy, pulmonary disease, should a 3 times per week or daily treatment the panel did not feel that they could recommend intermittent regimen be used? therapy in the setting of cavitary disease until more evidence Background: A rifamycin-based multidrug regimen for was available. Similarly, there are no data to support the use of treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease is associated isoniazid on a 3 times weekly basis in patients with M. kansasii with a high cure rate when administered daily for
