Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


of treatment of M. kansasii pulmonary disease is associated isoniazid on a 3 times weekly basis in patients with M. kansasii with a high cure rate when administered daily for at least pulmonary disease. 12 months . Three times weekly treatment has been used successfully in the treatment of noncavitary Question XIV: In patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii MAC pulmonary disease and may decrease side pulmonary disease, should treatment be continued for <12 months or effects and increase tolerability without impacting treat- ≥12 months? ment success in patients with M. kansasii pulmonary di- Background: Treatment for M. kansasii pulmonary disease sease . with a rifampicin-based regimen for at least 12 months after negative sputum cultures was recommended by the 2007 ATS Recommendations treatment guideline . However, data from several studies suggest that a 12-month fixed duration may be enough to cure 1. In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic most patients [27–29]. M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated with a rifampicin, eth- ambutol, and macrolide regimen, we suggest either daily or 3 Recommendation times weekly treatment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). 1. We suggest that patients with rifampicin-susceptible 2. In patients with cavitary M. kansasii pulmonary disease M. kansasii pulmonary disease be treated for at least treated with a rifampicin, ethambutol, and macrolide-based 12 months (conditional recommendation, very low certainty regimen, we suggest daily treatment rather than 3 times in estimates of effect). weekly treatment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). Summary of the Evidence: There have been no randomized clin- 3. In all patients with M. kansasii pulmonary disease treated ical trials comparing <12 months with ≥12 months of treatment with an isoniazid, ethambutol, and rifampicin regimen, we after culture conversion, but a 12-month fixed duration regimen suggest treatment be given daily rather than 3 times weekly was evaluated in 3 studies [27–29], and a 9-month regimen in mates of effect). of 14: one group received rifampicin, isoniazid and ethambutol daily for 6 months, followed by rifampicin and isoniazid to com- Summary of Evidence: Treatment regimens using daily admin- plete 12 months (14 patients), and the other group completed istration of rifampicin, isoniazid, and ethambutol are associated 18 months (14 patients) . After 12–30 months of follow-up, with high treatment success and low relapse rates [27–29]. There one patient in the 12-month arm (7%) and none in the 18-month are no studies that have evaluated
