Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


of follow-up, with high treatment success and low relapse rates [27–29]. There one patient in the 12-month arm (7%) and none in the 18-month are no studies that have evaluated treatment outcomes of this arm recurred after completing treatment. In a prospective study regimen when given intermittently. In contrast, clarithromycin- , 40 patients were treated with 1 g of streptomycin (twice based treatment regimens have been demonstrated to have weekly for the first 3 months) plus rifampicin, isoniazid, and e22 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al ethambutol for 12 months. One patient (2.5%) recurred 6 months is higher than other NTM species, with a 5-year mortality of 51% after completing treatment. Using the same regimen in a series of and 43% in population-based studies from Denmark and Canada, 75 patients , 5 (6.6%) recurred after a median follow-up of respectively . The elevated mortality may be due to the 41.5 months. The pooled recurrence rate from these 3 studies was underlying lung disease, frequent concomitant chronic pulmo- 5.4% (7 of 129 patients) [27–29]. The British Thoracic Society nary aspergillosis , as well as frequent cavitation among evaluated a 9-month regimen with rifampicin and ethambutol in patients with M. xenopi disease . In vitro data suggest that 115 patients in a prospective study . Although conversion MIC values of fluoroquinolones are low for M. xenopi: in vitro ac- of sputum to negative was achieved in 99.4% of patients, 10% tivity of moxifloxacin is equal to that of clarithromycin . In experienced disease recurrence. The relative and absolute effect murine models, adding either moxifloxacin or clarithromycin to estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.14) and dis- a rifampicin-ethambutol combination leads to drug regimens of cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and equal efficacy . health inequality (Table E4.14) can be found in the supplement. Justification and Implementation Considerations: Current Recommendation rifampicin-based treatment regimens are associated with a high rate of success if used for at least 12 months . 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we sug- Randomized controlled trials comparing shorter treatment gest using a multidrug treatment regimen that includes regimens are currently lacking. Although some experts moxifloxacin or a macrolide (conditional recommendation, would favor 12 months of treatment after culture conver- low certainty in estimates of effect). sion, there is no evidence that relapses could be prevented with treatment courses longer than
