Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


would favor 12 months of treatment after culture conver- low certainty in estimates of effect). sion, there is no evidence that relapses could be prevented with treatment courses longer than 12 months. Some of the Summary of the Evidence: There are 2 systematic reviews that reported relapses may actually be exogenous reinfections, as have reported treatment outcomes of M. xenopi pulmonary di- suggested by the long periods between treatment comple- sease, and both noted a wide range of drugs and regimens used tion and recurrence . Therefore, the panel members felt that M. kansasii could be treated for a fixed duration of that compared ciprofloxacin with clarithromycin when added 12 months instead of 12 months beyond culture conversion. to rifampicin and ethambutol in patients with M. xenopi pul- Because sputum conversion at 4 months of rifampicin-based monary disease . In this study, 34 patients were treated regimens is usually observed [29–31], expert consultation with either ciprofloxacin (n = 17) or clarithromycin (n = 17) in should be obtained if cultures fail to convert to negative by addition to rifampicin and ethambutol. No significant differ- that time. ences were found between the 2 regimens in term of death, cure, recurrence or adverse effects. However, the power of the study Treatment of M. kansasii Pulmonary Disease—Summary was too low to conclude which regimen was best (only 34 pa- We suggest a regimen of rifampicin, ethambutol, and either isoniazid or tients and 2 events). Moreover, in this study that also included macrolide for patients with rifampicin-susceptible M. kansasii pulmo- patients with M. avium or M. malmoense, adverse events were nary disease (Tables 3 and 4). Neither parenteral amikacin nor strepto- not reported separately for M. xenopi. Preliminary data from a mycin are recommended for routine use in these patients. We suggest study in France in which randomized patients received either that patients with nodular/bronchiectatic M. kansasii pulmonary disease moxifloxacin or clarithromycin plus ethambutol and rifampicin receive either daily or 3 times weekly treatment when receiving a mac- reported no difference in the treatment success between the rolide, rifampicin, and ethambutol. However, in patients with cavitary study arms . The relative and absolute effect estimates and disease, the regimen should be administered daily. In addition, when 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.15) and discussion of value patients are treated with a regimen that includes isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol, we suggest treatment be given
