Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


addition, when 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.15) and discussion of value patients are treated with a regimen that includes isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol, we suggest treatment be given daily. In patients with (Table E4.15) can be found in the supplement. rifampicin-resistant M. kansasii or intolerance to one of the first-line Justification and Implementation Considerations: There is antibiotics we suggest a fluoroquinolone (eg, moxifloxacin) be used as in vitro evidence that macrolides and fluoroquinolones are part of a second-line regimen. We suggest that all patients be treated for active against M. xenopi, whereas rifampicin and ethambutol at least 12 months. are inactive in vitro alone and in combinations . From this perspective, a multidrug regimen that utilizes a macrolide or Treatment of M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease (Questions XV–XVIII) fluoroquinolone would be likely more active. Question XV. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should a treatment regimen that includes a fluoroquinolone or a regimen Question XVI. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, should without a fluoroquinolone be used? a 2-, 3-, or 4-drug regimen be used for treatment? Background: M. xenopi pulmonary disease is difficult to treat and Background: Despite the poor prognosis of M. xenopi pulmo- associated with high all-cause mortality that nary disease, there are few studies available on optimal treatment Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e23 . Like in other NTM infections, a multidrug therapy is used the recommendation. Additionally, the absence of universal to avoid selecting for drug resistance, but the optimal number access to moxifloxacin and the small amount of data for and combination of drugs are not known. other fluoroquinolones has to be considered when choosing a regimen. Recommendation Question XVII. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, 1. In patients with M xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest a should parenteral amikacin or streptomycin be included in the treat- daily regimen that includes at least 3 drugs: rifampicin, eth- ment regimen? Background: Patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease fre- ambutol, and either a macrolide and/or a fluoroquinolone quently present with cavitary disease , often respond (eg, moxifloxacin) (conditional recommendation, very low poorly to treatment , and suffer a higher all- certainty in estimates of effect). cause mortality than other NTM species . Based on expert opinion, the 2007 Guideline suggested that adding strep- Summary of evidence: There are 2 systematic reviews that tomycin to a multidrug oral
