Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


than other NTM species . Based on expert opinion, the 2007 Guideline suggested that adding strep- Summary of evidence: There are 2 systematic reviews that tomycin to a multidrug oral regimen is reasonable . However, have reviewed treatment outcomes of M. xenopi pulmonary there is substantial uncertainty regarding best treatment regi- disease, and both noted a wide range of drugs and regimens mens for M. xenopi. used . The authors of these reviews were unable to recommend the optimal number of drugs to be used in the reg- imen, although in 1 review, fluoroquinolone-containing regi- Recommendation mens were associated with a greater proportion of relapse-free success . Two randomized controlled studies in patients 1. In patients with cavitary or advanced/severe bronchiectatic with M. xenopi pulmonary disease were conducted by the M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest adding parenteral British Thoracic Society . The first study com- amikacin to the treatment regimen and obtaining expert con- pared efficacy of a regimen containing rifampicin, ethambutol sultation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in with or without isoniazid in 42 patients (20 vs 22) . estimates of effect). No significant differences were found in terms of death, cure or recurrence between the 2 groups. Nevertheless, the power is Summary of the Evidence: For the current Guideline, no probably insufficient, with few patients included and few events high-quality studies addressing the question were identi- occurred. The main result of this study was the poor prognosis fied. In a systematic review of M. xenopipulmonary disease, of these patients (5-year mortality of 57% with M. xenopi vs data regarding parenteral therapy were found exclusively in 31% in MAC disease and 25% in M. malmoense disease). In the retrospective series, and the data synthesis identified evi- second study, 34 patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease dence against aminoglycosides . Compared with patients were randomized to receive rifampicin, ethambutol, and ei- who did not receive aminoglycosides, patients who received ther ciprofloxacin or clarithromycin. Treatment failure/relapse aminoglycosides had lower success rates both in the short occurred in 24% of the clarithromycin group versus 6% in the term (56% versus 82%, P = .019) and long term (38% vs 68%, ciprofloxacin group . In a murine model of M. xenopi in- P = .029). However, the comparison was undoubtedly biased fection, a 4-drug regimen (rifampicin, ethambutol, amikacin, strongly by disease severity. Two studies in mice infected with and clarithromycin or moxifloxacin)
