Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


P = .029). However, the comparison was undoubtedly biased fection, a 4-drug regimen (rifampicin, ethambutol, amikacin, strongly by disease severity. Two studies in mice infected with and clarithromycin or moxifloxacin) demonstrated better ef- M. xenopi have shown reduced colony forming units among ficacy than a 3-drug regimen (rifampicin, ethambutol, and mice treated with amikacin in addition to comparator regimens moxifloxacin or clarithromycin) . The relative and ab- . One study used intravenously infected mice treated solute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table with clarithromycin, ofloxacin plus/minus amikacin , E3.16) and discussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, ac- and the other study used an inhalational infection model and the supplement. or moxifloxacin/ethambutol/rifampicin plus/minus amikacin Justification and Implementation Considerations: In an- , and both studies identified microbiologic benefit of the imal and in vitro models, regimens of rifampicin, ethambutol, addition of amikacin. Discussion of value preferences, feasi- those that included amikacin (see Question 17) even more so. be found in the supplement. Given the very high mortality associated with M. xenopi, the Justification and Implementation Considerations: This rec- committee felt the large risk of treatment failure with a 2-drug ommendation is based on expert opinion and data from mu- regimen warranted a strong recommendation for at least a rine models of M. xenopi infection, wherein microbiologic 3-drug treatment regimen. However, the lack of confidence benefit was observed in mice treated with amikacin . in the estimates of effect from the available studies tempered Barring compelling evidence to the contrary, M xenopi patients e24 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al should be treated aggressively given the high mortality of the suggest that long-term treatment and follow-up are a signifi- disease [34–36]. In addition to the high mortality, the panel cant challenge in this specific disease. The relative and absolute considered the general acceptability and feasibility of parenteral effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.18) supplement. Question XVIII. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, Justification and Implementation Considerations: The data re- should treatment be continued for <12 months or ≥12 months after viewed above suggest that treatment outcomes improve if the culture conversion? duration of treatment increases. The panel members felt that Background: The optimal duration of treatment for M. xenopi this outweighs the risk of adverse events associated with longer pulmonary disease is not known, neither is the effect of treat- treatment and
