Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


optimal duration of treatment for M. xenopi this outweighs the risk of adverse events associated with longer pulmonary disease is not known, neither is the effect of treat- treatment and agrees with previous recommendations . ment duration on the frequency of disease recurrence. The 2007 Guideline suggested a treatment duration of 12 months beyond Treatment of M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease—Summary culture conversion, acknowledging that the optimal duration In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest a was unknown . daily regimen that includes at least 3 drugs: rifampicin, eth- ambutol, and either a macrolide and/or a fluoroquinolone (eg, Recommendation moxifloxacin) (Tables 3 and 4). In patients with severe M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest adding parenteral amikacin to 1. In patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease, we suggest the treatment regimen and obtaining expert consultation given that treatment be continued for at least 12 months beyond the poor treatment outcomes. We suggest treatment be con- culture conversion (conditional recommendation, very low tinued for ≥12 months after culture conversion. certainty in estimates of effect). Treatment of M. abscessus Pulmonary Disease (Questions XIX–XXI) Summary of the Evidence: No studies have specifically ad- Question XIX. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, dressed this question. Two studies in the 1980s found that should a macrolide-based regimen or a regimen without a macrolide treatment durations had an effect on outcomes (typically with be used for treatment? isoniazid-rifampicin-ethambutol regimens). Treatment du- Background: Macrolides possess potent activity against ration over 18 months lead to relapse-free cure in 8/11 pa- M. abscessus as well as immunomodulatory effects. Macrolide tients ; treatment regimens over 9 months of duration resistance can develop through chromosomal mutations in cured more patients (11/23) than shorter regimens (1/11) the 23S rDNA (rrl) gene resulting in high level mutational re- . A 2009 systematic review concluded that the data avail- sistance as well as through induction of the erm(41) gene that able at the time of the review did not permit comment on the causes inducible resistance in the presence of a macrolide . impact of treatment duration on treatment outcomes . M. abscessus subsp. (abscessus, bolletii, and massiliense) are rap- Subsequent case series could not address the specific question idly growing mycobacteria that differ in in vitro susceptibility but found that treatment duration of <6 months was associ- to macrolides based on the functionality of the erm(41) gene ated with higher mortality
