Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


that differ in in vitro susceptibility but found that treatment duration of <6 months was associ- to macrolides based on the functionality of the erm(41) gene ated with higher mortality and with recurrence . One clin- . The different mechanisms leading to macrolide resist- ical trial has examined 24-month long regimens for M. xenopi ance have made it difficult for clinicians to determine when pulmonary disease; 12 of 34 (35%) patients treated showed to use a macrolide in the treatment of M. abscessus pulmonary a favorable response that could be sustained for 3 years after disease. treatment; however, 18 patients (54%) deviated from the treat- ment protocol, for which no further details are available . Recommendations Three retrospective case series have reported on outcomes and mean or median treatment duration, but regimens varied and 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by none of these studies specifically correlated treatment duration strains without inducible or mutational resistance, we recom- with outcomes. A study in France recorded 27% clinical and/ mend a macrolide-containing multidrug treatment regimen or microbiological conversion with a median duration of treat- (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of ment of 5 months in 122 patients . In Croatia, 6 months of effect). first-line antituberculosis treatment led to favorable outcomes 2. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease caused by in 10 of 20 patients (50%) . In the Netherlands, 11 of 19 strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we patients (58%) treated for a mean of 9 months achieved culture suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being conversion sustained until end of treatment . Mortality used for its immunomodulatory properties although the rates varying from 21% to 41% and even 69% macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e25 estimates of effect). macrolides given their in vitro activity. It is important to consider identification of the M. abscessus Summary of evidence: There were no studies identified that subsp. in addition to in vitro macrolide susceptibility testing, compared macrolide-containing regimens with nonmacrolide- because of the difference in response to macrolide therapy containing regimens. A recent systematic review reported based on the presence of a functional or nonfunctional erm(41) that a single study reported the use of macrolide-free regimens gene. The acquisition of treatment associated mutational mac- in 120 patients
