Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


on the presence of a functional or nonfunctional erm(41) that a single study reported the use of macrolide-free regimens gene. The acquisition of treatment associated mutational mac- in 120 patients of whom 8% experienced culture conversion rolide resistance in patients with M. abscessus, with or without . This review included an additional 13 studies that used inducible macrolide resistance, suggests that mutations in 23S macrolide-containing regimens of which 10 were restrospective rRNA are responsible for high level macrolide resistance . [38, 39, 89, 197–203] and 3 prospective cohort designs [12, 108, In this setting, macrolides are unlikely to be contributing to the 204]. A second systematic review included 10 studies antimicrobial effect of the treatment regimen. including 2 that were not assessed in the other sys- Macrolides have been demonstrated to prevent exacerba- tematic review. Evidence from these studies has demonstrated tions of bronchiectasis in patients with chronic Pseudomonas the importance of macrolide susceptibility and treatment infection, despite the lack of antimicrobial activity against outcomes. Compared with the macrolide-free regimen, the Pseudomonas , which is a common copathogen in pa- macrolide-containing regimens had a pooled sustained sputum tients with bronchiectasis . However, the risk of acquiring culture conversion of 34% with M. abscessus subsp abscessus resistance to other coinfecting pathogens must be considered and 54% with subsp. massiliense . Overall, good treatment when macrolides are used for immunomodulatory purposes in outcomes were noted in 84% of those with M. abscessus subsp. patients whose isolate has documented inducible or mutational massiliense compared with 23% with subsp. abscessus. macrolide resistance . As with all patients receiving Four studies compared treatment outcomes in patients treatment, frequent sputum cultures should be obtained during with infections due to M. abscessus subsp. abscessus or the course of therapy to monitor for treatment response and massiliense . Among the over survey for the appearance of other organisms such as M. avium 200 patients included in the studies, culture conversion complex. In this setting, the treatment regimen should be ad- ranged between 25–42% and 50–96% among those with justed to cover the new isolates in order to avoid development subsp. abscessus and massiliense, respectively. The very large of macrolide resistance in the new NTM. differences in culture conversion between the 2 subspecies were likely related to the nonfunctional erm(41) gene (no Question XX. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, how inducible resistance) in subsp. massiliense and a
