Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


between the 2 subspecies were likely related to the nonfunctional erm(41) gene (no Question XX. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, how inducible resistance) in subsp. massiliense and a functional many antibiotics should be included within multidrug regimens? gene in most isolates of subsp. abscessus. This strongly sug- Background: M. abscessus isolates display in vitro resistance to gests that macrolides provide a very large benefit in the most oral antibiotics and are generally susceptible to a limited treatment of macrolide-suspectible M. abscessus. Additional number of parenteral agents including tigecycline, imipenem, data demonstrating the importance of the macrolide in cefoxitin, and amikacin. Previous guidelines recommend using treatment is a study that reported that only 1 (7%) patient a multidrug regimen including ≥2 of these antibiotics to which with macrolide resistant M. abscessus subsp. massiliense had the organism is susceptible in vitro. Recent work suggests a lack a favourable outcome with treatment . The relative of consensus among treating physicians, with a variety of regi- and absolute effect estimates and 95% CIs for each outcome mens employed against this organism ranging from 2 to 5 drugs (Table E3.19) and discussion of value preferences, feasi- in the initial phases of therapy . can be found in the supplement. Recommendation Justification and Implementation Considerations: M. abscessus infections can be life-threatening, and the use of macrolides is po- 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest tentially of great benefit. Macrolides are very active in vitro against a multidrug regimen that includes at least three active drugs M. abscessus strains without a functional erm(41) gene . The (guided by in vitro susceptibility) (conditional recommenda- far better treatment outcomes in studies of M. abscessus subsp. tion, very low certainty in estimates of effect). massiliense versus subsp. abscessus (inactive vs active erm(41) gene), where treatment differences appear to depend on the ac- Summary of the Evidence: There are 2 systematic reviews tivity of the macrolide, strongly suggest a major benefit from this that have reported treatment outcomes in patients drug class . Despite the very low certainty with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, but there are no studies in the estimates of effect, the committee felt a strong recommen- that have directly compared the efficacy or safety of different dation was appropriate given the high morbidity and mortality of multidrug regimens. Based on the systematic reviews, the e26 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley
