Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


or safety of different dation was appropriate given the high morbidity and mortality of multidrug regimens. Based on the systematic reviews, the e26 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al overall sputum culture conversion in patients with M. abscessus Recommendation (not further subspeciated) treated with a multidrug, macrolide- containing regimen was 59%: culture conversion occurred 1. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, we suggest in 34–41% in those with M. abscessus subsp. abscessus and that either a shorter or longer treatment regimen be used and 54–69.8% in those with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense [184, expert consultation obtained (conditional recommendation 195]. One observational retrospective study attempted to com- for either the intervention or comparator, very low certainty pare a macrolide plus amikacin regimen versus a 3-drug reg- in estimates of effect). imen consisting of a macrolide, amikacin, and either imipenem or cefoxitin . However, they did not distinguish patients Summary of the Evidence: Only 1 study addressing this spe- with M. abscessus isolates with and without functional erm cific question was identified by the systematic review . This genes. Accordingly, the interpretation of outcomes associated observational, retrospective study included 30 patients with with these regimens was not possible. One additional observa- M. abscessus pulmonary disease who met the diagnostic cri- tional retrospective study suggested that multidrug therapy is teria defined in the 2007 Guideline. Overall, 17 of the patients associated with improved quality of life in M. abscessus patients, were treated for >1 month and had follow-up available for at but this study did not compare outcomes according to different least 1 year: 13 were treated for less than 12 months, and 4 were drug regimens . Importantly, the few cases series that have treated for ≥12 months. No significant difference was found in described treatment outcomes all used multidrug regimens the cure rate between the 2 groups. No additional information with ≥3 drugs . The relative and absolute effect es- was available with regard to lung involvement, nor to the subsp. timates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.20) and dis- of M. abscessus. The study methodology, notably no control for cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and confounding, indirect comparisons with different regimens of Justification and Implementation Considerations: Given the risk of bias. Two recent systematic reviews did not address the usual disease severity of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the optimum duration of therapy
