Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


Justification and Implementation Considerations: Given the risk of bias. Two recent systematic reviews did not address the usual disease severity of M. abscessus pulmonary disease, the optimum duration of therapy but noted that most patients with variable and limited in vitro drug susceptibility of these organ- M. abscessus were treated for over 12 months with multidrug isms, the potential for the emergence of drug resistance, and the regimens including a minimum of 4 weeks of ≥1 parenteral potential for more rapid progression of M. abscessus pulmonary antimicrobials . The relative and absolute effect es- disease, the expert panel suggests using a regimen consisting timates and 95% CIs for each outcome (Table E3.21) and dis- of ≥3 active drugs in macrolide susceptible disease and at least cussion of value preferences, feasibility, cost, acceptability, and particularly true in the initial months of therapy when bacterial Given the better treatment outcomes with disease due to burdens are greater. Design of regimens beyond the initial in- M. abscessus subsp. massiliense, a shorter or less intensive travenous phase is difficult given the lack of oral antimicrobials course of therapy may be possible. In a retrospective study with activity against M. abscessus. Although macrolides might of 128 patients with M. abscessus, patients with M. abscessus still be useful for immunomodulatory effects or antimicro- subsp. massiliense had better treatment outomes than pa- bial effects against other coinfecting organisms, they are not tients with subsp. abscessus despite receiving shorter durations counted as an active drug against M. abscessus when inducible of parenteral and total treatment: patients with M. abscessus or mutational resistance is noted. The committee members feel subsp. massiliense received a median of 4.7 months of paren- strongly that treatment regimens should be designed in collab- teral therapy and 12.1 months of total treatment compared oration with experts in the management of these complicated with 7.4 and 16.3 months in patients with M. abscessus subsp. infections. abscessus, respectively . In another study, 71 patients with M. abscessus subsp. massiliense were treated with either 2 or 4 Question XXI. In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease, weeks of intravenous amikacin and cefoxitin (or imipenem) should shorter or longer duration therapy be used for treatment? along with an oral macrolide . Those treated with a 2-week Background: The 2007 Guideline noted that no medication course of parenteral therapy followed by at least 12 months of strategy could reliably achieve
