Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


macrolide . Those treated with a 2-week Background: The 2007 Guideline noted that no medication course of parenteral therapy followed by at least 12 months of strategy could reliably achieve the goal of 12 months of nega- an oral macrolide post conversion had a culture conversion rate tive sputum cultures while on therapy . It was therefore sug- of 91% compared with 100% in those who received a 4-week gested that periodic treatment courses, or aggressive treatment course and oral macrolide for 24 months. Two patients who re- regimens including multiple parenteral agents for a few months, ceived the shorter course of therapy developed acquired macro- could be effective strategies. However, the optimum treatment lide resistance. Although the expert panel does not recommend duration of pulmonary disease caused by M. abscessus complex macrolide monotherapy for treatment of NTM pulmonary di- is currently unknown. sease, the study demonstrated that similar treatment outcomes Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e27 could be obtained using shorter and less intensive treatment Surgical Resection for Treatment of NTM Pulmonary Disease (Question XXII) than used for M. abscessus subsp. abscessus. Question XXII. Should surgery plus medical therapy or medical Justification and Implementation Considerations: The 1 study therapy alone be used to treat NTM pulmonary disease? identified had a very small sample size, only indirectly addressed Background: NTM pulmonary disease is often difficult to cure this question, and was felt to be of too low quality to form the with antimicrobial therapy alone. Selected patients with failure basis of a recommendation. The lack of studies evaluating treat- of medical management, cavitary disease, drug-resistant iso- ment durations, the variation in drug and resource availability, lates, or complications such as hemoptysis or severe bronchiec- as well as the diverse practice settings, made it difficult to come tasis may undergo surgical resection of the diseased lung. The to a consensus on the optimum duration of therapy. In addi- decision to proceed with surgical resection must be weighed tion, the panel members felt that some subgroups of patients against the risks and benefits of surgery. should be considered separately in determining the length of therapy such as: patients with nodular/bronchiectatic versus Recommendation cavitary disease, patients affected by lung disease caused by different M. abscessus subspecies and, importantly, depending 1. In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we sug- on susceptibility to macrolides and amikacin. Although the op-
