Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


lung disease caused by different M. abscessus subspecies and, importantly, depending 1. In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we sug- on susceptibility to macrolides and amikacin. Although the op- gest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after timal duration of therapy is not known, most patients reported expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low in the literature with M. abscessus were treated for >12 months, certainty in estimates of effect). and the treatment was divided into an initial phase usually in- cluding parenteral drugs followed by a longer phase using oral Summary of the Evidence: We identified 15 observational and sometimes inhaled antibiotics . The panel mem- studies [30, 39, 43, 89, 214–223] including approximately 700 bers suggest that an expert in the management of patients with patients who underwent various surgical resections including M. abscessus pulmonary disease be consulted prior to initiation segmentectomies, lobectomies, and pneumonectomies. Most of therapy in order to assist with determination of the duration patients included in the studies had MAC pulmonary disease, of therapy. with 1 study including only patients with M. xenopi pulmonary disease , 1 with M. kansasii only , and 2 including pa- tients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease . Almost all Treatment of M. abscessus Pulmonary Disease—Summary of the patients who underwent surgery had received antimicro- The optimal drugs, regimens, and duration of therapy are bial treatment before and after surgery. Three studies reported not known. Patients with M. abscessus pulmonary disease results for patients treated with combined antibiotic and surgical caused by strains without inducible (typically M. massiliense) therapy, compared with antibiotic therapy alone . or mutational macrolide resistance should be treated with a Cure rate of the NTM disease, death, and recurrences were macrolide-containing multidrug regimen that includes at least not significantly different between medical and surgical therapy 3 active drugs (guided by in vitro susceptibility) in the initial in the 3 comparative studies that included a total of 296 patients phase of treatment (the phase including intravenous agents) with follow-up data (95 surgical plus medical and 201 medical (Tables 3 and 5). In patients with M. abscessus pulmonary di- only). Although there was more culture conversion observed sease caused by strains with inducible (typically M. abscessus in the patients who underwent surgery, the quality of evidence or M. bolettii) or mutational macrolide resistance, we sug- was very low, due to the small number of patients
