Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


abscessus in the patients who underwent surgery, the quality of evidence or M. bolettii) or mutational macrolide resistance, we sug- was very low, due to the small number of patients treated, in- gest a regimen that includes at least 4 active drugs, when pos- herent selection bias by treatment group, lack of adjustment sible. We suggest a macrolide-containing regimen if the drug is being used for its immunomodulatory properties although treated by medical therapy. The desirable anticipated effects the macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug were estimated to be moderate. Surgical complications (such regimen. For the continuation phase of therapy (after the par- as bronchopleural fistula, prolonged air leak, pneumonia) were enteral component), we suggest that at least 2–3 active drugs observed in 7–35% of participants. There was no operative be given. Some experts would use intermittent courses of mortality and postoperative mortality was reported in 0–9% of multidrug therapy instead of transitioning to a longer con- patients. In 1 study that reported outcomes of patients who un- tinuation phase, although almost all published studies treated derwent video assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), culture patients for >12 months. In the absence of data to support a conversion occurred in 84% of the patients, postoperative com- shorter or longer treatment course for M. abscessus pulmo- plications occurred in 7% of patients, and there were no opera- nary disease, the panel members suggest that expert consulta- tive or postoperative deaths reported . Undesirable effects tion be obtained prior to initiation of therapy in order to assist were estimated as small, and the balance between desirable and with design of the regimen and determine whether a shorter undesirable probably favors the intervention. There was no ev- or longer treatment regimen should be used. idence identified for costs, which were estimated as moderate e28 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al Table 5. Treatment Regimens for Mycobacterium abscessus by Macrolide Susceptibility (Mutational and Inducible Resistance) Macrolide Susceptibility Pattern Mutationala Inducibleb No. of Drugsc Preferred Drugs Frequency of Dosing Susceptible Susceptible Initial phase ≥ 3 Parenteral (choose 1–2) Daily (3 times weekly may be used for aminoglycosides) Amikacin Imipenem (or Cefoxitin) Tigecycline Oral (choose 2) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)d Clofazimine Linezolid Continuation phase ≥ 2 Oral/inhaled (choose 2–3) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)d Clofazimine Linezolid Inhaled amikacin Susceptible Resistant Initial phase ≥ 4 Parenteral (choose 2–3) Daily (3 times weekly may be used for
