Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


Continuation phase ≥ 2 Oral/inhaled (choose 2–3) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)d Clofazimine Linezolid Inhaled amikacin Susceptible Resistant Initial phase ≥ 4 Parenteral (choose 2–3) Daily (3 times weekly may be used for aminoglycosides) Amikacin Imipenem (or Cefoxitin) Tigecycline Oral (choose 2–3) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)e Clofazimine Linezolid Continuation phase ≥ 2 Oral/inhaled (choose 2–3) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)e Clofazimine Linezolid Inhaled amikacin Resistant Susceptible or Initial phase ≥ 4 Parenteral (choose 2–3) Daily (3 times weekly may be used for aminoglycosides) resistant Amikacin Imipenem (or Cefoxitin) Tigecycline Oral (choose 2–3) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)e Clofazimine Linezolid Continuation Phase ≥ 2 Oral/inhaled (choose 2–3) Azithromycin (clarithromycin)e Clofazimine Linezolid Inhaled amikacin aMutational resistance: None present—Isolate determined to be phenotypically susceptible at 3–5 days of incubation in culture. Present—Isolate determined to be phenotypically resistant at 3–5 days of incubation or sequencing identifies rrl mutation know to confer resistance. bInducible resistance: Functional erm(41) gene—Isolate determined to be resistant after 14 days of incubation or sequencing identifies functional gene sequence. Nonfunctional erm(41) gene—Isolate determined to be susceptible after 14 days of incubation or sequencing identifies truncated sequence or C28 mutation (in subspecies abscessus). cInitial phase refers to the time that the parenteral agents are being given. Continuation phase refers to the subsequent phase of therapy that typically includes oral antimicrobial agents sometimes paired with inhaled agents. dAzithromycin (clarithromycin) is active in this setting and should be used whenever possible. eAzithromycin (clarithromycin) activity is unlikely but can be added for its immunomodulatory effects but should not be counted as active against M. abscessus with a functional erm(41) gene. In this setting, frequent sputum cultures should be obtained to detect potentially new organisms like M. avium complex. with regard to the duration of the disease. Therefore, surgery of species [89, 215–217, 219, 220, 223]). Moreover, the studies was estimated as acceptable to key stakeholders and feasible. suffer from multiple potential biases including different reasons Justification and Implementation Considerations: The studies for performing surgery, patient selection, and subjective assess- differed by location, the age and gender of patients, and the my- ment of postsurgical outcomes. Even so, surgical resection was cobacterial species involved (M. avium , associated with improved treatment outcomes and for most M. kansasii , M. abscessus , M. xenopi or a mix of the patients (85–100%), conversion of sputum cultures to Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e29 Table 6. Common Adverse Drug Reactions and Monitoring Table 6. Continued
