Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


the patients (85–100%), conversion of sputum cultures to Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Disease • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • e29 Table 6. Common Adverse Drug Reactions and Monitoring Table 6. Continued Recom mendationsa Drug Adverse Reactions Monitoring Drug Adverse Reactions Monitoring Tigecycline Nausea/vomiting Clinical monitoring Hepatitis/pancreatitis Liver function tests, amylase/ Azithromycin Gastrointestinal Clinical monitoring lipase Tinnitus/hearing loss Audiogram Abbreviations: BUN, blood, urea, nitrogen; ECG, electrocardiogram; GI, gastrointestinal; Hepatotoxicity Liver function tests QTc, corrected QT. Prolonged QTc ECG (QTc) aThe expert panel recommends that patients have a complete blood count, liver function on intravenous therapy. Tinnitus/hearing loss Audiogram Monitoring frequency should be individualized based on treatment regimen, age, Hepatotoxicity Liver function tests comorbidities, concurrent drugs, overlapping drug toxicities, and resources. Prolonged QTc ECG (QTc) Clofazimine Tanning of skin and dry- Clinical monitoring ness negative was observed after surgery. Therapy with antimicrobial Hepatotoxicity Liver function tests agents continued during and after the surgery, and the activity Prolonged QTc ECG (QTc) of these agents varied with regard to the study and the species Doxycycline GI upset Clinical monitoring involved (eg, clarithromycin was given in recent studies but not Photosensitivity Clinical monitoring in the older ones). Many experts feel it is desirable to achieve at Tinnitus/vertigo Clinical monitoring least smear conversion prior to surgical resection, and the panel Ethambutol Ocular toxicity Visual acuity and color dis- crimination suggests that surgery be performed by a surgeon experienced in Neuropathy Clinical monitoring performing surgery on patients with mycobacterial disease . Isoniazid Hepatitis Liver function tests Peripheral neuropathy Clinical monitoring Monitoring for Response to Therapy Linezolid Peripheral neuropathy Clinical monitoring discrimination in order to assess whether or not a patient is responding to therapy. Cytopenias Complete blood count Chest radiographs or chest CT imaging may be beneficial for de- Moxifloxacin Prolonged QTc ECG (QTc) fining a radiographic response to therapy, although there can be Hepatotoxicity Liver function tests wide variability in findings given the common occurrence of un- Tendinopathy Clinical monitoring Trimethoprim/ GI upset Clinical monitoring derlying lung disease. Because the duration of therapy is based on sulfamethox- Cytopenias Complete blood count the time of culture conversion, frequent collection of sputum speci- azole Hypersensitivity Clinical monitoring mens is required in order to determine the recommended treatment Photosensitivity Clinical monitoring duration. The expert panel would consider obtaining sputum spe- Rifabutin Hepatotoxicity Liver function test cimens for culture every 1–2 months in order to document when Cytopenias Complete blood count
