Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


monitoring duration. The expert panel would consider obtaining sputum spe- Rifabutin Hepatotoxicity Liver function test cimens for culture every 1–2 months in order to document when Cytopenias Complete blood count Uveitis Visual acuity sputum cultures become negative. Sputum should be induced with Hypersensitivity Clinical monitoring hypertonic saline if spontaneous sputum specimens cannot be col- Orange discoloration of lected. Bronchoscopy should only be considered in exceptional cir- secretions cumstances to determine whether culture conversion has occurred. Rifampicin Hepatotoxicity Liver function test Hypersensitivity Clinical monitoring response to therapy should be used to determine if the patient is Orange discoloration of responding to therapy. secretions tomycin, Tobra- Ototoxicity Audiograms Monitoring for Adverse Reactions mycin Nephrotoxicity BUN, creatinine The drugs used to treat NTM pulmonary disease are frequently Electrolyte disturbances Calcium, magnesium, potas- associated with adverse reactions. A recent randomized clin- sium ical trial reported that >90% of subjects in each arm reported a Amikacin liposome Dysphonia Clinical monitoring pension Ototoxicity Audiograms patients regarding potential reactions and monitoring for them Nephrotoxicity BUN, creatinine is an important component of management. Rapid identifica- Cough Clinical monitoring tion and management of an adverse reaction is likely to decrease Dyspnea Clinical monitoring the risk of treatment for the patient and possibly improve the Cefoxitin Cytopenias Complete blood count chances of treatment completion. Table 6 lists common adverse Hypersensitivity Clinical monitoring reactions associated with the drugs used to treat NTM pulmo- Imipenem Rashes Clinical monitoring Cytopenias Complete blood count nary disease and an approach to monitoring. Unfortunately, Nephrotoxicity BUN/Creatinine there are no studies that have identified the optimum frequency e30 • cid 2020:71 (15 August) • Daley et al or most cost-effective approach to monitoring for drug-related the posted materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, so questions or comments should be addressed to the adverse reactions. Monitoring frequency should be individual- corresponding author. ized based on age, comorbidities, concurrent drugs, overlapping drug toxicities, and resources. Notes and the staff from each Society for their guidance during the development Therapeutic Drug Monitoring of the guideline, and the reviewers for their critical comments which im- proved the focus and clarity of the Guideline. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) refers to the measurement Dedication. This Guideline is dedicated to the memory of Won-Jung of drug concentrations in serum specimens at some point after dosing to determine whether or not a specific target concen- to support recommendations in
