Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


dedicated to the memory of Won-Jung of drug concentrations in serum specimens at some point after dosing to determine whether or not a specific target concen- to support recommendations in this Guideline. His tireless effort to improve tration has been obtained (Table 3). There are no randomized the diagnosis and treatement of NTM disease will never be forgotten. Potential conflicts of interest. C. L. D. served on advisory committees for trials that have determined the clinical utility of performing Cipla, Horizon, Insmed, Johnson & Johnson, Matinas Biopharma, Otsuka TDM. However, studies have documented significant reduc- America Pharmaceutical, Paratek, and Spero; received research support tions in serum drug concentrations of clarithromycin with con- from Beyond Air, Insmed, and Spero; served as a consultant for Meiji. C. L. served as a speaker for Berlin Chemie, Chiesi, Gilead, Janssen, Lucane, current use of rifampicin and to a lesser extent with rifabutin and Novartis; served on an advisory committee for Oxford Immunotec. R. J. concentrations of macrolides and treatment outcomes. The first identification, molecular strain comparison, and susceptibility testing; re- ceived research support from Insmed as mycobacterial reference laboratory study reported no association between the serum concentration for a trial of the inhaled liposomal amikacin. C. A. received research support of clarithromycin and treatment outcomes , whereas the from Insmed. E. C. B. served as a consultant for AID Diagnostika, Becton second study noted a correlation between the peak serum con- Dickinson, and COPAN; provided expert testimony for Shuttleworth & centration (Cmax) of azithromycin and favorable treatment out- Ingersoll law firm. D. E. G. served on an advisory committee, as a con- sultant, as a speaker and received research support from Insmed; served comes when administered daily (250 mg) but not intermittently as a consultant for Johnson & Johnson, Merck, and Spero. G. A. H. served (500 mg) . Experts would consider performing TDM in on an advisory committee for Hill-Rom and Insmed. P. L. served as the situations in which drug malabsorption, drug underdosing, or president of NTM Info & Research, Inc, during which time the organiza- tion received support from Insmed, Grifols, BeyondAir, Aradigm, Spero clinically important drug-drug interactions are suspected . Therapeutics, Johnson & Johnson, Hill-Rom, International Biophysics, Examples of situations in which TDM may be useful include Electromed, RespirTech, Maxor Specialty Pharmacy, PantherX, and Kroger patients with delayed sputum culture conversion or treatment Specialty Pharmacy. T. K. M. served as
