Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, patients, treatment, pulmonary, pulmonary disease, regimen, therapy, abscessus, mac, drug, ntm, months, macrolide, amikacin, mycobacterium


in which TDM may be useful include Electromed, RespirTech, Maxor Specialty Pharmacy, PantherX, and Kroger patients with delayed sputum culture conversion or treatment Specialty Pharmacy. T. K. M. served as a consultant and received research support from Insmed; served as a speaker for AstraZeneca and Novartis; failure not explained by nonadherence or drug resistance, pa- served as a consultant for Horizon, Spero, and RedHill Biopharma. K. N. tients receiving amikacin or streptomycin therapy and thus at O. received research support from AIT Therapeutics, Insmed, and Matinas risk of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity, and patients with med- Biopharma. M. S. received personal fees from DiaSorin SPA and Vircell SL. ical conditions (eg, reduced renal function) that are suspected J. V. I. served on an advisory committee and as a consultant for Insmed; served on advisory committees for Janssen Pharmaceuticals and Spero. of leading to subtherapeutic or toxic drug concentrations. D. W. served as a speaker for Cepheid GmbH; received research support and travel expenses from Insmed. K. L. W. served on an advisory com- Research Priorities mittee for Insmed, Johnson and Johnson, Paratek, Redhill Biopharma, and Spero; served as a consultant for Bayer Healthcare, Bristol-Myers Squibb, During the development of this Guideline, research gaps were Horizon, Lilly, Pfizer, and RedHill Biopharma; received research support identified for each of the PICO questions. Not surprisingly, there from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cellestis, and Insmed; served on data safety and were many gaps and needs identified related to the treatment of monitoring boards for Abbvie, Biomarin, Gilead, Roche, and UCB. J. M. I., NTM pulmonary disease. Many of the research priorities relate E. C., J. B., L. G., S. L. K., J. E. S., and E. T. reported no relationships with relevant commercial interests. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form to the need for new drugs, treatment regimens, shorter regi- for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors mens, and better tolerated regimens. Evaluation of new drugs consider relevant to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed. will require standardized case definitions, outcome measures, and comparator regimens, as well as the ability to conduct References 1. Schünemann HJ, Jaeschke R, Cook DJ, et al; ATS Documents Development and multicenter trials . A recent publication produced con- Implementation Committee. An official ATS statement: grading the quality of sensus definitions of microbiologic and functional endpoints evidence and strength of recommendations in ATS guidelines and
