Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


Case report X- linked cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy Cara Louise Weldrick,1 Peter Boers,1 Patrick Kiely,2 Liam O’Halloran2 Limerick, Limerick, Ireland A man in his 30s presented with a 6- month history of An adult male in his 30s presented to neurology Limerick, Dooradoyle, Ireland history included epilepsy and vitamin B deficiency. Three sive weakness of the left face, arm and leg. His maternal second degree relatives died before the age mobility was slowly deteriorating. Correspondence to of 7 from various neurological disorders. Examination The patient had a history of epilepsy that began Dr Cara Louise Weldrick; caraweldrick@ yahoo. co. uk revealed a mild left facial droop and weakness of the left in childhood, and vitamin B deficiency. The aeti- shoulder, hip and ankle. Reflexes were symmetrical and ology of his vitamin B deficiency was dietary Accepted 26 July 2023 tone was normal. Differential diagnosis included glioma, and he had no history of neurological symptoms subacute infarction, lymphoma and demyelination. MRI attributed to this. His epilepsy had been difficult to brain showed an extensive right sided subcortical white control at times, and at the time of presentation, he matter lesion, with extension into the brainstem. The was on three antiepileptic medications, with up to patient’s weakness progressed over 3 months. Brain four seizures per year. His last seizure was 4 months biopsy showed evidence of demyelination and gliosis. A prior to presentation. He was a current smoker of pathological diagnosis of tumefactive multiple sclerosis 10 cigarettes a day for the last 15 years. He did not was made, but also rare metabolic disorders such as drink alcohol or use illicit drugs. In relation to family X- linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X- ALD) were proposed. history, three maternal second degree relatives died Serum very long- chain fatty acids were significantly at a young age from various neurological disor- elevated. Genetic testing showed a mutation in the ders. The first maternal second degree relative was ABCD1 gene, confirming a diagnosis of X-A LD. 4 years old when he died from a prolonged seizure reportedly due to a brain tumour. Another maternal second degree relative was 7 years old and he was certified at death as having an apparent ‘cerebral BACKGROUND tumour’. The third maternal second degree rela- X- linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X- ALD) is the tive died aged 7 and was reported to have tuber- most common peroxisomal disorder caused by culous meningitis. X-A LD was never suspected
