Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


X- linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X- ALD) is the tive died aged 7 and was reported to have tuber- most common peroxisomal disorder caused by culous meningitis. X-A LD was never suspected as defects of the ATP (adenosine triphosphate)- a diagnosis in these individuals. It was not possible binding cassette subfamily D, member 1 ABCD1 to obtain more precise information regarding the gene located in Xq28.1 This gene encodes the patient’s family history, and therefore, the afore- peroxisomal membrane adrenoleukodystrophy mentioned diagnoses may be somewhat ambiguous protein that is located in the membranes of peroxi- and unrelated to the current case. somes and is involved in the degradation of very Clinical examination revealed a mild weakness long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs).2 Peroxisomal of the left face, left shoulder abduction and left abnormalities cause VLCFAs to accumulate in the finger extension (Medical Research Council Grade central and peripheral nervous system in addi- 4). Left hip flexion and left ankle dorsiflexion were tion to the adrenal glands. This results in central also mildly weak (Medical Research Council Grade nervous system demyelination, axonal neuropathy 4). Deep tendon reflexes and plantar responses and adrenal dysfunction.3 were normal. Eye funduscopy examination was In this case report, we present an adult male in normal. There was no evidence of right-s ided his 30s with genetically confirmed X-A LD. X- ALD weakness. Clinical impression at this point was has a wide range of phenotypic variability and may that of a structural or vascular intracranial lesion. present in many ways, often mimicking other more A brain MRI scan was urgently requested and common neurological or psychiatric disorders. This showed linear band- like heterotopia along the right clinical variability combined with a lack of knowl- lateral ventricle alongside an underlying dysplastic edge of this condition may lead to an underdiag- corpus callosum (figure 1). This finding was previ- nosis or misdiagnosis of X- ALD. Early recognition ously noted on CT scan 9 years earlier when the is vital to avoid serious complications for patients, patient was 28 years old and identified as the cause such as adrenal dysfunction and advanced cerebral of the patient’s epilepsy. However, there was a new involvement. Identification of patients at an early finding of an evolving large right- sided white matter © BMJ Publishing Group stage would also give the opportunity to avail of lesion in the cerebral subcortical region, midbrain Limited 2023. No commercial re-
