Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


large right- sided white matter © BMJ Publishing Group stage would also give the opportunity to avail of lesion in the cerebral subcortical region, midbrain Limited 2023. No commercial re- use. See rights and efficacious treatments such as haematopoietic stem and brainstem. This lesion demonstrated abnormal permissions. Published by BMJ. cell transplantation (HSCT). This case report aims linear enhancement postcontrast (figures 2 and 3). to increase levels of awareness of X-A LD in the Shortly after the initial presentation, the patient To cite: Weldrick CL, Boers P, evaluation of young adults with progressive neuro- was admitted following a tonic- clonic seizure. Kiely P, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e237905. logical symptoms. We learnt from the present case On examination, his left-s ided weakness had doi:- that family history is essential in facilitating early progressed, and he now required a walking frame 237905 diagnosis of X-A LD. and supervisory assistance to mobilise. Repeat brain Weldrick CL, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e237905. doi: 1 Case report Figure 3 (A) Axial FLAIR (Fluid- attenuated inversion recovery) MRI showing increased signal right frontal lobe white matter (Arrow pointing to increased signal right frontal lobe white matter). (B) Axial Figure 1 (A) Axial T2- weighted MRI image showing heterotopia lining T1- weighted MRI non- contrast showing white matter hypointensity the lateral ventricle and bifrontal white matter hyperintensities (Arrow right frontal lobe (Arrow showing white matter hypodensity right frontal pointing to heterotopia lining the right lateral ventricle). (B) Saggital lobe). (C) Contrast-e nhanced axial T1- weighted MRI showing abnormal FLAIR (Fluid-a ttenuated inversion recovery) MRI showing a thinned linear marginal enhancement right frontal white matter (Arrow showing corpus callosum (Arrow poiting to thinned dysplastic Corpus Callosum). abnormal linear marginal enhancement right frontal white matter). Loes score=15. MRI scan showed the previously identified mass was larger INVESTIGATIONS (figure 4) and enhanced with intravenous contrast. An opinion Full blood count, urea, creatinine, thyroid function and electro- was sought from neurosurgery, as there was uncertainty as to the lytes were all within normal limits. nature of the lesion on MRI scan. Their differential was either a ANA, ANCA and cardiolipin antibodies were negative. low- grade glioma or subacute infarct. The recommendation was Vitamin D levels were found to be low (26). ACTH (adreno- to repeat the scan after 3 months to assess for interval change. A corticotrophic hormone) was normal (40 ng/L, range 0–47) as decision on whether
