Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


be low (26). ACTH (adreno- to repeat the scan after 3 months to assess for interval change. A corticotrophic hormone) was normal (40 ng/L, range 0–47) as decision on whether to perform a brain biopsy would be made were renin and aldosterone concentrations. Vitamin B levels at this point. were normal (243 pg/mL). Plasma enzymes for lysosomal storage After 3 months, the patient’s condition continued to dete- diseases including a-f ucosidase, b-g lucorinidase, b-m annosidase riorate. He reported complete power loss in his left arm and hexosaminidase A were all within normal limits. Serial MRI brain scans showed an evolving, extensive white and left leg. He had been unable to mobilise for the last 3 matter lesion that was exerting a mass effect in the right centrum weeks, requiring a hoist and wheelchair for transfers. Clin- semiovale and thalamus, with extension into the brainstem and ical examination revealed further progression with a dense pons (figure 2). CT thorax, abdomen and pelvis showed no malignancy. were more consistent with a tumour vs a vascular event. In Navigation guided burr hole biopsy of the mass lesion was addition, MRI showed an increase in white matter oedema undertaken. The site of biopsy was from an area of enhance- supporting this differential. A brain biopsy was subsequently ment in the right basal ganglia. Neuropathology showed peri- performed. vascular lymphocytic inflammation with predominance of T Cells (figure 5) and demyelination (figure 6). There was no evidence of infection or tumour. Tumefactive multiple sclerosis was suggested as a likely diagnosis; however, the pathologist did comment that these findings could be very occasionally found in rare metabolic diseases such as adrenoleukodystrophy. Measurement of serum concentrations of VLCFAs showed abnormally elevated levels. C24/C22 ratio was 1.90 and C26/ C22 ratio was 0.075 (normal levels 0.44–0.97 and 0.005–0.030, respectively). These results were consistent with a diagnosis of X- ALD. Genetic analysis showed the patient to be hemizy- gous for the c.1202G>A, p.Arg401Gln pathogenic mutation in exon 3 of the ABCD1 gene. This result confirmed a diagnosis of X-A LD in this patient. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS the primary causes of the patient’s symptoms were attributed to either a tumour or inflammation/demyelination. Subacute infarction was also considered as a possibility. Other differentials considered were lysosomal storage diseases causing adult-o nset Figure 2 Axial T2- weighted serial MRI brain scans showed an leukodystrophies such as GM1 gangliosidosis, metachromatic evolving, extensive white matter space-
