Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


considered were lysosomal storage diseases causing adult-o nset Figure 2 Axial T2- weighted serial MRI brain scans showed an leukodystrophies such as GM1 gangliosidosis, metachromatic evolving, extensive white matter space- occupying lesion that was leukodystrophy and krabbe leukodystrophy. In addition, infec- exerting a mass effect in the right centrum semiovale and thalamus, tions such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy were and 1 month. Images (C, D) age 37 years and 9 months. Images (E, F) presentation. The results of the brain biopsy directed further tests aged 38 years and 1 month. looking for metabolic disorders. The demonstration of elevated 2 Weldrick CL, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e237905. doi: Case report Allogeneic HSCT is considered the only successful treatment option for patients with cerebral X-A LD.7 When performed at an early stage of the disease, allogeneic HSCT improves functional outcomes and increases survival.8–10 However, HSCT has been associated with a 20% risk for morbidity and mortality and is not recommended for individuals with severe neurological deficits and significant cerebral involvement.11–13 Based on clinical and radiolog- ical findings, it was concluded that our patient would not be a suit- able candidate for HSCT. Treatment for our patient, therefore, consisted of symptomatic and supportive care including speech therapy, physiotherapy, occu- pational therapy and psychological support. Figure 4 Serial coronal MRI brain scans showing an evolving, extensive white matter lesion that was exerting a mass effect in OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP the right centrum semiovale and thalamus, with extension into For the first year, the patient remained neurologically stable. He the brainstem and pons.Arrow A pointing to large right sided subsequently slowly began to deteriorate becoming progressively white matter lesion seen on coronal imaging in the right cerebral weaker with increasing right-s ided involvement. He began to experi- cortical region with extension into the brainstem and pons. Arrow ence absence type seizures and swallowing difficulties. Unfortunately, B showing increased size of the white matter lesion in the right he developed an aspiration pneumonia and did not recover from this cerebral cortical region on repeat imaging and enhancement with despite antimicrobial therapy. He received end-o f-l ife care at home intravenous contrast. and died peacefully in the company of his family. Genetic counselling was offered to his family. A first degree relative of the patient was found to be a heterozygote carrier of the same mutation; however, levels of VLCFAs and subsequent genetic analysis confirmed they
