Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


his family. A first degree relative of the patient was found to be a heterozygote carrier of the same mutation; however, levels of VLCFAs and subsequent genetic analysis confirmed they were asymptomatic and MRI brain scan was normal for that X-A LD as the underlying diagnosis. individual. TREATMENT Following the brain biopsy, an initial diagnosis of tumefactive DISCUSSION multiple sclerosis was made. The patient was admitted to hospital We present a case of an adult male in his 30s with a 6-m onth history for 3 days of intravenous methylprednisolone and intensive multi- of progressive left face, arm and leg weakness. MRI brain showed disciplinary rehabilitation including speech therapy, physiotherapy an extensive right sided subcortical white matter lesion, with exten- and occupational therapy. On discharge, the patient was commenced sion into the brainstem. The main differentials considered for this on the disease-m odifying therapy (dimethyl fumarate) for multiple patient were inflammation, malignancy and infection. The insidious sclerosis. Following results of serum VLCFAs and subsequent genetic onset of weakness and subsequent rapid progression of the patient’s analysis, a diagnosis of X-A LD was confirmed and disease-m odifying hemiplegia were not typical for classical demyelination. In addition, therapy for multiple sclerosis was discontinued. the asymmetrical radiological features were also uncharacteristic for The treatment for the majority of patients with X-A LD focuses this. Brain biopsy definitively excluded infection and malignancy. mainly on symptomatic relief and dietary constraints. Dietary The dominant features were that of inflammation and demyelin- therapy with Lorenzo’s oil and a low fat diet has been reported to ation and it was suggested that the appearances may be consistent decreases levels of VLCFAs4 and has been shown to have a preventa- with a rare metabolic disease such as X-A LD. In retrospect the tive effect in asymptomatic boys.5 However, Lorenzo’s oil does not confluent MRI changes, contrast enhancement pattern and dilata- have a favourable effect on the rate of progression in patients who tion of the ipsilateral ventricle were more suggestive of a chronic, present at a symptomatic stage with cerebral involvement.6 Dietary long-s tanding disorder rather than malignancy. On reflection, some therapy was, therefore, considered to be of no potential benefit for signal changes are evident on the left cerebral hemisphere as far back this patient and was not initiated. as 2010 which again supports a chronic disorder. In addition to this the T2-w eighted images show signal changes
