Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


cerebral hemisphere as far back this patient and was not initiated. as 2010 which again supports a chronic disorder. In addition to this the T2-w eighted images show signal changes that specifically involve white matter with sparing and lack of contiguous involvement of deep grey matter (figure 2A). X-A LD is a peroxisomal disorder caused by defects of the ABCD1 gene located in Xq28.1 Peroxisomal abnormalities cause VLCFAs to accumulate in the central and peripheral nervous system in addition to the adrenal glands. This results in central nervous system demyelination, axonal neuropathy and adrenal dysfunction.3 The total frequency of X- ALD is estimated at approximately 1:17 000.14 Childhood cerebral form and adult adrenomyeloneuropathy are the most frequently occurring phenotypes accounting for 80% of patients.11 The adult cere- bral form of X-A LD observed in our patient is the most severe phenotype and occurs less frequently. It is characterised clinically by cognitive decline, visual disturbances, dysarthria, progressive Figure 5 This photomicrograph only shows white matter biopsy quadriparesis and rarely seizures.15 Progressive neurological samples with vessels showing perivascular inflammation (white arrow) damage with rapid evolution occurs, leading to a vegetative state including lymphocyte aggregates and foamy macrophage infiltrate within 6 months to 2 years after onset of symptoms, followed (red arrow). Foamy macrophages are evenly distributed throughout the by death at variable ages.11 The clinical expression of the disease tissue. shows a marked phenotypic variability even in males carrying Weldrick CL, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e237905. doi: 3 Case report Figure 6 Photomicrograph with higher power of Luxol staining showing residual myelinated axons mainly to right with infiltration by foamy macrophages (red arrow) containing blue ingested material—that is, myelin. the same mutation in the ALD gene.16 This is reflected in this Asymmetric cerebral lesion involvement on MRI as was current case where the clinical courses of the maternal second observed in our case is also rare and occurs in less than 5% of degree relatives and the index case were significantly different. patients.47 Sakakibara et al reported a 25- year-o ld man with a The literature reports numerous cases of intrafamilial clinical right caudate lesion that resembled a brain tumour.48 Waragai variability within generations of families affected by X- ALD.17–28 et al reported a case of a 30-y ear-o ld man who presented with The diagnosis of X- ALD is established in a male patient progressive cerebellar ataxia and spastic parapresis.
