Case report
KEYWORDS: case, patient, x-a, right, white, matter, mri, brain, diagnosis, white matter, showed, cerebral, lesion, ald, progressive


tendon reflexes, ankle clonus, bilateral This case report highlights the challenges faced by clinicians positive Babinski sign and pinprick impairment below the fourth in diagnosing X-A LD. The underlying cause of the progressive thoracic cord symmetrically. The presentation in this case was neurological symptoms remained elusive until a brain biopsy not as rapidly progressive as our case, signs were also bilateral suggested the possibility of a metabolic pathology. X-A LD and had some features of spinal cord involvement. There are no is often underdiagnosed due to lack of knowledge and wide tion found in the literature that presented similar to our case logical and psychiatric disorders. Early diagnosis is imperative with a rapidly progressive, unilateral weakness. The majority of in order to prevent progression, identify complications (such as cases of adult cerebral demyelinating forms of X- ALD identified adrenal dysfunction and cerebral involvement) and to achieve in an extensive literature review presented with either distur- the best possible outcome from interventions such as HSCT. It is bance of gait35–39 or psychiatric disturbances such as dementia, currently estimated that approximately 50% of boys with cere- hallucinations, personality disturbance and delusions.40–46 bral X- ALD are diagnosed too late for effective treatment with 4 Weldrick CL, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e237905. doi: Case report HSCT.9 The importance of early diagnosis in allowing a better Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any prognosis is reflected in the fact that some countries such as the funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. USA and Netherlands have introduced newborn screening for Competing interests None declared. X-A LD. Newborn screening facilitates early detection at birth. A Patient consent for publication Consent obtained directly from patient(s). comprehensive family history can also assist in earlier diagnosis Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. and is an important element of the assessment of patients with Case reports provide a valuable learning resource for the scientific community and progressive neurological symptoms. This is supported by a case can indicate areas of interest for future research. They should not be used in isolation in the literature where a diagnosis of X-A LD in a 33-y ear-o ld to guide treatment choices or public health policy. man with progressive limb weakness was helped by the presence of a significant family history.27 In conclusion young adult males with progressive neurological
