Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


ABSTRACT Hypothyroidism is more common among elderly individuals due to the increasing incidence and prevalence of autoimmune thyroiditis that occurs with aging. Accurate diagnosis of this condition in the elderly may be challenging due to several factors including a relative paucity of referable symptoms, confounding findings that may be related to comorbid disorders, changes in thyroid hormone levels that may be related to nonthyroidal illness (NTI), and upward shifts in thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels that may occur with normal aging. Effective treatment of hypothyroidism in the elderly relies on consideration of potential drug interactions and changes in the metabolic clearance of thyroid hormone that occur with aging. Specific attention should be paid to minimizing the risks of atrial arrhythmias and progressive bone loss that may be associated with iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis caused by over-treatment with excessive doses of levothyroxine (LT4). Subclinical hypothyroidism identified in the elderly does not appear to be associated with any changes in cognitive function or functional status. Studies that have sought to determine the risk of cardiovascular disease associated with subclinical hypothyroidism and the potential benefits of treatment targeted to normalize TSH levels in elderly individuals with subclinical hypothyroidism have reported conflicting results. Elderly patients presenting with untreated or undertreated severe hypothyroidism may be particularly susceptible to decompensation that may progress to a state of myxedema coma. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Hypothyroidism increases in prevalence and incidence among the elderly ( 1 ). It is important for clinicians to appreciate certain aspects of hypothyroidism in older individuals. Its clinical manifestations may be less obvious in the setting of somatic complaints and other conditions related to aging. Thyroid function test interpretation may be altered due to the presence of nonthyroidal illness (NTI). Special considerations may apply in planning treatment due to changes in the metabolic clearance of thyroid hormone, drug interactions, and potential adverse reactions. Figure 1. Percentage of Population with High Serum Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) Level (>4.5mU/L). Adapted from Hollowel et al. ( 2 ). * Excluding persons with reported histories of thyroid disease, goiter, or treatment with thyroid medications. ** Excluding persons with reported histories of thyroid disease, goiter, treatment with thyroid medications, conditions predisposing to thyroid function test abnormalities, or positive antithyroid antibodies ( 3 ). PREVALENCE Hypothyroidism is more common in older persons than younger individuals, especially among
