Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


with thyroid medications, conditions predisposing to thyroid function test abnormalities, or positive antithyroid antibodies ( 3 ). PREVALENCE Hypothyroidism is more common in older persons than younger individuals, especially among women, principally due to the rising incidence and prevalence of autoimmune thyroiditis. Furthermore, the incidence of hypothyroidism steadily increases with advancing age ( Figure 1 ). Estimates of the prevalence of hypothyroidism among the elderly have varied depending on the populations studied and the criteria used to define the condition. An older survey employing the calculated free thyroxine index found that 2.3% of elderly inpatients met criteria for hypothyroidism ( 3 ). More recent community surveys of populations of healthy adults have found that 7%-14% of elderly subjects have serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels above the upper limits of reference ranges ( 4 ),( 5 ),( 6 ),( 7 ),( 8 ). Comparable prevalences of hypothyroidism have been found in community dwelling and hospitalized older persons. A screening study that evaluated more than 25,000 individuals attending a health fair in Colorado revealed that 10% of men and 16% of women aged 65-74 had TSH levels that were above the upper limit of the reference range (5 mU/L), while 16% of men and 21% of women aged 75 and older had increased TSH levels ( 9 ). The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III) reported that a significantly greater number of women aged 50-59 and 60-69 met criteria for subclinical and clinical hypothyroidism compared to men in the same age ranges. This survey also reported a higher prevalence of increased TSH levels and anti-thyroid antibody titers among whites and Mexican Americans compared to blacks ( 2 ). A study evaluating geriatric patients under medical care demonstrated that 15% of the women and 17% of the men had previously undiagnosed hypothyroidism ( 10 ). Similar studies evaluating skilled nursing facility and nursing home residents demonstrated that 7%-12% had evidence of previously undiagnosed hypothyroidism at the time of admission ( 11 ),( 12 ). A treatment survey of an unselected population of older adults revealed that 10% of the women and 2% of the men studied were taking a prescribed form of thyroid hormone ( 13 ). Among this population, 12% of the women and 29% of the men were reportedly taking thyroid hormone preparations for inappropriate reasons. A cross-sectional analysis looking at participants ≥ 65 years old in
