Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


population, 12% of the women and 29% of the men were reportedly taking thyroid hormone preparations for inappropriate reasons. A cross-sectional analysis looking at participants ≥ 65 years old in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study (N=5,392) found an overall hypothyroid prevalence of 23.78% with untreated overt and subclinical hypothyroidism having prevalences of 0.82% and 6.06%, respectively ( 14 ). An Iranian cross-sectional analysis looking at adults ≥ 60 years old (N=363) randomly selected from the Birjand longitudinal aging study found a crude prevalence of 22.31% for total hypothyroidism, 3.86% for overt hypothyroidism, and 18.46% for subclinical hypothyroidism ( 15 ). Another study using the PolSenior 2 data found that amongst 5,987 community-dwelling Polish Caucasian seniors ≥ 60 years old the prevalence of hypothyroidism was 13.9% with 21.9% of these hypothyroid individuals being untreated ( 16 ). A 2017 United Kingdom study looking to estimate the prevalence of hypothyroidism in the general population as well as by decade of life for the year of 2016 found an overall prevalence of hypothyroidism of 3.6% in the general population with an estimated prevalence of hypothyroidism of ~10.4% in individuals > 70 years old ( 17 ). Future estimates of the prevalence of hypothyroidism among the elderly based on current definitions may need to factor in growing evidence that normal TSH distribution curves appear to be shifted towards higher value ranges in older individuals ( 18 ). Age-specific analysis of TSH levels and anti-thyroid antibody titers measured as part of the most recent NHANES study demonstrated that 12% of subjects aged 80 and older without any evidence of underlying autoimmune thyroiditis had TSH levels greater than 4.5 mIU/L ( 19 ). In this analysis, the upper 95% confidence limit for TSH in euthyroid individuals over age 80 was 7.5 mIU/L ( 19 ). The prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism is determined by the upper limit of normality defined for TSH. Because serum TSH concentrations increase with age, the true prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism in older age is likely not as high as described in many studies. Dietary iodine content appears to have an impact on the prevalence of hypothyroidism in the elderly. A survey of Chinese adults living in a region of low iodine intake revealed that only 1.0% of elderly subjects studied met criteria for hypothyroidism, while a study of Eastern European nursing home residents revealed that subjects living in regions of abundant
