Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy to treat various malignancies is likely contributing to an increasing incidence of central hypothyroidism. This is due to the increased incidence of hypophysitis associated with ICI therapy ( 30 ), In fact one study looking at 285 patients ages 16-94 years-old prior to receiving ICI therapy, of whom 218 had no baseline TFT abnormalities, found that 11/218 (5.0%) went on to develop central hypothyroidism following treatment with ICI therapy ( 31 ). ETIOLOGY Autoimmune thyroiditis is the most common cause of hypothyroidism among the elderly, as it is in younger persons ( 32 ),( 33 ),( 34 ). A survey of endocrinology clinic patients revealed that 57% of patients aged 55 and older presenting with primary hypothyroidism carried a diagnosis of autoimmune thyroiditis, while 32% carried a diagnosis of postsurgical hypothyroidism and 12% had a diagnosis of post-radioiodine hypothyroidism ( 29 ). Only 2% of the patients in this referral population presented with documented evidence of secondary hypothyroidism. Other endocrinologic conditions associated with the development of hypothyroidism include type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 35 ), polycystic ovarian syndrome ( 36 ), and auto-immune polyglandular syndrome types 2 and 3 ( 37 ),( 38 ). Furthermore, certain aneuploidies, such as Turner syndrome ( 39 ),( 40 ),( 41 ),( 42 ) and Down syndrome ( 43 ) are associated with development of hypothyroidism. The incidence of post-ablative hypothyroidism has been noted to be higher in patients aged 55 and older ( 44 ). Older studies found the annual incidence of post-ablative hypothyroidism in the elderly to be ~8%, with 12% of these patients presenting with evidence of thyroid failure in the first year after undergoing treatment with radioactive iodine. Hypothyroidism appears to be less common after radioiodine ablation treatment in patients with hyperfunctioning multinodular and uninodular goiters ( 45 ),( 46 ). Newer studies indicate that anywhere from 19-66% of elderly patients treated with radioactive iodine therapy go on to develop hypothyroidism within the first 60 months after radioactive iodine treatment ( 47 ),( 48 ),( 49 ). Thus, thyroid function should be continually monitored in all patients treated with radioactive iodine therapy. The incidence of postsurgical hypothyroidism following subtotal thyroidectomy for treatment of hyperthyroidism has been estimated to be 16-27%, with 19% of patients presenting with evidence of thyroid failure in the first year after surgery ( 50 ). More recent
