Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


older age alone does not predispose patients treated with either anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy to developing ICI-induced hypothyroidism ( 63 ). Unlike primary hypothyroidism, where the issue is at the level of the thyroid gland resulting in an inability to make enough thyroid hormone and TSH levels rise in a compensatory fashion, in central hypothyroidism, the issue is in the pituitary or hypothalamus. There can be alterations in the thyroid hormone feedback setpoint, or either quantitative and/or qualitative changes in TSH or thyotropin releasing hormone (TRH) molecules resulting in impaired stimulation of the thyroid follicular cells and reduced thyroid hormone production ( 24 ),( 26 ),( 28 ),( 64 ). Central hypothyroidism can be congenital or acquired, but when it comes to the elderly it is typically acquired. Acquired central hypothyroidism in adults can be isolated or combined with other hypothalamic and/or pituitary hormonal deficiencies ( 27 ). Causes of isolated central hypothyroidism in adults include certain medications such as antipsychotics, antidepressants, glucocorticoids, dopamine or dopamine agonists, somatostatin, growth hormone replacement, ICIs, bexarotene, and mitotane versus being idiopathic in etiology ( 27 ),( 28 ),( 64 ). Combined central hypothyroidism in adults can be due to hypothalamic and/or pituitary tumors (functional or non-functional and/or primary vs metastatic tumors), autoimmune diseases (lymphocytic or postpartum hypophysitis), vascular diseases (pituitary apoplexy, post-partum necrosis, carotid aneurysm, or subarachnoid hemorrhage), head trauma, infiltrative diseases (sarcoidosis, hemochromatosis, histiocytosis X, or eosinophilic granulomas), infections (tuberculosis, syphilis, viral or fungal infections), or be iatrogenic secondary to neurosurgery, radiation, or medications (ICIs) ( 26 ),( 27 ),( 65 ),( 64 ). CLINICAL FEATURES Symptoms Elderly patients developing hypothyroidism may present with classic symptoms, but complaints are generally even less specific than those reported by younger patients presenting with evidence of thyroid hormone deficiency ( 66 ),( 67 ),( 68 ),( 69 ),( 70 ). In part this may be due to patients and physicians ascribing nonspecific complaints to other comorbid disorders common among the elderly, or to the effects of aging itself ( 71 ),( 72 ),( 73 ),( 74 ). A study that compared the frequency of 24 symptoms of hypothyroidism reported by elderly and nonelderly patients found that complaints of fatigue and weakness were reported by more than 50% of elderly patients, but that significantly fewer complaints were reported by the elderly compared to a nonelderly group ( 75 ),( 76 ). Elderly patients less often complained
