Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


than 50% of elderly patients, but that significantly fewer complaints were reported by the elderly compared to a nonelderly group ( 75 ),( 76 ). Elderly patients less often complained of cold intolerance, weight gain, paresthesias, and muscle cramps. Evaluation of a questionnaire administered to patients newly diagnosed with hypothyroidism ascribed to autoimmune thyroiditis showed that while all 13 referable symptoms were more prevalent in subjects younger than 60 years of age, the only referable symptoms that were more prevalent in older subjects were fatigue, dyspnea, and wheezing ( 77 ). Other neurological symptoms that have been reported to occur more commonly in older patients include hypogeusia and dysgeusia, impaired hearing, and ataxia. Additionally, acute depression of mental state can be precipitated by infections, trauma, hypothermia, or administration of sedatives and narcotics in elderly hypothyroid patients. Signs Physical findings evident in hypothyroid elderly individuals may include bradycardia, diastolic hypertension, pallor, dry skin, coarse hair, hoarseness, dysarthria, delayed relaxation of deep tendon reflexes, which is specific if present, and mental status changes ( 78 ). The severity of specific findings may be exacerbated by comorbid cardiovascular, neuropsychiatric, dermatologic, or rheumatologic conditions that are more common among the elderly ( 79 ). In some cases, it may be necessary to evaluate responses to thyroid hormone replacement to determine the extent to which certain findings represent manifestations of thyroid hormone deficiency. Morphologic changes in the size and appearance of the thyroid do not appear to increase with aging ( 80 ). Elderly patients with autoimmune thyroiditis are more likely to present with the atrophic form of the disorder without goiter ( 81 ). Neuropsychological testing of elderly patients with hypothyroidism has demonstrated that they score lower on Mini-Mental Status Tests and on 5 of 14 specific indices of visual-spatial function, memory, word fluency, attention, and psychomotor function ( 82 ). That being said, there is conflicting evidence to suggest that hypothyroidism itself predisposes elderly patients to developing cognitive impairment and/or dementia ( 83 ),( 84 ),( 85 ),( 86 ). Analysis of laboratory test results has demonstrated that 54% of patients (22/41) diagnosed with hypothyroidism have increased serum creatinine levels that may be correlated with advancing age ( 87 ). A 1999 study looking at 24 patients with acquired hypothyroidism following total thyroidectomy for treatment of thyroid cancer showed that serum creatinine levels rose while these patients were overtly hypothyroid but then normalized
