Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


looking at 24 patients with acquired hypothyroidism following total thyroidectomy for treatment of thyroid cancer showed that serum creatinine levels rose while these patients were overtly hypothyroid but then normalized with treatment of the hypothyroidism ( 88 ). An individual participant data meta-analysis consisting of 72,856 patients from 16 different cohorts that sought to identify whether or not there was a relationship between thyroid hormone dysfunction and renal dysfunction found that relative to euthyroid patients (n=66,542), patients with overt (n=704) and subclinical (n=3,356) hypothyroidism were not more likely to develop accelerating decline in renal function ( 89 ). Taken together, these results suggest that reversible increases in serum creatinine can be seen in inadequately treated hypothyroid patients and that hypothyroidism itself is not a risk factor for the development and/or worsening of chronic kidney disease. Pericardial effusion is one of the few radiographic findings associated with hypothyroidism, with an incidence ranging from 3-37% ( 90 ),( 91 ),( 92 ),( 93 ). Additional, radiographic findings associated with hypothyroidism include low attenuation of the thyroid on unenhanced CT scan as well as anterior pituitary hyperplasia as seen on MRI in the setting of acute onset hypothyroidism ( 94 ),( 95 ). Morbidity Severe medical complications of hypothyroidism are more common in affected elderly persons. Most patients presenting with myxedema coma are elderly women ( 76 ),( 96 ),( 97 ),( 98 ). Elderly patients with unrecognized hypothyroidism may be at greater risk for the development of perioperative and intraoperative complications. One study that compared patients with unrecognized hypothyroidism with controls matched for age, sex, and operative procedure identified higher rates of intraoperative hypotension, heart failure, and postoperative gastrointestinal and neuropsychiatric complications in hypothyroid patients ( 99 ). Furthermore, hypothyroidism in the perioperative setting has been shown to be a risk factor for more difficult intubation, prolonged intubation duration, hyponatremia, and simultaneous bleeding and clotting ( 100 ). A prospective study that screened hospitalized patients aged 60 and older for thyroid dysfunction reported that unrecognized overt hypothyroidism in this population may be associated with significantly higher mortality ( 101 ). Along these lines, additional studies have shown an association between diagnoses of overt and subclinical hypothyroidism in elderly patients with increased mortality ( 102 ),( 103 ),( 104 ). AGE-RELATED CHANGES IN THYROID FUNCTION With increasing age, the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis is affected in multiple ways ( Figure 4 ). At the
