Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


being an age-related decline in 5’-deiodinase activity, thus allowing for slower metabolism and maintenance of T4 levels at the expense of T3 levels ( 70 ),( 111 ),( 113 ). Looking more proximally at the HPT axis, TSH levels tend to increase with age regardless of the presence of concurrently normal FT4 levels. This finding has been confirmed even when looking at older adults without any history of thyroidal illness and with concurrently negative antithyroid antibody levels ( 19 ),( 105 ),( 112 ),( 113 ). While the exact mechanism behind this age-related increase in TSH is not known, proposed age-related mechanisms for this change include increased production of TSH molecules with reduced biologic activity due to alterations in thyrotroph post-translational processing of TSH ( 70 ),( 112 ), decreased sensitivity of thyrotrophs to negative feedback from circulating thyroid hormone ( 116 ), and/or development of TSH resistance by the thyroid gland ( 70 ). In terms of the relationship between thyroid autoimmunity and aging, multiple studies have shown that antithyroid antibodies increase with age, especially in women, making chronic autoimmune thyroiditis one of if not the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the elderly ( 19 ),( 111 ),( 117 ),( 118 ). Figure 4. Changes in the Thyroid Axis with Age. TSH= thyroid stimulating hormone, TRH= thyrotropin releasing hormone. Created with BioRender.com. Additional factors complicating the relationship between thyroid hormone levels and aging include the presence of comorbid diseases including hypertension, heart failure, liver failure, and kidney failure, all of which are more prevalent amongst the elderly. In fact, thyroid hormone metabolism relies in part on the liver and kidneys ( 58 ), so if either of these organ systems are impaired it can further affect clearance of thyroid hormone. Furthermore, all the comorbidities listed above tend to be treated with dietary salt restriction. As iodized salt is one of the major sources of dietary iodine in the U.S., elderly patients with these comorbidities who follow a low salt diet may be at increased risk for developing iodine deficiency ( 115 ),( 119 ). It is also possible that elderly patients experience an age-related decrease in gastrointestinal iodine absorption ( 115 ) . This combination of decreased iodine intake and absorption with age can in turn predispose elderly patients to iodine deficiency. If iodine deficiency is severe enough, regardless of age, it can result in the development of
