Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


intake and absorption with age can in turn predispose elderly patients to iodine deficiency. If iodine deficiency is severe enough, regardless of age, it can result in the development of hypothyroidism ( 120 ). This is opposed to the effects of mild iodine deficiency in the elderly, which appear to be protective against the development of hypothyroidism when compared to elderly patients with sufficient iodine intake ( 23 ). A number of studies have sought to determine whether the biochemical diagnosis of thyroid disorders in the elderly may be confounded by age-related changes in thyroid function ( 121 ). An early study of thyroid function profiles in women aged 60 and older reported higher serum thyroxine (T4) and TSH levels, and decreased triiodothyronine (T3) and reverse triiodothyronine (rT3) levels in comparison to reference ranges ( 122 ). Similar findings were confirmed in a contemporaneous study comparing thyroid function profiles in elderly men and women to those of younger persons, and in a more recent study comparing thyroid function profiles in women aged 70 and older to those in their middle-aged offspring ( 123 ),( 124 ). In contrast, when other investigators stratified elderly patients by health status (i.e. healthy elderly adults, nursing home residents, or hospitalized elderly adults), they found that lower serum T3 levels and higher rT3 levels were only detected in institutionalized elderly adults ( 125 ). Consequently, previously observed patterns of age-related changes may have reflected effects of non-thyroid illness (NTI). Two studies that evaluated thyroid hormone profiles in healthy adults have clarified this issue. One study that measured T3 and free T3 levels in healthy adults aged 65 and older determined that while levels of these hormones were lower than in younger adults, they fell well within the limits of reference ranges ( 108 ). Another study of thyroid hormone profiles in a range of healthy adults who were not taking prescribed medications determined that there were no significant differences in T4, free T4, T3, free T3, or rT3 levels between groups stratified by age ( 126 ). These findings thus argue against the existence of a “low T3” syndrome associated with normal aging (See figure 5 ). Figure 5. Changes in deiodination due to diseases and drugs. In healthy young adults, the daily production is 80-100 mcg for T4 and 30-40 mcg for T3 which is mostly converted (80%) by extrathyroidal 5’-deiodination of T4 in
