Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


and drugs. In healthy young adults, the daily production is 80-100 mcg for T4 and 30-40 mcg for T3 which is mostly converted (80%) by extrathyroidal 5’-deiodination of T4 in the liver and kidney. The daily production of biologically inactive rT3 is similar to that of T3 and results almost entirely from extrathyroidal 5-deiodination of T4. The 5'-deiodination of T4 decreases, resulting in low T3 levels, in patients with various non-thyroidal Illnesses (NTI) and elderly-specific disorders, in situations of caloric deprivation, and with administration of amiodarone and high doses of beta-blockers. Also, in NTI, 5’-deiodination from rT3 to T2 decreases, resulting in high levels of rT3. Concurrently, patients with NTI may exhibit low TSH (0.05 to 0.3 mU/L) of probable central origin, likely due to the negative effects of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The aforementioned is more common in the elderly making the diagnosis of thyroid dysfunction more challenging in this population. NTI: Non-thyroidal illnesses. Most circulating T4 (99.95%) and T3 (99.5%) are transported by thyroxine binding globulin (TBG), and a lower proportion by transthyretin (TTR). It is well known that peripheral thyroid hormone transport does not change with aging in healthy older subjects because, although TBG decreases, transthyretin (TTR) increases. Studies of hypothalamic-pituitary function in the elderly have shown blunted circadian fluctuations in TSH levels and decreases in mean 24-hour TSH secretion and TSH pulse amplitude especially during the night. Diminished TSH responses to TRH stimulation may also be detected in elderly males ( 127 ),( 128 ),( 129 ). The cause of this phenomenon is unclear. There are no histological or immunoreactive differences in the thyrotroph cells of elderly patients ( 130 ). Measurement of serum deiodinase levels in a range of healthy adults has demonstrated a significant inverse correlation of 3’,3’-diiodothyronine, 3’,5’-diiodothyronine, and 3,5-diiodothyronine levels with increasing age ( 131 ). One study showed that the decline in deiodinase activity noted with increasing age was paralleled by a decline in selenium levels. At the time of that study, it was thought that selenium supplementation may effectively increase selenium levels, deiodinase activity, and T3/T4 ratios in elderly patients ( 132 ). However, results of studies looking at selenium supplementation and thyroid function have been mixed. One meta-analysis showed no benefit in patients with hypothyroidism secondary to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis treated with selenium ( 133 ). Another meta-analysis showed that selenium supplementation in patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis from selenium deficient areas resulted
