Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


in patients with hypothyroidism secondary to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis treated with selenium ( 133 ). Another meta-analysis showed that selenium supplementation in patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis from selenium deficient areas resulted in a lower TSH level in patient’s not receiving levothyroxine (LT4) and in lower anti-TPO antibody levels regardless of treatment with LT4 ( 134 ). THYROID FUNCTION TESTS Accurate diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism in the elderly relies primarily, as it does in all patients, on the measurement of a sensitive serum TSH level. Although data from the NHANES III study has established that median TSH levels appear to increase with advancing age, the normal upper limit of an established reference range may still be used as a cutoff to confirm the diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism in most elderly patients. While a blood spot TSH level has been shown to be an adequate screening test for the detection of overt primary hypothyroidism in the elderly, it may not be sensitive enough to detect cases of subclinical hypothyroidism characterized by elevated serum TSH levels with normal T4 and FT4 levels ( 135 ). One study has determined that there may be a negative correlation between age and the degree to which TSH levels are elevated in elderly patients presenting with primary hypothyroidism ( 136 ). In cases of suspected secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism (central hypothyroidism) that may result from disruption of the anatomy or function of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, the TSH level may not be relied upon as an accurate index of thyroid function. In this setting the FT4 level may serve as more reliable measure of thyroid hormone production ( 137 ). The interpretation of thyroid function test profiles in hospitalized or institutionalized patients must be tempered by an understanding of how NTI may produce changes in TSH and thyroid hormone levels ( 138 ) ( Figure 5 ). In fact, in admitted patients, clinical guidelines ( 139 ) usually recommend measuring TSH only if there is high suspicion of thyroid dysfunction, because it may be abnormal in NTI and it is altered by some medications ( Figure 2 and 3 ). The direction and extent of changes observed may depend on the severity of an underlying illness and the point in the course of recovery at which thyroid function tests are measured ( 140 ). Longitudinal studies have demonstrated that early on in the course of severe illnesses or protracted
