Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


in the course of recovery at which thyroid function tests are measured ( 140 ). Longitudinal studies have demonstrated that early on in the course of severe illnesses or protracted procedures, TSH levels in euthyroid patients may decline to levels that fall below the lower limits of normal reference ranges ( 141 ). This change may be paralleled by a decline in T4 and T3 levels that may be particularly pronounced in elderly patients with a corresponding increase in reverse T3 levels ( 142 ). One study demonstrated that 59% of elderly patients known to be euthyroid had documented low T3 levels measured during a course of hospitalization, whereas another demonstrated that changes in T3 levels detected in elderly hospitalized patients were more closely correlated with the severity of each underlying illness than with advanced age itself ( 143 ),( 144 ). Studies have demonstrated a correlation between declining T4 and T3 levels and increasing mortality rates in critical care patients ( 145 ),( 146 ). Free T4 levels measured by equilibrium dialysis or ultrafiltration methods, if they are within reference ranges, may help to distinguish hypothyroidism from the effects of altered thyroid hormone binding that may occur in critically ill patients ( 147 ). Current data indicates that the normal or low TSH levels found in the presence of low T4 and T3 levels in the setting of NTI likely reflect the combined effects of central hypothyroidism and reduced peripheral generation of T3, effectively representing a deficiency of thyroid hormone. Whether nonthyroidal illness syndrome (NTIS) should be treated with administration of thyroid hormone preparations remains controversial. Some observers argue in favor of thyroid hormone replacement, while others weigh against it, without conclusive data to support either viewpoint ( 148 ),( 149 ),( 150 ),( 151 ). Despite this uncertainty, the American Thyroid Association recommends against the treatment of NTIS with any form of thyroid hormone supplementation given the lack of evidence showing a clear benefit while at the same time raising concern for potential harm with treatment of NTIS ( 25 ). If a patient survives to recover from NTIS, TSH levels may transiently rise above the upper limits of reference ranges ( 152 ). If thyroid function tests are checked when a transiently increased TSH level precedes increases in low T4 and/or T3 levels, the profile that emerges may appear to be consistent with primary hypothyroidism ( 153
