Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


are checked when a transiently increased TSH level precedes increases in low T4 and/or T3 levels, the profile that emerges may appear to be consistent with primary hypothyroidism ( 153 ). This could lead to unnecessary treatment with thyroid hormone, which would probably be inconsequential in the short term, but could eventually cause iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis. Thus, TFTs checked during and/or around the time of acute illness need to be interpreted with caution. That being said, TSH levels greater than 20-25 µU/mL (which are equivalent to 20-25 mIU/L) are more suggestive of a diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism rather than recovering NTIS ( 154 ). In cases where changes in TSH and thyroid hormone levels may be plausibly ascribed to NTI, the patient’s thyroid function tests should be reassessed approximately four weeks later to see if the observed changes seen during the acute illness are resolving ( 155 ). One study that tracked thyroid function test profiles in hospitalized elderly female patients showed that while 14% of the subjects had increased TSH levels and decreased T4 and T3 levels on initial assessment, only 2% were proven to have evidence of underlying primary hypothyroidism during follow up ( 156 ). Measurement of anti-thyroid antibody levels may help to confirm a suspected diagnosis of autoimmune thyroiditis as the underlying cause of primary hypothyroidism, but it should be noted that the absence of anti-thyroid antibody positivity does not exclude a diagnosis of autoimmune thyroiditis ( 157 ),( 158 ),( 159 ). The presence or absence of elevated anti-thyroid antibodies may not be an absolute indicator of the likelihood of eventual development of primary hypothyroidism in elderly individuals. One study that measured TSH and anti-microsomal antibody levels in healthy elderly adults showed that positive titers were detected in only 67% of subjects with TSH levels > 10.0 mIU/L and 18% of subjects with normal TSH levels ( 160 ). A similar study that measured anti-thyroid antibody levels in nursing home residents detected positive titers in only 64% of the women and 32% of the men presenting with increased TSH levels ( 161 ). Comparative measurements of anti-thyroglobulin, anti-microsomal, and anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies have demonstrated that while there may be a similar prevalence of positive anti-microsomal and anti-thyroid peroxidase titers among elderly adults, mean values of anti-thyroid peroxidase antibody levels tend to be much more commonly elevated in this population ( 162 ). Although positive antithyroid antibodies
