Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


Most commonly, the anemia seen with hypothyroidism is a normochromic normocytic hypoproliferative anemia ( 170 ). Hypochromic microcytic anemia independent of an underlying hemoglobinopathy or iron deficiency, and macrocytic anemia can also be seen in hypothyroid patients ( 170 ),( 171 ),( 172 ),( 173 ). Interestingly, there appears to be an association between the presence of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and development of atrophic gastritis and pernicious anemia, which is an alternative reason for hypothyroid patients to develop either microcytic or macrocytic anemias ( 174 ). In the absence of underlying vitamin B12 or folate deficiency or use of medications that impair DNA synthesis, hypothyroidism by itself can cause macrocytosis ( 170 ). One way to differentiate between the macrocytosis caused by hypothyroidism and that caused by vitamin B12 and/or folate deficiency or that caused by drugs that impair DNA synthesis is that the macrocytosis seen with hypothyroidism should not be megaloblastic, so hypersegmented neutrophils should not be present, whereas the macrocytosis seen in vitamin B12 or folate deficiency or that caused by drugs that impair DNA synthesis should be megaloblastic ( 170 ). Increased prevalence of hyperuricemia thought to be due to decreased renal plasma flow and impaired glomerular filtration has also been reported in hypothyroid patients ( 175 ). Homocysteine and lipoprotein (a) levels may be increased in patients with primary hypothyroidism, potentially contributing to an increased risk of atherosclerotic disease ( 176 ). TREATMENT Initial treatment of hypothyroidism in elderly patients should typically start with sodium levothyroxine (thyroxine) administered in lower doses than those usually prescribed for healthy younger patients with starting doses as low as 12.5 to 50 mcg daily ( 70 ),( 76 ),( 177 ). According to the 2014 Guidelines for the treatment of Hypothyroidism from the ATA, LT4 should consistently be taken either 60 minutes before breakfast or at bedtime at least three hours after an evening meal to maximize absorption ( 25 ). Despite this being the official recommendation by the ATA, studies looking at taking LT4 with breakfast ( 178 ), 30 minutes before breakfast vs 60 minutes before the main meal of the day vs at least two hours after dinner ( 179 ), or 60 minutes before breakfast vs 60 minutes after the last meal of the day ( 180 ) have all shown similar treatment efficacy rates. Anecdotally, the results of these findings likely explain why many practitioners instruct
