Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


minutes after the last meal of the day ( 180 ) have all shown similar treatment efficacy rates. Anecdotally, the results of these findings likely explain why many practitioners instruct their patients to take LT4 30-60 minutes before breakfast or at night, particularly in elderly men, if they awaken to use to use the restroom. T4 is available as levothyroxine sodium (LT4) tablets and, in some countries, is also marketed as soft gelatin capsules with T4 pre-dissolved in glycerol and as liquid formulations with T4 pre-dissolved in ethanol or glycerol. Most patients receive LT4 tablets, either brand-name or generic. T4 in capsules or liquid may have therapeutic advantages over LT4 in tablets in some circumstances, although the evidence supporting the use of these preparations is weak in clinical studies ( 181 ). The three afore-mentioned formulations are bioequivalent in healthy individuals; however, the active ingredient in the liquid formulation achieves systemic circulation more rapidly, as it bypasses the disintegration and dissolution phases required for absorption ( 182 ). The liquid formulation has demonstrated efficacy in limited cohorts of patients presenting with active H. pylori infection ( 183 ), atrophic gastritis ( 184 ), or those undergoing treatment with proton pump inhibitors ( 185 ) or antacid medications ( 186 ). Other study ( 187 ) involving 50,000 patients treated with T4 demonstrated a significant decrease in the frequency of TSH measurements following the transition from tablet to liquid formulation; this outcome was ascribed to concurrent use of medications known to interfere with LT4 absorption. Moreover, the liquid formulation has been shown to reduce sensitivity to food interference compared to tablet forms ( 181 ), ( 188 ). TSH concentrations were comparable whether liquid T4 was administered with breakfast or 30 minutes prior ( 189 ). Additionally, liquid formulations have been recommended for patients undergoing sleeve gastrectomy ( 188 ). A recent meta-analysis indicated that patients treated with LT4 tablets who presented with suboptimal TSH levels reached target TSH concentrations following a switch to an equivalent dose of the liquid formulation ( 190 ). In contrast, another meta-analysis reported no significant differences among patients without malabsorption ( 191 ). It can be concluded that capsule or liquid formulations ( 181 ), ( 188 ) while potentially advantageous in the context of specific comorbidities and concomitant medications, still present uncertainties and unresolved questions. Evidence suggests that these newer formulations may mitigate the
