Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


of < 6 mIU/L (age < 80) or < 7 mIU/L (age ≥ 80). % Start LT4 at 25-50 mcg daily and increase the dose every 6-8 weeks. The goal is to get the patient to the maximally tolerated LT4 dose that does not precipitate angina while simultaneously achieving the desired TSH target. Target TSH is <6 mIU/L (age < 80) or <7 mIU/L (age ≥80). TSH = thyroid stimulate hormone, FT4= free T4, LT4 = levothyroxine, CHD = coronary heart disease. Surveys amongst practitioners caring for elderly hypothyroid patients across the US suggest that age does play a role in what TSH value they target for their patients. In fact, while 39% of ATA members recommended targeting a TSH range of 0.5-2.0 mIU/L when treating younger patients, a comparable number reported that they were generally more liberal in their approach to elderly patients, targeting TSH ranges of 1.0-4.0 mIU/L. Along similar lines, a national survey of primary care physicians and endocrinologists showed that 53% of physicians factor age into their decision making process when determining the TSH target for their patients with hypothyroidism on LT4. When this same group of physicians was presented with clinical scenarios regarding treatment of hypothyroidism in patients differing in age and sex, they preferentially targeted a higher TSH level in octogenarians. Taken together, these results imply a tendency by practitioners to avoid overtreatment with LT4 in the elderly ( 208 ). Treatment with thyroxine in overt hypothyroidism has been shown to improve signs and symptoms associated with hypothyroidism, improve cardiac and cognitive function, and reduce orocecal transit time from an average of 135 minutes in a hypothyroid state to 75-95 minutes with adequate replacement ( 209 ),( 210 ),( 211 ). While thyroid hormone supplementation to a level that completely corrects the hormonal deficiency may be an optimal goal, some patients with ischemic heart disease may not be able to tolerate full replacement doses of LT4 ( 212 ),( 213 ),( 214 ),( 215 ). One study of patients with known coronary artery disease and primary hypothyroidism reported that precipitation of angina symptoms limited titration of LT4 in two-thirds of cases, while precipitation of hypothyroid symptoms limited titration of antianginal agents in one-third of cases. Even with the addition of propranolol at maximally tolerated doses, 46% of the patients surveyed rated control of their angina and hypothyroid symptoms as fair to poor ( 216
