Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


cases. Even with the addition of propranolol at maximally tolerated doses, 46% of the patients surveyed rated control of their angina and hypothyroid symptoms as fair to poor ( 216 ). Thyroxine dose requirements in elderly patients may be related to several factors including declining metabolic clearance, progression of underlying thyroid failure, declining body mass, and interactions with other medications prescribed for the treatment of co-morbid conditions ( 217 ),( 218 ). On average, elderly patients with primary hypothyroidism receive initial daily doses that are 20 mcg lower and maintenance daily doses that are 40 mcg lower than those prescribed for younger and middle-aged patients ( 219 ),( 220 ),( 221 ). One study suggested that lean body mass may be a better predictor of daily replacement doses than age or weight alone ( 222 ). Another reported that most of the age-dependent differences in LT4 requirements noted might be attributed to the effects of chronic disease, since substantially lower average daily replacement doses were reported by elderly patients treated for other chronic medical disorders ( 223 ). A study that tracked changes in elderly patients’ LT4 requirements over time based on the etiology of their primary hypothyroidism reported that daily replacement doses increased in patients who initially presented with autoimmune thyroiditis or postsurgical hypothyroidism, decreased in patients who initially presented with post-ablative hypothyroidism, and did not change in patients who initially presented with subclinical hypothyroidism or drug-induced hypothyroidism ( 224 ). In situations where cognitive or functional impairment may make it difficult for patients to comply with daily administration of LT4, alternative dosing schedules may be considered. A study that compared daily administration of LT4 to twice weekly administration of comparable cumulative daily doses in elderly women showed that both regimens produced similar peak and trough free T4, T3, and TSH levels ( 225 ). Trials and case reports/series of regimens based on once weekly administration of cumulative daily doses of LT4 have demonstrated similar results without any evidence of precipitation of thyrotoxicosis ( 226 ),( 227 ),( 228 ). A number of medications used to treat other comorbid conditions in the elderly may interfere with absorption and metabolism of LT4 ( 229 ). Simultaneous ingestion of 1,200 mg of calcium carbonate with LT4 therapy is known to decrease thyroxine absorption and raise TSH levels and ingestion of 2,000 mg of calcium carbonate has been shown to interfere with
