Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


period, the relative risk of development of new-onset atrial fibrillation in subjects with initial TSH levels < 0.1 mIU/L was 3.1 when compared to subjects with normal TSH levels ( 247 ). Further analysis revealed that suppressed TSH levels identified in 77% of these subjects were attributable to iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis resulting from overtreatment. A study that tracked bone mineral density changes in women treated with LT4 documented greater mean rates of decline in the lumbar spines of those with suppressed TSH levels ( 248 ). A recent cohort study that tracked TSH and free T4 and T3 levels in healthy aging adults in tandem with inventories of medication use reported that half of the cases of prevalent and incident thyrotoxicosis identified could be attributed to over-treatment with LT4 ( 242 ). Like primary hypothyroidism, the mainstay of treatment for central hypothyroidism is LT4. Whereas the TSH level is the primary biochemical marker used to assess the adequacy of LT4 dosing in primary hypothyroidism, in central hypothyroidism the FT4 level is relied on instead. This is due to the underlying pathophysiology of central hypothyroidism, as inadequate stimulation of the thyroid by TSH, either from a hypothalamic or pituitary problem, results in low FT4 levels, thus making FT4 rather than TSH a better marker of thyroid status in these patients. However, TSH should not be completely ignored. Per multiple sources, TSH values ≥ 0.5 mU/L are suggestive of inadequate thyroid hormone repletion regardless of the concurrent FT4 level ( 24 ),( 64 ), whereas the European Thyroid Association suggests that TSH values > 1.0 mU/L with concurrent FT4 levels below or near the lower limit of normal indicate inadequate LT4 repletion in patients with central hypothyroidism ( 26 ). Given the possibility of concurrent central adrenal insufficiency in patients with central hypothyroidism, patients with central hypothyroidism should be screened for adrenal insufficiency and treated with glucocorticoid replacement therapy if they have a positive screen prior to initiation of LT4 ( 24 ),( 26 ),( 27 ). Following assessment of an individual’s hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and initiation of glucocorticoid replacement therapy if it is needed, LT4 should be initiated with the goal of targeting a FT4 level in the upper half of the reference range ( 25 ),( 26 ),( 27 ),( 28 ),( 139 ),( 249 ). The reasons for targeting a FT4 level in the upper half of the reference range in
