Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


range ( 25 ),( 26 ),( 27 ),( 28 ),( 139 ),( 249 ). The reasons for targeting a FT4 level in the upper half of the reference range in patients with central hypothyroidism are multifactorial and are based on studies showing that FT4 levels below the upper half of the reference range amongst this patient population were associated with higher body mass index, higher total cholesterol levels, higher LDL cholesterol levels, lower FT3 levels, and lower body temperature ( 250 ),( 251 ). Additionally, because patients with primary hypothyroidism require a higher FT4 level to normalize their TSH level compared to euthyroid controls, this finding implies that the goal FT4 level in patients with central hypothyroidism should be in the upper half of the reference range ( 252 ). The European Thyroid Association in its 2018 guidelines on the diagnosis and management of central hypothyroidism recommends targeting a LT4 dose of 1-1.2 mcg/kg body weight/day in adults ≥ 60 years old with central hypothyroidism and specifies that if needed LT4 can be started at a lower dose and gradually up-titrated to reach this target dose ( 26 ). Others recommend starting elderly patients with central hypothyroidism on 25-50 mcg/day and gradually up-titrating the dose until a FT4 level in the upper half of the reference range is achieved ( 27 ),( 64 ). While, the ATA agrees with targeting a FT4 level in the upper half of the reference range in patients with central hypothyroidism, they do make an exception for elderly patients or patients with comorbidities who are at higher risk of developing side effects of thyroid hormone excess ( 25 ). Similar to primary hypothyroidism, use of combination LT4 and liothyronine is not routinely recommended for the treatment of central hypothyroidism ( 25 ),( 27 ). Overtreatment of central hypothyroidism should be considered when the FT4 level is near or above the upper limit of normal in the context of the patient having signs and/or symptoms of thyrotoxicosis and/or an elevated T3 level ( 26 ),( 27 ). SUBCLINICAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Subclinical hypothyroidism, which is characterized by an increased TSH level with concomitant free thyroid hormone levels that fall within normal limits, is very common among elderly men and women. The estimated prevalence of this condition among adults has varied from 3-15% ( 253 ),( 254 ). In fact, the tendency of TSH to increase with age combined
