Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


and women. The estimated prevalence of this condition among adults has varied from 3-15% ( 253 ),( 254 ). In fact, the tendency of TSH to increase with age combined with the use of a standardized TSH reference range across the population is likely contributing to overdiagnosis and treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism amongst the elderly ( 19 ),( 105 ). A study evaluating a community of healthy elderly adults in the southwest of France reported that 4.2% of subjects presented with increased TSH levels and normal free T4 levels ( 255 ). Within this group, subclinical hypothyroidism was linked with an increased prevalence of symptoms of depression. A study that evaluated thyroid function profiles in a bi-ethnic urban community reported that subclinical hypothyroidism was more commonly identified in females and non-Hispanic white subjects than Hispanic subjects ( 256 ). Stratified analysis of the impact of subclinical hypothyroidism in this population revealed no significant alterations in health status measures in subjects with TSH levels ranging between 4.7-10.0 mIU/L. A study that inventoried clinical findings of hypothyroidism in a population of geriatric clinic patients reported that while 15.4% of the men and 14.6% of the women screened met criteria for subclinical hypothyroidism, the incidence of symptoms and signs consistent with thyroid hormone deficiency detected in these subjects was similar to that reported for euthyroid subjects ( 257 ). An array of studies that have tracked changes in thyroid function in cohorts of aging subjects in the United States, Australia, the Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom, and China have reported that the development of hypothyroidism in elderly patients does not appear to be associated with any change in cognitive function, increased levels of depression, or diminished ability to perform activities of daily living ( 85 ),( 258 ),( 65 ),( 259 ),( 260 ),( 261 ),( 262 ). A study that measured an array of anthropometric, biochemical, and neuropsychiatric parameters in Korean subjects aged 65 years and older showed that subclinical hypothyroidism did not appear to be associated with any discernible metabolic or neuropsychiatric derangements ( 263 ). A study that evaluated subgroups of subjects enrolled in the Health, Aging, and Body Composition study found that those determined to have mild subclinical hypothyroidism (defined by a TSH level of 4.5-7.0 mIU/L with normal thyroid hormone levels) demonstrated better mobility, cardiorespiratory fitness, and walking ease than subjects who were euthyroid or determined to have
