Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


(defined by a TSH level of 4.5-7.0 mIU/L with normal thyroid hormone levels) demonstrated better mobility, cardiorespiratory fitness, and walking ease than subjects who were euthyroid or determined to have moderate subclinical hypothyroidism (defined by a TSH level of 7.0-20.0 with normal thyroid hormone levels) ( 264 ). An analysis of subgroups in this cohort study identified increased odds of prevalent metabolic syndrome among subjects with TSH levels > 10 ( 265 ). The possible beneficial effects of mild TSH elevation may not only be limited to enhanced physical performance amongst the elderly, but have also been associated with increased longevity as demonstrated by multiple studies ( 116 ),( 266 ),( 267 ),( 268 ),( 269 ). A multi-cohort individual participant data analysis consisting of 74,565 participants from 23 different cohorts with study specific median baseline ages ranging from 57 to 93 years old looking at the association between thyroid dysfunction with cognitive function showed no association between subclinical hypothyroidism with worsening cognitive function, accelerated cognitive decline, and the presence of incident dementia. Rather, data from this study suggested subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with improved cognitive function, specifically within the domains of executive function and memory. Hence, the authors of this study recommend against screening for subclinical thyroid dysfunction in older adults experiencing cognitive decline ( 270 ). A study that evaluated postmenopausal women at risk for development of osteoporosis reported that subclinical hypothyroidism was not associated with decreased bone mineral density or an increased risk of vertebral or non-vertebral fracture ( 271 ). A meta-analysis looking at the risk of hip, non-spine, and spine fractures in addition to fractures of any kind in patients with mild (TSH 4.5-6.9 mIU/L), moderate (TSH 7.0-9.9 mIU/L), and severe (TSH ≥ 10 mIU/L) subclinical hypothyroidism showed that there was no increased risk of any fractures regardless of the severity of subclinical hypothyroidism ( 272 ). Another study seeking to determine if there was any relationship between subclinical hypothyroidism and femoral osteopenia or osteoporosis in adults ≥ 50 years-old found no association between the two over a four-year window ( 273 ). Several longitudinal studies have tracked the natural history of untreated subclinical hypothyroidism in elderly persons. A study of nursing home residents confirmed that over time TSH levels declined to normal ranges in 51% of subjects with initial TSH levels that were lower than 6.8 mIU/L ( 274 ). Serial TSH levels were
