Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


that over time TSH levels declined to normal ranges in 51% of subjects with initial TSH levels that were lower than 6.8 mIU/L ( 274 ). Serial TSH levels were persistently elevated in the remainder of these subjects and in all subjects with initial TSH levels greater than 6.8 mIU/L. A similar study that stratified subjects on the basis of anti-thyroid antibody levels reported that 80% of elderly adults with mild hypothyroidism with initial measured anti-microsomal antibody titers greater than 1:1,600 eventually progressed to develop overt hypothyroidism requiring treatment with thyroxine replacement therapy ( 162 ). A study that tracked 505 subjects diagnosed with mild hypothyroidism over time showed that positive anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies and higher total cholesterol levels measured at baseline were associated with increased odds of eventual progression to overt hypothyroidism ( 275 ). One study showed that progression from subclinical to overt hypothyroidism was faster in women with anti-thyroid antibody positivity (4.3% per year) when compared to those without (2.6% per year) ( 276 ). Two studies showed that when elderly patients diagnosed with subclinical hypothyroidism were tracked over a span of 4-4.2 years, 44-54% demonstrated normalization of TSH levels consistent with reversion to a euthyroid state ( 277 ),( 278 ). Findings that were associated with reversion included lower baseline TSH levels, homogenous echotexture of thyroid tissue on ultrasound imaging, and an absence of detectable anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies. A more recent study showed that subclinical hypothyroidism was transient with normalization of TSH on repeat testing in 61% of individuals greater than or equal to 80 years old ( 279 ), leading to the recommendation that subclinical hypothyroidism only be diagnosed in patients with persistently elevated TSH levels at least one month after the initially elevated TSH level was detected ( 280 ). Questions have been raised about the possible association of subclinical hypothyroidism with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in the elderly. One study that confirmed the presence of subclinical hypothyroidism in 10.8% of subjects drawn from a cohort of postmenopausal women reported a greater age-adjusted prevalence of coronary and aortic atherosclerosis in mildly hypothyroid women ( 281 ). Even stronger associations between subclinical hypothyroidism and atherosclerotic disease were noted among postmenopausal women with elevated anti-thyroid antibody levels. Another study that evaluated the prevalence of peripheral vascular disease among nursing home residents reported that 78% of subjects with mild hypothyroidism presented with reproducible claudication, whereas
