Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


anti-thyroid antibody levels. Another study that evaluated the prevalence of peripheral vascular disease among nursing home residents reported that 78% of subjects with mild hypothyroidism presented with reproducible claudication, whereas symptomatic peripheral vascular disease was only identified in 17% of euthyroid subjects ( 282 ). A study that evaluated thyroid function in patients enrolled in a study of pre-existing heart failure reported that subclinical hypothyroidism presenting with TSH levels ≥ 7 mIU/L was associated with an increased risk of a need for the use of ventricular assist devices, heart transplantation, and death ( 283 ). Population-based studies that have tracked thyroid function in elderly subjects have reported differing results regarding risks of cardiovascular disease. A study that examined community-dwelling subjects aged 70-79 years enrolled in the Health, Aging, and Body Composition study found that subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with an increased incidence of congestive heart failure ( 284 ). A study that examined subjects aged 65 years and older enrolled in the Cardiovascular Health study found that subclinical hypothyroidism was not associated with an increased incidence of coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, cardiovascular mortality, or all-cause mortality ( 285 ). Analysis of subgroup data tracked over the course of 12 years and echocardiographic parameters tracked over the course of 5 years demonstrated that subjects with TSH levels ≥ 10.0 mIU/L had a higher incidence of heart failure events, a greater increase in left ventricular mass, and appreciable changes in measurements reflecting changes in diastolic function compared to euthyroid subjects ( 286 ). Two meta-analyses that analyzed data from a range of prospective cohort studies incorporating measurements of thyroid function identified a modest increase in the risk of coronary artery disease and associated mortality in subjects determined to have evidence of subclinical hypothyroidism ( 287 ),( 288 ). When adjusted for age and sex, a diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with increased CHD events and increased CHD mortality when TSH levels were ≥ 10.0 mIU/L and ≥ 7.0 mIU/L, respectively ( 288 ). Along similar lines, a meta-analysis looking at 55 cohort studies identified an increased risk of ischemic heart disease events and cardiovascular mortality in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism when TSH levels were ≥ 10.0 mIU/L ( 289 ). More recent analyses of subgroups tracked in cohort studies have reported that persistent subclinical hypothyroidism does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality,
