Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


hypothyroidism in the elderly is the risk of iatrogenic harm from overtreatment, which occurs in ~13-28% of elderly patients treated with LT4 ( 243 ),( 296 ),( 297 ). Overtreatment with LT4 is of particular clinical concern in the elderly given it associations with increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation ( 247 ), osteoporotic fractures ( 298 ),( 299 ), dementia ( 300 ),( 301 ),( 302 ), and depression ( 303 ),( 304 ) all of which elderly patients are already more prone to developing at baseline. Furthermore, empiric initiation of LT4 for subclinical hypothyroidism in the elderly increases healthcare expenses, the risk of polypharmacy, and likely overmedicalizes this patient population, who may not have an actual thyroid problem, by necessitating additional laboratory testing, doctor’s visits, and prescriptions ( 280 ). Despite the risks associated with LT4 overtreatment, LT4 remains one of the most prescribed medications in the US and abroad ( 305 ),( 306 ), and one of if not the most common reasons for prescribing LT4 for adults in the US is for the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism ( 307 ). In contrast to what the high prescribing rates of LT4 in the US suggest, prescribing LT4 to the elderly should not be taken lightly given all the potential risks associated with doing so. Lastly, once prescribed, many barriers to thyroid hormone deprescribing exist in the elderly, particularly at the patient, physician, and systems levels, which in turn favor elderly patients’ remaining on it indefinitely once started ( 308 ). As the diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism relies on the detection of an isolated elevated TSH level that is greater than the 97.5 th percentile with a concurrently normal FT4 using standardized population-based assays that do not consider the expected changes in TSH levels that result from aging, overdiagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism in the elderly becomes more prevalent. Increased detection of this supposed problem can then precipitate increased treatment to correct the problem. To prevent overdiagnosis and treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism in the elderly, many experts have called for the use of age-specific TSH reference ranges to reduce the rates of diagnosis and treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism ( 280 ),( 309 ),( 310 ),( 311 ),( 312 ),( 313 ). Despite the strong push for the use of age-specific TSH reference ranges, widespread implementation of them has yet to become the norm in the US. While use of
