Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


313 ). Despite the strong push for the use of age-specific TSH reference ranges, widespread implementation of them has yet to become the norm in the US. While use of age-specific TSH reference ranges would decrease the number of elderly patients being diagnosed with subclinical hypothyroidism, there would still be elderly patients who meet criteria for having this condition. In these patients, consideration of treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism remains a prominent issue of debate and it is often predicated on the notion that restoration of normal thyroid hormone levels might help to relieve symptoms that could be exacerbated by a deficiency of thyroid hormone. The Thyroid Hormone Replacement for Untreated Older Adults with Subclinical Hypothyroidism (TRUST) trial was specifically designed to address this question ( 314 ). It randomized 737 subjects ≥ 65 years of age with persistent subclinical hypothyroidism to double-blinded placebo-controlled administration of doses of LT4 adjusted to normalize TSH levels. Assessment based on a thyroid-related quality-of-life questionnaire after one year of treatment showed no difference in hypothyroid symptom scores or tiredness scores. An analysis that combined data from 146 TRUST trial subjects ≥ 80 years of age with data from 145 subjects enrolled in the Institute for Evidence-Based Medicine in Old Age 80-plus trial who were evaluated with a similar protocol also showed no improvement in hypothyroid symptoms or fatigue; however, a majority of those with elevated TSH levels had values below 7 mIU/L ( 279 ). Additional sub-studies using the TRUST trial data have shown that treatment with twelve months of LT4 compared to placebo in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism showed no significant difference between the two groups when they were further divided by a hypothyroid symptom score of > 30 or ≤ 30 as well as a tiredness score > 40 or ≤ 40 ( 315 ). Furthermore, LT4 therapy in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism did not lead to a significant difference in the Pittsburg Fatigability Scale (PFS) physical and mental scores nor a significant difference in the 15-item geriatric depression scale (GDS-15) questionnaire ( 316 ),( 317 ). All in all, these findings suggest that LT4 therapy in older patients with subclinical hypothyroidism does not improve physical nor psychiatric complaints or symptoms. Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that prescribing of LT4 to elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism for these reasons should be avoided. Given that increased cardiovascular disease risk is one
