Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that prescribing of LT4 to elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism for these reasons should be avoided. Given that increased cardiovascular disease risk is one of the major concerns in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 113 ), researchers have sought out to determine if there are any cardiovascular benefits to treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism with LT4. One study looking at the effects of LT4 vs placebo on cardiac function in elderly patients with mild subclinical hypothyroidism (mean baseline TSH < 7 mIU/L) showed a significant decrease in pulmonary artery systolic pressure in the LT4 group, whereas no significant difference was seen between the treatment and placebo groups when looking at other measures of cardiac function including left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), the ratio between mitral peak flow velocity of early filling (E) to early diastolic mitral annular velocity, the ratio of doppler-derived transmitral flow pattern, and E deceleration time ( 318 ). Another study looking at elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism and recent acute myocardial infarction showed that administration of LT4 for 52 weeks did not result in a significant difference in LVEF, left ventricular mass, or median infarct size ( 319 ). Additionally, a nested trial incorporated in the TRUST trial showed that normalization of TSH levels with LT4 for a span of one year did not have any impact on carotid intima media thickness or carotid atherosclerosis ( 320 ). With respect to cardiovascular disease outcome measures, treatment with LT4 compared to placebo in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism did not show any significant difference in the number of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, all-cause mortality, proportion with new onset atrial fibrillation, and proportion with new onset heart failure ( 314 ),( 321 ). Taken together these findings suggest that empiric LT4 therapy in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism may not improve common measures of cardiac function nor reduce adverse cardiovascular disease outcomes. When it comes to answering the question of whether treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism corrects other laboratory abnormalities associated with this condition the data is mixed. Partial or complete reversibility of hypercholesterolemia has been shown to accompany LT4 treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism in the majority of small interventional trials addressing this issue ( 322 ). Lowering of lipoprotein (a) levels has been shown in some, but not all studies ( 323 ). Hyperhomocysteinemia in patients with mild hypothyroidism has not been
