Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


issue ( 322 ). Lowering of lipoprotein (a) levels has been shown in some, but not all studies ( 323 ). Hyperhomocysteinemia in patients with mild hypothyroidism has not been shown to be reversed with LT4 therapy. Whether LT4 therapy in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism improves bone strength is an area that has also been investigated. Studies looking to see if there is any reduction in fracture rates and improvement in bone strength as measured by bone mineral density of the lumbar spine, total hip, and femoral neck as well as lumbar spine trabecular bone score in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism receiving LT4 vs placebo have shown no improvement in any of the above metrics following one year of LT4 treatment ( 314 ),( 324 ). Therefore, there is no data to support the notion that treatment with LT4 in elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism will improve bone health. When it comes to the management of subclinical hypothyroidism in general let alone in the elderly, consensus is lacking ( 207 ),( 325 ),( 139 ). One of the most recent reviews on the subject suggests avoiding initiation of LT4 in elderly patients when their TSH is between 4.5-6.9 mIU/L and starting LT4 in any elderly patient whose TSH is between 10.0-19.9 mIU/L. For those elderly patients with TSH levels between 7.0-9.9 mIU/L a more nuanced approach is needed when deciding whether to initiate treatment that considers the patient’s age as well as underlying cardiovascular comorbidities ( 326 ). Figure 7 illustrates a proposed algorithm for the management of subclinical hypothyroidism in the elderly. This algorithm focuses on ensuring that TSH is persistently elevated prior to starting LT4, checking markers that have been associated with progression to overt hypothyroidism in elderly patients with TSH levels between 4.5 and 6.9 mIU/L (specifically anti-TPO antibody and total cholesterol levels), avoiding treatment with LT4 therapy in most elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism unless their TSH is ≥ 10-20 mIU/L, and targeting a TSH level ≤ 6.0 mIU/L if LT4 treatment is initiated. Figure 7. Management of Subclinical Hypothyroidism in the Elderly. * Do not initiate LT4 unless TSH increases ≥10 mIU/mL or there is development of overt primary hypothyroidism (↑TSH, ↓FT4). ^ If decision to start LT4 is made, do so following the "start low and go slow" principle, meaning start LT4 at 25-50 mcg daily and increase the dose every 6-8
