Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


If decision to start LT4 is made, do so following the "start low and go slow" principle, meaning start LT4 at 25-50 mcg daily and increase the dose every 6-8 weeks. The goal is to get the patient to the maximally tolerated LT4 dose that does not precipitate angina while simultaneously achieving the desired TSH target. Target TSH is <6 mIU/L (age < 80) or <7 mIU/L (age ≥80). TSH = thyroid stimulating hormone, FT4= free T4, LT4 = levothyroxine, CHF = congestive heart failure, CHD = coronary heart disease. MYXEDEMA COMA Patients with severe hypothyroidism may present in a state of pronounced multisystem failure termed myxedema coma ( 327 ),( 328 ). Elderly patients with untreated or undertreated primary hypothyroidism and comorbid disorders may be particularly susceptible to decompensation that leads to onset and progression of this life-threatening condition ( 329 ),( 330 ). In fact, myxedema coma occurs almost exclusively in patients ≥ 60 years old and > 90% of cases of myxedema coma occur in women ( 331 ),( 332 ). In addition to coma, there may be hypothermia, bradycardia, hypotension, congestive heart failure, ileus, and hypoventilation with hypercapnia and respiratory acidosis. In situations where historical information may be unobtainable, physical examination may reveal evidence of prior thyroid surgery, laryngeal surgery, or head and neck external beam radiation therapy. Radiographic studies may reveal pericardial effusions, which may also be reflected in low voltage waves on electrocardiograms. Although such pericardial fluid collections may be large, they are usually not hemodynamically significant. Laboratory evaluation confirming severe hypothyroidism may also reveal evidence of hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, and/or adrenal insufficiency. Myxedema coma is an endocrine emergency with a mortality rate that may approach 40% ( 333 ),( 334 ). In addition to older age, factors that may be associated with an increased risk of mortality include comorbid cardiovascular disease and treatment with high-dose LT4 replacement therapy ( 335 ). Generally recommended supportive measures include critical care-level monitoring of vital signs, careful external rewarming with heating blankets, correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalances, avoidance of hypnotics and sedatives, empiric treatment of suspected underlying infections, and mechanical ventilatory support as indicated ( 336 ). Given the theoretical risk of concomitant adrenal insufficiency due to polyglandular autoimmune syndromes or hypothalamic-pituitary compromise, many experts recommend empiric treatment with stress-dose glucocorticoids until definitive testing to exclude a concurrent diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency can be performed. This is
