Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


hypothyroidism that introduce the concept of targeted screening for hypothyroidism in select groups at increased risk for development of this condition. The risk factors they specify that would prompt targeted screening include a history of any of the following: Down syndrome, Turner syndrome, the presence of other autoimmune diseases especially autoimmune endocrinopathies, the presence of a goiter, a family history of thyroid disease, prior subtotal thyroidectomy and/or radioiodine treatment, prior head and neck radiation therapy, and treatment with medications that are known to affect thyroid function ( 362 ),( 363 ). Figure 8 shows a proposed algorithm for screening for hypothyroidism in the elderly using the risk factors associated with hypothyroidism as described by the AAFP as the major determinants in deciding whether to screen. Figure 8. When to Screen for Hypothyroidism in the Elderly. * Risk factors for hypothyroidism include but are not limited to any of the following: history of Down Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, comorbid autoimmune diseases (especially autoimmune endocrinopathies), subtotal thyroidectomy, radioiodine treatment, head and neck radiation therapy, treatment with medications known to affect thyroid function (especially immunotherapy), family history of thyroid disease, and/or presence of a goiter on exam. ^ Samuels MH. Hyperthyroidism in Aging. In: Feingold KR, Ahmed SF, Anawalt B, et al, eds. Endotext . 2000. TSH = thyroid stimulating hormone, FT4= free T4. The United States Preventive Services Task Force and the Canadian Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination have both concluded that there is not enough evidence regarding the impact of diagnosis and treatment of detectable thyroid disease to rule for or against routine screening of asymptomatic adults ( 355 ),( 360 ),( 364 ),( 365 ). In 2019, the Canadian Task Force on Preventative Health Care issued updated recommendations about screening adults for asymptomatic thyroid dysfunction. In these guidelines they strongly recommend against screening for thyroid dysfunction in asymptomatic nonpregnant adults ( 357 ). Utility analysis based on decision modeling has demonstrated that routine periodic screening for subclinical hypothyroidism may become more cost-effective with increasing age ( 366 ). Studies focusing on actual screening of identified populations of elderly adults have reported mixed results. One study reported that selection of candidates based on body mass index, symptoms consistent with thyroid dysfunction, or a family history of thyroid disease failed to identify the majority of elderly patients eventually confirmed to have elevated or suppressed TSH levels ( 367 ). Another study
