Hypothyroidism in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, thyroid, pubmed, patients, elderly, tsh, levels, subclinical, study, subclinical hypothyroidism, free, hormone, treatment, endocrinol, pmc free


dysfunction, or a family history of thyroid disease failed to identify the majority of elderly patients eventually confirmed to have elevated or suppressed TSH levels ( 367 ). Another study that evaluated elderly patients presenting with suspected dementia revealed that hypothyroidism was the second most common undiagnosed disorder contributing to cognitive impairment ( 368 ). A similar study reported that measurement of TSH levels identified hypothyroidism in 3.6% of elderly adults presenting for evaluation of mental status changes ( 369 ). However, a more recent study conducted in the Netherlands that screened asymptomatic outpatients who were at least 85 years old for hypothyroidism and followed these patients for three years showed that there was no association between an elevated TSH level and physical disability, depression, and cognitive impairment. Furthermore, this study found that elevated TSH amongst the participants was associated with lower mortality ( 260 ). Taken together, these studies suggest there are no specific signs or symptoms that reliably predict an underlying diagnosis of hypothyroidism in the elderly. While some may view that as a reason to empirically screen elderly patients for hypothyroidism, no society has gone as far to recommend that at this time. Screening studies involving hospitalized patients reported that 2.3% of geriatric inpatients and 11.2% of patients admitted for elective cardiac surgery had thyroid function profiles consistent with hypothyroidism ( 370 ). These findings are not surprising considering the substantial prevalence of hypothyroidism among elderly patients in general. An analysis of profiles of TSH and thyroid hormone levels tracked in subjects enrolled in the Birmingham Elderly Thyroid Study reported high stability of euthyroid and subclinical hypothyroid indices over a 5 year interval, indicating that repeat testing may not be warranted in this population ( 371 ). Other studies focusing on the natural progression of subclinical hypothyroidism in the elderly did not find the same degree of stability in TFTs measurements in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism over time. In fact, these studies found a significant association between the ability to predict progression or reversion to overt hypothyroidism or euthyroidism, respectively using variables such as age, sex, degree of initial TSH elevation, initial free T4 level, anti-TPO antibody status, thyroid ultrasound findings, and timing of repeat thyroid axis assessment ( 277 ),( 372 ). Given this lack of stability in TFTs overtime amongst elderly patients with subclinical hypothyroidism, some experts recommend obtaining at least three assessments of thyroid
