Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


ABSTRACT Metabolic bone disease (MBD) encompasses a heterogeneous group of disorders having a diverse spectrum of manifestations varying from asymptomatic to florid. MBD is prevalent globally, but certain unique features characterize those occurring in the tropics. Dietary deviations, including malnutrition, environmental influences, genetic factors, and limited access to healthcare, modify the tropical presentation of MBD. Osteoporosis remains the most prevalent MBD in the tropics. Anti-osteoporotic agents are widely available, but the compliance and follow-up are poor. Fracture liaison services are gaining importance to address the low rates of patient work-up and treatment following a fracture. Though the tropics have long been plagued with communicable diseases, there is a recent increase in noncommunicable lifestyle diseases and obesity, which are major risk factors for sarcopenia. A significant subset of adults over the age of 65 years have sarcopenia complicated by obesity and are at risk of synergistic complications from both obesity and sarcopenia. "Thin-fat obesity" or "sarcopenic obesity," also known as normal weight obesity, is a recognized phenotype in South Asia, with a comparable risk for cardiometabolic disease as obesity. In addition to osteosarcopenia, other MBDs, such as rickets and osteomalacia, still prevail in tropical countries. Symptomatic hyperparathyroidism is still seen in tropical countries, unlike the West, where asymptomatic hyperparathyroidism is more common. Skeletal fluorosis, an MBD caused by chronically ingesting excess fluoride, can be asymptomatic, but a broad range of manifestations can occur, such as diffuse skeletal pain, limited mobility, osteopenia, and ossification of ligaments and interosseous membranes. The oral cavity can be a window to other MBDs like dental fluorosis in the tropics. Several infective disorders that can affect bones and joints, such as tuberculosis, leprosy, treponemal and fungal infections are prevalent in the tropics and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of tropical MBD. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Metabolic bone disease (MBD) encompasses a diverse variety of bone and mineral metabolism disorders that often pose diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. The manifestations might differ in the tropics because of nutritional, environmental, and genetic factors. The presentation is often late and severe because of limited access to healthcare facilities and a lack of routine screening practices. Osteoporosis, the most prevalent MBD globally, is also widespread in the tropics. Despite ample sunlight exposure, vitamin D deficiency continues to be common. Certain conditions, such as fluorosis, lead, and
