Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


Osteoporosis, the most prevalent MBD globally, is also widespread in the tropics. Despite ample sunlight exposure, vitamin D deficiency continues to be common. Certain conditions, such as fluorosis, lead, and cadmium toxicity, and infective skeletal disorders e.g., tuberculosis, syphilis, and leprosy, are unique to these regions. The altered presentation of the globally prevalent MBDs and conditions specific to the tropics have been highlighted here. OSTEOPOROSIS IN THE TROPICS Osteoporosis is the most common MBD globally and in tropical countries. Different studies in the South Asian region have suggested the prevalence of osteoporosis to be 30 to 50% among postmenopausal women and up to 20% in men above 50 years ( 1 , 2 ). With increasing life expectancy in tropical countries, this prevalence will likely increase in the coming years. Several factors contribute to the high frequency and unique features of osteoporosis in tropical countries. These are summarized in table 1 . Table 1. Unique Features of Osteoporosis in the Tropical Region ( 3 ) View in own window 1. Lower peak bone mass 2. Poor dietary intake of calcium 3. A large proportion of individuals with vitamin D deficiency 4. Paucity of dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scanners leading to delayed diagnosis 5. Relatively earlier age of menopause 6. Limited food fortification for calcium and vitamin D 7. Lower bone mineral density threshold for developing a fragility fracture 8. Less awareness and knowledge about osteoporosis Despite the high mortality from hip fractures and the immense costs associated with its management, awareness about osteoporosis and its screening is poor among patients and physicians. In a study from southern India, 60% of postmenopausal women (n =302, mean age of 58 years) lacked knowledge of osteoporosis. In another study among general practitioners (n = 220), the total mean score on awareness was only 22% ( 1 , 4 ). Given the limitation of the diagnostic facilities, simple, cost-effective screening tools have been validated for use in the tropics. These may range from simple clinical findings like dental health assessment to more comprehensive evaluation through the FRAX tool. Easy-to-follow clinical practice guidelines have been developed that help manage patients with osteoporosis despite the above-mentioned constraints ( 5 , 6 ). Given poor dietary calcium intake and low levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] despite abundant sunlight, adequate calcium and vitamin D is an essential component of osteoporosis management in these patients. Anti-osteoporotic agents are widely available,
