Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


and low levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] despite abundant sunlight, adequate calcium and vitamin D is an essential component of osteoporosis management in these patients. Anti-osteoporotic agents are widely available, but compliance and follow-up are poor. The usage of bone turnover markers is still emerging and may evolve as a cost-effective tool. Moreover, strategies such as the fracture liaison service (FLS) will be helpful to enhance care for secondary prevention of fragility fractures ( 7 ). DISORDERS OF BONE MINERAL METABOLISM IN THE TROPICS Rickets And Osteomalacia Rickets and osteomalacia are also prevalent in tropical countries. In children, the prevalence of nutritional calcipenic rickets has decreased significantly but remains the usual cause of a rachitic presentation. It’s a bit paradoxical for tropical countries with abundant sunlight to have a high occurrence of vitamin D deficiency. Though rare, the genetic causes of calcipenic and phosphopenic rickets may be more frequent in specific pockets where consanguinity is practiced. Like children, dietary deficiency is the usual etiology of osteomalacia in adults. However, certain acquired causes are common and must be ruled out. These include renal tubular dysfunction caused by heavy metal exposure, often from native medications. Moreover, Fanconi syndrome can result from certain drugs used to treat infectious disorders. For example, tenofovir used to treat hepatitis B can lead to proximal renal tubular acidosis. The rampant use of glucocorticoids in different over-the-counter products enhances the risk of glucocorticoid-induced osteomalacia. Furthermore, a gradual increase in chronic kidney disease (CKD) in tropical countries, is leading to a higher incidence of renal osteodystrophy ( 8 ). Vitamin D deficiency in the tropics is widespread and ranges from 40 to 80%. Several postulates have been proposed to explain the lower vitamin D levels despite adequate sunlight. These include increased melanin in the skin, predominant indoor habits, and lack of vitamin D fortification. The relatively higher amount of fat for a given body mass index affects the redistribution of vitamin D. Lastly, air pollution in certain metropolitan cities reduces exposure to sunlight. Other causes of osteomalacia in tropical countries include renal tubular dysfunction and acquired hypophosphatemic disorders, covered in the “Diseases of Bone and Mineral Metabolism” section in Endotext. Hyperparathyroidism Parathyroid disorders could be classified as primary – wherein the parathyroid gland is diseased and secretes excessive parathyroid hormone (PTH), or secondary – where excess PTH secretion occurs as a compensatory response to systemic conditions such as vitamin
