Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


wherein the parathyroid gland is diseased and secretes excessive parathyroid hormone (PTH), or secondary – where excess PTH secretion occurs as a compensatory response to systemic conditions such as vitamin D deficiency, chronic kidney disease, etc. The third variety, tertiary hyperparathyroidism, is characterized by the autonomous transformation of the parathyroid gland during prolonged secondary PTH hypersecretion ( 9 ). Hyperparathyroidism differs in clinical presentation in tropical countries and often manifests as florid disease. Parathyroid disorders are usually slowly evolving, and overt skeletal defects are declining as more facilities start to screen for calcium in the tropics routinely. Thus, the prevalence of asymptomatic disease is gradually increasing ( 10 ). The salient differences in tropical countries are summarized in table 2 . Table 2. Difference in Parathyroid Disorders in Tropical Countries View in own window 1. Symptomatic hyperparathyroidism is still seen in tropical countries, unlike the West, where asymptomatic hyperparathyroidism is more common 2. Higher calcium and parathyroid hormone levels are found in tropics 3. Higher prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in the tropics 4. Intraoperatively a larger tumor/gland size in the tropics is usually observed 5. Brown tumors and severe bone diseases seen in the tropics are rare in the West Scurvy Nutritional deficiencies are rare in the developed world but are observed in tropical countries. Vitamin C deficiency is a rare cause of MBD but should be considered while evaluating patients with suggestive symptoms and radiological features. It may affect the bone and joints, but initial diagnosis is often missed due to nonspecific symptoms and signs. Initial manifestations include irritability, decreased appetite, and delayed development followed by a pseudo-paralysis-like state wherein the patient lies still with little movement because of generalized pain, most apparent in bones due to subperiosteal hemorrhages. Swelling may be noted along the shaft of long bones. Radiological changes in the long bones, particularly around the knee, are peculiar to scurvy. The bones are often fragile, with bone mineral density (BMD) in the osteopenic range. Fracture healing is often associated with large callus formation. Moreover, the epiphyses and periosteum are easily detachable due to the sub-periosteal bleeding. A classical feature on radiography known as the Wimberger ring is a circular, opaque radiologic shadow surrounded by a white line, seen in the growth centers around the epiphysis, as shown in Figure 1 . The cortical bone in vitamin C deficiency is characterized by thinning, often described as
