Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


white line, seen in the growth centers around the epiphysis, as shown in Figure 1 . The cortical bone in vitamin C deficiency is characterized by thinning, often described as a “pencil-point” cortex. Figure 1. Illustration of the radiological features of scurvy. The physis exhibits the Frankel line, characterized by thickening and sclerosis accompanied by a subjacent zone of lucency. The physeal thickening is known as a Frankel line, and the adjacent lucent zone on its diaphyseal side is the Trümmerfeld zone or the scurvy line. Metaphyseal “beaks” and transverse lines of increased or decreased opacity may be seen in scurvy. The “beaks,” known as Pelkan spurs, are associated with healing fractures of the Trümmerfeld zone at the periphery of the site of calcification. Costochondral junctions of the first six or eight thoracic ribs may be expanded; this change may be related to fracturing of the zone of provisional calcification during normal respiration. The costochondral junctions are rounded and appear smooth, knobby, and steplike. The enlargement of the costochondral junctions simulates findings seen in rickets but is often painful. The diagnosis of scurvy is based on a combination of clinical and radiographic findings. A dietary history suggestive of poor vitamin C intake for at least one to three months is required for the appearance of clinical symptoms. Unlike other MBDs, accurate laboratory measurement of vitamin C levels is unreliable as it does not reflect the tissue levels. Healing occurs rapidly with the oral administration of 100 to 200 mg/d of vitamin C ( 11 ). Paget’s Disease Of The Bone Paget’s disease of the bone is a rare disorder in the tropics compared to the temperate regions but has been reported in certain pockets, especially in southern India. The overall global prevalence seems to be declining. Several viruses, such as paramyxoviridae, respiratory syncytial virus, canine distemper virus, and measles virus, have been linked to its etiopathogenesis. Given the high prevalence of many of these viruses in the tropics, the tropical connection of Paget’s disease has received renewed attention. An underlying genetic etiology also predisposes to a higher occurrence in consanguineous populations. Due to the nonspecific symptoms, poor awareness among treating physicians, and limited availability of bone scans, the diagnosis is often missed. Thus, its true prevalence is unlikely to be determined. In a study from southern India, the mean age was 60 years in a cohort of 48 patients. It
