Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


often missed. Thus, its true prevalence is unlikely to be determined. In a study from southern India, the mean age was 60 years in a cohort of 48 patients. It was reported predominantly in men (65%), and about one-fifth of them were asymptomatic. Among the symptomatic patients, 87% have polyostotic involvement. Sixty-nine percent of them were treated with zoledronic acid, and all achieved remission immediately after therapy ( 12 ). Renal Tubular Disorders (Acquired & Genetic) Different varieties of genetic and acquired renal tubular acidosis (RTA) are known to occur in the tropics. Specifically, the SLC4A1 (solute carrier family 4 A1) gene mutation-induced dysfunction of the erythroid and kidney isoforms of anion exchanger 1 (AE1 or band 3) causes distal RTA in some areas of the tropics. The mutation is prevalent in Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Papua New Guinea. The inheritance is autosomal recessive and can result from either homozygous or compound heterozygous SLC4A1 mutations ( 13 ). Wilson’s disease, sickle cell anemia, and medullary sponge kidney are the other genetic causes of RTA more frequently encountered in regions where consanguinity is common. Among the acquired causes, several drugs have been implicated in the pathogenesis of RTA. Some of these are used in managing common infective disorders in tropical countries, for example, tenofovir, for treating hepatitis B. One study reported lower bone mass (12.3%) in patients with hepatitis B on tenofovir compared to those not on the drug or those without hepatitis B ( 8 ). Among other acquired causes of RTA, amphotericin B, analgesic abuse, recurrent urinary tract infection, and hyperparathyroidism have been commonly reported in some tropical countries. INFECTIVE DISORDERS ASSOCIATED WITH METABOLIC BONE DISEASE Several infective disorders affect bones and joints, causing debilitating disease. Given the high incidence of infectious conditions in the tropical countries, the concurrence of bone lesions is expected. Tuberculosis Tuberculosis is an unusual cause of bony lesions, but immunocompromised states such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and diabetes increase the risk. Spine involvement can present insidiously, with progressive back pain in endemic areas, especially when consecutive thoracic vertebrae are affected with relative disc preservation. Paravertebral and epidural soft tissue lesions may present as a cold abscess. Atypical tubercular osteoarticular manifestations involving the extraspinal skeleton, a prosthetic joint, or the trochanteric area, and nontuberculous mycobacterial infections should raise suspicion for immunocompromised states. Surgery combined with prolonged antitubercular therapy is indicated for neurological
