Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


the extraspinal skeleton, a prosthetic joint, or the trochanteric area, and nontuberculous mycobacterial infections should raise suspicion for immunocompromised states. Surgery combined with prolonged antitubercular therapy is indicated for neurological manifestations or deformities and provides satisfactory results in most cases. Because of the increasing resistance to antitubercular treatment, appropriate culture and sensitivity testing should be ordered whenever indicated ( 14 ). Leprosy Mycobacterium leprae primarily affects the skin and nerves. Effective antimicrobial therapy has improved outcome in the acute stage of infection. However, long-term sequelae such as foot drop are not unusual if the diagnosis is delayed. Ineffective penetration of antimycobacterial therapy into neural tissue can predispose to continued nerve damage and result in Charcot’s neuroarthropathy. Other chronic effects include male osteoporosis and hypogonadism. Testicular atrophy following invasion by Mycobacterium leprae have caused osteoporosis in a few cases ( 15 ). Treponemal Diseases The spirochete Treponema pallidum causes syphilis. Earlier published series have described three broad types of skeletal malformations. They include - group I: metaphyseal dystrophy, group II: osteitis-like dystrophy, and group III: periosteal dystrophy. Advances in case detection, treatment, and prevention have significantly lowered the incidence of the disease and its associated complications ( 16 ). Contrary to the earlier view that the malformations are inflammatory, newer evidence suggests that dystrophic changes are responsible. In a series of 55 cases, the most frequent osseous findings were metaphysitis, zone of rarefaction, periostitis, disorganized metaphysis, bone erosion, and Wimberger sign. The bones commonly affected were the long bones such as radius, ulna, tibia, femur, humerus, and fibula ( 17 ). Fungal Infection Osteoarticular mycoses are uncommon in clinical practice and Aspergillus and Candida are the organisms involved usually. Dimorphic fungi such as Histoplasma, Blastomyces, Coccidiosis, and Paracoccidiodes can affect the bones in endemic areas. They occur predominantly in immunocompetent hosts and are characterized by hematogenous dissemination. The natural history is typically indolent but occasionally the organisms behave virulently. While mucormycosis is highly aggressive and destructive in the lung, sinuses, and brain, it is relatively indolent in the bone. Mucormycosis can affect any bones and joints without specific predilection for any particular site. Most cases occur from direct inoculation of the bone rather than through systemic seeding. Osteoarticular mucormycosis can sometimes necessitate bony amputation to prevent the nidus from spreading through the systemic circulation. A high index of suspicion, early diagnosis, and intensive treatment are the key to successful management (
