Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


necessitate bony amputation to prevent the nidus from spreading through the systemic circulation. A high index of suspicion, early diagnosis, and intensive treatment are the key to successful management ( 18 ). CHEMICAL AND TOXIN-RELATED DISORDERS IN TROPICAL COUNTRIES Skeletal Fluorosis Skeletal fluorosis is caused by chronically ingesting excess fluoride, usually from natural sources. Skeletal fluorosis can be asymptomatic, but a broad range of manifestations, including diffuse skeletal pain, limited mobility, osteopenia, and ossification of ligaments and interosseous membranes, are known to occur. The severity of the disease depends on the amount and duration of fluoride exposure. The portal of entry is oral, and after absorption from the gastrointestinal tract, it is deposited in the skeleton, where it has a half-life of more than seven years. Incorporation of the fluoride in the hydroxyapatite crystal affects bone strength, and influences bone remodeling through the Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) and receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-В ligand (RANKL). This alters the expression of osteocalcin and osteoprotegerin with resultant increased osteoblastic activity ( 19 ). The usual clinical features are dental mottling, bony pains, chronic fatigue, joint stiffness with restricted range of motion, flexion contractures, radiculo-myelopathy, and increased fracture risk. The diagnosis is based on a high index of clinical suspicion and confirmed by a 24-hour estimation of the urinary fluoride level. There is no effective treatment for established skeletal fluorosis. Management consists of symptomatic therapy with analgesics and provision of adequate calcium and vitamin D. Decompressive laminectomy may be performed to relieve neurological deficits due to spine involvement. Identifying the source of high fluoride intake, defluoridation, or changing the water source helps prevent worsening. Lead Toxicity And Its Effect On Bone Lead toxicity remains a substantial public health problem globally and in tropical countries. Bone is a major reservoir of lead in both adults and children, accounting for 75-90% of the total body lead. The accumulated lead can gradually be released to other soft tissues and pathological sites. Bone lead accrual occurs after both environmental and occupational exposure. It is a marker of past lead exposure with a half-life of 20 years and thus increases gradually with age. ( 20 ) Lead exerts a detrimental effect by reducing osteocalcin production and inhibiting alkaline phosphatase activity in osteoblasts. Lead suppresses type II and type X collagen expression in chondrocytes and alters growth factors and second messenger signaling responses during chondrocyte maturation. Lead
