Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


inhibiting alkaline phosphatase activity in osteoblasts. Lead suppresses type II and type X collagen expression in chondrocytes and alters growth factors and second messenger signaling responses during chondrocyte maturation. Lead stimulates the osteoclasts to enhance bone resorption. Strict vigilance and robust policy decisions to decrease lead exposure will improve skeletal health in the tropics. Cadmium Toxicity And Metabolic Bone Disease Exposure to cadmium is associated with kidney, bone, and cardiovascular disorders. Like lead, cadmium is stored in the renal tissue for many years (half-life 10–30 years), which could result in renal tubular dysfunction, glomerular damage, and renal failure. A population-based study among postmenopausal women showed a clear link between a high burden of cadmium and low BMD ( 21 ). There are two proposed mechanisms for bone loss; a direct action on bone cells and an indirect action on the kidney resulting in phosphate and calcium excretion. In vitro studies have demonstrated that cadmium can increase the RANKL expression, tartarate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity, and formation of TRAP-positive cells in the presence of RANKL, resulting in increased osteoclastic activity. In tropical countries, silversmiths have exposure to cadmium in the absence of personal protective equipment. Case reports of exposure to cadmium and consequent renal osteodystrophy have been reported ( 22 ). Alcohol And Metabolic Bone Disease Alcohol consumption can, directly and indirectly, affect bone health. The mechanisms are summarized in Figure 2 . In a study by Peris et al., vertebral fractures were observed in 36% of those consuming alcohol chronically, but only 6.5% had BMD below the fracture threshold. Thus chronic alcohol consumption may lead to a higher propensity for vertebral fractures without impacting the BMD ( 23 ). The evaluation and treatment would depend upon the clinical profile. Figure 2. Impact of chronic alcohol consumption on metabolic bone disease. NEPHROLITHIASIS IN TROPICS Renal stone disease is a common problem worldwide. The prevalence and composition of renal stones differ according to country, climate, and culture ( 24 ). Conforming to that trend, renal stone diseases in tropical countries exhibit some unique features. The usual constituents of stones include calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, uric acid, cysteine, struvite, or a mixture of these. In many tropical countries, local factors influence the composition of the stone. Nephrolithiasis, in general, has been reviewed elsewhere in endotext.org ( 25 ). The prevalence of renal stone disease in older reports ranged from 7 to 13% in
