Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


of the stone. Nephrolithiasis, in general, has been reviewed elsewhere in endotext.org ( 25 ). The prevalence of renal stone disease in older reports ranged from 7 to 13% in North America, 5–9% in Europe, and 1–5% in Asia ( 26 ). The lower frequency in Asia could be partially from underreporting. Recent findings demonstrate that the incidence of renal stones has increased by 48.5% in the last three decades across the globe ( 26 , 27 ). The age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR) was greater in countries with high, middle, and low-middle sociodemographic index (SDI) than in low SDI regions. Some African countries, such as Madagascar, South Sudan, and Burundi, had a lower incidence of renal stones ( 27 ). An increased oxalate-degrading bacteria count in the gut of black South Africans could be a possible explanation ( 28 ). The tropical region of Asia, spanning West Asia, South Asia, and Southeast Asia, constitutes a stone-forming belt with high prevalence (5% to 19.1%) ( 29 ). Higher temperatures and sunlight exposure increase the risk in these regions ( 30 ). Similar trends are also described in Latin America ( 31 ). Globally, the peak incidence of nephrolithiasis occurs between 50 to 70 years, though in Asians, the maximum incidence is around 30 years. Males are affected more often globally and in Asia ( 27 , 29 ). Unique Aspects In Tropics TROPICAL CLIMATE AND STONE FORMATION Higher ambient temperature and low humidity in the tropics increase fluid loss through sweating. Urinary concentration increases as compensation, and relatively insoluble salts such as calcium oxalate and urates tend to precipitate and serve as foci of stone formation. Sweating-induced reduction in urinary pH favors the crystallization of uric acid and further enhances the risk of urate stone ( 32 ). Renal colic is thus more common during warmer months ( 33 ). Additionally, studies suggest that males are more susceptible to developing kidney stones due to increased temperature. However, whether this is related to the total cumulative heat exposure or differential pathophysiological response is unclear ( 34 , 35 ). METABOLIC SYNDROME AND NEPHROLITHIASIS The prevalence of metabolic syndrome in topical countries is on the rise ( 36 - 38 ). The upsurge in the frequency of nephrolithiasis could be attributed somewhat to the increasing burden of metabolic disorders. A consistent association between the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and renal stones has been
