Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


in the frequency of nephrolithiasis could be attributed somewhat to the increasing burden of metabolic disorders. A consistent association between the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and renal stones has been demonstrated ( 39 ). Obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and insulin resistance, all components of metabolic syndrome, are risk factors for stone formation ( 40 ). Hyperuricemia, another manifestation of insulin resistance, is a recognized pathophysiologic link. Insulin resistance decreases urinary ammonium production leading to the formation of acidic urine, augmenting the potential for lithogenesis ( 41 , 42 ). However, the predominant stone type in metabolic syndrome is oxalate. Hyperoxaluria in metabolic syndrome is multifactorial in etiology and could be related to changes in gut flora, increased renal oxidative stress, and alteration in the balance between promoters and inhibitors of lithogenesis ( 43 , 44 ). CHILDHOOD ENDEMIC BLADDER STONES The incidence of vesical calculus has declined significantly over the last few decades in developed nations but is still prevalent in the tropics. Reliance on carbohydrate-rich food and lack of protein early in life results in a relative deficiency of phosphates and leads to the formation of insoluble urinary salts. The boys are predisposed as their long tortuous urethra is a hindrance to clearing the debris ( 45 , 46 ). OTHER VARIETIES OF RENAL STONE SPECIFIC TO TROPICS In a study from Taiwan, environmental melamine exposure was found to be associated with nephrolithiasis ( 47 ). Betel nut chewing is also linked to stone formation. The pathogenesis could be mediated by arecoline, an alkaloid in betel nut ( 48 ). DENTAL DISORDERS IN THE TROPICS Tropical oral disorders include a wide range of conditions that may be manifestations of systemic diseases. Osteoporosis continues to be one of the most underdiagnosed and under-reported conditions in the tropics. Though the diagnosis of osteoporosis is based on DXA, it has been suggested that signs in the oral cavity and dental X-rays can be used for primary screening in resource-limited settings. Several radiographic indices, such as mandibular cortical index, mandibular cortical width, antegonial Index, gonial index, panoramic mandibular index, and alveolar crest resorption degree (M/M ratio), have been explored as screening tools for osteoporosis ( 49 ). The oral cavity can be a window to many other MBDs in the tropics. Vitamin D is crucial for the mineralization of bones and teeth. Low vitamin D levels lead to malformed, hypomineralized teeth that are brittle
