Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


to many other MBDs in the tropics. Vitamin D is crucial for the mineralization of bones and teeth. Low vitamin D levels lead to malformed, hypomineralized teeth that are brittle and vulnerable to decay, also known as “rachitic teeth ( 50 ). Dental abscesses are characteristic of vitamin D-resistant rickets (VDRR). Other characteristic manifestations of VDRR include dentin defects, unusually large pulp chambers, enlarged pulp horns, and enamel hypoplasia ( 51 ). Brown tumor, loss of bone density, soft tissue calcification, and dental abnormalities, such as developmental defects and changes in tooth eruption, are common oral symptoms in hyperparathyroidism. Malocclusion due to the drifting of teeth and spacing of the teeth may be the first signs of hyperparathyroidism ( 52 ). Tropical infective diseases such as tuberculosis can atypically present with oral manifestations. Lesions in the jaw in the form of osteomyelitis or simple bone radiolucency, as well as superficial ulcers, patches, and indurated soft tissue lesions, are described ( 53 ). Dental fluorosis is caused by excessive fluoride ingestion during tooth development. Dental fluorosis is common in the tropics and is described in the previous section ( 54 , 55 ). Clinically, mild cases of dental fluorosis manifest as an opaque white appearance of the enamel from increased subsurface porosity. Moderate dental fluorosis manifests as yellow to light brown staining in the areas of enamel damage. Severe dental fluorosis results in a porous enamel that is poorly mineralized and stains brown ( 56 ). Preventive strategies involve control of fluoride levels in drinking water ( 57 ). SARCOPENIA AND BONE – A TROPICAL PERSPECTIVE Sarcopenia, defined as the loss of muscle mass and strength, is an emerging global health problem. In a recent meta-analysis on the worldwide prevalence of sarcopenia, using different classifications and cut-off points, the prevalence of sarcopenia varied between 10 to 27% ( 58 ). Multi-center research from nine nations (Finland, Poland, Spain, China, Ghana, India, Mexico, Russia, and South Africa) across three continents revealed an overall frequency of 15.2% ( 59 ). Types Of Sarcopenia When no other etiology other than aging is apparent, the condition is called "primary" (or age-related) sarcopenia. The term "secondary" sarcopenia refers to sarcopenia from one more additional cause ( 60 ). Many tropical countries are seeing a rapid increase in the aging population owing to improved healthcare facilities ( 61 , 62 ). Hence, primary sarcopenia can potentially become
