Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


60 ). Many tropical countries are seeing a rapid increase in the aging population owing to improved healthcare facilities ( 61 , 62 ). Hence, primary sarcopenia can potentially become a serious health concern globally, particularly in the developing world. Secondary sarcopenia could be activity related (resulting from bed rest, a sedentary lifestyle), disease-related (associated with endocrine diseases, advanced organ failure, malignancy, inflammatory disease), or nutrition-related (inadequate dietary intake of energy/protein, malabsorption, use of medications that cause anorexia, etc.) ( 60 ). Risk Factors For Sarcopenia In The Tropics Though the tropics have been plagued with communicable diseases for a long time, there is a recent increase in noncommunicable lifestyle diseases and obesity, major risk factors for sarcopenia ( 63 , 64 ). A significant subset of adults over 65 years have sarcopenia complicated by obesity and are at risk of synergistic complications from obesity and sarcopenia ( 65 ). "Thin-fat obesity" or "sarcopenic obesity," also known as normal-weight obesity, is a recognized phenotype in South Asia with a comparable risk for cardiometabolic disease to conventional obesity. It is described as a condition in which a person has a normal body mass index (BMI) but a higher body fat percentage (based on ethnicity and gender-specific cut-offs) ( 66 ). Muscle mass and strength are lower in South Asians than in Caucasians ( 67 ). The South Asian Working Action Group on Sarcopenia (SWAG-SARCO) consensus has been developed for diagnosing sarcopenia in South Asian nations while considering these ethnic characteristics ( 64 ). Malnutrition is still a significant public health issue in underdeveloped nations, notwithstanding the rise in obesity ( 68 - 70 ). In addition to the traditional risk factors, HIV-associated sarcopenia is prevalent in Africa. In a study from Brazil, HIV-infected patients had a 4.95 higher risk for sarcopenia than the controls, which persisted even following adjustments for age and BMI ( 71 ). Osteosarcopenia Numerous studies support the concept of a bone-muscle unit, in which molecules released by the skeletal muscle secretome influence bone, and the osteokines secreted by osteoblasts and osteocytes modulate the muscle cells ( 72 ). Duque et al. originally used the term "osteosarcopenia" to refer to an older population subgroup having both sarcopenia and osteoporosis. Clinically, unfavorable outcomes such as falls, fractures, loss of function, and frailty arise when both illnesses coexist. Resistance training, adequate protein and calcium consumption, and maintenance of optimum levels
