Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


osteoporosis. Clinically, unfavorable outcomes such as falls, fractures, loss of function, and frailty arise when both illnesses coexist. Resistance training, adequate protein and calcium consumption, and maintenance of optimum levels of vitamin D are simple therapies that have a dual favorable effect on bone and muscle and decrease falls, fractures, and disability ( 73 ). CHALLENGES IN THE DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF MBD IN THE TROPICS Prevalence Of Vitamin D Deficiency Since skin exposure to ultraviolet radiation is the major source of vitamin D, it has long been believed that residing in tropical countries ensures adequate vitamin D levels. However, there is overwhelming evidence for widespread vitamin D deficiency in the tropics. Several other factors which could affect vitamin D levels, such as adiposity, skin pigmentation, genetic factors, clothing habits, sun avoidance, regular use of sunscreen, cloud cover and pollution, have been implicated ( 74 ). Most studies have defined vitamin D insufficiency as serum 25(OH)D less than 50 nmol/L (20 ng/mL). Using this diagnostic cut-off, South Asia has a prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency of 70% or more, and the prevalence in Southeast Asia ranges from 6-70% ( 75 ). Diagnosis Of Osteoporosis: Pitfalls And Challenges The diagnosis and management of MBD in the tropics is fraught with challenges. The gold standard tool for measuring BMD is the dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan ( 76 ). However, the limited availability of DXA and the associated costs continue to be a major hurdle ( 77 ). The World Health Organization (WHO) defined T-score of ≤-2.5 SD, originally designed as an epidemiological tool, has been widely adopted as both a diagnostic and intervention threshold for osteoporosis ( 78 ). The (National Health and Nutrition Examination (NHANES III) Survey was employed to create the Caucasian reference database. NHANES III is a nationally representative sample of 14,646 women and men in the United States. The data from this survey is used as the reference database in most DXA machines ( 79 , 80 ). There is a need to have country-specific reference ranges appropriate for the representative population ( 81 , 82 ). Utility Of Cost-Effective Screening Tools To circumvent the challenges associated with the cost and availability of DXA machines, a number of cost-effective screening tools for osteoporosis have been explored. FRAX®, developed by the former WHO Collaborating Centre at the University of Sheffield, is the most widely validated and used fracture
