Metabolic Bone Disease in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, osteoporosis, bone, free, pmc free, pmc, article, free article, article pubmed, tropics, sarcopenia, tropical, vitamin, countries, disease


of cost-effective screening tools for osteoporosis have been explored. FRAX®, developed by the former WHO Collaborating Centre at the University of Sheffield, is the most widely validated and used fracture risk assessment tool ( 83 ). The risk of hip fracture and other osteoporotic fractures varies greatly globally. The FRAX models are calibrated to countries where fracture and death epidemiology is known to adjust for these fluctuations ( 84 ). Currently, FRAX is available in 65 countries, including two Asian, 35 European, nine Middle East and African, two North American, seven Latin American, and two Oceanian. However, country-specific FRAX thresholds are unavailable in many tropical countries ( 85 , 86 ). Another screening tool of note, the Osteoporosis Self-Assessment Tool for Asians (OSTA), has been validated in multiethnic population in Asian countries ( 87 , 88 ).These screening tools identify patients at high risk for osteoporosis and optimize use of DXA in resource-limited settings ( 89 ). Osteoporosis Awareness Studies in multiethnic populations across Asia have consistently demonstrated poor knowledge of osteoporosis among women ( 90 - 92 ). Similarly, poor awareness among at-risk populations is a major concern across regions of Africa and South America ( 93 - 95 ). Low awareness among physicians and healthcare authorities contributes to the enormous treatment gap in osteoporosis ( 93 , 96 - 98 ). Though osteoporosis and osteoporosis-related fractures have consumed significant health resources, it is not recognized as a health priority in tropical countries due to the ‘more’ essential diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, and human immunodeficiency virus ( 94 ). Supporting research, raising awareness and establishing public health services will go a long way in preventing the enormous morbidity and mortality associated with fractures in these regions. Fracture Liaison Services FLS are gaining importance to address the low rates of patient work-up and treatment following a fracture. The FLS model attempts to avoid future fractures because there is at least a two-fold risk of refracture ( 99 ). The International Osteoporosis Foundation recommends the establishment of FLS to identify and treat patients with fractures properly. Universal FLS implementation in Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, and Argentina was predicted to prevent 31,400 fractures, avoid 292,281 bed days, and save 58.4 million USD in 2019 ( 100 ). However, FLS programs are yet to be universally established ( 100 - 102 ). Educating and engaging both private and public sectors in the efficient
