EurRadiol(2016)26:2118–2125
KEYWORDS: dwi, mri, patients, tem, regrowth, wait-and-see, tumour, equivocal, follow-up, equivocal scores, scores, months, rectal, treatment, tumour regrowth


DWI substantially reduced the larlyforR1.Interestingly,themajorityofthesefalsepositives number of equivocal scores (from 22 to 7 for R1 and (10/12forR1and2/2forR2)occurredinpatientswhodevel- from 40 to 20 for R2), thereby increasing the chance of opedtumourregrowthlaterduringfollow-up.Atthetimeof a conclusive MR outcome. theBfalse-positive^DWIfindings,nochangessuspiciousfor Ourstudyisthelargesttodatefocussingonthedetectionof tumourrecurrencewerevisualisedonendoscopy,andbiopsy tumourregrowthwithMRIduringthesurveillanceofpatients results(whenavailable)werenegative.Thelatterservedasthe treated with organ preservation. Previous studies (Colosio standardofreference,andthusthesepatientswereconsidered etal.andLambregtsetal.)havefocussedonimaginginpa- false-positiveonDWIatthattimeinouranalyses.Thisraises tients after routine surgical treatment. In these studies, MRI the question, however, of whether these false positives were wasperformedonlyinthecaseofclinicallysuspectedrecur- actualfalsepositivesonDWIorwhethertheseDWIfindings rence(clinicalsymptomsorrisingcarcinoembryonicantigen mighthavebeenearlyfeaturesofregrowth.Thiswouldsug- levels).Colosioetal.reportedanincreaseinsensitivityof gest that in some cases, primarily those in which tumour 7–16 % for two of three readers in a group of 52 surgically growth starts within the fibrotic mass without distortion of treatedrectalcancerpatients.Intheirstudy,DWIwasbenefi- the lumen, DWI signal changes may precede any visible cialonlyforthelessexperiencedresidentreadersandnotfora changes on endoscopy. The remaining two false-positive senior reader. A similar study by Lambregts et al. found no cases for R1 both occurred within the first 6 months of fol- significantimprovementindiagnosticaccuracywiththeaddi- low-up (one after TEM, one during wait-and-see). tionofDWIin42patientsafterroutinesurgicalresection. Shortly after treatment, postoperative/post-radiation in- Wehypothesizethatthedisparityinresultsbetweenourstudy flammatory changes may still be present, in which case andthesereportscanbeexplainedinpartbythedifferencein an accumulation of inflammatory cells, granulomas, and clinicalsetting.Symptomaticregrowth/recurrenceisoftendi- lymphoid aggregates can lead to relatively high cellular- agnosed in a more advanced stage when morphological dis- ity and thus restricted diffusion. In patients with inflam- tortions in the tumour bed can be clearly visualised already matory bowel disease, this phenomenon is used as a with standard MRI. However, in our cohort, where asymp- diagnostic criterion on DWI to detect active inflamma- tomatic patients were routinely monitored with repetitive tion , but in the setting of surveillance of pa- MR assessment, the regrowth was small (7–33 mm). These tients after organ preservation treatment, these effects casesofsmallregrowtharechallengingtodetectonstandard may hamper image interpretation and mimic a tumour. MRI,particularlywithinpost-treatmentfibrosis.Insuchcases, One of the benefits of DWI is that it offered a con- theuseofDWIcanhelpthereaderspotanysuspicioussignals clusive outcome in several cases (5–9 % of all MRIs) of tumour regrowth. In two of our study cases, DWI indeed where the T2W MRI resulted in equivocal scores. In detected on T2-weighted MRI (Fig. 1). In two other tional exams. Adding a DWI sequence may thus render cases, the addition of DWI increased the confidence of such additional exams unnecessary. The effect of DWI 2124 EurRadiol(2016)26:2118–2125 was most apparent in patients followed after TEM: the Acknowledgments ThescientificguarantorofthispublicationisRegi- rate of equivocal scores on standard T2W MRI was 12– naBeets-Tan.Theauthorsofthismanuscriptdeclarenorelationshipswith anycompanieswhoseproductsorservicesmayberelatedtothesubject 16 % after TEM versus only 3–7 % for the wait-and-see matterofthearticle.Theauthorsstatethatthisworkhasnotreceivedany group. Furthermore, within
