EurRadiol(2016)26:2118–2125
KEYWORDS: dwi, mri, patients, tem, regrowth, wait-and-see, tumour, equivocal, follow-up, equivocal scores, scores, months, rectal, treatment, tumour regrowth


the Acknowledgments ThescientificguarantorofthispublicationisRegi- rate of equivocal scores on standard T2W MRI was 12– naBeets-Tan.Theauthorsofthismanuscriptdeclarenorelationshipswith anycompanieswhoseproductsorservicesmayberelatedtothesubject 16 % after TEM versus only 3–7 % for the wait-and-see matterofthearticle.Theauthorsstatethatthisworkhasnotreceivedany group. Furthermore, within the TEM group, most of the funding.Oneoftheauthorshassignificantstatisticalexpertise.Aportion equivocal scores (67–82 %) occurred during the first ofthepatientsincludedweretreatedwithorganpreservationtreatmentas partofaclinicaltrial.Thistrialwasapprovedbytheinstitutionalreview 6 months of follow-up. This makes sense, since post- board, and written informed consent was obtained from all subjects surgical effects such as oedema and tissue inflammation (patients)in this study who weretreatedaccordingto theclinical trial will still be present early after surgery, rendering the described in point 6. For the other patients, written informed consent images more difficult to interpret. In patients undergoing was not required because of the retrospective nature of the study, for whichDutchnationallawdoesnotrequireIRBapproval.Somestudy wait-and-see, such postsurgical effects are absent, subjectsorcohortshavebeenpreviouslyreportedinMaasM,etal.Wait- allowing for easier interpretation of T2-weighted im- and-see policy forclinical responders afterchemoradiation for rectal ages, and thus explaining the higher confidence for both cancer.JClinOncol201129(35):4633–40.Thispublicationconcerned readers. In the wait-and-see group, the beneficial effect areportonaclinicaltrial(seepoint6)focussingontheselectionand of DWI in increasing the readers’ confidence was there- outcomeofpatientstreatedaccordingtoawait-and-seepolicy.Method- ology: retrospective, diagnostic or prognostic study, performed at one fore less obvious. institution. Our study is limited by its retrospective nature. The results are based on a per-scan assessment of individual OpenAccessThisarticleisdistributedunderthetermsoftheCreative CommonsAttribution-NonCommercial4.0InternationalLicense(http:// MR examinations. This setting was chosen to reflect creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/), which permits any noncom- daily practice and to gain insight into the strengths mercial use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided and weaknesses of MRI and DWI during regulated fol- yougiveappropriatecredittotheoriginalauthor(s)andthesource,pro- low-up, but may not translate into the true overall diag- videalinktotheCreativeCommonslicense,andindicateifchangeswere made. nostic performance of MRI and DWI on a patient level. However, the 17 % increase in sensitivity can be direct- ly translated to the effect on sensitivity at a patient level, given that only one event/regrowth occurred per References patient. Given the limited number of cases of local re- growth, the confidence intervals (particularly for sensi- 1. MaasM,Beets-TanRG,LambregtsDMetal(2011)Wait-and-see policy for clinical complete responders after chemoradiation for tivity and positive predictive value) are relatively wide. rectalcancer.JClinOncol29:4633–4640 Interobserver agreement was moderate for T2-weighted 2. LezocheG,BaldarelliM,GuerrieriMetal(2008)Aprospective MRI and moderate to good after the addition of DWI. randomizedstudywitha5-yearminimumfollow-upevaluationof The moderate agreement is likely attributable in part to transanal endoscopic microsurgery versus laparoscopic total mesorectal excision after neoadjuvant therapy. Surg Endosc 22: the fact that one of the two readers assigned a relatively 352–358 large number of equivocal scores, particularly for T2W 3. Habr-Gama A, Perez RO,
