research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


character- Corresponding author: Liverpool, Leahurst Campus, Chester High Road, Neston, the liver, pancreas and duodenum might predispose,8 CH64 7TE UK and it has been hypothesised that inflammatory lesions Email: Freiche et al 119 arise secondary to passage of enteric bacteria along the organs. Additional eligibility criteria included the pancreatic and common bile ducts. absence of complete biliary tract obstruction, signs of Histopathological examination of tissue samples is encephalopathy, marked abdominal lymphadenopathy, said to be the gold standard for diagnosis of FID.2,9–12 or histopathological findings compatible with idiopathic Given the fact that lesions can be present in any or all of hepatic lipidosis. Either primary or referral cases were the alimentary organs, exploratory coeliotomy is argua- eligible for inclusion. All diagnostic investigations were although its invasiveness makes it difficult to justify. As a owners gave written consent. investigations, namely history, physical examination, Data recording extent. For instance, when vomiting or diarrhoea are as well as duration and severity), dietary and medication observed, or when thickened intestinal loops are identi- history, and physical examination findings (eg, body fied on abdominal palpation, these would prompt fur- weight, body condition score, temperature, thoracic aus- ther investigation of and biopsy sampling from the cultation findings and abdominal palpation, as well as gastrointestinal tract. Similarly, the identification of the presence of icterus, peripheral lymphadenopathy icterus, increased liver enzyme activity, hyperbilirubi- and dehydration). naemia and bilirubinuria might prompt a clinician to investigate and biopsy the liver, while the identification Clinicopathological investigations The clinicopathological of abdominal pain and increased serum pancreas- investigations used in cases included haematological specific lipase concentration might suggest the need for and serum biochemical analyses, total thyroxine mea- pancreatic biopsy. The findings of abdominal ultra- surement and pancreas-specific lipase assay. Haemato- sonography can also be used to identify organ-specific logical and serum biochemical analyses were not to help the clinician decide which organs to biopsy, formed them. Total bilirubin concentration was only whether coeliotomy is needed or whether a less invasive measured if the serum was visibly icteric, or if the clini- method of biopsy collection would suffice (ie, ultra- cian requested it specifically. During the course of the sound-guided biopsy or gastrointestinal endoscopy). study, haematology was performed with one of two in- However, the reliability of this approach has not been house haematology analysers (ProCyte Dx Hematology critically assessed. The aim of the current study was to Analyzer [IDEXX] and LaserCyte Dx Hematology
