research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


the reliability of this approach has not been house haematology analysers (ProCyte Dx Hematology critically assessed. The aim of the current study was to Analyzer [IDEXX] and LaserCyte Dx Hematology Ana- results of histopathological examination in a cohort of ogy. Similarly, two in-house serum biochemistry suspected FID cases that ultimately had gastrointestinal, analysers (IDEXX VetLab Station [IDEXX] and Kbio pancreatic and hepatic biopsies collected at exploratory 4 biochemistry analyser [KITVIA]) were used. In 21 cats, coeliotomy. total thyroxine concentration was measured with one of two in-house biochemistry analysers (SNAP Reader Materials and methods [IDEXX] and SNAPshot Dx Analyzer [IDEXX]), while Study recruitment and eligibility criteria pancreatic lipase was measured using a feline-specific The study was a retrospective, cross-sectional, cohort immunoassay (feline pancreas-specific lipase, fPL Test; study involving cats seen at a single centre. To identify IDEXX) in 11 cats. Basic urinalysis (eg, dipstick analysis eligible cases, the medical records of cats referred to the and measurement of specific gravity by refractometer) Clinique Alliance Digestive Diseases Consultation, was not required for a case to be eligible for inclusion, Bordeaux, France, between January 2006 and February but was performed in 15 cats. Faecal analysis was per- 2013 were reviewed. Eligibility criteria included the formed in only two cats, with negative results in all, and presence of signs compatible with FID (eg, anorexia, these data are therefore not presented. lethargy, vomiting, diarrhoea, icterus and weight loss), examination, abdominal ultrasonographic examination using a MyLab Twice ultrasound system (Esaote Medical and collection of hepatic, pancreatic and small intestinal SAS). Although this author is not a board-certified diag- biopsies at exploratory coeliotomy. All cats must have nostic imager, she has >15 years of experience in the had either liver enzyme activity or abdominal ultra- field, and has received extensive training in ultrasonog- sonography, or both performed, in addition to histo- raphy from board-certified diagnostic imagers. Data pathological assessment of at least two alimentary tract were recorded regarding the presence of hepatic (eg, 120 Journal of Feline Medicine and Surgery 18(2) hepatomegaly, altered hepatic echogenicity, biliary tract are recorded as normal or abnormal, based upon the dilation, biliary sludge and gall bladder wall thickening), appropriate reference interval for the analyser. These pancreatic (eg, altered pancreatic echogenicity and homo- included leukocytosis (based upon an increased white geneity), gastrointestinal (eg, increased small intestinal blood cell count), anaemia (based upon decreased wall thickness, increased muscularis layer thickness haemoglobin concentration), increased
