research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


homo- included leukocytosis (based upon an increased white geneity), gastrointestinal (eg, increased small intestinal blood cell count), anaemia (based upon decreased wall thickness, increased muscularis layer thickness haemoglobin concentration), increased liver enzyme [defined as being more than twice the width of the sub- activity, hypoalbuminaemia, hyperbilirubinaemia and mucosa], altered intestinal wall layering and retention of increased pancreas-specific lipase activity. contents within the stomach) and abdominal lymph node All data were entered into a spreadsheet (Microsoft (eg, enlargement of mesenteric lymph nodes and lymph- Excel for Mac 2011 version 14.4.4; Microsoft Corporation), adenopathy [>5 mm thickness]) abnormalities. and statistical software (StatsDirect version 2.7.9; StatsDirect Ltd) was used to assist with data manipulation Exploratory coeliotomy In all cases, exploratory coeliot- and analysis. The aim was to determine the relationship certified surgeons, and the name of the surgeon involved examination, clinicopathological tests and diagnostic was recorded. The reason for surgical intervention was imaging) and the results of histopathological examination. also recorded in each case and included the presence of The different clinical signs were categorised according to lymph node thickening, distal small intestinal lesions, the organ most likely to be affected when that sign was suspected cholangitis and suspected pancreatic lesions. present. Therefore, vomiting, diarrhoea and the presence In all cases, the decision to perform surgery was based of thickened intestinal loops on abdominal palpation were findings of ultrasonographical examination. as a liver indicator and abdominal pain was classed as a pancreatic indicator. The different clinicopathological Histological evaluation of biopsy samples Biopsy samples abnormalities were also classified in a similar manner, were placed in 10% neutral buffered formalin (pH 7.4), such that increased liver enzyme activity (alanine ami- and submitted to a single diagnostic pathology labora- notransferase [ALT] and alkaline phosphatase [ALP]), tory (Laboratoire d’Anatomie Pathologique Vétérinaire hyperbilirubinaemia, and bilirubinuria were assumed to du Sud Ouest [LAPVSO], Toulouse, France). Samples be liver indicators, and increased pancreas-specific lipase were processed by routine methods for histological activity was assumed to be a pancreatic indicator. Finally, examination and examined by histopathologists work- abnormal findings on abdominal ultrasonography were ing at the same diagnostic pathology laboratory also used as indicators of disease in the organ affected. (LAPVSO). A number of pathologists were involved in We were interested in determining to what extent the assessing the samples, although most (23/39; 59%) were organ indicators identified could rule disease of that conducted by one of three certified pathologists (Frédéri-
