research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


in determining to what extent the assessing the samples, although most (23/39; 59%) were organ indicators identified could rule disease of that conducted by one of three certified pathologists (Frédéri- organ either in or out. Therefore, sensitivity, specificity, que Degorce-Rubiales, Claire Dally and Mélanie Fine). positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive All liver samples were scored according to World Small value (NPV) were calculated for each indicator for the Animal Veterinary Association (WSAVA) Liver Stan- presence or absence of histopathological abnormalities in dardization Group criteria,13 while all intestinal samples their specific organ. For descriptive purposes, results were were scored according to the WSAVA Gastrointestinal classified arbitrarily as very poor (<50%), poor (50–65%), Standardization Group criteria.14 moderate (66–80%) or good (>80%). Given our specific interest in FID, sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV were Data handling and analysis also calculated for the presence of histopathological Data recorded from cases included signalment data, changes of an inflammatory nature in the organ of inter- presenting findings, the results of clinicopathological est. There were two exceptions: first, for thickened intes- investigations, abdominal ultrasonography and histo- tinal loops, sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV were pathological examination. Data for duration of clinical also calculated for the presence of gastrointestinal neo- signs were not normally distributed (Shapiro–Wilk test) plasia; second, for feline pancreas-specific lipase, the lim- and are expressed as median (range); although age data ited number of test results meant that it was inappropriate were normally distributed, for consistency, median to calculate sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV. Instead, and abnormalities identified with the diagnostic investi- without pancreatic abnormalities were reported. gations) are reported as numbers, proportions and per- In addition to this, we wished to determine whether centages. A clinical sign was defined as being present the presence of an organ-specific indicator could rule out when its presence was recorded in the medical record. disease in another alimentary organ, such that targeted Given that different haematological and serum biochem- biopsy of the specific organ could then be justified. ical analysers were used throughout the study, results Therefore, for each organ indicator, we also recorded the Freiche et al 121 proportion (and percentage where appropriate) of cases Table 1 Abdominal ultrasonographic findings in 36/38 with or without that indicator that had histopathological cats in the study changes in the other organs. Organ Abnormality (n) Results Liver Hepatomegaly (5) Study population and signalment Hyperechoic (7) During the study
