research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


(22%). Results were worse for pan- diarrhoea to decide whether or not to biopsy the gastro- creatic neoplasia with poor sensitivity (50%) and very intestinal tract. Further, given that a significant number poor specificity (17%). of cats with diarrhoea also had histopathological abnor- malities in the liver or pancreas, the presence of diar- Discussion rhoea cannot be used to exclude disease in other The current study has assessed the ability of preliminary alimentary organs. Apparent thickening of intestinal on the presence of histopathological abnormalities on in the current study, being present in only 4/38 cats. biopsy samples collected at coeliotomy. As previously Although it might be assumed that this sign would cor- reported,2,15,16 a range of histopathological abnormalities relate with infiltrative disease, none of these cases had was identified in all alimentary tract organs, but the gastrointestinal neoplasia. Therefore, this is a non-spe- graphic findings was poor. These results call into once haemolysis is eliminated as a cause, the abnormal- question the use of preliminary clinical data in decision- ity is likely to reflect either hepatic or posthepatic dis- sites of the alimentary tract to sample. They further sug- indicator in the current study. However, although all gest that, unless all alimentary tract organs are sampled cases with icterus were ultimately found to have histo- at exploratory coeliotomy, the full extent of pathological pathological abnormalities within their liver, this finding abnormalities might be missed. was uncommon (three cats), and the majority (90%) of 126 Journal of Feline Medicine and Surgery 18(2) those with liver disease were not icteric. Therefore, relatively specific (71–80%), it was poorly sensitive (20–25%) identify all cases where a liver biopsy would be fruitful. be one explanation for the difference in results between Further, the fact that cats with icterus also had disease in studies and one potential limitation of the current work other alimentary organs suggests that it cannot be used was the fact that board-certified diagnostic imagers did as a basis for not sampling other alimentary tract organs. not perform the investigations. Any adverse effect on However, while this sign performed poorly as a liver performance would be partly offset by the fact that only indicator, it is partly explained by the fact that cases with one operator performed all examinations, who had biliary tract obstruction and idiopathic hepatic lipidosis received extensive training in abdominal diagnostic were excluded. Further studies would be required to imaging
