research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


with one operator performed all examinations, who had biliary tract obstruction and idiopathic hepatic lipidosis received extensive training in abdominal diagnostic were excluded. Further studies would be required to imaging and used one machine. A second possible reason assess performance of icterus in identifying such disor- for the difference in results is the type of cases studied, ders. Abdominal pain was used as a pancreatic indicator with the current study including a wide population of but, as with icterus, it was only observed in three cases. cats with alimentary tract signs, rather than those that In fact, only two of these cases actually had pancreatic just had hepatic disease. Whatever the reason, the authors histopathological abnormalities, while there were a fur- would recommend caution with using abdominal ultra- ther 17 cats with pancreatic disease that did not have sonography to determine whether or not to perform abdominal pain. Thus, as noted in previous studies,17 hepatic biopsy. Caution is also advised when using ultra- abdominal pain is uncommon in cats with pancreatic sonography to detect gastrointestinal lesions, where per- disease, and should not be used in decision-making for formance was even worse than with hepatic abnormalities. cases with suspected alimentary tract disease. Further studies assessing the use of ultrasonography for Liver enzymes are specific markers of hepatic disease alimentary tract disease would help to clarify the circum- in cats and, given the short half lives relative to other stances where this modality is of greatest benefit. species, any abnormality is thought to be significant.18 Previous studies have examined the use of ultra- However, in a recent study, liver enzyme activity in cats sonography to detect pancreatic disease in cats,22,23 and was a poor predictor of the severity of inflammation in both sensitivity and specificity are reported to be moder- cats with cholangitis.5 Similarly, in the current study, ately good.23 In contrast, the findings of the current study despite the fact that approximately three-quarters of cats suggest that for ultrasonography, while sensitivity was had histopathological evidence of liver disease, increased moderately good (78%) for detecting pancreatic inflam- liver enzyme activity was seen in only a minority. While mation, specificity was poor (22%). The reasons why specificity was good, sensitivity and NPV were both these results contrast with those of previous studies are poor. Findings were equivalent for hyperbilirubinaemia, not known but might again be explained by operator and worse for bilirubinuria. This
