research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


both these results contrast with those of previous studies are poor. Findings were equivalent for hyperbilirubinaemia, not known but might again be explained by operator and worse for bilirubinuria. This suggests that, even effect and differences in the case population examined. when clinicopathological indicators of liver disease are More concerning was the fact that, in four cats, a pancre- normal, hepatic pathological abnormalities cannot be atic tumour was identified after pancreatic biopsy, three ruled out. Therefore, it would not be advisable for a cli- of which were malignant, but these had been missed on nician to use such results to decide against either per- ultrasonography. Therefore, once again, caution is advis- forming exploratory coeliotomy or hepatic biopsy. able when using ultrasonography as a screening test in Measurement of pancreas-specific lipase is now com- feline alimentary tract disease, and the authors suggest monplace in cats with alimentary tract signs, and previ- that pancreatic biopsy is a necessary step when investi- ous studies have suggested reasonable sensitivity and gating feline alimentary tract disorders. specificity.18,19 The results of the current study did not Exploratory coeliotomy is an invasive procedure indicate that this assay performed any better than other compared with other biopsy techniques, and many clini- the fact that, given that most cases were chronic, pan- current study, the most common reasons for performing creas-specific lipase activity was only assessed in 11 cats. an exploratory coeliotomy, in about half of all cats, were Thus, firm conclusions on test performance should be the identification of enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes made with caution, and future studies should be consid- and suspicion of a distal gastrointestinal lesion on ered to address this issue. abdominal ultrasonographic examination. In other stud- Like liver enzyme activity, hepatic ultrasonography is ies, lymph node enlargement is an important finding,24,25 also commonly used to identify the presence of liver dis- and can suggest the presence of lymphoma.7 In contrast, ease, and to determine the need for biopsy. Indeed, sensi- the main reason for using coeliotomy when a distal small tivity (87%) and specificity (90%) are reportedly good for intestinal lesion was suspected was the relative inacces- identifying cats with cholangitis,20 with increased echo- sibility of this region for sampling by a less invasive genicity being a common feature.21 In contrast, although method such as endoscopy. Unlike lymph node enlarge- the current study suggested that ultrasonography was ment and distal small intestinal lesions,
