research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


invasive genicity being a common feature.21 In contrast, although method such as endoscopy. Unlike lymph node enlarge- the current study suggested that ultrasonography was ment and distal small intestinal lesions, suspected Freiche et al 127 hepatic and pancreatic lesions were less commonly used A fifth limitation was the fact that histopathological as the reason for performing coeliotomy. Despite its per- assessments were performed by a number of different ceived invasiveness, mean duration of hospitalisation pathologists, which might have resulted in inconsisten- after surgery was brief (ie, <2 days) and, where compli- cies in interpretations. Finally, perhaps the most impor- cations were seen, they were typically mild and tran- tant issue was the fact that only a small cohort of cats sient. One serious complication previously described is was examined from a referral clinic. Cats were only leakage of luminal contents from the site of surgical inci- included if an exploratory coeliotomy had been per- sion,26 but this was not seen in the current study. Further, formed, which would likely have skewed case selection. no cases of postoperative pancreatitis were reported, It is possible that the very reason that the clinician despite the frequent collection of biopsies from this selected coeliotomy, and not a non-invasive procedure, organ. Thus, the findings of the current study would was the fact that the case was more complicated, and this suggest that exploratory coeliotomy is relatively safe might have inadvertently selected for cases where pre- size and the fact that the procedures were conducted at a have reported positive and predictive values, these are sentative of cats from primary care practice. Therefore, the population assessed. Thus, our results are only clinicians should discuss possible complications with meaningful relative to the population sampled, and the owner before the procedure, so that this can form the might not be representative of other populations. Most The study has a number of limitations, many of which and thus affected by selection bias (ie, because they are are inherent in its retrospective design. First, there was more likely to be severe, difficult or complex cases); no control group for comparison, for instance cats with- therefore, the predictive values might not be representa- out confirmed gastrointestinal disease, in order to com- tive of what would be expected in primary care practice. pare test performance in cats with and without Thus, it would be sensible to consider further studies to alimentary disease.
