research-article2015 JFM0010.1177/1098612X15573091Journal of Feline Medicine and SurgeryFreiche et al
KEYWORDS: cats, liver, histopathological, hepatic, abnormalities, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, intestinal, study, feline, disease, cases, tract, poor, abdominal


tive of what would be expected in primary care practice. pare test performance in cats with and without Thus, it would be sensible to consider further studies to alimentary disease. Second, given that the study was confirm or refute the current study findings. conducted over 7 years, different analysers were used for the clinicopathological analyses. As methods and ref- Conclusions erence intervals were different, it was not possible to As previously reported, it is common for cats presenting look at data in a quantitative manner. Instead, results with gastrointestinal signs to have histopathological were interpreted on the basis of whether or not they abnormalities in a number of organs concurrently. was not measured, and this might have improved the logical results and ultrasonography, lack precision and performance of liver enzyme activity in identifying cannot reliably predict from which organs biopsy hepatic histopathological abnormalities. Fourth, because material should be collected. Given the fact that explora- exploratory coeliotomy is considered to be invasive, tory coeliotomy is generally well tolerated, the authors only a limited number (ie, up to three) full-thickness would recommend this as the procedure of choice for small intestinal biopsies were collected and thus gastro- diagnosis of feline gastrointestinal diseases. intestinal histopathological findings might not have been completely representative. In a similar manner, Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank Dr when sampling the pancreas and liver, only one biopsy P Maître and S Bureau, of the Clinique Alliance, Bordeaux, sample was taken from each organ. Thus, the relatively France, who performed the surgical procedures. The authors poor associations between the clinicopathological and would also like to thank the pathologists at Laboratoire ultrasonographical findings and histopathological lesions d’Anatomie Pathologique Vétérinaire du Sud Ouest (LAPVSO), might be related to the fact that genuine lesions were and especially F Degorce-Rubiales for performing histopatho- missed if patchy disease was present. For instance, a pre- logical examination. vious necropsy study revealed that chronic inflamma- tion is more common in the left pancreatic lobe than in Conflicts of interest AJG’s readership is financially sup- the right lobe.27 Although biopsy samples were usually ported by Royal Canin. taken from the left lobe of the pancreas in the current study, the fact that the right lobe was rarely sampled Funding This research received no specific grant from any fund- might still have produced some false negative results ing agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors. and,
