Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


specific brain areas that integrate peripheral signals regarding nutrient intake and energy stores ( 5 ). The obese state is a very difficult condition to treat because of the coexistence of low-grade inflammation, dysbiosis, hormonal and neurogenic imbalances ( 3 , 4 , 6 ) ( Figure 1 ). These factors also make major contributions to obesity-related diseases, such as type 2 diabetes (T2D), cardiovascular disease, and some types of cancer, impacting adversely upon health, socio-economic factors and life expectancy ( 1 , 7 , 8 ). Weight loss can improve these co-morbidities and increase life expectancy. However, current treatments that emphasize dietary (especially low-calorie diets) or lifestyle approaches for obesity lack long-term efficacy. A meta-analysis of weight loss clinical trials mediated by lifestyle interventions showed an average weight loss of 5% to 9% in the first 6 months, which back-tracked to 3% to 6% in those studies where 48-month data were available ( 9 ). Another review assessing the long-term outcomes of calorie-restricted diets showed that up to two-thirds of dieters regain more weight than they lost during their weight loss programs ( 10 ). The data for the impact of anti-obesity medication (AOM) on total weight loss percentage after 1 year are highly variable, ranging from 3% with lorcaserin to 9.4% with phentermine/topiramate ( 11 ). Figure 1. Schematic diagram comparing the simplistic definition of obesity, thought to be the result of an imbalance between energy expenditure and consumption ( 1 ), with the very complex physiopathology of the obese state ( 2 ). This is the result of genetic, inflammatory, microbiota, endocrine, neurogenic and other factors. This pathophysiological complexity underlies the difficulty in finding effective treatments to combat obesity. Bariatric/metabolic procedures are currently the most effective treatments for people with severe obesity both in terms of weight loss amount and sustainability and the resolution of complications ( 12 ). The mechanisms behind the success of bariatric/metabolic surgeries remain to be fully elucidated but post-surgical changes in gut-derived hormonal peptides, bile acids (BA), gut microbiota, and vagal tone are suggested to be involved ( 13 , 14 ). Importantly, research studies undertaken in animal models and patients with obesity undergoing bariatric surgery have significantly advanced our understanding of the important interplay between the central nervous system (CNS) and the gastrointestinal (GI) tract in regulating energy and glucose homeostasis. Several brain regions integrate continuous information provided by chemical messengers
