Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


the important interplay between the central nervous system (CNS) and the gastrointestinal (GI) tract in regulating energy and glucose homeostasis. Several brain regions integrate continuous information provided by chemical messengers and neural networks arising from the periphery that reflect nutrient availability, the body's energy status, and play a key role in regulating energy homeostasis. The GI tract is responsible for generating the majority of inputs communicated to the CNS regarding both the quality and quantity of a meal. This complex bi-directional communication system between the GI tract and the CNS has come to be known as the gut-brain axis ( 4 , 15 ) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Schematic diagram illustrating the gut-brain axis. The entire gastrointestinal tract (GIT) is responsible for generating multiple signals that inform the central nervous system (CNS) regarding quality and quantity of a meal. Key components include neural signals, gut hormones, bile acids, and gut microbiota. In this review we will explore the gut-brain axis in detail, focusing on the role of gut hormones, Bas, and gut microbiota. We will concentrate our attention on the perturbations of the gut-brain axis in the obese state, and the compensatory response to weight loss induced by lifestyle interventions. Finally, we will discuss the impact of bariatric surgery upon gut hormones, Bas, and gut microbiota and the evidence supporting a role for these factors in mediating the beneficial weight and metabolic effects of bariatric surgeries. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF BODY WEIGHT REGULATION AND THE GUT—BRAIN AXIS During the majority of human evolution food has been scarce. It is therefore not a surprise that endogenous systems have evolved to prioritize food-seeking behaviours when necessary to ensure adequate nutrition for reproduction and survival. Neuronal circuits within the brain control energy homeostasis, integrating peripheral signals of energy availability originating from the GI tract, adipose tissue mass, muscle mass, and bone density, together with information from higher cognitive centers and external environmental food cues ( 16 ). Upon food consumption, sensory information reflecting nutrient availability is transferred from the GI vagal and/or somatosensory (spinal) afferent fibers to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) that, in turn, are integrated and transferred to several other brain centers, including the hypothalamus ( 17 ). Figure 3. Schematic diagram illustrating the central effects of hormones that control eating. Leptin and insulin are secreted in proportions to body fat mass and decrease appetite by inhibiting neurons that produce
