Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


Schematic diagram illustrating the central effects of hormones that control eating. Leptin and insulin are secreted in proportions to body fat mass and decrease appetite by inhibiting neurons that produce the NPY and AgRP, while stimulating melanocortin-producing neurons in the ARC region of the hypothalamus, near the third ventricle of the brain. NPY and AgRP stimulate eating, and melanocortins inhibit eating, via higher-order neurons. Activation of NPY/AgRP-expressing neurons inhibits melanocortin-producing neurons. The gastric hormone acyl-ghrelin stimulates appetite by activating the NPY/AgRP-expressing neurons. Gut hormones released from the GI tract in response to eating, including PYY, inhibit these neurons and thereby suppress appetite and decrease energy intake. Abbreviations: AgRP, agouti-related peptide; ARC, arcuate nucleus; CART, cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript; NPY, neuropeptide Y, PVN, paraventricular nucleus; PYY, peptide tyrosine-tyrosine 3-36; POMC, pro-opiomelanocortin: Lepr, Leptin receptor; GHSR, Ghrelin receptor, MC3R, Melanocortin 3 receptor, MC4R, Melanocortin 4 receptor, Y1r, NPY receptor; Y2r, NPY/PYY3-36 receptor. The hypothalamus is the key integrative brain site that governs reciprocal orexigenic and anorexigenic behavioral responses, as well as adaptive metabolic changes in response to alterations in food availability and activity levels ( 18 ) ( Figure 3 ). The arcuate (ARC), paraventricular (PVN), ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei, as well as the lateral hypothalamus, are the most important hypothalamic areas involved in energy homeostasis ( 19 ). The ARC responds to peripheral and central signals reflecting nutrient availability and energy expenditure by releasing neurotransmitters from two separate and reciprocally connected neuronal populations: pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)/cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and neuropeptide Y (NPY)/agouti-related protein (AgRP) neurons. NPY/AgRP neurons are situated in the medial ARC and release AgRP and NPY, which stimulate hunger, appetite, and decrease energy expenditure ( 17 , 19 - 21 ). Neighboring POMC and CART-containing neurons located in the lateral ARC release α-melanocortin-stimulating hormone (α-MSH) and CART respectively ( 17 ). These neurotransmitters are antagonistic of AgRP and NPY and act via the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) to decreased hunger and increased energy expenditure ( 22 ) ( Figure 3 ). In addition to vagal signaling, gut hormones can also directly influence these hypothalamic circuits. For example, injected peptide YY (PYY) can inhibit food intake by binding to Y2 receptors localized to the ARC ( 23 ) ( Figure 3 ). Figure 4. Schematic diagram illustrating the mechanisms involved in regulating feeding behavior. Nutrient entry into the GI tract causes gastric and intestinal distension, secretion of pancreatic enzymes and BA, altered
