Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


Figure 4. Schematic diagram illustrating the mechanisms involved in regulating feeding behavior. Nutrient entry into the GI tract causes gastric and intestinal distension, secretion of pancreatic enzymes and BA, altered enteric and vagal nerve signaling and exposure of EECs to nutrients with altered circulating gut hormone levels (e.g. decrease in orexigenic hormone acyl-ghrelin and increase in anorectic hormones PYY3-36 and GLP-1). Gut-derived signals (nutrients, hormones, and neural) and adipokines (e.g. leptin and others) act directly and indirectly upon the brainstem and hypothalamic areas (see Figure 3 for a detailed description of hypothalamic nuclei controlling energy homeostasis). All of these factors are involved in the regulation of homeostatic hunger. Social factors, emotion, reward, pleasure, increased food availability and sensory cues can influence brain reward and higher cognitive brain regions leading to altered feeding behavior (hedonic influences on hunger and appetite control). Taste and olfactory signals can also influence energy intake acting on both homeostatic and brain reward systems. Insulin leptin, GLP-1, PYY and ghrelin are present in saliva with cognate receptors on taste buds and olfactory neurons. Abbreviations: AgRP, agouti-related peptide; ARC, arcuate nucleus; CART, cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript; EEC’s, enteroendocrine cells; FGF-19, fibroblast growth factor-19; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; LHA, lateral hypothalamic area; NPY, neuropeptide Y, peripheral nervous system, PNS; PVN, paraventricular nucleus; PYY, peptide tyrosine-tyrosine 3-36; POMC, pro-opiomelanocortin, sympathetic nervous system, SNS. Several other brain regions have key roles in energy homeostasis. `The area postrema (AP) is proximally located to NTS and, along with the ARC, are unique in that they have incomplete blood-brain-barriers, thus allowing them to be directly accessed and influenced by blood-borne gut hormones and other circulating factors ( 4 ). In animal models, AP lesions have been shown to result in diminished central effect of several gut hormones ( 24 ). Signals from the GI tract also interact with the brain reward systems that constitute dopaminergic neurons located in the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens, and other sites. These neuronal pathways are thought to mediate effects of exposure to hedonic food cues present in obesogenic environments of Western societies, possibly contributing to the creation of the desire to eat in the absence of an energy requirement in what has been termed “hedonic obesity” ( 18 ) ( Figure 4 ). More broadly, the gut-brain axis includes bidirectional communication between the CNS and the enteric nervous system (ENS), autonomic nervous system (ANS) (with sympathetic and parasympathetic
