Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


) ( Figure 4 ). More broadly, the gut-brain axis includes bidirectional communication between the CNS and the enteric nervous system (ENS), autonomic nervous system (ANS) (with sympathetic and parasympathetic branches), neuroendocrine system, gut immune system, BAs, and gut microbiota ( 25 , 26 ). Both acute and chronic alterations in these systems can arise in response in changes in energy expenditure and consumption ( 6 ). Peripheral energy-regulating signals are traditionally classified as long-term signals of energy balance, such as leptin and insulin levels reflective of body adipose stores (“adiposity signals”), and short-term signals, which convey information regarding nutrient and meal-derived energy availability ( 5 ) (“satiety signals”), whereas the role of the immune system of the GI tract is still under investigation ( Figure 4 ). Figure 5. Schematic diagram illustrating the regulation of an L-cell, one of the several EECs present in the GI tract. Nutrients and their interaction with gut microbiota and BAs in the intestinal lumen activate luminal receptors located on the apical cell membrane, which then activate intracellular metabolism leading to calcium influx to induce the synthesis and release of gut hormones into the sub-epithelial space. Luminal receptors includes receptors for short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) (e.g., GPR41, GPR43), long chain fatty acids (e.g., GPR40, GPR120), proteolytic products (e.g., CaSR) and BAs (e.g., TGR5). Various gut-derived hormones glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY), and oxyntomodulin (OXM) are synthesized, secreted and released from L-cells systemically to induce an effect on various tissues throughout the body such as the brain. These hormones can act systemically or cooperate with the enterocytes via local paracrine action. Their systemic effects could be endocrine but also neural through the activation of afferent neurons located in the GI wall. The secretion of gut hormones can be stimulated, in turn, by circulating hormones and glucose or by stimulation from enteric nerves. Most of these communications related to energy homeostasis involve hormonal and neural signals, which are quite substantial given that the GI tract releases more than 100 different hormonally active peptides ( 27 ) and contains approximately 500 million neurons ( 28 ). In response to nutrient ingestion, stretching of stomach mechanoreceptors generates the first ENS feedback signals to the CNS mediating meal cessation ( 4 , 29 ). Subsequently, digested luminal nutrients come in contact with the microvilli of apical cell membranes of enteroendocrine cells (EECs) located in the epithelium of
