Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


meal cessation ( 4 , 29 ). Subsequently, digested luminal nutrients come in contact with the microvilli of apical cell membranes of enteroendocrine cells (EECs) located in the epithelium of the GI tract to stimulate gut hormone release. Therefore, the majority of signaling and communication within the gut-brain axis is initiated in response to pre-absorptive nutrients ( 15 ) ( Figure 5 illustrates in detail the biology of an L-cell as a model of an EEC). Following gut hormone receptor activation, nutrient-derived signals exert local control over intestinal function and are conveyed directly and indirectly to the brain via vagal and spinal afferents ( 30 - 32 ) ( Figure 5 ). Digestion and absorption take place predominantly in the stomach and small intestine where dense innervation originating from splanchnic and vagal nerves transmit neurological signals generated during the process of nutrient sensing ( 29 ). Additional roles of the ENS include regulation of gastric emptying by vagal activation ( 17 , 33 ) and mediation of GI endocrine signaling via vagal nerve afferents that project into the lamina propria of the gut ending at the basolateral cell membrane of EECs. It is through these nutrient-specific sensory signals that the GI tract informs the CNS about a meal’s energy and macronutrient content ( 34 ). LINKING THE GUT AND BRAIN: GUT HORMONES, BILE ACIDS AND THE GUT MICROBIOTA Gut Hormones As previously described, the gut-brain neuronal-signaling axis is initiated by nutrient-induced gut hormone secretion ( 32 ). EECs distributed throughout the entire GI tract length respond to luminal nutrients and release a panoply of gut hormones that act as endocrine, autocrine and paracrine regulators of energy and glucose homeostasis ( 35 ) ( Figure 5 ). Although nutrient ingestion triggers the secretion of numerous gut hormones, in this review we will focus on glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), oxyntomodulin (OXM), and PYY (all of which are released from L-cells and have central appetite-suppressing effects ( 35 , 36 )), pancreatic polypeptide (PP), cholecystokinin (CCK), ghrelin, and anandamide. The enteroendocrine L-cells responsible for secreting PYY, GLP-1 and OXM reside throughout the GI tract with the highest concentrations in the ileum and colon. In response to nutrient intake, circulating PYY, GLP-1 and OXM levels show a biphasic increase with an initial early peak within 15 minutes and then a later peak around 90 minutes post-ingestion ( 4 , 37 , 38 ). The
