Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


levels show a biphasic increase with an initial early peak within 15 minutes and then a later peak around 90 minutes post-ingestion ( 4 , 37 , 38 ). The early increase is thought to be mediated by neural (vagal) and/or hormonal mechanisms whilst the later peak, which is in proportion to the energy intake, is thought to result from the direct contact of nutrients with L-cells located in the distal small intestine and large intestine ( 39 ). Glucagon-like peptide 1 Glucagon-like peptide 1 results from post-translational processing of the preproglucagon gene ( 37 , 40 ). Glucagon-like peptide 1 exerts its metabolic effects by activating the GLP-1 receptor, which is widely expressed in the GI tract, pancreas, and CNS ( 41 , 42 ). Actions mediated by the GLP-1 receptor include enhancing glucose-dependent insulin release (incretin effect) ( 43 ), inhibition of glucagon secretion ( 44 ), and stimulation of satiety centers in the ARC, NTS and AP leading to decreased hunger and increased satiation ( 45 ). In addition, GLP-1 limits energy intake by reducing the rate of gastric emptying, which in turn increases gastric distension ( 46 ). As a result of these functions, GLP-1 receptor agonists are currently used for the treatment of both T2D and obesity ( 47 ). Glucagon-like peptide 1 is rapidly inactivated by the enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) with only about 10% of GLP-1 reaching the systemic circulation ( 48 - 50 ). Thus, GLP-1 is thought to mainly act in a paracrine fashion. The vagus nerve is particularly important for the action of GLP-1 as demonstrated by vagotomy studies altering the effects of this hormone ( 51 ). Glucagon-like peptide 1 also stimulates the brainstem to enhance motor output and/or thermogenesis ( 52 ). Oxyntomodulin Like GLP-1, OXM is synthesized by post-translational processing of the preproglucagon gene ( 53 , 54 ). Other similarities of OXM to GLP-1 include binding to GLP-1 receptors within the GI tract, the pancreas, and the ARC; subsequent reductions in gastric acid secretion, blood glucose concentrations and food intake ( 53 , 55 , 56 ); and degradation by DPP-IV ( 57 ). In addition, OXM administration enhances satiety and increases energy expenditure in both animal models and humans ( 53 , 54 ). Peptide YY Circulating levels of PYY are low in the fasted state ( 58 , 59 ) and increase during nutrient
