Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


is increased and diminished respectively ( 61 ). Moreover, studies in people with Prader-Willi syndrome and obesity suggest that circulating post-prandial PP levels are reduced in comparison to healthy individuals. Furthermore, intravenous PP injection to these patients led to a significant decline in energy intake ( 72 ). Cholecystokinin Cholecystokinin is secreted from EECs located mainly in the duodenum and jejunum ( 73 ). Cholecystokinin release is stimulated by fat and protein ingestion and its circulating concentrations increase within 15 minutes after meal ingestion ( 6 , 74 ). Cholecystokinin has a short half-life and it acts upon CCK-1 and CCK-2 receptors located throughout tissues of the GI tract and the CNS, including the vagal nerve, NTS and hypothalamus ( 6 ). Cholecystokinin increases gallbladder and GI motility and secretion but also has an active role in controlling food intake, energy expenditure and glucose utilization ( 17 ). Cholecystokinin reduces energy intake in a dose-dependent manner and it is a specific mediator of fat and protein satiation ( 6 , 75 ). It has been suggested that it acts synergistically with leptin and amylin, a pancreatic hormone co-secreted with insulin ( 17 ). However, repeated doses can induce tolerance to CCK ( 6 ), potentially explaining why attempts to use CCK-derivatives as a medication to induce weight loss have failed ( 76 ). Ghrelin Ghrelin is a 28-amino-acid orexigenic hormone and is secreted by P/D1 cells located primarily in the gastric fundus in the absence of nutrient intake, leading to increased appetite and food intake ( 77 ). Ghrelin is also produced by the pituitary gland ( 77 ) and within the ARC and PVN area of the hypothalamus. Ghrelin is secreted as the inactive des-acyl-ghrelin. The active orexigenic form, acyl-ghrelin, is synthesized by the action of ghrelin O-acyltransferase enzyme (GOAT) ( 77 ) and can bind to growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R) to increase food intake in rodents ( 77 ) and humans ( 77 , 78 ). The extremely complex ghrelin/GOAT/GHS-R system has a crucial role in the regulation of energy and metabolism as well as in the adaptation of energy homeostasis to environmental changes ( 77 ). Acyl-ghrelin administration to humans has been used as an orexigenic agent in patients with anorexia that accompanies cachexia ( 79 ). A rising circulating ghrelin level precedes nutrient ingestion and decreases rapidly after a meal ( 78 ) which has
