Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


agent in patients with anorexia that accompanies cachexia ( 79 ). A rising circulating ghrelin level precedes nutrient ingestion and decreases rapidly after a meal ( 78 ) which has led to the speculation that this is the first discovered “hunger hormone” ( 80 ). Plasma levels of ghrelin increase after diet induced weight loss, thought to be part of the body’s homeostatic adaptation response that restores lost weight, and are very high in patients with anorexia nervosa ( 81 ). Nutrient intake but not water ingestion is the main regulator of ghrelin leading to a decrease of its plasma levels ( 82 ). Peripheral ghrelin exerts its orexigenic actions through the stimulation of NPY/AgRP co-expressing neurons ( 83 ). Anandamide Anandamide and other bioactive lipids belonging to the endocannabinoid system contribute to the gut-brain axis. These molecules are secreted in the GI tract and activate endocannabinoid receptors 1 and 2 (CB1/CB2) ( 3 , 4 ) which are expressed in the CNS, peripheral nervous system, liver, pancreas, adipose tissue, and immune cells ( 84 ). Exogenous cannabinoids convey orexigenic effects and so it is not a surprise that the endocannabinoid regulates gut motility and appetite ( 3 , 84 ). Endocannabinoid receptor 1 antagonists were used to induce weight-loss in subjects with obesity before being withdrawn for their severe psychological side-effects ( 3 , 85 ), including increased suicidality ( 86 ). Bile Acids Bile acids (BAs) are endogenous steroid molecules synthesized from cholesterol in the liver, stored in the gallbladder and secreted into the duodenum upon nutrient ingestion. These amphipathic molecules facilitate micelle formation, promoting the digestion of dietary fat and fat-soluble vitamins. More recently, BAs have also been shown to play a role in regulating glucose and lipid metabolism and energy expenditure via the activation of BA receptors in the liver, gut, and peripheral tissues ( 87 , 88 ). Interactions between BAs, their receptors, and the gut microbiota determine synthesis, metabolism, and distribution of bile acids in the body ( 88 ). There is complex cross talk between BAs, gut hormones and the microbiome ( Figure 6 ). Bile acids stimulate GLP-1 secretion via activating G protein‐coupled receptors (TGR5) on L-cells and fasting total circulating BAs levels are positively correlated with post-prandial GLP-1 levels ( 89 ). TGR5 receptors are also located on skeletal muscle and in brown adipose tissue where they increase energy expenditure by
