Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


levels are positively correlated with post-prandial GLP-1 levels ( 89 ). TGR5 receptors are also located on skeletal muscle and in brown adipose tissue where they increase energy expenditure by promoting the conversion of inactive thyroxine (T4) into active thyroid hormones (T3) ( 90 ). Bile acids have been shown to act on farnesoid X receptors (FXR). During BA binding of FXR on pancreatic β cells, insulin release is increased ( 91 ). Bile acid activation of intestinal FXR-containing cells stimulates the secretion of fibroblast growth factor-19 (FGF-19), a protein that contributes to improved peripheral glucose disposal and lipid homeostasis, increased metabolic rate, and reduced weight ( 92 , 93 ). In animal studies, BA supplementation has been shown to reduce weight gain ( 90 ). In humans, postprandial BA levels are also inversely related with body fat mass ( 94 ). Thus, the physiologic effects of BA likely extend beyond the gut and pancreas to include actions that improve body weight and glucolipid metabolism. Figure 6. Schematic diagram illustrating the complex cross talk between BAs, gut hormones, FGF-19, and the microbiome. BAs are important regulators of energy balance and glucose metabolism, primarily via the FXR and the TGR5. The trans-intestinal BAs flux activates intestinal FXR, inducing synthesis and secretion into the circulation of the ileal-derived enterokine FGF-19. FGF-19 can improve glucose tolerance by regulating insulin-independent glucose efflux and hepatic glucose production. FGF-19 can also increase energy expenditure with its central and peripheral effect in the adipose tissue. BAs acting via TGR5 stimulate L-cell secretion of GLP-1 (and PYY) then enhancing insulin secretion acting on β-cells. TGR5 activation in muscle and brown adipose tissue promotes the conversion of inactive thyroxine into active thyroid hormone inducing thermogenesis. BAs can reduce food intake centrally through FGF-19 and anorectic gut hormones. BAs also regulate gut microbiota composition. BAs are actively reabsorbed from the terminal ileum and returned via the portal circulation to the liver. A small percentage of BAs are deconjugated by gut bacteria, forming secondary BAs, which are reabsorbed or excreted in feces. Red dotted lines: FGF-19 effects. Blue dotted lines: IGF-1 effects. Green lines: BAs circulation. The Gut Microbiota The healthy human gut hosts trillions of microorganisms with a ratio of bacterial-to-human cells of 1.3:1, comprising a complex ecosystem referred to as the gut microbiota ( 95 , 96 ). These microbes exist within a symbiotic relationship with their human host,
