Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


bacterial-to-human cells of 1.3:1, comprising a complex ecosystem referred to as the gut microbiota ( 95 , 96 ). These microbes exist within a symbiotic relationship with their human host, who provides a nutrient-rich environment. The microbiota, in turn, provides metabolic processing of these nutrients that the host's genome does not possess ( 97 , 98 ). With more than a thousand different bacterial species, the diversity and function of the microbiota is dynamic depending on the host’s diet, antibiotic exposure and other environmental factors ( 98 , 99 ). The extent of the symbiotic relationship between the host and the microbiota is highlighted by studies showing that mice lacking a microbiota (germ-free) have reduced adiposity, energy intake, and energy extraction from a standard rodent diet compared to conventionally-raised mice ( 100 ). More recent studies including germ-free rats transplanted with the microbiota of either obesity-prone or obesity-resistant rats confirmed the importance of the microbiome for the production of enzymes involved in energy harvesting from indigested carbohydrates ( 75 ). Both the Westernized-diet and obesity fecal transplant models are associated with an increased ratio of bacteria belonging to the Firmicutes phylum compared to the Bacteroidetes phylum, which is reversed upon surgical and dietary interventions ( 29 , 101 , 102 ). Gut microbiota have been demonstrated to affect adiposity and weight-gain through several pathways. A typical Western diet contains indigestible carbohydrates, such as resistant starches and plant cell wall polysaccharides that are hydrolyzed by gut microbiota generating small-chain fatty acids (SCFA) ( 3 ). Short chain fatty acids in the form of butyrate, acetate, and propionate provide approximately 10% of the host's daily energy requirements ( 103 ). In the obesogenic state, feces contain an increased quantity of SCFA, especially propionate ( 103 ). Short-chain fatty acids are not always correlated with increased weight-gain as some may possess beneficial properties ( 4 , 29 ). In animal models, prebiotics (indigestible compounds that can modulate the composition and activity of the gut microbiota) and oral or intestinal SCFA infusions lead to a reduction in food consumption and a decrease in body weight. This occurs when prebiotics and supplements promote the growth of favorable microbial species or when SCFA activates signaling pathways that ultimately increase gut hormone synthesis ( 104 - 106 ). For example, SCFA’s have also been shown to activate free fatty-acid receptors 2 and 3 (FFAR2/FFAR3) in the GI
