Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


that ultimately increase gut hormone synthesis ( 104 - 106 ). For example, SCFA’s have also been shown to activate free fatty-acid receptors 2 and 3 (FFAR2/FFAR3) in the GI tract, immune cells, liver and adipose tissue ( 107 ). Intestinal FFAR2/FFAR3 receptors are expressed by EECs, in particular, L-cells and, when activated, can facilitate release of gut hormones, such as GLP-1 and PYY ( 107 ). Moreover, FFAR3 expressed within the ENS and ANS can stimulate the sympathetic tone in the adipose tissue regulating fat storage as well as glucose utilization in muscle and liver tissues ( 3 , 108 ). The gut microbiota may also moderate the endocannabinoid tone affecting colonic CB1 expression and anandamide concentrations ( 3 , 109 ). Finally, gut microbiota can enhance energy expenditure by intracellular thyroid hormone activation via FXR signaling ( 3 , 90 , 99 ), which may help to explain the observation that germ-free mice are resistance to adiposity despite an increased food intake ( 110 ). Obesity is characterized by the presence of chronic low-grade inflammation. In another pathogenic pathway involving the microbiota, high-energy dense diets can lead to obesity and obesity-related diseases through changes in bacterial species composition that favors an increase in systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) concentrations ( 111 , 112 ). Lipopolysaccharide is the pro-inflammatory component located in the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria that can enter the circulation when the permeability of intestinal epithelium is altered in a process called metabolic endotoxemia ( 111 , 112 ). Leakage of LPS into the systemic circulation is a proposed trigger of a cascade of pro-inflammatory events in adipose tissue and throughout the whole body mediated by LPS stimulation of the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), which enhances the synthesis of inflammatory cytokines linked with reduced host insulin sensitivity ( 113 , 114 ). Lipopolysaccharide can also inhibit the interstitial cells of Cajal, which are responsible for smooth muscle contraction in the gut and regulation of the ENS. This inhibition has been associated with disorders of both GI motility and gut hormones ( 4 , 115 ). The gut microbiota may also directly influence CNS-mediated stress and anxiety behaviours and the regulation of energy homeostasis ( 4 ). For example, germ-free mice have been found to have a resistance to adiposity despite an increased food intake ( 127 ). Germ-free mice have been found to have higher gene expression of
