Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


germ-free mice have been found to have a resistance to adiposity despite an increased food intake ( 127 ). Germ-free mice have been found to have higher gene expression of food intake-regulating peptides like GLP1 and OXM within the brainstem and hypothalamus, when compared to normally-reared mice ( 116 ). On the other hand, a reduced leptin-mediated suppression of orexigenic peptides NPY and AgRP in the conventionally-raised mice has been noted, suggesting how the gut-microbiota could directly affect energy homeostasis leading to an increase in adiposity ( 116 , 117 ). Further studies are needed, however, to understand if specific manipulations of the gut microbiota phenotype could be used as obesity treatments ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7: Schematic diagram illustrating the possible causative links between an altered gut microbiota and obesity. The hydroxylation of indigestible carbohydrates and the altered intestinal permeability could lead to increased energy harvest and weight gain. The production of certain types of SCFA can reduce the sympathetic tone favoring fat accumulation in the adipose tissue and dysregulation of glucose utilization in muscles and the liver. Gut microbiota can induce a leakage of LPS into the systemic circulation (endotoxemia) and chronic low-grade inflammation. This is in turn responsible of insulin resistance and weight gain. The increased endocannabinoid tone could induce food intake. SCFAs, inflammation and BAs perturbations may all lead to a reduced activation of anorectic pathways. All these mechanisms could be responsible for weight gain, inflammation and obesity-related comorbidities. Abbreviations: FGF-19, fibroblast growth factor-19; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; PYY 3-36 , peptide tyrosine-tyrosine 3-36; SCFA; short chain fatty acid; LPS, Lipopolysaccharide; FFAR2 and FFAR3, free fatty-acid receptors 2 and 3; T2D, type 2 diabetes. THE COMPLEXITIES OF ENERGY HOMEOSTASIS The Physiology of Weight Regulation As mentioned above ( Figure 3 ), the adipokine leptin acts as a signal of long-term energy availability (fat mass), promoting satiety via its inhibitory action on orexigenic neurons located in the ARC of the hypothalamus ( 118 ). A recent report of a patient with leptin deficiency highlights key interactions between leptin and gut hormones. Leptin supplementation resulted in significant rises in meal-stimulated insulin, GLP-1, and PYY levels ( 61 ). In the same study, ghrelin levels were decreased, highlighting the regulatory effect of leptin on ghrelin secretion and the interplay between leptin, GLP-1 and PYY. An important physiologic insight that has implications for pharmacological weight management is that gut
