Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


the regulatory effect of leptin on ghrelin secretion and the interplay between leptin, GLP-1 and PYY. An important physiologic insight that has implications for pharmacological weight management is that gut hormones act synergistically. For example, GLP-1 and PYY in combination are more potent in reducing energy intake compared to either of the two hormones alone ( 119 , 120 ). Oxyntomodulin, CCK and other gut hormones also act synergistically with GLP-1 to enhance its effects on appetite behaviours ( 120 - 123 ). An additional layer of complexity is added when considering that MC4Rs have been localized on L- and P/D1-cells and could, in turn, regulate GLP-1, PYY and ghrelin secretion ( 124 ). Furthermore, gut hormones influence energy homeostasis through interactions with the microbiome and BAs. Hedonic factors can generate meaningful physiological responses that interact with homeostatic signals of energy availability in the regulation of body weight. This could lead to excess energy intake with possible weight gain. In humans, brain functional imaging studies, have shown that several gut hormones modulate neural activity in brain reward regions altering the reward value of food ( 2 , 58 , 125 ) by food cues, memory and social factors, and strongly influencing eating behavior ( 18 ). Exposure to food-related stimuli can induce changes in circulating gut hormone levels. Those in turn act upon brain reward pathways, either decreasing in the case of PYY or, increasing in the case of ghrelin, the reward value of food ( 23 , 126 ). Those hormones are also present in saliva and their cognate receptors are present on taste buds and the olfactory bulb ( 127 , 128 ). The taste and smell of food are key influencers of food selection with impacts on energy intake ( 127 ). Adding to the complexity of the gut-brain regulation of body weight, studies have demonstrated that energy expenditure can increase without changes in activity but through the action of gut-derived neurohumoral signals that increase thermogenesis and basal metabolic rate ( 4 ). The existence of the gut-brain-brown adipose tissue axis has been hypothesized after studies showing how intestinal lipid-sensing activates vagal afferent fibers to enhance brown adipose tissue thermogenesis through a CCK-dependent pathway ( 129 ). Table 1 summarizes key gut hormone actions including their perturbations in the obese state and the changes induced by bariatric surgery procedures. Table 1. GI Tract Hormones Involved in the
