Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


gastric secretion, ↑ Pancreatic and biliary secretion ? ↑? Abbreviations: FGF-19, fibroblast growth factor-19; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; PYY3-36, peptide tyrosine-tyrosine 3-36; PP, pancreatic polypeptide, GIP, gastric inhibitory polypeptide; OXM, Oxyntomodulin; BA, Bile Acids: NT, Neurotensin. ? = effect not certain or not valid for every bariatric procedure. The Obese State: Pathophysiologic Changes Obesity is the result of a period of uncompensated chronic positive energy balance ( 130 ) when energy intake exceeds energy requirements. Dysregulation of the metabolic mechanisms controlling energy homeostasis includes an impaired gut hormone secretion response to nutrient ingestion ( 131 ). People with obesity have reduced circulating baseline and meal-stimulated levels of PYY and GLP-1 levels compared to lean subjects ( 131 - 133 ). Lower circulating ghrelin levels and a reduced suppression of circulation ghrelin levels after nutrient intake have been demonstrated in people with obesity, suggesting that dynamic changes more than absolute values are important in appetite regulation ( 7 , 40 ). Animal models with diet-induced obesity show reduced circulating concentrations together with impaired circadian secretion profiles of PYY and GLP-1 ( 134 ), in addition to an increase in ghrelin-producing cells ( 135 ). However, reduced diurnal variability in circulating ghrelin is thought to contribute to the lack of a regular meal pattern and the frequent snacking behavior often observed in individuals with obesity ( 77 , 136 ). The directionality of the association between obesity and altered gut hormone profile remains to be fully elucidated. For example, high energy intake per se may affect gut hormone responsiveness to ingested nutrients. Moreover, intestinal EEC population differentiation and responsivity is reduced in people with obesity, which may underlie their blunted gut hormone secretion ( 137 ). Obesity has also been shown to blunt the rise in circulating post-prandial BAs levels ( 33 ). Paradoxically, most studies have found increased total BAs levels in subjects with obesity suggesting that BAs composition could shift unfavorably with detrimental metabolic effects ( 138 ). Interestingly, while obesity is thought to be due to resistance to the effects of insulin and leptin within key weight regulatory centers in the hypothalamus, sensitivity to the effects of PYY, GLP-1 and OXM during exogenous administration is preserved, suggesting these hormones and their receptor systems offer a viable therapeutic target for the treatment of obesity ( 139 ). As detailed in the previous section, a dysbiotic relationship between host and gut
