Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


and their receptor systems offer a viable therapeutic target for the treatment of obesity ( 139 ). As detailed in the previous section, a dysbiotic relationship between host and gut microbiota has been suggested to contribute to the development of obesity ( 140 ), with profound differences found between the composition of the gut microbiota of obese and lean individuals ( 141 ). Obesity is associated with the relative increase or reduction of certain bacterial species and the importance of the relative proportions of those species remains an area of active investigation. Transplantation of gut bacteria from obese mice to normal-weight germ-free mice results in weight gain in the recipients ( 142 ). Conversely, fecal transplantation from lean human donors to recipient patients with metabolic syndrome led to improvements in insulin sensitivity ( 143 ). A dysbiotic relationship may affect host energy and nutrient metabolism by altering intestinal mucosal permeability, and promoting increased fat storage in adipose tissue ( 110 ). The mechanism for this could be by enhancing the absorption of SCFA derived by otherwise indigestible luminal polysaccharides and by triggering inflammatory responses through a process referred to as “metabolic endotoxemia” ( 144 , 145 ) ( Figure 7 ). Altered neural responses to food cues in people with obesity compared to people with normal weight have been confirmed by brain-imaging studies showing an increased stimulation of central reward pathways in response to eating or food cues ( 2 ). In addition, there is evidence that eating behavior in people with obesity becomes dissociated from perceptions of satiety and hunger ( 146 , 147 ). Furthermore, in the obese state, enhanced endocannabinoid tone, CB1 expression, and plasma and adipose tissue endocannabinoid concentrations coexist ( 3 ). All these complex pathophysiological changes create an internal environment conducive to expression of unwanted weight gain, maintenance of the obese state, and resistance to diet-induced weight loss, providing an explanation as to why treating people with obesity can be challenging ( Figure 7 ). BARIATRIC/METABOLIC SURGERY Bariatric/metabolic surgery is recognized as the most effective weight loss treatment for people with severe obesity ( 148 ). Procedures with the best outcomes involve surgical modifications of the anatomy of the GI tract that alter nutrient flow, thus affecting GI tract biology ( 83 ). Many clinical trials have demonstrated the superiority of bariatric surgery in terms of sustainability of weight loss and resolution of obesity-related
