Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


flow, thus affecting GI tract biology ( 83 ). Many clinical trials have demonstrated the superiority of bariatric surgery in terms of sustainability of weight loss and resolution of obesity-related comorbidities, especially diabetes, when compared with intensive medical interventions ( 12 , 149 , 150 ). Mechanisms other than restriction and/or malabsorption are responsible for this superiority and this has resulted in a marked increase in the number of procedures undertaken worldwide ( 151 ). Currently, the most commonly performed bariatric/metabolic procedures globally are sleeve gastrectomy (SG) and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), whereas purely restrictive procedures, like gastric banding, are now performed less frequently ( 151 ) ( Figure 8 ). However, post-operative weight loss can be highly variable ( 152 ), an important consideration given that total amount of weight loss plays a major role in determining post-operative remission of comorbidities ( 153 ). Figure 8. Schematic diagram illustrating the normal upper GI anatomy (a) and the two most commonly performed bariatric surgical procedures. The metabolic procedures: (b) RYGB and (c) SG (Refer to the main text for a detailed description of surgical techniques). Abbreviations: RYGB, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, SG, Sleeve gastrectomy. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass involves division of the stomach into two parts, generating a small gastric pouch (20-30 mL), which is then anastomosed with the mid-jejunum, creating the alimentary limb or Roux limb. Nutrients bypass most of the stomach, duodenum, and the proximal jejunum. In the common limb, after the anastomosis of the biliopancreatic limb with the jejunum, nutrients, BAs and pancreatic secretions mix and the absorption of nutrients occurs ( 154 ). In a SG, a transection along the greater curvature is performed, removing the fundus and body and creating a tube-like stomach ( 155 ). The transit of gastric contents into the duodenum is rapid. The SG was initially performed as a first-stage procedure followed by a second more invasive malabsorptive step (biliopancreatic diversion), but the significant weight loss results observed with this procedure led to its adoption as a standalone approach. Because it is a simpler operation compared with RYGB and has fewer complications with similar short-term weight-loss, SG have become the most common bariatric procedure worldwide ( 151 ). Biological Changes Favoring Sustained Weight Loss and Metabolic Improvement Following Bariatric/Metabolic Surgery A negative energy balance is a key component of many lifestyle interventions. Unfortunately, weight regain is very common after initial weight loss. Multiple
