Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


Loss and Metabolic Improvement Following Bariatric/Metabolic Surgery A negative energy balance is a key component of many lifestyle interventions. Unfortunately, weight regain is very common after initial weight loss. Multiple powerful adaptive biological changes occur in response to weight loss from lifestyle alone that lead to increased hunger, enhanced neural responses to food cues and heightened drive to consume energy-dense foods. These include decreased total energy expenditure secondary to reduced lean muscle mass, sympathetic activity ( 156 ), circulating leptin, GLP-1 and PYY levels, along with increased ghrelin levels ( 147 ). Other changes following lifestyle-induced weight loss that have been described and may contribute to weight recidivism include impaired circulating BAs levels, an altered gut microbiome, and decreased vagal signal transmission ( 10 , 157 ). Figure 9. Schematic diagram illustrating the different biological changes induced by weight loss achieved through dieting (upper part) compared to bariatric/metabolic surgery (lower part). Powerful compensatory biological changes contribute to the high rate of weight recidivism observed following lifestyle intervention weight management. Many homeostatic mechanisms act to restore a higher body weight and these includes hormonal alterations and a decreased energy expenditure leading to increased hunger and energy consumption. By contrast, bariatric surgery leads to a favorable biology that includes increased satiety hormones, reduced ghrelin, enhanced BA secretion and a “lean” microbiota. Together these mechanisms lead to reduced hunger and a shift towards healthier food options with a resetting of body weight “set point” to a lower level facilitating meaningful and sustained weight loss. References for this figure: ( 149 , 158 , 159 ). Abbreviations: GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; PYY3-36; peptide tyrosine-tyrosine 3-36. *Suggestion that leptin sensitivity may improve Weight loss following RYGB and SG are the result of multifactorial mechanisms and not from malabsorption or restricted stomach size alone ( 160 , 161 ) ( Figures 9 and 10 ). Reduced energy intake, as a result of altered eating behavior, is recognized as the main driver for weight loss following these procedures, and increased exposure of EECs to ingested nutrients is thought to play a key mediating role in the expression of these appetitive behaviours ( 83 ) ( Table 1 and Figure 10 ). In contrast to lifestyle approaches to weight loss, favorable changes in these behaviours following bariatric/metabolic procedures include reduced hunger and neural responsiveness to food cues. Multiple studies have shown that bariatric surgery causes marked elevations in
