Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


weight loss, favorable changes in these behaviours following bariatric/metabolic procedures include reduced hunger and neural responsiveness to food cues. Multiple studies have shown that bariatric surgery causes marked elevations in nutrient-stimulated levels of several anorectic hormones including PYY and GLP-1, along with decreased ghrelin levels, which have been reported post-RYGB but are more pronounced post-SG ( 162 , 163 ). Following RYGB, increased nutrient-stimulated circulating levels of PYY and GLP-1 are most likely as a result of increased nutrient stimulation of L-cells as a consequence of anatomical rearrangement. Sleeve gastrectomy leads to rapid gastric emptying and enhanced exposure of L-cells to nutrients with increased nutrient-stimulated PYY and GLP-1 levels, but to a lesser extent than following RYGB. Sleeve gastrectomy leads to sustained and greater reduction in circulating acyl-ghrelin levels than RYGB because of the removal of the fundus of the stomach where most ghrelin-producing cells are located ( 164 ). These changes are present immediately after surgery and sustained up to 10 years post-operatively ( 165 , 166 ). Oxyntomodulin levels are increased after RYGB ( 167 ) and a rise in CCK levels has been demonstrated following both RYGB and SG ( 163 ). Emerging evidence also suggest that the number of EECs changes after bariatric surgery. The total numbers of EECs in the stomach and duodenum of people with obesity are reduced when compared to lean individuals ( 31 ) and this has been found to normalize 3 months post-SG ( 158 ). Figure 10. Schematic diagram illustrating RYGB and SG and the mechanisms leading to weight loss and resolution of comorbidities. For every mechanism the effect of the procedure is represented with a “↑” when stimulating or “↓” when suppressing. A “+” means that the proposed mechanism is present only after surgery when compared to the pre-operative period. When the effect is stronger for one of the two procedures there is a double arrow compared with a single one. When the effect is missing for one procedure it means that the mechanism is procedure specific. Abbreviations: RYGB, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass; SG, Sleeve gastrectomy; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; PYY3-36; peptide tyrosine-tyrosine 3-36; GIP, gastric inhibitory polypeptide; FGF-19, fibroblast growth factor-19, CCK; cholecystokinin. Variability in EEC secretion response may underlie differences in weight loss responses to bariatric/metabolic procedures. Profound anorexia and excessive weight loss post-SG have been associated with markedly elevated circulating fasted and post-meal PYY levels ( 65
