Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


underlie differences in weight loss responses to bariatric/metabolic procedures. Profound anorexia and excessive weight loss post-SG have been associated with markedly elevated circulating fasted and post-meal PYY levels ( 65 ). Patients with poor weight loss after surgery have been found to have increased appetite coupled with lower meal-stimulated GLP-1 and PYY and higher ghrelin levels when compared with good responders ( 168 ). Additional support for the importance of EEC in weight loss responsiveness in the post-op period comes from data showing that administration of octreotide (a general inhibitor of EEC secretion), or selectively blocking GLP-1 and PYY, promotes appetite and weight gain ( 14 , 65 , 169 ). Following SG and RYGB, food becomes less rewarding and there is a shift in preference from energy dense food rich in fat and sugar to healthier options enabling patients to adopt more favorable eating behaviours ( 158 ). These changes in eating behavior are the result of multiple mechanisms, some of which are common to both SG and RYGB and others that are procedure specific ( Figure 10 ). Studies of the physiological changes following bariatric/metabolic have also elucidated novel effectors of changes in weight and metabolism, many of which are gut-related and discussed above. For example, following RYGB and SG, changes in circulating BAs levels and composition are reported that may contribute to weight loss and improved glucose metabolism. Despite their anatomical differences, RYGB and SG exert similar effects on BA composition and circulating concentrations, although the changes observed following SG are more modest ( 87 , 170 ). The exact mechanism responsible for elevated BAs following RYGB and SG is unclear, but animal studies suggests that an accelerated nutrient flow to the distal small intestine is a key mechanism ( 171 ). Indeed, in animal models, rerouting bile to the distal small bowel by transposing the common bile duct increases plasma BA levels similarly those seen after RYGB and results in weight loss, improved glucose metabolism, and reduced hepatic steatosis. The rise in circulating BAs appears even greater several months post-operation and may be due to intestinal cellular adaptations ( 172 ), increased hepatic synthesis, altered enterohepatic recirculation of bile, or a combination of these possibilities. Post-surgically increased BAs diversity might also impact on GLP-1 secretion and energy expenditure. Binding of BAs to TGR5 receptors in skeletal muscle and brown adipose tissue may contribute to enhanced action
