Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


increased BAs diversity might also impact on GLP-1 secretion and energy expenditure. Binding of BAs to TGR5 receptors in skeletal muscle and brown adipose tissue may contribute to enhanced action of thyroid hormones, thereby increasing energy expenditure ( 173 ). Therefore, BAs could contribute to weight loss and metabolic improvements after bariatric surgery through direct and indirect regulatory mechanisms. Weight‐loss surgery can also affect the interplay between BAs and gut microbiota, which can have favorable metabolic effects in the post-operative period ( 174 ) ( 175 ). For example, in RYGB subjects, bacterial overgrowth in the biliopancreatic limb may generate secondary BAs species with altered affinity for FXR or TGR5 receptors ( 176 ). In rodent models, the importance of the FXR receptor in mediating weight loss and metabolic improvements after SG was demonstrated when FXR knockout mice regained lost weight following this procedure ( 173 ), although whether FXR signaling and/or FGF-19 contributes to the beneficial effects of bariatric surgery in humans is uncertain at present. Finally, a study that measured serum BAs levels before and after bariatric surgery showed that they were significantly increased only at one-year post‐surgery, whereas, the substantial increase in PYY and GLP-1 levels could be observed as soon as 1-week post-surgery. This finding suggest that increased plasma BAs may be less important in early metabolic improvements observed after bariatric surgery ( 170 ) but more so for long-term effects. Alterations in intestinal microbiome following RYGB and SG have been described. Animal studies of fecal transplants from RYGB-treated to germ-free mice showed significantly greater weight loss in the germ-free mice, suggesting that the altered microbiome per se contributes to weight loss ( 177 ). RYGB can produce greater and more favorable changes in gut microbiota functional capacity and species than SG despite similar weight loss ( 178 ) ( 179 , 180 ). Although the specific procedure-related mechanisms responsible for post-surgery gut microbiota changes remain to be delineated ( 181 ), potential explanations include differences in the physical manipulation of the GI tract and final anatomy, dietary changes, and weight loss differences between procedures. In rodents, these changes can be detected as early as 7 days after RYGB ( 175 ), with similar patterns observed in humans ( 102 ). Because of significant differences between the rodents and the humans, it is not possible to firmly conclude that gut bacteria are essential for the effects
