Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, gut, energy, weight, obesity, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, glp-, weight loss, intake


in humans ( 102 ). Because of significant differences between the rodents and the humans, it is not possible to firmly conclude that gut bacteria are essential for the effects of metabolic procedures. However, it is evident in the rodent models that changes in gut microbiota induced by RYGB are sufficient to produce weight loss ( 174 ). Other appetite-related post-surgery effects that may influence weight loss include changes in taste and smell that could, in turn, influence food preference ( 83 ). Interestingly, early data suggest that RYGB and SG may differently impact subjective changes in appetite, taste, olfaction and food aversion post-operatively ( 182 ). Finally, neurophysiological studies suggest that vagal nerve signaling also increases post-RYGB ( 157 ) and these changes may affect food intake in a procedure-specific fashion ( 183 , 184 ). Developing “Knifeless Surgery” A multitude of compounds mimicking gut hormone actions are currently under development, opening a new era of pharmacotherapy for obesity. At present, GLP-1 analogues are broadly used in the management of people with T2DM and obesity ( 185 ). The longer acting GLP-1 analogue semaglutide has shown promising results for weight loss in early phase studies with both a weekly subcutaneous injection ( 186 ) and an oral compound form ( 187 , 188 ). Intravenous administration of supra-physiological levels of native gut hormones like PYY, GLP-1 and others lead to reduced appetite and decreased energy intake ( 23 , 189 - 191 ). Strategies aimed at reducing acyl-ghrelin and/or increasing des-acyl-ghrelin are also being developed and show promise. The inhibition of GOAT has been shown to reduce energy intake and bodyweight ( 192 ). In order to mimic bariatric/metabolic procedures, the effects of combinations of hormones are under investigation with the aim of circumventing compensatory adaptive changes associated with energy restriction. For example, the co-infusion of GLP-1, PYY and OXM induced a 32% reduction in energy intake when compared to placebo ( 193 ). Animal models suggest a potential role of CCK as an adjunct to GLP-1 based therapies ( 194 ) or monomeric GLP-1/GIP/glucagon triagonism to reduce food intake and obesity ( 195 ). Conclusion Obesity is a complex disease where genetic, environmental, dietary, psychological and socio-economic factors interact complicating treatments for this life-threatening condition. Peripheral signals such as gut hormones, BAs and gut microbiota inform the CNS regarding the quality and the quantity of any ingested meal
