Two
KEYWORDS: treatment, percent, dots, disease, control, infection, cases, hiv, patients, active, countries, case, treat, cid, cost


suppres- Fordham von Reyn and Vuola 2002;Young and Stewart 2002). sion ofprotective immunity,delayed hypersensitivity,cytolysis, Consequently,individuals who carry a latent infection and who and the production of antibodies and memory cells.Helper T continue to be exposed are at risk ofTB following reinfection. cells mature into two functionally different populations:in M. The importance of reinfection remains controversial, but tuberculosisinfection,the T 1 response is associated with gran- mathematical modeling shows that the decline ofTB in Europe H uloma formation and protection, whereas the T 2 response cannot easily be explained without reinfection (Dye and others H results in tissue-necrotizing hypersensitivity and the progres- 1998;Vynnycky and Fine 1997).In addition,molecular finger- sion ofdisease.The processes that determine the balance ofthe printing has produced direct evidence that TB commonly two responses affect, for example, the interaction between arises from infection and reinfection in endemic areas (de M.tuberculosisand other infectious agents . Viedma and others 2002;Richardson and others2002;van Rie When the immune response cannot suppress replication, and others 1999;Verver and others 2004),especially where sub- primary infection leads to active TB (progressive primary TB). jects are infected with HIV (Glynn and others 2004). 290 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Christopher Dye and Katherine Floyd The low incidence of infection and the low probability of Globally, the TB incidence rate per capita appears to be breakdown to disease explain why TB is relatively rare. Its growing slowly (online annex 2). Case numbers have been importance among infectious diseases is attributable not so declining more or less steadily for at least two decades in much to the number of cases as to the high case-fatality rate Western and Central Europe, the Americas, and the Middle among untreated or improperly treated patients.About two- East.Striking increases have occurred in countries of Eastern thirds of untreated smear-positive patients will die within five Europe (mainly the former Soviet republics) since 1990 and to eight years,the majority within the first 18 months (Styblo in Sub-Saharan Africa since the mid 1980s, although trends 1991). Most of those who are still alive after eight years will in case notifications suggest that the rate of increase in both have quiescent TB (self-cures,susceptible to relapse),and a few regions has slowed significantly since the mid 1990s (WHO will become chronic excretors of bacilli.The case-fatality rate 2005). for untreated smear-negative cases is lower, but still of the TB has increased in Eastern European countries because of order of 10
