Two
KEYWORDS: treatment, percent, dots, disease, control, infection, cases, hiv, patients, active, countries, case, treat, cid, cost


targets for case detection (70 percent) and cure (85 percent) cent of the gross domestic product .Without in the poorest countries—notably in Africa—through more attempting to extend such analyses here, we note that the comprehensive planning and budgeting exercises. The preceding results also imply that large-scale treatment programs analyses should include the costs ofdeveloping fully staffed Tuberculosis | 303 and improved management capacity where necessary, and Young 2004), three of the most promising are now undergo- the costs of the new initiatives that will be required to ing phase 1 safety trials in humans. One trial has evaluated improve case detection and cure rates. mycobacterial antigen 85,delivered as a recombinant smallpox 2. Service delivery. Assessment of the potential for health vaccine (Goonetilleke and others 2003). Another is testing a service restructuring to detect, diagnose, and treat TB live attenuated BCG bacterium (rBCG30) that overexpresses patientsmoreefficientlythroughsyndromicmanagementof antigen 85B protein and that provides guinea pigs with greater respiratory diseases at primary health centers and through protection than BCG alone (Horwitz and others 2000).A third andbetweenTBandHIV/AIDScontrolprograms. booster to either BCG or rBCG30 (Reed and others 2003). 3. Complementary strategies.Further investigation ofthe costs Compounds that could form the basis of new drugs and and effectiveness of strategies that are potentially comple- new drug regimens include the nitroimidazopyran PA-824. mentary to DOTS,including active case finding and TLTI in Experiments with a mouse model of TB have shown that high-risk populations,and the management of drug resist- PA-824 has bactericidal activity similar to that ofisoniazid and ance and ofpatients infected with HIV. sterilizing activity that may rival that of rifampicin and that it 4. Impact and targets. Evaluation of the actual and potential is particularly active against dormant bacilli. effects of the tools (mostly drugs) now being used for TB Among the most important recent discoveries is a control.This research requires a better understanding ofthe diarylquinoline with a novel mode of action on the ATP syn- ways human population density, age structure, migration, thase of M. tuberculosis that powerfully inhibits both drug- HIV coinfection, and drug resistance affect TB epidemi- sensitive and drug-resistant strains of bacilli (Andries and ology. The analyses should check the internal consistency others 2004). Alongside these laboratory studies, analytical ofinternational targets for the implementation and effect of andoperational research are needed to find out what kinds of chemotherapy programs, as defined by the MDGs. The new tools will give the best returns on
