Two
KEYWORDS: treatment, percent, dots, disease, control, infection, cases, hiv, patients, active, countries, case, treat, cid, cost


others 2002; Pai, Riley, and Colford 2004).A test that can decrease yet. predict who will progress from latent to active disease,as yet The prompt diagnosis and treatment ofactive TB has been hypothetical,would greatly increase the feasibility of treat- the mainstay of TB control and will continue to be so for the ing latent infection. foreseeable future. Short-course chemotherapy, delivered 304 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Christopher Dye and Katherine Floyd through the DOTS strategy,is,at typically US$5 to US$350 per such a complete analysis. The results of CEA are therefore DALY gained,the most cost-effective among current methods typically used more informally,along with other evidence and for the management ofTB,and in most high-burden countries, constraints,when a mix ofhealth interventions is chosen. the cost is toward the lower end ofthis range.A comparison of Although this problem will recur in discussions about allo- vious program suggests that DOTS could actually save money treatment has now been accepted in many parts of the world. in the long run. In addition, DOTS provides an operational That is the fruit of more than 10 years’work on burden,cost, framework for the introduction of more specialized methods efficacy,effectiveness,and cost-effectiveness.The governments in certain risk groups. The extensions to DOTS investigated ofthe less poor members ofthe group of22 high-burden coun- here include the treatment ofMDR-TB with second-line drugs, tries have demonstrated that they can budget for,and provide, preventive therapy (TLTI) during outbreaks and for people most ofthe funds needed to reach target levels ofcase detection coinfected with M. tuberculosis and HIV, and antiretroviral and cure (WHO 2004c, 2005). Some of the poorer countries therapy for HIV-infected TB patients.Those interventions cost among the 22 are now receiving sufficient external assistance more than the basic DOTS strategy but are still less than a to fill the gaps in their budgets for TB control, principally dollar for each day of healthy life gained, which provides an from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and economic argument for their integration into enhanced DOTS Malaria.Consequently,the total reported budget deficit for the programs. high-burden countries in 2005 was remarkably small—just Although the analyses in this chapter show that DOTS and US$119 million—and concentrated in the poorest countries its extensions are good value for money,they conceal various . features ofhealth systems,as yet poorly defined,that may facil- From those findings and observations arise two key ques- itate the implementation oftreatment programs.For example, tions for global
