Two
KEYWORDS: treatment, percent, dots, disease, control, infection, cases, hiv, patients, active, countries, case, treat, cid, cost


money,they conceal various . features ofhealth systems,as yet poorly defined,that may facil- From those findings and observations arise two key ques- itate the implementation oftreatment programs.For example, tions for global TB control:Ifthe estimated budget gap is filled, ifbroader investment in the health sector is needed before TB would the money be enough to ensure that enhanced DOTS control programs can work in some parts of some countries, programs reach 70 percent case detection and 85 percent then the full cost ofDOTS could be greater.By contrast,a more cure—and by when? And if those targets are reached,will the integrated approach to the management ofTB and other respi- effort be sufficient to achieve the MDG objectives of halving ratory diseases in primary health facilities could lead to cost prevalence and death rates by 2015? savings.Those possibilities have not yet been investigated. As yet,there are only partial answers.On the costs,it is clear The only development that could radically alter the current that,by moving treatment out of hospitals and into the com- approach to TB control—shifting the emphasis from cure to munity,DOTS can often be made cheaper and more conven- prevention—is the discovery of a new vaccine that protects ient for patients and health services without compromising adults against infectious pulmonary disease. Whether such a treatment outcome. However, planning for TB control in the vaccine would be more or less cost-effective than BCG (US$40 poorest countries is still inadequate, and budgets commonly to US$1,600 per DALY gained) depends on price and efficacy, understate the real costs ofscaling up national TB control pro- but the potential epidemiological effect would be far greater grams (WHO 2004c, 2005). Despite those weaknesses in the than that ofBCG,perhaps justifying mass adult vaccination.If budgeting and funding process,the overall expenditure on TB research and development proceed according to plan, a new control in high-burden countries has increased since 2000,and vaccine ofsome kind could be licensed between 2010 and 2015. the injection ofextra effort and money has led to a small accel- New drugs and diagnostics should be available earlier,shorten- eration in case finding globally.As a result,case detection under ing the delay to,and duration of,treatment. DOTS could reach 50 to 60 percent by 2005, and treatment Although cost-effectiveness studies show that DOTS is a success should be close to the target level of85 percent. affordable.The analytical difficulty is that CEA does not solve enough. The analysis in this chapter suggests that the MDG
