Two
KEYWORDS: treatment, percent, dots, disease, control, infection, cases, hiv, patients, active, countries, case, treat, cid, cost


a success should be close to the target level of85 percent. affordable.The analytical difficulty is that CEA does not solve enough. The analysis in this chapter suggests that the MDG the practical problem of how to allocate money to TB control objective ofhalving the death rate can be reached with 70 per- in combination with other interventions,or even how to com- cent case detection globally, provided this case detection also bine different approaches to TB control (Tan-Torres Edejer and generates a 5 to 6 percent annual reduction in the incidence others 2004).Interpreted literally,CEA says that the best return rate between 2003 and 2015.The DOTS program in Peru gen- on total investment is obtained by ranking interventions erated a 6 to 7 percent annual reduction in the incidence rate of according to CER and then fully implementing each interven- pulmonary TB, but that result has not yet been repeated in tion, from smallest to largest CER, allowing for diminishing other high-burden countries with good control programs (for returns,until the total budget is spent.This method is unlikely example, India, Morocco, and Vietnam). It is unlikely to be to lead to a balanced health care portfolio in the poorest achieved in African countries that currently have high rates of countries.Besides,the evidence is rarely available to carry out HIV infection. Tuberculosis | 305 Although others have emphasized that the costs of infec- Asamoah-Odei, E., J. M. Garcia Calleja, and J. T. Boerma. 2004.“HIV tious disease control can be related to the benefits in complex Prevalence and Trends in Sub-Saharan Africa:No Decline and Large Subregional Differences.”Lancet364:35–40. ways (Brandeau,Zaric,and Richter 2003),we advocate the use Behr,M.A,S.A.Warren,H.Salamon,P.C.Hopewell,A.Ponce de Leon, ofa powerful new method ofcarrying out CEA,which is based C.L.Daley,and P.M.Small.1999.“Transmission of Mycobacterium on the observation that mathematical models can be used to tuberculosisfrom Patients Smear-Negative for Acid-Fast Bacilli.”Lancet generate simple (albeit approximate) and general formulas that 353:444–49. relate reward to effort in the management of both epidemic Borgdorff,M.W.,N.J.Nagelkerke,C.Dye,and P.Nunn.2000.“Gender and Tuberculosis: A Comparison of Prevalence Surveys with (based on R ) and endemic (based on dynamics in the vicinity 0 Notification Data to Explore Sex Differences in Case Detection.” ofequilibrium) TB.The results are similar to those obtained by International Journal ofTuberculosis and Lung Disease4:123–32. using more complex simulations in specific settings,and they Bourdin Trunz,B.,P.E.M.Fine,and C.Dye.Forthcoming.Global Impact are accurate enough to offer a choice between interventions of BCG Vaccination on Childhood Tuberculous Meningitis and Miliary Tuberculosis. (Currie and others,2005).The
