Two
KEYWORDS: treatment, percent, dots, disease, control, infection, cases, hiv, patients, active, countries, case, treat, cid, cost


in specific settings,and they Bourdin Trunz,B.,P.E.M.Fine,and C.Dye.Forthcoming.Global Impact are accurate enough to offer a choice between interventions of BCG Vaccination on Childhood Tuberculous Meningitis and Miliary Tuberculosis. (Currie and others,2005).The generality ofthe method expos- Brandeau,M.L.,G.S.Zaric,and A.Richter.2003.“Resource Allocation for es more clearly the reasons some interventions are compara- Control of Infectious Diseases in Multiple Independent Populations: tively cost-effective and indicates the range ofconditions under Beyond Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.”Journal ofHealth Economics22: which specific cost-effectiveness results apply. The scope for 575–98. using this approach for other infectious diseases remains to be Bucher,H.C.,L.E.Griffith,G.H.Guyatt,P.Sudre,M.Naef,P.Sendi, explored,but it should be readily applicable in the evaluation andM.Battegay.1999.“Isoniazid Prophylaxis for Tuberculosis in HIV Infection:A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.”AIDS of new approaches to TB control, whether through vaccina- 13:501–7. tion,drug treatment,the reduction of environmental risks,or China Tuberculosis Control Collaboration. 2004. “The Effect of improved service delivery. Tuberculosis Control in China.”Lancet364:417–22. Claessens, N. J. M., F. F. Gausi, S. Meijnen, M. M. Weismuller, F. M. Salaniponi,and A.D.Harries.2002.“High Frequency ofTuberculosis in Households of Index TB Patients.” International Journal of ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Tuberculosis and Lung Disease6:266–69. Cohn,D.L.2003.“Treatment ofLatent Tuberculosis Infection.”Seminars The authors wish to thank Uli Fruth, Kreena Govender, in Respiratory Infections18:249–62. Ulla Griffiths, Mehran Hosseini, Anne Mills, Mark Perkins, Cohn,D.L.,and W.M.El-Sadr.2000.“Treatment ofLatent Tuberculosis Catherine Watt, Diana Weil, and Brian Williams for help of Infection.” In Tuberculosis: A Comprehensive International Approach, various kinds during the preparation ofthis chapter. ed.L.B.Reichman and E.S.Hershfield,471–502.New York:Marcel Dekker. Comstock,G.W.2000.“How Much Isoniazid Is Needed for Prevention of Tuberculosis among Immunocompetent Adults? In Reply.”
