Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


CD were JAM, FB, PHRG, JFL, KEAL; follow-up: DAL, originally published in 1996. Recently the PHRG,JCB,JFL;gluten-freediet (GFD):PJC,KK, European Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology, CC,GLS;refractoryCD(RCD)andcomplications: Hepatology and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) published FZ, FB, DAL, PHRG; quality of life (QoL): GLS, updated guidelines for paediatric CD,1 but inter- JCB, TRC, FZ; novel therapy: JCB, KEAL; screen- Tocite:LudvigssonJF, national guidelines foradult CD are scarce2–5 since ing for CD: TRC, KK, JAM, JFL. The working BaiJC,BiagiF,etal.Gut the NIH consensus6 on CD in 2005 (despite more groupswrotethesections,whichweresubsequently 2014;63:1210–1228. than 4000 PubMed publications about CD in the internally reviewed. Each final fully written and 1210 LudvigssonJF,etal.Gut2014;63:1210–1228.doi: Guidelines referenced section was then released to all group members for including anaemia,32 vague abdominal symptoms (often similar review by teleconference and email correspondence. Thereafter to irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)33), neuropathy,34 35 ataxia,36 JFL created the first draft of the guidelines by amalgamating all depression,37 short stature,38 osteomalacia and osteoporosis,39 documents. All authors then helped revise this draft until final liver disease,40adversepregnancyoutcomes41 andlymphoma.42 documentconsensuswasreached. Asymptomatic patients are typically diagnosed through screen- Between January 2012 and February 2013, six web surveys ing. Screening may be initiated because the individual has a wereperformedusingthewebsite‘surveyconsole’( CD-associated disorder or has symptoms and is a first-degree surveyconsole.com) to explore issues including coeliac topics of relativetoapatientwithCD. controversy; the role of endoscopy; the role of histopathology The diversity of the clinical presentation of CD emphasises and serology in the diagnosis of CD; and follow-up of patients, the need for robust diagnostic criteria and careful disease includingtheuseoffollow-upbiopsy.Thewebsurveyswerefor work-up. It is therefore natural that over the years, several thecoauthors/GuidelinesDevelopmentGroup(GDG)members. efforts have been made to define CD,1 7 43–45 and how it Surveyresultswerethendiscussedatteleconferenceandusedto shouldbemanaged.8–16Whileallthesereviewsdiscussedcritical inform the direction of recommendations and outline areas aspects of diagnostics, including the small intestinal biopsy and where the GDG were not concordant. Disagreements were serology, there are scant reports discussing the genetic and solvedthroughdiscussion. immunological background,8–14 the role of human leucocyte Studiesused asabasisfortheseguidelinesaregradedaccord- antigen (HLA) testing,11 12 15 16 46 and even fewer have dis- ing to the quality of evidence using the Oxford Centre for cussedissuessuchasQoL1115andpatientsupport.15 Evidence-basedMedicinelevelsofevidence.18 During our previous review on definitions of CD and related concepts,7 we realised that there was a need for a consensus Strengthofrecommendations paper on modern management and diagnosis of CD. In this A. Directly based on category I evidence, for example, from project, participants of the so-called Oslo group who first con- systematic reviews and randomised controlled trials. This is
