Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


In this A. Directly based on category I evidence, for example, from project, participants of the so-called Oslo group who first con- systematic reviews and randomised controlled trials. This is vened at the 2011 meeting on CD in Oslo7 collaborated with thestrongestrecommendationofthefourgradeslisted. representatives of the BSG to write guidelines for the manage- B. DirectlybasedoncategoryIIorIIIevidenceorextrapolated ment of CD in adults. These guidelines will enable physicians, recommendation from category I evidence. This includes dietitian and other healthcare personnel to provide better care evidence from controlled non-randomised studies or time fortheirpatients. series; or indirect evidence from systematic reviews or ran- domisedcontrolledtrials. C. Directly based on category IVevidence or extrapolated rec- GENETICS, IMMUNOLOGYAND TRIGGER FACTORS ommendation from category II or III evidence. This also Environmental factors are important in CD and ingestion of includes evidence from non-experimental studies such as gluten is a prerequisite for the development of CD. Children cohortstudiesorcase–controlstudies. breastfed at and beyond gluten introduction may be at lower D. Directly based on category V evidence or inconsistent or risk of developing CD in childhood, although research is not inconclusive studies of any level. This includes evidence consistent.47 Conversely, large amounts of gluten or gluten fromexpertcommitteesandrespectedauthorities. exposurewithoutongoingbreastfeedingmayincreasetheriskof future CD.48 49 Gastrointestinal infections, drugs, interferon α BACKGROUND and surgery have also been implicated as trigger factors.47 50 51 CD is an immune-mediated small intestinal enteropathy that is The factors leading to the breakdown of tolerance to gluten are triggered by exposure to dietary gluten in genetically predis- not known, but local pro-inflammatory changes are of para- posed individuals.7 Samuel Gee is credited with the first clinical mountimportance.52 description of CD in 1887, although Aretaeus of Cappadocia A high prevalence (10%) among first-degree relatives of may have described the disease in the first century AD. In the patients with CD53 and a greater concordance rate in monozy- 1930s and 1940s, Dicke demonstrated (then published in gotic twins (∼75%)54 than in dizygotic twins indicates a strong 195319) that awheat-free diet wasthe key to management. The geneticcomponent. discovery of antigliadin antibodies in 1961 was the first non- CD shows a very strong association with a particular HLA invasiveserologicalmarkerforCD.20 variant termed HLA-DQ2.5.55 This molecule is encoded by the Until the 1980s, CD was considered a rare disease affecting DQA1*05:01 and DQB1*02:01 genes in cis configuration on mainly children (exceptions occurred21), but subsequently has theDR3haplotype.ThusmostpatientsareDR3,DQ2positive. beenshowntooccuratanyage.22Althoughtheprevalenceseems A smaller subset of patients with CD express a very similar to
