Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


diagnosis. lence of DQ2 in the general population varies between 0% and Within an adult population the patient may have other indica- 40% while that of DQ8 varies between 0% and 20% between tions for an upper endoscopy, for example anaemia, and thus countries91). In familyscreening, DQ2-positive or DQ8-positive exclusion ofother diseases is essential. Upperendoscopyis gen- relatives(especiallysiblings)areatahigherriskofCD,5392with erally well tolerated by adults and, in contrast to children, can one study suggesting that DQ2 positivity was associated with a usually be readily performed with mild or even no sedation. 16-foldincreasedriskofCDamongfirst-degreerelatives.53 Finally histological appearance of the small intestinal mucosa mayalsopredicttheriskofcertainfuturecomplications,suchas SpecificuseofHLAtyping lymphoma (patients with villous atrophy are at statistically sig- HLAgenotypingmaybeusedinpatientswithsuspectedCDbut nificantly higher risk of future lymphoma than patients with a who fail to respond to a GFD. A negative test in this circum- normalmucosabutpositivecoeliacserology).103 stance would indicate that patients are highly unlikely to have Nevertheless there are still adult patients who may be unable CD (<1% of patients with CD are negative for DQ2 and or unwilling to undergo an endoscopy. Under these circum- DQ893) and thus the clinician can direct diagnostic efforts else- stances, assessment of the serological assay and/or level of where. HLA typing may similarly be used in patients who are IgA-TG2 (if 10 timesthe upper limit of normal), positive DGP/ self-treatedonaGFDandneverhadappropriatetestingforCD EMA, or the use of capsule endoscopy may have a supportive before changing their diet. HLA typing may have an adjunctive role. The sensitivity of capsule endoscopy to detect CD is role to identifying individuals who are not genetically at riskof similar to that of conventional endoscopy when combined with CD and in whom further evaluation for CD is not necessary, biopsies. However, it is less invasive, with good specificity and saving a large number of repeated tests for CD in patients who may provide endoscopic images that can then be used to would otherwise have to undergo testing because they have support the diagnosis of CD in conjunction with positive ser- symptomsandafirst-degreerelativewithCD.94 ology. This approach may also be taken in equivocal cases.104105 Recommendations Recommendations ▸ HLAtypingshouldbeusedtoruleoutCD.ApositiveDQ2.5 orDQ8canneverconfirmthediagnosis.(GradeB) ▸ ThediagnosisofCDrequiresduodenalbiopsywhenthe ▸ HLAtypingshouldbeusedinindividualswhoare patientisonagluten-containingdietandforthevast self-treatedonaGFDandneverhadappropriatetestingfor majorityofadultpatientsalsopositiveserology.(GradeB) CDbeforechangingtheirdiet.(GradeB) ▸ Duodenalbiopsyshouldberetainedasthemainstayforthe ▸ HLAtypingcanbeusedtoruleoutCD,andminimisefuture diagnosisofadultCDandcannotbereplacedbyserology. testing,inhigh-riskindividualswithCD,forexample, (GradeB) first-degreerelatives.(GradeB) ▸ Atendoscopy,ifthereissuspicionofCD,thenatleastfour biopsyspecimensshouldbeobtained,includingaduodenal bulbbiopsy.(GradeC) BiopsyandendoscopyinCD ▸ Inserologicallynegativepatientsshowingsignsof There are endoscopic markers of villous atrophy described— malabsorption(suchasanaemiaordiarrhoea)orafamily scalloping or reduction of duodenal folds and nodularity—but historyofCD,aduodenalbiopsyshouldbeconsidered. these are not sensitive enough to preclude a biopsy,95 and a (GradeC) normal endoscopic appearance may occur
