Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


villous atrophy described— malabsorption(suchasanaemiaordiarrhoea)orafamily scalloping or reduction of duodenal folds and nodularity—but historyofCD,aduodenalbiopsyshouldbeconsidered. these are not sensitive enough to preclude a biopsy,95 and a (GradeC) normal endoscopic appearance may occur in the presence of 1214 LudvigssonJF,etal.Gut2014;63:1210–1228.doi: Guidelines HistopathologydiagnosisofCD should be time efficient—simply counting IELs/20 entero- It is important that pathologists and clinicians appreciate that cytesatthetipsoffivevilli,115116orIELsper50enterocytes patients with CD benefit from a GFD regardless of the degree intwovilliandsummingthese111arebothreliableandsensi- ofdamageinthesmallintestineandthatminordegreesofhisto- tive methods using H&E staining methods. The normal logicalchangesuggestiveofCDshouldnotbeignored.106 count has been variably cited; however, in evidence-based Marsh107 described a commonly used classification of this practice111 and in recent classifications,109 112 <25IELs/100 spectrum. This classification has been modified subsequently by enterocytesshouldbetakenasthenorm. Oberhuber108 and simplified by Corazza and Villanacci.109 ▸ Use of a simple classification system greatly enhances Recently, Rostami and Villanacci110 defined microscopic enteritis intra-observeragreement.117 (also called lymphocytic duodenosis,111 lymphocytic enterop- athy111) and Villanacci etal112 published a practical classification withauser-friendlychecklistforthehistologyreportofCD. Othercausesoflymphocyticduodenosisandvillousatrophy Someclinicians would prefera descriptive report, and collab- Lymphocytic duodenosis74 is a common condition (3.8% of a oration between pathologists and gastroenterologists as to the population negative for coeliac serology111) seen in association contentof thereport is valuable. It is important thatif serology with infection (particularly Helicobacter pylori), altered has not been performed prior to the biopsy, then this must be immune states, for example, common variable immunodefi- carriedoutbytherequestingphysicianonreceiptofahistology ciency,autoimmuneandchronicinflammatorydisorders,drugs report suggesting a diagnosis of CD. A biopsy finding of villous andneoplasia.16118–120Thevillousarchitectureisnormal,typ- atrophy is not specific for CD. Although CD is the commonest ically there is no crypt hyperplasia and IELs are ≥25/100 causeofvillousatrophy,thereareothercauses(table2);forthis enterocytes.Ofnote,inasinglestudy16%ofcasesoflympho- reason the addition of coeliac-specific serologysealsthe diagno- cyticduodenosiswerefoundtohaveCD,andin66%aknown sis. The biopsies must be properly oriented (usually by an association was found by further investigation.121 Similarly experienced laboratory technician) as correct orientation is there are other causes of villous atrophy in duodenal biopsies, necessary for assessment of villous height crypt depth ratio includingimmunedisordersanddeficiency,foodhypersensitiv- (derivedfromthewellorientedfieldsofthebiopsies)(figure1). ity, infection, drugs, neoplasia and miscellaneous disor- Thefollowingfeaturesshouldbestatedinthereport: ders120 122 (table 2). In a study of non-coeliac enteropathy, ▸ Number of biopsies (including those from the duodenal 70% of patients with this condition were initially diagnosed as bulb)113andorientation. havingCD.123 ▸ The architectural features (normal, partial, sub-total or total villousatrophy). NOVEL DIAGNOSTIC METHODS ▸ Commentonthecontentofthelaminapropria(inCDthese While the current standard tests of serology and conventional are lymphocytes, plasmacells and eosinophils, and occasion- histologyare usuallyadequate to reach a diagnosis of CD, there ally neutrophils, but cryptitis and crypt abscesses should arepatientswhosetestsareequivocalanddiagnosticuncertainty suggestotherpathology). remains. Several novel diagnostic approaches have
