Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


plasmacells and eosinophils, and occasion- histologyare usuallyadequate to reach a diagnosis of CD, there ally neutrophils, but cryptitis and crypt abscesses should arepatientswhosetestsareequivocalanddiagnosticuncertainty suggestotherpathology). remains. Several novel diagnostic approaches have been under- ▸ PresenceofBrunner’sglands. taken. The deposition of IgA antibodies in close proximity to ▸ Presence of crypt hyperplasia, villous height: crypt depth TG2inthesmallintestinehasshownpromiseasawayofdefin- ratio (3:1).112 The absence of plasma cells suggests common ing early or potential CD in patients who are seropositive but variableimmunodeficiency. lack any of the usual histological markers for CD. Recent work ▸ Evaluation ofIELs (with immunocytochemical staining forT from Finland on IgA-TG2 autoantibody deposition in the small cells (CD3) in equivocal cases114) is vital. Counting IELs intestine in such patients shows promise in delivery of an early Figure1 Relationshipbetween villousheightandcryptdepth.CD, cryptdepth;IEL,intraepithelial lymphocyte;LD,lymphocytic duodenosis;PVA,partialvillous atrophy;TVA,totalvillousatrophy;VH, villousheight.ThedotsrepresentIELs. LudvigssonJF,etal.Gut2014;63:1210–1228.doi: 1215 Guidelines prediction of development of CD. However, this is currently avoidance of complications, or satisfaction with the service is experimental and the methodology requires tissue sections improved by offering a dietitian-led coeliac clinic. One of the frozen in liquid nitrogen.124 Another diagnostic method merit- key factors relating to adherence is dietetic input and regular small intestinal biopsies.125 126 Other investigators have tinal and dietetic expertise.139 Patients should be encouraged to reported their findings using new techniques associated with joindisease-specificpatientsupportgroupsifapplicable.140 endoscopy to enhance the diagnosis of CD. These include con- Once the disease is stable and the patients manage their diet focal microscopy, high-resolution magnification endoscopy, withoutanyproblems,annualfollow-upsshouldbeinitiated.The optical band imaging127 and optimal coherence tomography. physician should check on intact small intestinal absorption (full These novel techniques are still limited by availability, tolerabil- blood count, ferritin,32 serum folate,141 vitamin B12,142 ity and cost.98 However, the immersion technique and dye calcium,143alkalinephosphatase144),associatedautoimmunecon- enhancement in which the endoscopist instills water or a con- ditions (thyroid-stimulating hormoneand thyroid hormone(s),145 trast dye (for example, indigo carmine or methylene blue) into and serum glucose),146 147 liver disease (aspartate aminotransfer- the bowel lumen, with or without the assistance of magnifica- ase/alanine aminotransferase)40 and dietary adherence (anti-TG2 tion endoscopy, enhancing the visualisation of the villus128 can or EMA/DGP), although the sensitivity and specificity of the be readily used and improves visualisation of villi, thus increas- latter148149cannotsubstituteforstructureddietaryinterview. ingthesensitivityfordetectionofvillousatrophy.98 In follow-up of CD, the key endpoints are normalisation of Dermatitisherpetiformis mucosal healing.17 A lack of symptoms72 150 151 or negative Dermatitisherpetiformis(DH)isthecutaneousmanifestationof serological markers are not reliable or responsive surrogates of gluten-sensitive enteropathy precipitated by exposure to dietary mucosal response to
