Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


and metabolic consequences than classic CD with is very important as the disease (including GFD) will inevitably villous atrophy, patients may have significant signs and symp- affectfamilymembers,butalsojoininganationalcoeliacsupport toms related to this disorder. A clinical response and mucosal groupcanhelppatientscopewiththeirdisease. recovery can be achieved by strict adherence to a gluten-free Patientsneedinformation,reassuranceandtheopportunityto diet. On balance, data support treatment of patients with CD learn at their pace about the rather challenging demands of a regardlessofthedegreeofmucosaldamage.247 GFD. They particularly need to be encouraged and motivated A recent review on ‘safe’ gluten levels argues that daily to adapt to and maintain a GFD. Continued professional intakes of <10mg have no effect on mucosal histology,248 engagement in their follow-up care is likely to help sustain that whereas definite alterations are caused by a daily intake of motivation. Unfortunately, many patients report that they are 500mgandobservablealterationsby100mg.Acalculateddaily not satisfied with the amount and quality of the information present, a safe limit could be set between 10 and 100mg.249 even before the CD diagnosis, offering information about sero- The most comprehensive systematic review (35 studies) suggests logical testing, and what it means to undergo a small intestinal that while the amount of tolerable gluten varies among people biopsy. Worries are common in patients awaiting a biopsy259 with CD, a daily gluten intake of <10mg is unlikely to cause andthephysicianshouldaddressthisanxiety. significanthistologicalabnormalities.248 Patients may want information about when and where CD ThereisextensiveresearchonGFDandhowthismayinfluence occurs,itsaetiologyandwhether itisacommondiseaseornot. theclinicalcourse.Whilearecentstudyofmorethan7000indivi- Understanding the vital role of GFD in the management of CD duals undergoing follow-up biopsy found no association between is important for dietary adherence.140 Attaining dietary adher- persistentvillousatrophy(likelytosignalpoorerdietaryadherence) ence may be particularly difficult in patients identified through and overall mortality,174 this does not rule out that poor dietary screening. Patients with CD often report reduced QoL because immunedisease,250251pregnancyoutcome(twostudieshavefound account.260–263 Part of the reduced QoL may be due to social poorfoetaloutcomeinpregnantwomenwithundiagnosedCDbut restrictions, such as not being able to eat out with friends, and not in diagnosed CD41 252), and especially the riskof lymphoma. the economic burden from the more expensive GFD.258 264 Most studies on lymphoma risk according to dietary adherence Patients should also be informed that while most symptoms are pointtowardsaprotectiveeffectfromGFDbutthestudieshaveso likely to go away on a GFD, some symptoms may persist (see far been small in size,212 253–255 preventing firm conclusions. sectionon‘Non-responsiveCD’). However,recentlyLebwohletal175foundastatisticallysignificantly increased risk of lymphoma in patients with CD with persistent Recommendation villousatrophycomparedwiththosewithmucosalhealing. AfrequentcomplaintofpatientswithCDisthattheyexperience limitationsintheirsociallifebecauseofdifficultyaccessinggluten- ▸ Atdiagnosis,patientsshouldbeencouragedtojointheir freemealsorconcernaboutthesafetyoffoodwheneatingout.The nationalcoeliacsupportgroup.IntheUK,patientsshouldbe patients’ worries are justified as
