Guidelines
KEYWORDS: etal, patients, disease, ludvigssonjf, gfd, gluten, diagnosis, guidelines, symptoms, biopsy, villous, atrophy, follow-up, adherence, ludvigssonjf etal


conditions asso- sion of intracytoplasmic CD3 and detection of monoclonal ciated with CD,268 such as secondary lactose intolerance,265 rearrangement of T-cell receptor chain.120 Areas of uncertainty pancreatic exocrine insufficiency,271 small bowel bacterial over- include the use of immunohistochemistry versus flow cytometry growth,microscopiccolitis272andcow’smilkproteinsensitivity. for IEL classification and the relative prognosis of patients with Very occasionally a state refractory to gluten withdrawal discordantIELandT-cellstudies. occurs, referred to as RCD. Figure 2 suggests an outline for Patients with normal CD3 and CD8 expression and no evi- investigatingpatientswithNRCD. dence of T-cell monoclonality have RCDI with a good progno- In symptomatic patients with ongoing enteropathyand RCD, sis. Patients with RCDII have a poorer prognosis, due coeliac-related malignancies and disordersthat mimic CD (table predominantly to nutritional complications and transformation 2) must be excluded. RCD is defined as persistent or recurrent into enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL).273 274 malabsorptive symptoms and/or signs with villous atrophy Ulcerative jejunoileitis (UJI) is a rare condition characterised by despiteastrictGFDformorethan12monthsintheabsenceof inflammatory ulceration of the small bowel that arises in other causes of villous atrophy or malignant complications and RCD.274–276 The finding of UJI should raise suspicion for after confirmation of CD.7 RCD is subdivided into type I lymphoma. LudvigssonJF,etal.Gut2014;63:1210–1228.doi: 1221 Guidelines ThereisnostandardtreatmentforRCD.Elementaldiets,sys- NOVELTREATMENT azathioprine are used in RCDI (and sometimes are beneficial), native to the GFD—has yet to be ascertained. Of the candidate but have limited benefit in RCDII.277 278 In RCDII, cyclospor- approaches, immunotherapy (including hookworm expos- ine, cladribine and high-dose chemotherapy with autologous ure)290 291 is currently explored as an alternative to GFD but, stemcellsupporthavebeenreported;however,therapymustbe even if successful, is unlikely to benefit all patients. The role of individualisedandincludesurveillanceforEATL.120 glutenases(propylendopeptidases)andtightjunction regulators EATL is a rare lymphoma strongly associated with RCDII,273 (table 5) are likely to be in reducing the threshold response and whichcarriesapoorprognosiswithacumulative5-yearsurvival optimisingthebenefitsofglutenrestrictionratherthanallowing of less than 20%.279 280 Currently, two groups of EATL are anormalgluten-containingdiet. recognised281:EATLtypeIaccountsfor80–90%ofallcasesand Table 5 contains a list of potential novel treatments. None of is a large cell lymphoma exclusively associated with CD.282 In the available novel treatments can as yet be contrast,EATLtypeIIhasnotbeenassociatedwithCD.281283 recommendedforuseoutsideclinicaltrials. The poor prognosis of EATL is determined by extent of disease at diagnosis, multifocal small bowel involvement, poor Recommendation general health and presence of complications including perfor- ationthatprecludechemotherapy.120PresenceofRCDIIisasso- ciated with a poor prognosis compared with isolated EATL in ▸ Noneoftheavailablenoveltreatmentscanasyetbe CD without RCDII. There is no proven effective treatment in recommendedforuseoutsideclinicaltrials.(GradeD) RCDII, though a numberof strategies have been proposed, and patients should be referred to
