Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


Overview This guideline covers interventions in the acute stage of a stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA). It offers the best clinical advice on the diagnosis and acute management of stroke and TIA in the 48 hours after onset of symptoms. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals in primary and secondary NHS healthcare settings • Commissioners and providers of services • People aged over 16 who have had a stroke or TIA, their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. NICE has also produced patient decision aids on decompressive hemicraniectomy. 1.1 Rapid recognition of symptoms and diagnosis Prompt recognition of symptoms of stroke and transient ischaemic attack 1.1.1 Use a validated tool, such as FAST (Face Arm Speech Test), outside hospital to screen people with sudden onset of neurological symptoms for a diagnosis of stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA). [2008] 1.1.2 Exclude hypoglycaemia in people with sudden onset of neurological symptoms as the cause of these symptoms. [2008] 1.1.3 For people who are admitted to the emergency department with a suspected stroke or TIA, establish the diagnosis rapidly using a validated tool, such as ROSIER (Recognition of Stroke in the Emergency Room). [2008] Initial management of suspected and confirmed TIA 1.1.4 Offer aspirin (300 mg daily), unless contraindicated, to people who have had a suspected TIA, to be started immediately. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made this 2019 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on initial management of suspected and confirmed transient ischaemic attack (aspirin). Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: aspirin. 1.1.5 Refer immediately people who have had a suspected TIA for specialist assessment and investigation, to be seen within 24 hours of onset of symptoms. [2019] 1.1.6 Do not use scoring systems, such as ABCD2, to assess risk of subsequent stroke or to inform urgency of referral for people who have had a suspected or confirmed TIA. [2019] 1.1.7 Offer secondary prevention,
