Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


such as ABCD2, to assess risk of subsequent stroke or to inform urgency of referral for people who have had a suspected or confirmed TIA. [2019] 1.1.7 Offer secondary prevention, in addition to aspirin, as soon as possible after the diagnosis of TIA is confirmed. [2008, amended 2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made these 2019 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on initial management of suspected and confirmed transient ischaemic attack. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: TIA prediction rules. 1.2 Imaging for people who have had a suspected TIA or acute non-disabling stroke Suspected TIA 1.2.1 Do not offer CT brain scanning to people with a suspected TIA unless there is clinical suspicion of an alternative diagnosis that CT could detect. [2019] 1.2.2 After specialist assessment in the TIA clinic, consider MRI (including diffusion- weighted and blood-sensitive sequences) to determine the territory of ischaemia, or to detect haemorrhage or alternative pathologies. If MRI is done, perform it on the same day as the assessment. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on imaging for people who have had a suspected TIA or acute non-disabling stroke. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: TIA imaging. Carotid imaging 1.2.3 Everyone with TIA who after specialist assessment is considered as a candidate for carotid endarterectomy should have urgent carotid imaging. [2008, amended 2019] Urgent carotid endarterectomy 1.2.4 Ensure that people with stable neurological symptoms from acute non-disabling stroke or TIA who have symptomatic carotid stenosis of 50% to 99% according to the NASCET (North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial) criteria, or 70% to 99% according to the ECST (European Carotid Surgery Trial) criteria: • are assessed and referred urgently for carotid endarterectomy to a service following current national standards (see the NHS England and NHS Improvement National Stroke Service Model) • receive best medical treatment (control of blood pressure, antiplatelet agents, cholesterol lowering through diet and drugs, lifestyle advice). [2008, amended 2019] 1.2.5 Ensure that people with stable neurological symptoms from acute non-disabling stroke or TIA who have symptomatic carotid stenosis of less than 50% according to the NASCET criteria, or less than 70% according to the ECST criteria:
