Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


symptoms from acute non-disabling stroke or TIA who have symptomatic carotid stenosis of less than 50% according to the NASCET criteria, or less than 70% according to the ECST criteria: • do not have surgery • receive best medical treatment (control of blood pressure, antiplatelet agents, cholesterol lowering through diet and drugs, lifestyle advice). [2008] 1.2.6 Ensure that carotid imaging reports clearly state which criteria (ECST or NASCET) were used when measuring the extent of carotid stenosis. [2008] 1.3 Specialist care for people with acute stroke Specialist stroke units 1.3.1 Admit everyone with suspected stroke directly to a specialist acute stroke unit after initial assessment, from either the community, the emergency department, or outpatient clinics. (An acute stroke unit is a discrete area in the hospital that is staffed by a specialist stroke multidisciplinary team. It has access to equipment for monitoring and rehabilitating patients. Regular multidisciplinary team meetings occur for goal setting.). [2008] Brain imaging for the early assessment of people with suspected acute stroke 1.3.2 Perform brain imaging immediately with a non-enhanced CT for people with suspected acute stroke if any of the following apply (see additional information): • indications for thrombolysis or thrombectomy • on anticoagulant treatment • a known bleeding tendency • a depressed level of consciousness (Glasgow Coma Score below 13) • unexplained progressive or fluctuating symptoms • papilloedema, neck stiffness or fever • severe headache at onset of stroke symptoms. If thrombectomy might be indicated, perform imaging with CT contrast angiography following initial non-enhanced CT. Add CT perfusion imaging (or MR equivalent) if thrombectomy might be indicated beyond 6 hours of symptom onset. [2008, amended 2019] 1.3.3 Perform scanning as soon as possible and within 24 hours of symptom onset in everyone with suspected acute stroke without indications for immediate brain imaging. [2008] The NHS England and NHS Improvement National Stroke Service Model contains a patient-centred national optimal stroke imaging pathway. 1.4 Pharmacological treatments and thrombectomy for people with acute stroke Thrombolysis for people with acute ischaemic stroke 1.4.1 For thrombolytic medicines recommended as options in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating acute ischaemic stroke within 4.5 hours of symptom onset and when intracranial haemorrhage has been excluded, see the guidance on: • tenecteplase (TA990, 2024) • alteplase (TA264, 2012). 1.4.2 Administer alteplase or tenecteplase only within a well-organised stroke service with: • staff trained in delivering thrombolysis and in monitoring for any complications
