Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


unless there are comorbidities that preclude its use. [2008] People with stroke associated with arterial dissection 1.4.14 Offer either anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents to people who have stroke secondary to acute arterial dissection. [2008, amended 2019] People with acute ischaemic stroke associated with antiphospholipid syndrome 1.4.15 Manage acute ischaemic stroke associated with antiphospholipid syndrome in the same way as acute ischaemic stroke without antiphospholipid syndrome (see additional information). [2008] Reversal of anticoagulation treatment in people with haemorrhagic stroke 1.4.16 Return clotting levels to normal as soon as possible in people with a primary intracerebral haemorrhage who were receiving warfarin before their stroke (and have elevated international normalised ratio). Do this by reversing the effects of the warfarin using a combination of prothrombin complex concentrate and intravenous vitamin K. [2008, amended 2019] For advice on reversing direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs), see the MHRA safety advice on DOACs for a list of reversal agents. Anticoagulation treatment for other comorbidities 1.4.17 Ensure that people with disabling ischaemic stroke who are in atrial fibrillation are treated with aspirin 300 mg for the first 2 weeks before anticoagulation treatment is considered. [2008] 1.4.18 For people with prosthetic valves who have disabling cerebral infarction and who are at significant risk of haemorrhagic transformation, stop anticoagulation treatment for 1 week and substitute aspirin 300 mg. [2008] 1.4.19 Ensure that people with ischaemic stroke and symptomatic proximal deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism receive anticoagulation treatment in preference to treatment with aspirin unless there are other contraindications to anticoagulation. [2008] 1.4.20 Treat people who have haemorrhagic stroke and symptomatic deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism to prevent the development of further pulmonary emboli using either anticoagulation or a caval filter. [2008] Statin treatment 1.4.21 Immediate initiation of statin treatment is not recommended in people with acute stroke (see additional information). [2008] 1.4.22 Continue statin treatment in people with acute stroke who are already receiving statins. [2008] 1.5 Maintenance or restoration of homeostasis Supplemental oxygen therapy 1.5.1 Give supplemental oxygen to people who have had a stroke only if their oxygen saturation drops below 95%. The routine use of supplemental oxygen is not recommended in people with acute stroke who are not hypoxic. [2008] Be aware that some pulse oximeters can underestimate or overestimate oxygen saturation levels, especially if the saturation level is borderline. Overestimation has been reported in people with dark skin. See also the NHS England Patient
