Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


oximeters can underestimate or overestimate oxygen saturation levels, especially if the saturation level is borderline. Overestimation has been reported in people with dark skin. See also the NHS England Patient Safety Alert on the risk of harm from inappropriate placement of pulse oximeter probes. Blood sugar control 1.5.2 Maintain a blood glucose concentration between 4 and 11 mmol/litre in people with acute stroke. [2008] 1.5.3 Provide optimal insulin therapy, which can be achieved by the use of intravenous insulin and glucose, to all adults with type 1 diabetes with threatened or actual stroke. Critical care and emergency departments should have a protocol for such management. [2008] Blood pressure control for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage 1.5.4 Consider rapid blood pressure lowering for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage who do not have any of the exclusions listed in recommendation 1.5.7 and who: • present within 6 hours of symptom onset and • have a systolic blood pressure of between 150 and 220 mmHg. [2022] 1.5.5 Taking into account the risk of harm, consider rapid blood pressure lowering on a case-by-case basis for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage who do not have any of the exclusions listed in recommendation 1.5.7 and who: • present beyond 6 hours of symptom onset or • have a systolic blood pressure greater than 220 mmHg. [2022] 1.5.6 When rapidly lowering blood pressure in people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage, aim to reach a systolic blood pressure of 140 mmHg or lower while ensuring that the magnitude drop does not exceed 60 mmHg within 1 hour of starting treatment. [2022] 1.5.7 Do not offer rapid blood pressure lowering to people who: • have an underlying structural cause (for example, tumour, arteriovenous malformation or aneurysm) • have a score on the Glasgow Coma Scale of below 6 • are going to have early neurosurgery to evacuate the haematoma • have a massive haematoma with a poor expected prognosis. [2019] 1.5.8 When considering blood pressure lowering in young people aged 16 or 17 with acute intracerebral haemorrhage who do not have any of the exclusions listed in recommendation 1.5.7, seek advice from a paediatric specialist. [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2022 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on blood pressure control for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are
