Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on blood pressure control for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: intensive interventions to lower blood pressure in people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. Blood pressure control for people with acute ischaemic stroke 1.5.9 Anti-hypertensive treatment in people with acute ischaemic stroke is recommended only if there is a hypertensive emergency with one or more of the following serious concomitant medical issues: • hypertensive encephalopathy • hypertensive nephropathy • hypertensive cardiac failure/myocardial infarction • aortic dissection • pre-eclampsia/eclampsia. [2008, amended 2019] 1.5.10 Blood pressure reduction to 185/110 mmHg or lower should be considered in people who are candidates for intravenous thrombolysis. [2008] 1.6 Nutrition and hydration Assessment of swallowing function 1.6.1 On admission, ensure that people with acute stroke have their swallowing screened by an appropriately trained healthcare professional before being given any oral food, fluid or medication. [2008] 1.6.2 If the admission screen indicates problems with swallowing, ensure that the person has a specialist assessment of swallowing, preferably within 24 hours of admission and not more than 72 hours afterwards. [2008] 1.6.3 People with suspected aspiration on specialist assessment, or who require tube feeding or dietary modification for 3 days, should be: • re-assessed and considered for instrumental examination • referred for dietary advice. [2008] 1.6.4 People with acute stroke who are unable to take adequate nutrition, fluids and medication orally should: • receive tube feeding with a nasogastric tube within 24 hours of admission unless they have had thrombolysis • be considered for a nasal bridle tube or gastrostomy if they are unable to tolerate a nasogastric tube • be referred to an appropriately trained healthcare professional for detailed nutritional assessment, individualised advice and monitoring • have their oral medication reviewed to amend either the formulation or the route of administration. [2008, amended 2019] Oral nutritional supplementation 1.6.5 Screen all hospital inpatients on admission for malnutrition and the risk of malnutrition. Repeat screening weekly for inpatients. [2008] 1.6.6 Screening should assess body mass index (BMI) and percentage unintentional weight loss. It should also consider the time over which a nutrient intake has been unintentionally reduced and/or the likelihood of future impaired nutrient intake. The Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST), for example, may be used to do this. [2008] 1.6.7 When screening for malnutrition and the risk
