Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


the likelihood of future impaired nutrient intake. The Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST), for example, may be used to do this. [2008] 1.6.7 When screening for malnutrition and the risk of malnutrition, be aware that dysphagia, poor oral health and reduced ability to self-feed will affect nutrition in people with stroke. [2008] 1.6.8 Screening for malnutrition and the risk of malnutrition should be carried out by healthcare professionals with appropriate skills and training. [2008] 1.6.9 Routine nutritional supplementation is not recommended for people with acute stroke who are adequately nourished on admission. [2008] 1.6.10 Start nutrition support for people with stroke who are at risk of malnutrition. This may include oral nutritional supplements, specialist dietary advice and/or tube feeding. [2008] Hydration 1.6.11 Assess, on admission, the hydration of everyone with acute stroke. Review hydration regularly and manage it so that normal hydration is maintained. [2008] 1.7 Optimal positioning and early mobilisation for people with acute stroke Optimal positioning 1.7.1 Assess the individual clinical needs and personal preferences of people with acute stroke to determine their optimal head position. Take into account factors such as their comfort, physical and cognitive abilities and postural control. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on optimal positioning for people with acute stroke. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: head positioning. Early mobilisation 1.7.2 Help people with acute stroke to sit out of bed, stand or walk as soon as their clinical condition permits as part of an active management programme in a specialist stroke unit. [2019] 1.7.3 If people need help to sit out of bed, stand or walk, do not offer high-intensity mobilisation in the first 24 hours after symptom onset. [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on early mobilisation for people with acute stroke. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: very early mobilisation. 1.8 Avoiding aspiration pneumonia 1.8.1 To avoid aspiration pneumonia, give food, fluids and medication to people with dysphagia in a form that can be swallowed without aspiration, after specialist assessment of swallowing (see recommendation 1.6.2). [2008] 1.9 Surgery for people with acute stroke Acute intracerebral haemorrhage 1.9.1 Stroke
