Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, acute, evidence, blood, tia, pressure, blood pressure, recommendations, hours, recommendation, people acute, treatment, practice


committee made an additional 2 recommendations for research. As part of the 2019 update, the guideline committee retained the recommendations for research on avoidance of aspiration pneumonia, aspirin and anticoagulant treatment for acute ischaemic stroke, aspirin treatment in acute ischaemic stroke, early mobilisation and optimum positioning of people with acute stroke, blood pressure control, and safety and efficacy of carotid stenting. The committee made an additional recommendation for research on MRI brain scanning. Key recommendations for research 1 Impact of intensive blood pressure lowering on people who are frail What is the efficacy and safety of intensive interventions to lower blood pressure compared with less intensive interventions for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage who are frail at presentation? [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on blood pressure control for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: intensive interventions to lower blood pressure in people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. 2 Impact of intensive interventions to lower blood pressure on cognitive function, functional ability and quality of life What are the long-term effects of intensive interventions to lower blood pressure on cognitive function, functional ability and quality of life compared with standard interventions in people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage? [2022] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on blood pressure control for people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: intensive interventions to lower blood pressure in people with acute intracerebral haemorrhage. 3 MRI brain scanning Does early MRI brain scanning improve outcomes after suspected transient ischaemic attack (TIA)? [2019] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on imaging for people who have had a suspected TIA or acute non-disabling stroke. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: TIA imaging. 4 Avoidance of aspiration pneumonia Does the withdrawal of oral liquids or the use of modified (thickened) oral fluids prevent the development of aspiration pneumonia after an acute stroke? Why this is important People with dysphagia after an acute stroke are at higher risk of aspiration pneumonia. The guideline development group considered how best to reduce the likelihood of people
