Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


scores as adjunctive tools to guide treatment of high-risk patientsand patients who are not suitable for surgery is required. The development of local policiesfor safe laparoscopic cholecystectomy is recommended. Keywords: Acute cholecystitis, Early and delayed cholecystectomy, Surgery, Antibiotics,Gallbladder Drainage,High- risk patients, Guidelines Background surgical management of ACC in the elderly and consid- The estimated overall prevalence of gallstones is 10–15% ering old age as a contraindication for surgery by itself. in the general population, with some differences across The authors found substantial lack of high-quality stud- countries. Between 20 and 40% of patients with gall- iesonthistopic . stones will develop gallstone-related complications, with The WSES, after evaluating the 2018 edition of the an incidence of 1–3% annually; acute calculus cholecyst- TG (TG18) on ACC , found that this new edition itis (ACC) is the first clinical presentation in 10–15% of reached conclusions that were closer to the recommen- the cases [1–6]. Cholecystectomy is the most common dations of the 2016 WSES guidelines on ACC, especially therapeutic approach for ACC and is considered the in terms of a more liberal indication for surgery includ- standard of care for gallstone disease for the majority of ing grade 3 ACC. However, some differences remain patients. However, considering the heterogeneity of clin- when comparing the WSES guidelines and the TG (all the availability of expertise, the management of patients current updated guidelines. A combined event, WSES with rightupperquadrantabdominalpainmayvary. and TG group could be an opportunity to share experi- In 2016, the World Society of Emergency Surgery ences consideringdifferentperspectives. (WSES) published the first edition of their guidelines for Since the publication of the 2016 WSES Guidelines ACC,whichpresented different diagnosticandthera- and the TG18, the management of the high-risk patients peutic algorithms, compared with the Tokyo Guidelines with ACC was investigated in a randomized controlled (TG), known at that time as Tokyo Guidelines 2013 trial (RCT), known as the CHOCOLATE trial . (TG13) . In particular, the direct link between diag- Loozen and collaborators compared cholecystectomy to nostic criteria for ACC, severity classification and thera- percutaneous catheter drainage in high-risk surgical pa- peutic indications described in the TG13 are limited by tients. This research group has joined with other experts lack of quality evidence. The approach of the WSES in contributing to this edition of the WSES guidelines guidelines was to simplify the initial management of pa- onACC. tients presenting with suspected ACC. The literature re- view,
