Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


the WSES in contributing to this edition of the WSES guidelines guidelines was to simplify the initial management of pa- onACC. tients presenting with suspected ACC. The literature re- view, the discussion of the relevant evidence and the Materials and methods statements made during the consensus conference (CC) In 2018, the Scientific Board of the 6thWorld Congress held in Jerusalem in 2015 (Third WSES International of the WSES endorsed its president to organize a CC on Congress) supported surgery as the gold standard treat- ACC in order to update the previous WSES Guidelines. ment for all patients with ACC, with two exceptions: pa- The WSES president appointed four members as a sci- tients who refuse surgery, and patients for whom entific secretariat, four members as an organization surgery would be considered as ‘very high risk’, although committee and four members as a scientific committee, no clear consensus was reached on this second issue. choosing them from the expert affiliates of the WSES. Moreover, the 2016 WSES Guidelines on ACC included Relevantkeyquestionsregardingthediagnosisandtreat- discussions on unclear areas, such as diagnosis, evalu- ment of ACC were developed and divided into seven ation of the surgical risk and appropriate management sections, in order to analyse the topic and update the ofassociated commonbile ductstones(CBDS). guidelines with the currently available evidence. Under In 2017, the WSES joined the Italian Society for Geri- the supervision of the scientific secretariat, a biblio- atric Surgery during a CC regarding the management of graphic search related to these questions was performed, ACC in the elderly, with the aim of investigating this using electronic search of PubMed and EMBASE data- subgroupoffragilepatients,consideredat‘veryhighrisk’ bases inMay2019,withnodate orlanguage restrictions. for surgery. There was lack of agreement supporting the An additional manual search of the literature was Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page3of26 performed by members of the working groups involved investigations. However, the best combination is not in the analysis of the papers and the development of the known. #QoE:verylow;SoR:weak# guidelines. The topics and sections, the key questions Comment: useful features for the diagnosis of ACC and the related key words used to develop the update on are: ACCareavailable inTable1. were reviewed by the representatives responsible for quadrantpainortenderness,vomiting orfood each of the sections, creating a draft version of the intolerance;Murphy’ssign guidelines. The quality of evidence and strength of rec- (cid:1) Laboratorytests:elevatedC-reactiveprotein, ele- ommendations were reviewed using the Grading of Rec- vated whiteblood cellcount ommendations Assessment, Development and
