Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


of the intolerance;Murphy’ssign guidelines. The quality of evidence and strength of rec- (cid:1) Laboratorytests:elevatedC-reactiveprotein, ele- ommendations were reviewed using the Grading of Rec- vated whiteblood cellcount ommendations Assessment, Development and (cid:1) Imaging: signssuggestiveofgallbladder Evaluation (GRADE) criteria (see inflammation kinggroup.org/). Specifically, the quality of evidence was graded as ‘High’, ‘Moderate’, ‘Low’ or ‘Very low’ and the The recommendations of the 2016 WSES guidelines strength of a recommendation was indicated as either were mainly based on two studies: a systematic review ‘Strong’ or ‘Weak’. Consensus had previously been de- and meta-analysis by Trowbridge et al. and a pro- fined as 70% or more of the votes being in agreement. spective diagnostic study by Eskelinen et al. . This During the 6th World Congress of the WSES held in evidence, although flawed by the limitations described Nijmegen, the Netherlands in May 2019, each question below, remains relevant and the associated statement re- was discussed and voted upon by the audience (votes mainsvalid. were either ‘agree’ or ‘disagree’). The percentage of The paper by Trowbridge et al. included 17 stud- agreement was recorded immediately; in case of dis- ies, which reported a quantitative assessment of history, agreement, the statement was modified following discus- physical examination and/or laboratory tests for the sion. After the CC, the president and representatives diagnosis of acute cholecystitis. The results showed that, reviewed the guidelines in response to the comments with the exception of Murphy’s sign (positive likelihood and the revised version of the statements was voted ratio—LR 2.8; 95% CI 0.8–8.6) and right upper quadrant upon via an online questionnaire until consensus was tenderness (negative LR0.4; 95% CI 0.2–1.1)—although reached.Throughout theperiod oftheelaboration ofthe the 95% confidence intervals included 1.0 in both cases, ried out in order to maximize the inclusion of relevant higher than 1.6 or negative LRs lower than 0.4. Limita- evidence(lastliteraturesearch:May 2020). tions were identified in a possible selection bias, as pa- These Guidelines should be considered an adjunctive tients with abdominal painand patientswith asuspected tool for decision making, but they are not a substitute diagnosis of acute cholecystitis were included in the situations. ofacute cholecystitis. In Appendix 1, the reader can find the summary of The article by Eskelinen et al. evaluated more statements with short explanation of the supporting sci- than 1300 patients and revealed a good diagnostic yield entific evidence while details are in the body of the with a combination of findings from
