Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


(US) as the preferred initial imaging bladders. More than half of eligible patients did not technique, in view of its cost-effectiveness, wide undergo US and were excluded from the study; this rep- availability, reduced invasiveness and good accuracy resents a major source of potential selection bias. A forgallstones disease. #QoE:high;SoR:strong# cross-sectional study on the possible limitations of the Comment: abdominal US is a reliable investigation TG 13 has reported a 53.4% sensitivity in diagnosing method; however, it may be of limited utility to rule in acute cholecystitis . However, some uncertainty re- or rule out the diagnosis of ACC according to the garding the sample population and the lack of detail in adoptedUScriteria. sensitivity calculation indicates that the data should be Neither meta-analysis nor studies with adequate qual- interpreted with caution. The revision of the TG criteria ity of evidence have been published on this topic since performed in 2018 did not include a clinical evaluation thepublicationofthe2016WSES guidelines. of the diagnostic criteria . Considering the hetero- In 2012, Kiewet et al. published a systematic review geneity of these findings, the reliability of the TG13 cri- and meta-analysis of diagnostic performance of teria forthe diagnosisofACCappearstobelimited. different imaging techniques in ACC; abdominal Which initial imaging technique should be used in ultrasound was not as accurate as it is for the diagnosis case ofasuspected diagnosisofACC? of gallstones. The meta-analysis was based on the results Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page6of26 of 26 studies including a total of 2847 patients. The sen- potential limitation of the technique, therefore reducing sitivity in individual studies ranged from 50 to 100% and theexternalvalidity ofthestudy. specificity from 33 to 100%. Summary sensitivity and Another study by Ra et al. has reported the use of specificity were 81% (95% CI 75 to 87%) and 83% (95% superb microvascular imaging (SMI) in the diagnosis of CI 74 to 89%), respectively. However, strong heterogen- acutecholecystitis.TheSMItechniqueissimilartoColor- eity in the diagnostic performance of abdominal US was Doppler US and is used to detect the micro vasculature reported: the inconsistency index was 80% for sensitivity and slow flow of the liver, using a special filtering tech- and 89% for specificity. Notwithstanding these limita- nique.Theauthorshypothesisedthathyperaemicchanges tions, the widespread availability, lack of invasiveness, within the gallbladder bed of the liver, detected by SMI, lack of exposure to ionizing radiation and the reduced and may be used for the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis. costs make abdominal US the preferred
