Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


US, one study has benefits of cystic duct enhancement detected by CT for evaluated new ultrasonography criteria for the diagnosis the diagnosis of cholecystitis in patients without visibly ofacute cholecystitis. Kim etal. evaluated the added impacted gallstones. When considering cystic duct en- value of point shear-wave elastography (pSWE) in the hancement, the accuracy and sensitivity of the diagnosis diagnostic performance of conventional US for the diag- increased significantly, while no significant difference nosis of ACC. Based on the assumption that transient was reported for specificity. Interestingly, diagnostic ac- increase in hepatic blood flow observed in case of acute curacy increased for the less experienced radiologist, cholecystitis increases liver stiffness, the authors pro- from 75.4 to 87.3% (p = 0.015). However, this case con- posed to use a measureof liver stiffnessby pSWE and to trol study has some methodological flaws limiting its evaluate its diagnostic yield for ACC in a two-observer quality. analysis. Compared to conventional US, pSWE signifi- A study considering only patients with a definitive cantly increased diagnostic accuracy (area under the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis compared the diagnostic curve—AUC from 79 to 96.3% and from 77 to 96.2%, p sensitivities of US, CT and HIDA scan . The results < 0.001) and specificity (from 62 to 95%, p < 0.001). The confirmed the higher sensitivity of HIDA over US and difference in sensitivity was not significant, being 88 CT with respective values of 84.2%, 67.3% and 59.8% (p versus 92% (p = 0.45) in the US only group and 86–92% = 0.017). No difference was found when comparing CT (p = 0.26) in the US plus pSWE group. Although the re- andUS(p=0.09). sults appear promising, the technique requires expertise; A study comparing sensitivity of CT and US moreover, 18.5% of patients were excluded due to a showed different results, reporting higher sensitivity of Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page7of26 CT, compared with US(92% vs. 79%, p = 0.015). In this Are elevated LFTs or bilirubin sufficient for the study, aretrospective cohort ofpatientswasaddedbased diagnosis ofCBDSinpatients withACC? on prospectively collected data from patients with a 2.1 We recommend against the use of elevated diagnosis of ACC confirmed by pathology or intra- LFTs or bilirubin as the only method to identify operativefindings.IndicationforCTandtimingbetween CBDS in patients with ACC, in which case we recom- index andreferencestandardswerenot reported. mend performing further diagnostic tests. #QoE: One study on a time-saving HIDA scan technique moderate;SoR:strong# reported a high
