Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


in patients with ACC, in which case we recom- index andreferencestandardswerenot reported. mend performing further diagnostic tests. #QoE: One study on a time-saving HIDA scan technique moderate;SoR:strong# reported a high inter-rate agreement (Cohen’s kappa Historically, LTFs have played a major role in deter- coefficient = 0.92) between the novel time-saving mining the presence of CBDS. However, the majority of technique and the conventional examination . published studies did not consider patients with ACC Two other studies reported diagnostic values of HIDA and included asymptomatic gallstones. Normal LFTs scan as 86.7–89.3% for sensitivity and 66.8–79% for have a NPV of 97%, whereas the PPV of any abnormal specificity . LFTs is only 15% . The elevation of LFTs is a poor toolfor the prediction ofCBDS,eveninpatientswithout ACC; the literature ranging from 25 to 50% . Section 2. Associated common bile duct stones: In patients with ACC, LFTs may be altered due to the which tools to use for suspicion and diagnosis at acute inflammatory process of the gallbladder and the presentation? biliary tree, rather than direct biliary obstruction; a pro- Choledocholithiasis, i.e. the presence of common bile portion ranging between 15 and 50% of patients with duct stones (CBDS), is reported to occur in 10% to 20% ACC show elevation in LFTs without CBDS. Song et al. of gallstone cases, with lower incidence, ranging from 5 demonstrated that 424 out of 1178 patients with ACC to 15 %, in case of ACC [30–33]. Investigations for had increased LFTs, namely ALT and aspartate trans- CBDS require time and may delay surgical treatment. aminase (AST) greater than twice reference levels. Of Due to the relatively low incidence of CBDS during these, only 246 (58%) had CBDS . Chang et al. ACC, the main issue is to select patients with a high showed that 51% and 41% of patients with ACC without likelihood of CBDS, who would benefit from further CBDS had elevated ALT and AST, respectively. How- diagnostic tests and removal of CBDS. An uncommon ever, increased bilirubin levels with leucocytosis may condition that mimics CBDS is Mirizzi syndrome, which predict gangrenous cholecystitis . Padda et al. found occurs in less than 1% of patients with gallstones. Pre- that approximately 30% of patients with ACC without operative investigations may help in the diagnosis, al- CBDS had abnormal alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and/or though the vast majority of cases are identified at bilirubin, and 50% had
