Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


In a retrospective analysis, Boys et al. found that American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and the mean common bile duct diameter seen at abdominal the Society of American Gastrointestinal Endoscopic US in ACC patients without and with CBDS was 5.8 and SurgeonGuidelines.#QoE:very low;SoR:weak# 7.1 mm, respectively (p = 0.004). A CBD diameter larger ASGE guidelines remains a valuable tool for the than 10 mm was associated with a 39 % incidence of diagnosis and the management of CBDS in patients CBDS, while diameter smaller than 9.9 mm was associ- with ACC . According to their classification, high- ated with CBDS in 14%. The authors concluded that risk patients have a probability of having CBDS ex- common bile duct diameter is not sufficient on its own ceeding 50%, which in turn means that up to 49% of toidentifypatientshavingsignificant riskfor CBDS. patients undergoing ERCP will not have evidence of Which tests should be performed to assess the risk of CBDS and, given the potential complications of ERCP, CBDSinpatients with ACC? this may not be considered acceptable. For this rea- 2.4 In order to assess the risk for CBDS, we suggest son, we would recommend more cautious approach: performing liver function tests (LFTs), including only patients with evidence of CBDS at abdominal US ALT,AST, bilirubin,ALP, GGTand abdominalUSin should be considered at high risk of CBDS and allpatients withACC.#QoE:low;SoR:weak# should undergo diagnostic and therapeutic ERCP dir- Several scores for the prediction of CBDS have been ectly; patients with total serum bilirubin >4 mg/dl or proposed and validated; however, none of the proposed enlarged common bile duct diameter at US with con- scores is specific for ACC. The implementation of these comitant bilirubin level 1.8 to 4 mg/dl should be con- predictive scores in clinical practice remains poor [38– sidered as moderate risk and should undergo second 40]; all scores consider different combinations of the level investigation such as endoscopic ultrasound same clinical variables. Barkun et al. combined age (EUS) or magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatogra- > 55 years, elevated serum bilirubin, dilated common phy (MRCP), laparoscopic ultrasound (LUS) or IOC, bile duct and evidence of CBDS; Menezes et al. in order to avoid the complications related to ERCP. combined age >55 years, male sex, ascending cholan- See Table 2 for the modified risk stratification. gitis, dilated common bile duct, CBDS and abnormal Which actions are warranted in patients with ACC LFTs; Soltan et al. included history
