Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


See Table 2 for the modified risk stratification. gitis, dilated common bile duct, CBDS and abnormal Which actions are warranted in patients with ACC LFTs; Soltan et al. included history of symptomatic and atmoderateriskforCBDS? disease, abnormal liver function tests, dilated common 2.6 We recommend that patients with moderate bile duct and presence of CBDS; Sun et al. included risk for CBDS undergo one of the following: pre- male sex, abnormal liver function test and dilated com- operative magnetic resonance cholangiopancreato- mon bile duct; Sarli et al. combined positive AUS graphy (MRCP), preoperative endoscopic ultrasound andabnormalliverfunctiontests. (EUS), intraoperative cholangiography (IOC), or lap- The American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy aroscopic ultrasound (LUS), depending on local ex- and the Society of American of Gastrointestinal pertiseandavailability.#QoE:high;SoR:strong# Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page9of26 Table2RiskfactorsandclassificationofriskforCBDS(modifiedfromMapleetal.2010) Verystrong EvidenceofCBDSstoneattheabdominalultrasound Ascendingcholangitis Strong Commonbileductdiameter>6mm(withgallbladderinsitu) Totalserumbilirubinlevel>1.8mg/dl Moderate Abnormalliverbiochemicaltestotherthanbilirubin Ageolderthan55years Clinicalgallstonepancreatitis Riskclassforcholedocolithiasis High Presenceofanyverystrong Low Nopredictorspresent Intermediate Allotherpatients Two preoperative imaging techniques are available for Positive findings on IOC often lead to intraoperative the detection of CBDS, namely MRCP and EUS. These managementofCBDSwithadditionaloperativetime. diagnostic tests, according to the ASGE guidelines A recently published meta-analysis compared ERCP should be reserved for patients with moderate risk for and IOC . The summary sensitivity for ERCP was CBDS and have been shown to delay definitive ACC 0.83 (95% CI 0.72 to 0.90) and specificity was 0.99 (95% treatment . On the other hand, these tests could CI 0.94 to 1.00). For IOC, the summary sensitivity was exclude the presence of CBDS with high diagnostic ac- 0.99 (95% CI 0.83 to 1.00) and specificity was 0.99 (95% curacy, thereby avoiding further inappropriate invasive CI 0.95 to 1.00). Sensitivities showed a weak statistical procedures, such as ERCP or IOC and therefore their difference (p = 0.05); however, due to the low quality complications. In fact, the implementation of these tech- and the methodology of the included studies, the two niques resulted in a reduction of ERCP by 30 to 75% in diagnostic techniques should be considered equivalent. non-selected patients . A Cochrane meta-analysis LUS is a useful method for intraoperative detection of compared these two different techniques : both had CBDS . A meta-analysis has shown that IOC and good diagnostic accuracy, showing summary sensitivities LUS have the same pooled sensitivity and similar pooled of 95% for EUS and 93% for MRCP and a summary spe- specificity for the detection of CBDS . As in the case cificity of
