Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


pooled sensitivity and similar pooled of 95% for EUS and 93% for MRCP and a summary spe- specificity for the detection of CBDS . As in the case cificity of 97% and 96%, respectively. As noted by some of IOC, intraoperative evidence of CBDS with LUS leads authors, considerations other than diagnostic efficacy, to intraoperative management of common bile duct with such as local availability, costs, expertise and delay of increasedoperativetime. surgery, might play an important role in the decision Which is the appropriate treatment of CBDS in pa- makingduringthediagnosticwork-up. tients withACC? Which actions are warranted in patients with ACC 2.8 We recommend removing CBDS, either pre- and athigh riskforCBDS? operatively, intraoperatively, or postoperatively, 2.7 We recommend that patients with high-risk for according tothelocalexpertiseandthe availabilityof CBDS undergo preoperative ERCP, IOC or LUS, de- severaltechniques.#QoE;high;SoR:strong# pending on the local expertise and the availability of CBDS could be removed with several techniques and a thetechnique.#QoE:high;SoR: strong# variation of timing (see Fig. 1): preoperative ERCP with ERCP has both a diagnostic and a therapeutic role in sphincterotomy, intraoperative ERCP with sphincterot- themanagementofCBDS,butitisaninvasiveprocedure omy, laparoscopic or open common bile duct explor- withpotentialseverecomplications.Theliteratureunder- ation, post-operative ERCP with sphincterotomy. A scorestherisksofdiagnosticERCP.Morbidityassociated systematic review assessed the differences between these with diagnostic ERCP includes pancreatitis, cholangitis, techniques . No differences in terms of morbidity, bleeding, duodenal perforation and allergic reaction to mortality and success rate were reported. Therefore, contrastmedium.Complicationsoccurin1to2%andin- these techniques can be considered suitable options, de- creaseto10%whenassociated withsphincterotomy[54– pending on local expertise and availability. Another 57]. On the other hand, IOC significantly increases the meta-analysis compared preoperative and intraoperative length of surgery and requires dedicated staff in the (rendez-vous technique) ERCP with sphincterotomy operating room, while this may not be available, espe- . These two techniques were equal in terms of safety cially in the acute setting with unplanned surgery. and efficacy; the intraoperative technique reduced the Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page10of26 risk for post-ERCP pancreatitis, but required dedicated Laparoscopic cholecystectomy in ACC was associated staffandprolongedthe lengthofsurgery. with a lower complication rate and with a shorter hospital stay. There were no differences for the same- admission cholecystectomyin terms ofmorbidity, opera- Section 3. Surgical treatment of ACC tive time and intraoperative blood loss and bile leakage; The literature updated from the 2016 WSES Guidelines however, the laparoscopic approach showed a decrease the meaning of previous statements edited by the WSES fection and pneumonia. Moreover, the operative time in 2016
