Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


from the 2016 WSES Guidelines however, the laparoscopic approach showed a decrease the meaning of previous statements edited by the WSES fection and pneumonia. Moreover, the operative time in 2016 ; however, they have been reviewed to ensure progressively became shorter in laparoscopy when data thebestavailableevidence. were analysed itsinstancesbetween1998and2007. Which is the preferred first line of treatment for A reaffirmation of the safety of laparoscopic cholecyst- patientswithACC? ectomy for ACC was shown in another systematic re- When should laparoscopic cholecystectomy be view comparing early laparoscopic cholecystectomy avoidedinpatients with ACC? (ELC) and delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy (DLC), 3.1 We recommend laparoscopic cholecystectomy including seven discordant meta-analyses and systematic as the first-line treatment for patients with ACC. reviews published from 2004 to 2015. The conclusions #QoE:high;SoR:strong# were that no differences in mortality, bile duct injury, Comment: A low complication rate and shortened bile leakage, overall complications and conversion to hospitalstay arethemajoradvantages. open surgery were seen. However, ELC had a significant 3.2 We recommend avoiding laparoscopic chole- reduction in wound infection, hospitalisation, duration cystectomy in case of septic shock or absolute anaes- ofsurgery andquality oflife. thesiology contraindications. #QoE: high; SoR: TG18 widened the indications for laparoscopic chole- strong# cystectomy when compared with TG13, as they sup- Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is generally considered ported same-admission laparoscopic cholecystectomy for the standard technique for the removal of gallstones. patients with all three severity grades of ACC . Local inflammation, especially in gangrenous and em- This is in line with the recommendations of the 2016 physematous ACC, has been considered to increase the WSES Guidelines. risk of bile duct injuries, blood loss, operative time, gen- In summary, the review of the relevant recent litera- eral morbidity and mortality rates in comparison with ture confirmed strong support for the recommendation open surgery . As technical difficulties usually de- that laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be attempted crease with experience and improvements in surgical in cases of ACC. Critical patient conditions, such as sep- technique and instrumentation, the hesitation to safely tic shock or anaesthesiology contraindication, are rea- perform laparoscopic cholecystectomy in ACC has de- sonstoavoid laparoscopiccholecystectomy. creased overtheyears. Is laparoscopic cholecystectomy safe and feasible for Despite several studies, ranging from case series to patients with ACC who have liver cirrhosis, are older feasibility and safety of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 3.3 We suggest performing laparoscopic cholecyst- the treatment of patients with ACC [64–73], a recent ectomy for ACC patients with Child’s A and
