Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


feasibility and safety of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 3.3 We suggest performing laparoscopic cholecyst- the treatment of patients with ACC [64–73], a recent ectomy for ACC patients with Child’s A and B survey on intra-abdominal infection, the CIAOW study cirrhosis, patients with advanced age (including more , showed unexpected results. It was a worldwide sur- than 80 years old) and patients who are pregnant. vey of 68 medical institutions during a 6-month study #QoE:low;SoR:weak# period demonstrating that 48.7% of patients with ACC still underwentopensurgery. Patientswithlivercirrhosis Nevertheless, evidence has clearly shown the safety of In cases of liver cirrhosis, surgical dissection could be laparoscopic cholecystectomy in ACC. A recent system- difficult and there is a higher risk of bleeding and other atic review, comparing open versus laparoscopic serious complications. Unfortunately, the available evi- cholecystectomy, summarized the available evidence, dence on both open and laparoscopic cholecystectomy underlining the limitations and providing a qualitative forACCinpatients withlivercirrhosis islimited.There- and quantitative analysis of the included studies. Of 651 fore, wemainlyaccept evidencethatcomesfromelective studies, 10 were included after qualitative analysis procedures performed for biliary colic or chronic chole- (publishedbetween1993and2012):fourRCTs,twopro- cystitis. According to a meta-analysis published by de spective non-randomized studies, and four retrospective Goede et al., elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy in trials, including 1374 patients (677 by laparoscopy vs. patients with child A or B cirrhosis was associated with 697byopensurgery). significantly fewer postoperative complications, a shorter Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page11of26 duration of hospitalisation and a shorter time to resume cholecystectomyforACCinelderlypatients,afterconsider- a normal diet, when compared to the open technique ingtheintrinsicsurgicalrisk,lifeexpectancyandtherateof . Lucidi et al. recommended laparoscopic cholecyst- relapse in cases of conservative management; and frailty ectomy as the first-choice approach in cirrhotic patients. scores,intheabsenceofasingleuniversallyacceptedscore, However, recommendation for laparoscopic cholecystec- were evaluated as adjunctive tools to better characterize tomy in patients with child C cirrhosis is unclear . elderlypatientsintheclinicalsituation. Nevertheless, other studies showed that laparoscopic More recently, Wiggins et al. have published a retro- cholecystectomy in these cirrhotic patients was associ- spective study based on an administrative national data- ated with a significantly prolonged duration of surgery base of all consecutive patients aged over 80, who were and an increase in operative blood loss, conversion rate, admitted for ACC in England between 1997 and 2012. It ity when compared with non-cirrhotic patients . In index admission, non-operative treatment was carried cirrhotic patients, the morbidity associated with laparo- out for 89.7% of the patients. Then, 7.5% had a chole- scopic cholecystectomy
