Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


The literature evidence for pregnant patients is limited. – Surgicalcomplications (including bileductinjury, The incidence of ACC during pregnancy varies among bileduct leaking,solidorganorhollowviscusinjury, reports, ranging from one case per 1600 pregnancies to pulmonary andwoundinfections, andhernias):901 one case per 10,000 pregnancies. However, ACC during outof9413laparoscopic cases (9.6%)versus 211out pregnancy is the second reason for non-obstetrical ab- of1219opencases(17.3%),with anORof0.45(95% dominalemergencysurgeryafterappendicitis. CI0.25–0.82,p=0.01). The diagnostic criteria and tools are the same used for – Preterm delivery(<37-weekgestation): 11outof the general population , but it is of note that leuco- 127laparoscopiccases (8.7%)versus 5out of78 cytosis during pregnancy could be misleading, and that opencases(6.4%),withan ORof1.35(95%CI0.41– the Murphy sign could be difficult to evaluate in the late 5.14; p=0.59). partofthethird trimester. – TheApgarscore at5minuteswasthe same. The best option for the management of ACC should be chosen considering a balance among the following In 2018, another Japanese nationwide retrospective co- factors: the risk of complications from ACC, limitations hort study reportedsimilarresults . on medication availability depending on the trimester, With the limitations of the quality of the studies, the risk of relapse, the risk of other specific conditions laparoscopy should be suggested for the treatment of which may occur during pregnancy and the time until symptomatic gallstones including ACC. The vast major- deliveryormaturation ofthefoetus. ity of studies suggests the second trimester until the ini- In general, in the absence of contraindications, surgery tial part of the third trimester as the best time to is suggested as first-line therapy in order to avoid com- perform laparoscopic cholecystectomy, as there is a plications and potential drug toxicity for the foetus. higher risk of miscarriage and toxic effect of anaesthesia Retrospective studies stated that recurrent ACC or pan- in the first trimester, while concerns are related to the creatitis can occur in 10% of patients, while miscarriage sizeoftheuterusinthethird trimester [92–94]. can occur in 10–20% of patients . NOM is an alter- A systematic review and set of guidelines from the native option, but it must be highlighted that there is a British Society for Gynaecological Endoscopy, en- ened abortion, and premature birth when compared to Gynaecologists, have been published in 2019 and they patientswho underwentcholecystectomy. summarize the discussion, confirming the benefits of One systematic review and meta-analysis focused on ELC over non-operative treatment, especially in the the comparison of open cholecystectomy with laparo- second trimester . scopic cholecystectomy during pregnancy . The au- Which surgical strategies should be adopted in case thors selected
