Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


especially in the the comparison of open cholecystectomy with laparo- second trimester . scopic cholecystectomy during pregnancy . The au- Which surgical strategies should be adopted in case thors selected 11 studies, all of which were retrospective: of difficult anatomic identification of structures dur- two from national databases, one from a state database ingcholecystectomyforACC? and the others were retrospective from single- or mul- 3.4 We recommend laparoscopic or open subtotal tiple- institutions. The analysis included 10,632 patients cholecystectomy in situations in which anatomic (1219 open; 9413 laparoscopic). The outcomes were as identification is difficult and in which the risk of iat- follows: rogenic injuries is high. #QoE: moderate; SoR: strong# – Outcomes forthemother:deathoccurred in1open Reasons for a ‘difficult gallbladder’ vary, and can be re- versus0laparoscopiccases; complications(including lated to obesity, adhesions, acute or chronic inflamma- caesareansection,dilatationand curettage, tion, distended gallbladder and liver cirrhosis. Due to hysterectomy,maternaldehydration andpre- the diversity of reasons and the variability of approaches eclampsia)were 3.5%inlaparoscopiccases vs.8.2% among surgeons, a review conducted in 2011 showed no Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page13of26 consensus on the ideal way to deal with a difficult level of evidence strongly supports the recommendation gallbladder. The options include subtotal cholecystec- for subtotal cholecystectomy in cases of difficult tomy, fundus first cholecystectomy, perioperative gallbladder. cholangiogram, open conversion or a combination of When should conversion from laparoscopic to open these options . cholecystectomybeconsideredinpatientswithACC? In this section, we focus on subtotal cholecystectomy, 3.5 We recommend conversion from laparoscopic which is an option when the critical view of safety to open cholecystectomy in case of severe local in- cannot be obtained. In 2015, a systematic review and flammation, adhesions, bleeding from the Calot’s tri- meta-analysis by Elshaer et al. reported that subtotal angle or suspected bile duct injury. #QoE: moderate; cholecystectomy was performed using laparoscopic SoR:strong# (72.9%) open (19.0%) and laparoscopic converted to This recommendation should be supported by studies open (8.0%) techniques. In this study including over in which the patients with difficult gallbladder have been 1200 patients, the most common indications were severe randomized to conversion or to different laparoscopic cholecystitis (72.1%), followed by gallstones in liver cir- procedures. However, this type of study is unlikely to be rhosis and portal hypertension (18.2%) and empyema or performed. a perforated gallbladder (6.1%). They concluded that The present update of the WSES Guidelines on ACC subtotal cholecystectomy might be helpful during the clarifies that, in 2016, the reasons for conversion
