Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


perforated gallbladder (6.1%). They concluded that The present update of the WSES Guidelines on ACC subtotal cholecystectomy might be helpful during the clarifies that, in 2016, the reasons for conversion were surgical management of difficult cholecystectomy; also used as a proxy in the absence of high-quality studies; considering that it achieves morbidity rates compar- we maintained the same approach for the current ver- able to those reported for total cholecystectomy in sionoftheguidelines. straightforward cases. The quality of evidence is lim- When expertise in difficult instances of laparoscopic ited, due to the absence of prospective randomized cholecystectomy is ensured, the conversion is not a fail- studies, which are not expected to be easily per- ure and it represents a valid option to be considered. formed in the future . The quality of the evidence is moderate. However, the Support for subtotal cholecystectomy has also been re- absence of opportunities to achieve a higher quality of ported from other studies. In a retrospective study on evidence, along with the broadly used conversion to underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy were matched suggests a strong recommendation for conversion to with 46 patients who underwent subtotal laparoscopic open surgery after laparoscopy has been attempted at cholecystectomy. The authors observed no bile duct the best institutional level available. Nevertheless, ac- injury in the subtotal cholecystectomy group, but four cordingtoGuptaetal.,surgeonsshouldadoptaphiloso- instances in the complete cholecystectomy group. Bile phy ofsafelaparoscopic cholecystectomy. Understanding leakage was greater in the subtotal group due to the mechanisms related to specific complications may difficulty in the cicatrisation on the remaining gallblad- helpelaborating strategiestoavoid orreduce those com- der stump; however, bile leakage was managed easily by plications; in this context, the surgeon should define, in abdominal drainage or in combination with endoscopic their own personal armamentarium, the indications for a biliary prosthesis placement. bailout techniques among the available options [103, A recent nation-based database study evaluating 290, 104]. 855 cases between 2003 and 2014 showed an increased use of subtotal cholecystectomy from 0.1 to 0.52% for Section 4. Timing of cholecystectomy in people open subtotal cholecystectomy and from 0.12 to 0.28% with ACC for laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The conversion rate When is the optimal timing for laparoscopic chole- from laparoscopic to open total cholecystectomy cystectomyinpatientswithACC? decreased from 10.5 to 7.6%. Interestingly, the teaching 4.1 In the presence of adequate surgical expertise, hospitals significantly increased the rate of subtotal we recommend ELC be performed as soon as pos-
