Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


10.5 to 7.6%. Interestingly, the teaching 4.1 In the presence of adequate surgical expertise, hospitals significantly increased the rate of subtotal we recommend ELC be performed as soon as pos- highlighted that there are different techniques to achieve within 10 days from the onset of symptoms. #QoE: subtotal cholecystectomy: this aspect could add some moderate;SoR:strong#. difficultyinanalysing data from differentstudies. Comment: ELC so defined is preferable to intermedi- The quality of the available evidence ranges from low ate laparoscopic cholecystectomy (ILC, performed be- dence, the large application of the technique globally, DLC(performedbetween 6weeksand3months). Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page14of26 ELC cannot be performed (within 7 days of hospital compared to ILC . The return to work was about 9 admission and within 10 days of onset of symptoms). days sooner following ELCcomparedtoDLC. #QoE:verylow;SoR:weak#. Overall, it appears that ELC performed within 7 days Surgery is currently the recommended treatment in of hospital admission and within 10 days of onset of people with acute cholecystitis. Conservative manage- symptoms is superior to either ILC performed between for people with mildly symptomatic acute cholecystitis formedbetween6weeksand3monthsoftheinitialhos- (i.e. people without peritonitis or those who have wors- pital admission for acute cholecystitis. Since blinding ening clinical condition). In a RCT with long-term cannot be achieved in these comparisons and the out- follow-up of 14 years, about 30% of patients treated comes were subjective, all the trials were deemed to be conservatively developed recurrent gallstone-related at high risk of bias. However, trials with low risk of bias complications and 60% of patients had undergone chole- aredifficulttoconductinthiscomparison.Since theevi- cystectomy subsequently . The study included dence was consistent across trials and outcomes, it ap- only 33 patients and had high risk of bias . pears highly likely that ELC is superior to either ILC or Therefore, until new high-quality evidence becomes DLC. Therefore, despite the moderate quality evidence available, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is considered the (which is mainly because of the lack of blinding in the recommended treatment for patients who are fit to trials), the recommendation for ELC is strong. However, undergosurgery. it should be noted that the study authors described that In patients with moderate or severely symptomatic ELC was more complex; therefore, it should be cholecystitis or in those with mildly symptomatic acute attemptedonlybyexperiencedsurgeons.Referraltocen- cholecystitis who prefer surgery, laparoscopic cholecyst- tres with high surgical expertise should be considered if ectomyispreferred overopen cholecystectomy .The adequate surgical expertise is not available. If ELC
