Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


symptomatic acute attemptedonlybyexperiencedsurgeons.Referraltocen- cholecystitis who prefer surgery, laparoscopic cholecyst- tres with high surgical expertise should be considered if ectomyispreferred overopen cholecystectomy .The adequate surgical expertise is not available. If ELC can- timing of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in these patients not be performed, DLC appears to be better than ILC. is controversial. A Cochrane review published in 2013 Although, there is no evidence of difference between concluded that ELC for acute cholecystitis seems safe DLC and ILC, the ACDC trial comparing ELC versus andmayshortenthetotal hospital stay. ILC showed that a significant proportion of patients An update of the literaturesearcheswas performed for undergoing ILC developed serious adverse events . the purpose of this guideline. Sixteen trials were identi- Therefore, DLC may be preferable when ELC is not pos- fiedintheupdate(includingthetrialsoriginallyincluded sible, although a proportion of patients with planned in the systematic review) [108–123]. The number of DLC approach may need unplanned earlier surgery (see participants with acute cholecystitis was not reported in Fig. 1) . There are no trials comparing ILC and one of the trials . In the remaining 15 trials, 1240 DLC and it is unlikely that they will performed, given participants were included in 14 trials comparing ELC the results of the ACDC trial . Therefore, there is versus DLC [108–115, 117–120, 122, 123] and 618 significant uncertainty whether DLC is better than ILC participants were included in one trial comparing ELC when ELC is not possible and the recommendation to versus intermediate laparoscopic cholecystectomy (ILC) perform DLCwhen ELCisnot possible isweak. . The country; recruitment period; number of participants; the duration of symptoms; the timing of Section 5. Risk prediction in ACC ELC, DLC and ILC; and the surgical experience are How can the prognosis and surgical risk be assessed reported in Table 3. Overall, it appears that ELC was forpatients withACC? performed within 10 days of onset of symptoms in most 5.1 We cannot suggest the use of any prognostic trials. modelinpatientswithACC. There were no significant differences in mortality or #QoE:verylow;SoR:weak# conversion to open cholecystectomy between the three Comment: There is currently significant uncertainty in groups. The proportion of patients with serious adverse the ability of prognostic factors and risk prediction events was significantly higher in ILC compared to ELC models inpredicting outcomesinpatients withACC. in the only trial included in the comparison between Cholecystectomy is currently the recommended treat- ILC and DLC . The number of serious adverse ment for
