Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


in deciding whether referral to high-volume cen- a long-term follow-up of 14 years, about 30% of patients tres and specialized centres, which may decrease the with mildly symptomatic acute cholecystitis who did not complications , is appropriate. Informed deci- undergo cholecystectomy developed recurrent gallstone- sions about whether to opt for surgery or observation related complications, compared with 3% of patients can alsobemadeifinformation ontherisksisavailable. who underwent cholecystectomy. These differences were We performed a systematic review of studies reporting not significant for recurrent disease or overall complica- on the ability of prognostic factors or risk prediction tions . However, 60% of patients had undergone models to predict important patient-related outcomes, Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page16of26 such as mortality, complications and conversion to open However,it should benoted thatthe systematic review surgery in patients with ACC . In this systematic includedonly preoperative factors,and mostofthe stud- review and meta-analysis, we included 12 studies and ies included only patients undergoing cholecystectomy 6827 patients inone ormoreanalysis. Onlyafew factors for ACC. Therefore, the findings of the review are ap- (TG13, age, male gender, previous abdominal surgery, plicable only for preoperative risk prediction in patients diabetes, hypertension and C-reactive protein) were re- undergoing cholecystectomyfor ACC. ported in a format similar enough to allow comparisons It should also be noted that most of the studies were between studies. The remaining factors were studied in retrospective, in which blinding of predictor or outcome single studies or using different thresholds. Therefore, measurement were not reported, and most of the studies there is no information on their reproducibility, and the were small. results maybeunreliable. Overall, there is significant uncertainty in the ability of Among the prognostic factors reported in at least two prognostic factors and risk prediction models in predict- studies, TG13 grade 3 had an increased risk of all-cause ing outcomes in patients with ACC. TG13 grade 3 may mortality compared to grade 1. The risk increased from beassociatedwithgreatermortalitythangrade1severity a median risk of 1.3% to 6.5% (95% CI 3.7–11.2). How- of acute cholecystitis. Despite the increased risk of ever, most studies included only people who underwent mortality in TG13 grade 3 compared to TG13 grade 1, surgery, not all of whom were patients with ACC. There surgery seems to be the preferred option when possible. have been no RCTs of surgery versus observation in The TG18 adopted the TG13 severity grading criteria in people with severe ACC. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy predictingoutcomesinpatientswith ACC. performed by
