Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


when possible. have been no RCTs of surgery versus observation in The TG18 adopted the TG13 severity grading criteria in people with severe ACC. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy predictingoutcomesinpatientswith ACC. performed by experienced surgeons had lower major High-quality studies arenecessarytoprovidebetter in- complication rates than percutaneous cholecystostomy formation on the prognostic factors of patients with with no planned cholecystectomy . Therefore, it ap- acute cholecystitis and to improve shared decision pears that, despite the increased risk of mortality in making. TG13 grade3comparedtoTG13grade1,surgery seems to be the preferred option when possible. However, re- Section 6. Alternative treatment for patients with ferral to high volume centres and specialized centres ACC who are not suitable for surgery: observation may decrease the complications and resulting and techniques for gallbladder drainage mortality, and should be considered in people with When should Non-Operative Management be consid- TG13 grade3acute cholecystitis. ered forpatients withACC? Being male was associated with an increased risk of 6.1 We suggest considering NOM, i.e. best medical complications(from10to15%;95%CI10.5–20.9)andan therapy with antibiotics and observation, for patients increased risk of conversion to open cholecystectomy refusing surgery or those who are not suitable for (from16to48.5%;95%CI27.5–70.0).Thereasonsforthe surgery.#QoE: low;SoR: weak# difference in the complications and conversion between 6.2 We suggest considering alternative treatment malesandfemalesarenotclear,butmaybeduetoacom- options for patients who fail NOM and who still bination of increased skeletal muscle mass (particu- refuse surgery or patients who are not suitable for larly in the trunk ) and increased visceral abdominal surgery.#QoE: low;SoR: weak# fat in males , which could make laparo- Schimdt et al. published an RCT comparing ob- scopic surgery more difficult, and a common delay in servation and surgery in cases of ACC, with a long me- malesseekingmedicalhelpduetoamisguidedperception dian follow-up time of 14 years. In their analysis, about of masculinity , which could mean that the 30% of patients with mildly symptomatic acute chole- maleshadmoreseverediseasethanfemalesatthetimeof cystitis who did not undergo cholecystectomy developed surgeryisariskfactorforconversiontoopencholecystec- with 3% of patients who underwent cholecystectomy, tomy. This is to be expected because of the intra- but these differences were not significant for recurrent abdominal adhesions related to previous abdominal sur- disease or complications. Overall, 60% of patients had gery . An increased age had a minor increase in the undergone surgery, while 40% avoided surgery. There conversion to open cholecystectomy, but the increase is are significant limitations in the study, as recognized by cumulative,aselderlypatientsmayhaveaclinicallysignifi- the authors: firstly, a relevant percentage of eligible pa- cantincreaseinconversiontoopencholecystectomycom- tients (41%) were
