Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


to open cholecystectomy, but the increase is are significant limitations in the study, as recognized by cumulative,aselderlypatientsmayhaveaclinicallysignifi- the authors: firstly, a relevant percentage of eligible pa- cantincreaseinconversiontoopencholecystectomycom- tients (41%) were excluded from randomization; sec- pared with young people. Various confounding factors ondly, the reasons for the exclusion were not stated in such as comorbidities and increased cumulative risk of the paper; thirdly, the definitions of dropout and failure upper abdominal surgery may contribute to the increased within the observation group were not clear. Brazzelli riskofconversiontoopencholecystectomy. et al. published a systematic review of two RCTs Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page17of26 comparing observation with surgery in patients with terms of efficacy and safety. Patients who underwent symptomatic gallstone disease(inthefirststudy)andpa- ELC had significantly fewer major complications, tients with ACC (in the second study). From a total of which were mainly recurrent biliary events. Five per- 201 patients, the results confirmed the high rate of cent of patients who underwent ELC had complica- gallstone-related complications within the observation tions, compared with 53% of patients who underwent group (RR 6.63, 95% CI 1.57–28.51, p = 0.01).The au- PTGBD. Mortality was low and remained the same in thors, although noting the substantial lack of good qual- both groups. ity evidence, reported that a policy of surgery for all Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy also led to signifi- vation followed by surgery for symptomatic patients, concluded that immediate cholecystectomy in high-risk represents a costly but more effective choice. In conclu- patientsissafeandshouldbethestandardofcare. sion, relevant uncertainty exists regarding the best man- What is the role of gallbladder drainage in patients agement between surgery or observation in cases of with ACCwhoare notsuitableforsurgery? ACC, especially in uncomplicated disease; observation 6.4 We recommend performing gallbladder drain- and best medical therapy are likely to be safe, but this age in patients with ACC who are not suitable for latter approach is characterised by a high incidence of surgery, as it converts a septic patient with ACC into recurrentdisease. anon-septicpatient.#QoE:moderate;SoR: strong# Alternative treatment options may be considered for Patients who are not suitable for surgery, but who are patientswhofailNOMforACC,alsoconsideringthein- septic due to gallbladder empyema, are effectively situation. .Gallbladderdrainagedecompressestheinfectedbile Which is the first-choice treatment for ACC in high or pus in the gallbladder, removing the infected collec- riskpatients? tion without removing the gallbladder. The removal of 6.3 Immediate laparoscopic cholecystectomy is su- the infected material can result in reduced inflammation perior to percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder and in improvement
