Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


tion without removing the gallbladder. The removal of 6.3 Immediate laparoscopic cholecystectomy is su- the infected material can result in reduced inflammation perior to percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder and in improvement of the clinical conditions. Several drainage (PTGBD) in high risk patients with ACC. case series, both retrospective and observational, exist We recommend laparoscopic cholecystectomy as the oncholecystostomy.Asystematicreviewoftheliterature first-choice treatment in this group of patients. included 53 studies with 1918 patients outlining a high #QoE:high;SoR:strong# success rate of the procedure (85.6%) with a low TG13 on ACC considered gallbladder drain- procedure-related mortality rate (0.36%); however, the age as mandatory for patients with severe grade ACC 30-day mortality rate was high at 15.4% . A major (according to the Tokyo classification of acute limitation of the study was the inclusion of patients with cholecystitis) and also suggested its use in the moder- both acute acalculous cholecystitis and ACC. A review ate grade if conservative treatment fail. The revised of additional 27observational studies on cholecystostomy TG18, based on recent studies, proposed that severe- showed significant heterogeneity in terms of inclu- grade cholecystitis, under certain strict criteria, may sioncriteria,resultsandconclusions reachedbydifferent be treated with laparoscopic cholecystectomy [10, authors. Considering these limitations, the reported in- 140]. A systematic review published in 2016 compar- hospital mortality and morbidity rates for cholecystost- ing percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage omy range from 4 to 50 % and from 8.2 to 62%, (PTGBD) and cholecystectomy in critically ill patients respectively. reported no benefit for the use of PTGBD over chole- Gallbladder drainage may be an option in patients cystectomy . Six studies were analysed with a who failed conservative management after a variable total of 337,500 patients. Mortality rate, length of time of 24 to 48 h and who present with strict contrain- hospital stay and number of readmissions for dications for surgery. A prospective study by Barak et al. gallstone-related diseases were all significantly higher reported that age over 70 years, diabetes, tachycar- in the PTGBD group than in the cholecystectomy dia and a distended gallbladder at admission are group. It should be noted that all included studies predictors for failure of NOM at 24-h follow-up, while a had a retrospective design, which makes the results WBC of more than 15,000 cell/mm3, fever and age prone to bias. Recently, the first randomized trial on above 70 years were predictors for failure of NOM at this subject was published (the CHOCOLATE
