Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


15,000 cell/mm3, fever and age prone to bias. Recently, the first randomized trial on above 70 years were predictors for failure of NOM at this subject was published (the CHOCOLATE trial). 48-hfollow-up. The results showed that laparoscopic cholecystectomy No specific antibiotic regimen is to be prescribed is superior to PTGBD also in high-risk patients alongside PTGBD and no evidence exists supporting the with ACC. PTGBD was compared with ELC in critic- need for a specific antibiotic regimen. For the antimicro- ally ill patients (APACHE score 7–14) with ACC, in bial therapy,pleaserefer tothededicated section. Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page18of26 Should delayed cholecystectomy be offered to pa- drainage when large stones or pus were present, and to tients with ACC after the reduction of perioperative theuseofsmall-diametercathetersorstents. risk? EUS-GBD has been compared, in terms of technical 6.5 Delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy is sug- feasibility and efficacy, to PTGBD inpatients with gested after reduction of perioperative risks to de- acute, high-risk or advanced stage cholecystitis who did crease readmission for ACC relapse or gallstone- not respond to initial medical treatment and could not related disease.#QoE:verylow;SoR:weak# undergo ELC. EUS-GBD and PTGBD showed similar miologic analysis in 2013, showing that 40% of patients 96%, p = 0.0001) success rates, and similar rates of com- underwent a DLC after PTGD; the 1-year readmission plications (7% vs. 1%, p = 0.492), indicating that EUS- rate for patients who did not undergo DLC after PTGD GBD is a safe alternative to PTGBD in patients who are was 49% with an in-hospital mortality rate of 1% . unsuitablefor surgery. No randomized trial currently exists comparing DLC to Irani andco-workers reached similarconclusions observationalone. after a retrospective multicenter study, in which the Can endoscopic gallbladder drainage be considered technical success rates of EUS-GBD and PTGBD were an alternative to PTGBD in patients with ACC who 98% and 100% (p = 0.88), respectively. Moreover, the arenotsuitableforsurgery? EUS-GBD group had a shorter in-hospital length of stay 6.6 In patients with ACC who are not suitable for andfewerrepeatinterventions(p<0.05). surgery, endoscopic transpapillary gallbladder drain- Khan et al. , in a meta-analysis, evaluated the age (ETGBD) or ultrasound-guided transmural gall- technical success rates and post-procedure adverse bladder drainage (EUS-GBD) should be considered events of ETGBD compared with PTGBD. They found safe and effective alternatives to PTGBD, if per- that the pooled OR for technical success of ETGBD ver- formed in high-volume centers by skilled endosco- sus PTGBD was 0.51
