Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


in a RCT of 73 con- ther EUS-GBD with LAMS or PTGBD within 4 to 6 h secutive patients with ACC, obtained overall technical from diagnosis. Although 30-day mortality was equiva- success rates with ENGBD and EGBS of 91.9% and lent between the two study groups, the results were in intention-to-treat analysis were 86.5% and 77.8%, re- verse events at 30-day (12.8% vs. 47.5%, p = 0.001) and success rate may be ascribed to inadequate gallbladder reduced number of re-interventions at 30 days (2.6% vs. Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page19of26 30%, p = 0.001) and with a reduced number of episodes guided, trans-enteric drainage of a pseudocyst or non- ofrecurrent cholecystitis (2.6% vs.20%,p=0.029). adherent fluid collections . The theoretical 6.7 If endoscopic transpapillary gallbladder drain- advantage of LAMSs over other stents is the ability to age is performed, both endoscopic nasogatric endo- approximate the gallbladder wall to the enteric lumen, scopic gallbladder drainage (ENGBD) and endoscopic ‘sealing off’ any potential bile leaks and preventing mi- gallbladder stenting (EGBS) should be considered gration, thus providing a robust lumen anchorage . suitable options, based on patient characteristics and Furthermore, the large diameter of LAMSs (10 mm and on the endoscopist’s decision. #QoE: high; SoR: 15 mm) may allow access to the gallbladder with a slim strong# endoscope with the purpose of removing stones, or tak- Although ENGBD has certain advantages for patients ingbiopsies . in whom stent insertion is impossible or when there is In a retrospective review of multi-center prospectively stent dysfunction, it has two major drawbacks: the po- collected data, Irani et al. achieved a technical suc- tential for inadvertent catheter dislodgement or patient cessrate of93%andaclinicalsuccess rate of100%using removal, and discomfort. On the other hand, an indwell- LAMSs to decompress the gallbladder in patients who ing stent may be suitable when there is a concern in pa- had ACC and who were poor surgical candidates. Doll- tients with altered mental status or dementia . A hopf et al. , with a new LAMSs device, obtained tically significant difference in technical success (OR respectively,with10.7% ofcases havingadverseevents. CI 0.40–8.26), or adverse events rate (OR 1.49; CI 95% we recommend their removal within 4 weeks, in 0.29–3.81). Consequently, the advantages and disadvan- order to avoid food impaction with subsequent high tages of each drainage method are considered approxi- riskofrecurrenceofACC.#QoE:low;SoR:weak# mately equal. The long-term deployment of metal stents in EUS- What is the role of
