Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


avoid food impaction with subsequent high tages of each drainage method are considered approxi- riskofrecurrenceofACC.#QoE:low;SoR:weak# mately equal. The long-term deployment of metal stents in EUS- What is the role of endoscopic transmural GBD could cause adverse events, including food ultrasound-guided gallbladder drainage (EUS-GBD) impaction, which, by impairing bile flow, may induce in patients with ACC who are not suitable for recurrence of cholecystitis. There are several evidences surgery? that a well formed fistula might develop 6.8 EUS-GBD with lumen-apposing self-expandable between the gallbladder and the gastrointestinal tract metal stents (LAMSs) should be preferred to ETGBD, within four weeks using a conventional biliary SEMS as if performed by skilled endoscopists. #QoE: moder- wellas aLAMS. ate;SoR:strong# Some authors have argued that, in order to min- In a recent meta-analysis, Khan et al. found that imisetheriskofrecurrentcholecystitisorbiliaryleakage, the proportional difference of WPRs for technical success LAMSs could be left in place for a longer period, with- and clinical success between EUS-GBD versus ETGBD out stent-related complications . Although a more were 10% and 4%, respectively. This difference is ex- significant tissue reaction can be expected after a long plained bythe fact thatthe transpapillaryproceduresmay stented well-time, it seems probable that stent location, betechnically challenging,due tothe anatomyof the cys- whether gastric or duodenal, might also influence the ticductorstoneimpaction.Ontheotherhand,ifthedis- degreeoftissueovergrowth.Theretroperitoneallocation tance between the gallbladder and the enteric lumen is of the duodenum results in a more stable tract to the less than 1 cm, EUS-GBD appears to be safe and feasible gallbladder than the stomach, in which peristaltic move- [154–156]. This technique results in a permanent fistula ments might result in a more pronounced tissue reac- formation between the gallbladder and the hollow viscus, tion, impairing the removal of the stent once the facilitatinganatomicbiledrainage. inflammatoryprocesshassubsided. A variety of plastic stents (straight, single, double- pigtail) and self-expandable metal stents (SEMSs) have Section 7. Antibiotic treatment of ACC been used during EUS-GBD with similar treatment out- Which is the optimal antibiotic treatment for patients comes. However, plastic and SEMSs are tubular stents with uncomplicated ACC? not specifically designed for EUS-GBD procedures; 7.1 In uncomplicated ACC, we recommend against therefore, bile leakage, stent occlusion and migration are the routine use of postoperative antibiotics when the potentialadverseevents.Inordertoovercome focus of infection is controlled by cholecystectomy. these limitations, modified stents with flared ends and #QoE:high;SoR:strong# LAMSshavebeenintroduced . An open-label non-inferiority prospective controlled LAMSs are fully covered self-expandable metal stents trial by Regimbau et
