Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


controlled by cholecystectomy. these limitations, modified stents with flared ends and #QoE:high;SoR:strong# LAMSshavebeenintroduced . An open-label non-inferiority prospective controlled LAMSs are fully covered self-expandable metal stents trial by Regimbau et al. randomized 414 patients with bilateral flanges specifically designed for EUS- who underwent cholecystectomy for uncomplicated Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page20of26 ACC to either no antibiotics after surgery or continu- therapyhasasignificant impactonoutcome.Richè ation of the preoperative antibiotic regimen for 5 days. et al. prospectively studied a cohort of 180 consecutive An imputed intention-to-treat analysis showed no differ- patients with secondary generalized peritonitis and ence in the incidence of postoperative infection rates: found that there was a significantly higher mortality rate 17% (35 out of 207) in the no-treatment group com- inpatientswithsepticshockthaninthosewithoutseptic pared with 15% (31 out of 207) in the antibiotic group shock (35% and 8%, respectively, OR 4.11; 95% CI 1.78– (absolutedifference1.93%;95%CI−8.98–5.12). 9.48, p = 0.0003) . Furthermore, in patients with No studies were found on this topic since the publica- septic shock, the biliary origin of peritonitis was a risk tion ofthe2016 WSES Guidelines onACC. factor for mortality at multivariate analysis (OR 3.5; 95% Which is the optimal antibiotic treatment for CI 1.09–11.70, p = 0.03). International guidelines for the patientswithcomplicatedACC? management of severe sepsis and septic shock (the 7.2 In complicated ACC, we recommend prescrib- Surviving Sepsis Campaign) recommend the ad- ingtheantimicrobial regimenbased onthepresumed ministration of broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics pathogens involved and the risk factors for major with good penetration into the presumed site of infec- resistancepatterns.#QoE:high;SoR: strong# tion within the first hour. A recent CC (Sepsis-3) Empiric antibiotic treatment should be commenced proposed a new evidence-based definition of sepsis and according to the most frequently isolated microorgan- septic shock, underscoring the importance of recogniz- isms, taking into consideration the local trends of anti- ing the septic focus and the infecting organism. In cases biotic resistance and the availability of drugs. In biliary of biliary sepsis, drug pharmacokinetics may be signifi- infections, Gram-negative aerobes, such as Escherichia cantly altered in patients with organ dysfunction and coli and Klebsiella pneumonia, and anaerobes, especially septic shock; therefore, the selection of antibiotics Bacteroides fragilis are the most commonly isolated bac- should be reassessed daily and be based on both the teria . The potential pathogenicity of Entero- pathophysiological status of the patient and the pharma- cocci in biliary sepsis remains unclear and specific cokinetic properties of the specific drug . No
