Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


. The potential pathogenicity of Entero- pathophysiological status of the patient and the pharma- cocci in biliary sepsis remains unclear and specific cokinetic properties of the specific drug . No coverage against these microorganisms is not routinely significant additional evidence was found since the pub- suggested for community-acquired biliary infections lication of the 2016 WSES Guidelines on ACC (see . In case of immunosuppression, i.e. transplant pa- Table 4for recommendedantibioticregimens). tients, infection lead by Enterococcus spp. should be pre- What is the role of microbiological cultures and sumed and pre-emptively treated . The main issue sensitivities inpatients with ACC? related to antibiotic resistance in biliary tract infections 7.3 In patients with complicated ACC and patients remains the production of extended spectrum beta- at high risk for antimicrobial resistance, we recom- lactamase by Enterobacteriaceae; this is frequently found mend adapting the targeted antibiotic regimen to the in community acquired infections in patients with previ- results of microbiological analysis, ensuring adequate ous exposuretoantibiotics. antimicrobialcoverage.#QoE:moderate;SoR:weak# Healthcare-related infections are commonly caused by Identifying the causative organism(s) is an essential resistant bacterial strains, requiring complex antibiotic step in the management of ACC, especially in patientsat regimens; the use of adequate broad-spectrum empiric high risk for antimicrobial resistance, such as immuno- therapy appears to be a crucial factor to reduce postop- compromised patients and those with healthcare- erative complications and deaths, especially in critically associated infections. The rate of positive bile culture ill patients . The efficacy of antibiotics in the treat- (from either gallbladder culture or bile samples from the ment of biliary infections may be associated with their common bile duct) ranges from 29 to 54% in cases of mental data exists supporting the use of antibiotics with No additional studies have been found on this topic biliary penetration for these patients. Nevertheless, in since the publication of the 2016 WSES Guidelines on patientswith obstructed bile duct, thebiliary penetration ACC. of antibiotics may be poor and the actual bile concentra- tions are reached only in a small percentage of patients Conclusions, knowledge gaps and research . Biliary penetration of different antibiotics (indi- recommendations cated as the ratio of bile-to-serum concentrations) are The WSES 2020 on ACC, based on the updated listedinTable 4. evidence, reinforces the pivotal role of ELC in the man- In the management of critically ill patients with ACC, agement of ACC, even in high-risk patients. The new the choice of the
