Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61
KEYWORDS: patients, acc, etal, cholecystectomy, surgery, laparoscopic, risk, high, cholecystitis, cbds, studies, study, gallbladder, guidelines, acute


the pivotal role of ELC in the man- In the management of critically ill patients with ACC, agement of ACC, even in high-risk patients. The new the choice of the antimicrobial regimen may be challen- developed algorithm, in our opinion, emphasizes the ging. In patients with sepsis of abdominal origin, the importance of two categories of patients: the high-risk early administration of a correct empirical antimicrobial patientsandthose who arenotsuitablefor surgery. Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page21of26 Table4AntimicrobialregimenssuggestedforACC The CHOCOLATE Study defined high-risk graspingthegallbladder,difficultiesinviewofsafety,gan- patients as those with an APACHE score 7–14; this greneofthecysticduct,etc.). high-quality study improved our understanding of the Finally, the WSES strongly advocates the adoption of a management of this complex cohort of patients. Its re- policyfor safelaparoscopiccholecystectomy andencour- sults are in favour of surgery, when compared with bil- ages the development of local pathways, based on the iary drainage in high-risk patients with ACC. However, availableevidence. there is not a single and universally accepted definition of this high-risk patients group; therefore, accepting the suggestion coming from Loozen et al., it appears reason- Supplementary information able to recommend the development of local clinical Supplementaryinformationaccompaniesthispaperat 0.1186/s13017-020-00336-x. pathways after deciding which of the available scores fits localneedsandexpertise. Additionalfile1.Appendix1and2 Inadditiontothedefinedhigh-riskpatients,theWSES proposes the category of patients who are not suitable for surgery. We suggest to include in this group all pa- Abbreviations tients with ACC who are not fit for surgery, according ACC:Acutecalculouscholecystitis;GRADE:GradingofRecommendations to the specific surgeon’s judgement, and patients who Assessment,DevelopmentandEvaluation;TG:TokyoGuidelines; CC:ConsensusConference;CBDS:Commonbileductstone; are not amenable for surgical treatment, due tothe pres- RCT:Randomizedcontrolledtrial;LR:Likelihoodratio;US:Ultrasound; ence ofclinicalconditions which are not classifiablewith pSWE:Pointshear-waveelastography;AUC:Areaunderthecurve; clinical or physiologic scores (Appendix 2). For this co- SMI:Superbmicrovascularimaging;HIDA:Hepatobiliaryiminodiaceticacid; CT:Computedtomography;MRI:Magneticresonanceimaging; hort of patients, surgery may be unsafe or impossible ERCP:Endoscopicretrogradecolangio-pancreatography;LFTs:Liverfunction and gallbladder drainage may be the best suitable option tests;GGT:Gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase;ALT:Alanineaminotransferase; incaseofuncontrolled sepsisand/orfailure ofNOM. IOC:Intra-operativecholangiography;PPV:Positivepredictivevalue; NPV:Negativepredictivevalue;ALP:Alkalinephosphatase;EUS:Endoscopic Moreover, areas for important future research were ultrasound;MCRP:Magneticresonancecolangio-pancreatography; identified. These include (1) high-quality studies on prog- LUS:Laparoscopicultrasound;ELC:Earlylaparoscopiccholecystectomy; nosticfactorsofACCpatientssoastoimprovesharedde- OR:Oddsratio;95%CI:95%confidenceinterval;ILC:Intermediate laparoscopiccholecystectomy;DLC:Delayedlaparoscopiccholecystectomy; cision making, (2) defining the best management option NOM:Nonoperativemanagement;PTGBD:Percutaneoustranshepatic whenELC isnotpossibleduetolackofsurgicalexpertise gallbladderdrainage;ETGBD:Endoscopictranspapillarygallbladderdrainage; or due to the duration of symptoms. This should include EUS-GBD:Ultrasound-guidedtransmuralgallbladderdrainage; ENGBD:Endoscopictranspapillarynasogastricgallbladderdrainage; focus groups involving patients and clinicians, and using EGBS:Endoscopicgallbladderstent;LAMS:Lumen-apposingself-expandable observational studies, and (3) defining the best option in metalstent;SEMS:Self-expandablemetalstents the management of difficult operative scenarios. This needs a common language among researchers in order to Acknowledgements obtain higher quality studies (in terms of classification of WethankforthebibliographicsearchMrsFrancaBoschini(PastMedical difficulties:e.g.adhesionswithhollowviscus,difficultiesin LibraryofPapaGiovanniXXIIIHospital,Bergamo,Italy). Pisanoetal.WorldJournalofEmergencySurgery (2020) 15:61 Page22of26 Authors’contributions Received:10July2020Accepted:17September2020 Conception: LA, MP, FC, NA, MC, FC; design of the
