Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


several genes involved in adrenal hypoplasia syndromes. The early identification of these diseases can have important prognostic and therapeutic implications for patients with respect to surveillance for associated conditions, initiation of early treatment or screening of family members who are at risk. Adrenal insufficiency is potentially life threatening, thus treatment should be initiated as soon as the diagnosis is confirmed, or sooner if the patient presents in adrenal crisis. Therapy consists of life-long replacement therapy with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. Hypogonadism or other associated disorders should be treated appropriately. Screening of family members for the disease or carrier status may also be indicated and can be critical for family planning. When a monogenic cause of adrenal failure is identified, genetic counseling is indicated. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. INTRODUCTION The adrenal glands consist of two anatomically and functionally distinct subunits, the cortex and the medulla. The adrenal cortex secretes glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids and androgens. The glucocorticoid, cortisol, is secreted by the cells of the intermediate zona fasciculata . Its secretion is tightly regulated by the hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and vasopressin (AVP) and by the pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) ( 1 ). Glucocorticoids regulate a broad spectrum of physiologic functions essential for life and play an important role in the maintenance of basal and stress-related homeostasis. The mineralocorticoid, aldosterone, is produced by the outer adrenal zona glomerulosa . This steroid regulates water and electrolyte homeostasis and its secretion is primarily under the control of the renin-angiotensin system, although it may be weakly influenced by ACTH. The adrenal androgens, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), its sulfate (DHEA-S) and androstenedione, are secreted by the inner zona reticularis under the control of ACTH. CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPOPLASIA Congenital adrenal hypoplasia is a rare cause of primary adrenocortical failure, which was first described in 1948. It has an estimated frequency of 1:12,500 live births ( 2 ). During the last decade there have been significant advances in our understanding of the genetic etiology of several forms of adrenal insufficiency with a presentation in infancy or childhood. Several of these conditions affect adrenal development and are commonly known as adrenal hypoplasia. Adrenal hypoplasia may be due to ( 3 - 9 ): 1. Secondary to defects in transcription factors involved in pituitary development (e.g. HESX1, LHX4, SOX3) or defects in ACTH synthesis (TPIT), processing and release (e.g. POMC or PC1);
