Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


9 ): 1. Secondary to defects in transcription factors involved in pituitary development (e.g. HESX1, LHX4, SOX3) or defects in ACTH synthesis (TPIT), processing and release (e.g. POMC or PC1); 2. Part of an ACTH resistance syndrome [MC2R/ACTH receptor, MRAP, AAAS (triple A syndrome), StAR, CYP11A1, MCM4, NNT, TXNRD2, GPX1, PRDX3 mutations]; 3. A primary defect in the development of the adrenal gland itself (primary/congenital adrenal hypoplasia; X-linked form/DAX1 gene mutations or deletions, autosomal recessive form/SF-1 gene mutations or deletions, autosomal recessive form of uncertain etiology, IMAGe syndrome, MIRAGE syndrome, Familial steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with adrenal insufficiency due to SGPL1 deficiency); 4. Part of rare syndromes associated with adrenal hypoplasia/aplasia, which are inherited in an autosomal recessive (Meckel-Gruber syndrome, Pena-Shokeir syndrome, Pseudotrisomy 13, Hydrolethalus syndrome, Galloway-Mowat syndrome) or autosomal dominant (Pallister-Hall syndrome) manner; and 5. In the context of chromosomal abnormalities (tetraploidy, triploidy, trisomy 18, trisomy 21, 5p duplication, monosomy 7 and the 11q syndrome), which are often associated with central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities. There are two distinct histological patterns of the adrenal cortices in this rare syndrome, the miniature adult and cytomegalic forms. In the miniature adult form of adrenal hypoplasia congenital (AHC), the small amount of residual adrenal cortex is composed primarily of permanent adult cortex with normal structural organization. The miniature adult form is either sporadic or inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, and is frequently associated with abnormal CNS development, including anencephaly or pituitary gland abnormalities. In the cytomegalic form of AHC, the residual adrenal cortex is structurally disorganized with scattered irregular nodular formations of eosinophilic cells, with the adult permanent zone absent or nearly absent. Enlarged cells are present, some with abundant vacuolated cytoplasm. The cytomegalic form is generally considered to be X-linked, but there may be one or more autosomal genes associated with this phenotype ( 6 , 10 , 11 ). Genetic causes of adrenal hypoplasia and aplasia syndromes are summarized in Table 1 . However, this review focuses on ACTH resistance syndromes and disorders of adrenal gland development. TABLE 1: Genetic Causes of Adrenal Hypoplasia and Aplasia View in own window Genetics Associated Clinical Manifestations Adrenal dysgenesis Primary/congenital adrenal hypoplasia Pallister-Hall syndrome GLI3 -autosomal dominant, 25% de novo mutation -transcription factor, mediator of Shh signaling Hypothalamic hamartomas, mesoaxial and postaxial polydactyly, bifid epiglottis, imperforate anus, genitourinary anomalies, laryngotracheal cleft, pituitary insufficiency Meckel-Gruber syndrome MKS1 -autosomal recessive -protein localized to the basal
