Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


Enteropathy. MKS1=gene responsible for Meckel syndrome, type 1 and Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 13. MRAP=Melanocortin 2 receptor accessory protein. NNT= Nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase. NR0B1= Nuclear Receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 1. NR5A1= Nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 1. PRDX3=Peroxiredoxin 3. RAPSN=Receptor-associated protein of the synapse. SAMD9=Sterile Alpha Motif Domain-Containing 9. SF-1=Steroidogenic factor 1. SGPL1= Sphingosine-1-Phosphate Lyase 1. Shh= Sonic hedgehog. StAR= Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein. TXNRD2= Thioredoxin reductase 2. WDR73= WD repeat domain 73. * To date, nine StAR mutations have been reported in patients with NCLAH ( 30 ). ** Leydig cell adenoma identified in one case ( 40 ). ¶ Heterozygous loss of function mutations in NNT gene ( 42 ). ‡ TXNRD2 mutations have been detected in 3 out of 227 patients with a diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy, however, no data are available on their adrenal function ( 15 ). ADRENAL HYPOPLASIA AS PART OF AN ACTH RESISTANCE SYNDROME ACTH resistance syndromes include two distinct genetic disorders, both of which are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and are characterized by ACTH insensitivity: 1. Familial Glucocorticoid Deficiency (FGD) 2. Allgrove syndrome or Triple A syndrome Familial Glucocorticoid Deficiency (FGD) Familial (isolated) glucocorticoid deficiency (FGD), which is also known as hereditary unresponsiveness to ACTH, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ( 12 , 13 ). The underlying genetic defect is known in approximately 70% of patients with FGD. CLINICAL AND LABORATORY FEATURES OF FGD Patients with FGD are usually diagnosed during the neonatal period or in early childhood. However, the oldest affected member of the kindred, carrying MCM4 and TXNRD2 mutations (see Genetics below), presented at the age of 8.5 years and 10.8 years, respectively ( 14 , 15 ). Patients with FDG may present with hypoglycemic seizures, hyperpigmentation, recurrent infections, transient neonatal hepatitis, failure to thrive, collapse and coma. The long-term neurological sequelae of FGD can vary from learning difficulties to spastic quadriplegia, which may reflect the severity and number of hypoglycemic episodes in childhood. There may be a family history of unexplained neonatal death, history of other family member(s) affected with FGD and/or parental consanguinity ( 12 , 16 ). The clinical manifestations of FGD reflect resistance to ACTH. The typical hormonal profile in FGD is a combination of low cortisol but high plasma ACTH concentrations, in the presence of normal plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations. Most patients with
