Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


in Congenital Lipoid Adrenal Hyperplasia (CLAH), a severe disorder with both adrenal and gonadal steroid insufficiencies. However, certain, partial loss-of-function mutations may be associated with a milder phenotype with no gonadal derangement, termed non-classic CLAH (NCLAH). To date, nine StAR mutations have been reported in patients with NCLAH. Of note, affected individuals require life-long monitoring of both adrenal and gonadal function because their disorder may evolve. Hypogonadism and infertility may occur in adulthood. ( 28 - 31 ). Recently, mutations in the mini chromosome maintenance-deficient 4 (MCM4) homolog gene have been identified in an Irish travelling community presenting with a variant of FGD. These patients had short stature, chromosomal breakage, natural killer cell deficiency and progressive primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI) characterized by ACTH resistance with glucocorticoid deficiency and normal mineralocorticoids (MC) levels. Typically, patients started with normal adrenal function and developed PAI over time. The MCM4 gene, mapped on 8q11.2 chromosome, is part of a heterohexameric helicase complex, which is important for DNA replication and genome integrity. MCM4 deficiency leads to genomic instability and is associated with increased incidence of cancer and developmental defects. Therefore, it is recommended that patients carrying this mutation are followed-up closely. The c.71-1insG splice site mutation found in the Irish travelling community was predicted to lead to a frameshift with a prematurely terminated translation product (p.Pro24ArgfsX4) ( 32 , 33 ). ΝΝΤ (nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase), a highly conserved gene, encodes a redox-driven proton pump of the inner mitochondrial membrane. This enzyme uses energy from the mitochondrial proton gradient to produce high concentrations of NADPH. Detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mitochondria by glutathione peroxidases (GPX) depends on this NADPH for regeneration of reduced glutathione (GSH) from oxidized glutathione (GSSG) to maintain a high GSH/GSSG ratio ( Figure 1 ). The adrenal cortex contains high amounts of P450 steroid enzymes, which use NADPH for their catalytic activity. Its function is therefore very sensitive to ROS ( 34 ). ROS may suppress StAR protein synthesis and thus inhibit steroidogenesis ( 9 ). In addition, the peroxiredoxin system (PRDX), another antioxidant defense mechanism which removes H 2 O 2 and lipid peroxides also requires NADPH ( 9 , 34 ). PRDX3 is a mitochondrial protein highly expressed in human adrenals. Inactivation of PRDX3 results in accumulation of H 2 O 2 , activation of p38 MAPK signaling pathways, suppression of StAR protein synthesis and inhibition of steroidogenesis
