Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


in human adrenals. Inactivation of PRDX3 results in accumulation of H 2 O 2 , activation of p38 MAPK signaling pathways, suppression of StAR protein synthesis and inhibition of steroidogenesis ( 9 , 35 ). Mutations in GPX1 and PRDX3 have been rarely identified in patients with FGD ( 9 , 36 ). Figure 1. Detoxification of reactive oxygen species in the mitochondria. ΝΝΤ (nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase) is a key enzyme, located in the inner mitochondrial membrane, that plays an important role in maintaining the mitochondrial redox balance. It utilizes the electrochemical proton gradient to generate NADPH from NADH and NADP. NNT provides high concentrations of NADPH for detoxification of H2O2 by the glutathione and thioredoxin pathways. Manganese superoxide dismutase catalyzes the conversion of the superoxide radical Ο2.- to H2O2. The peroxiredoxin system (PRDX), another antioxidant defense mechanism, which removes H2O2 and lipid peroxides also requires NADPH. NNT loss would result in compromised NADPH production, thereby rendering the mitochondria more susceptible to oxidative stress. Modified by Prasad et al ( 34 ) and Flück ( 9 ). StAR: Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; CYP11A1= Cytochrome P450, family 11, subfamily A, polypeptide 1; GSR: glutathione reductase; GSH: reduced glutathione; TXNRD2: thioredoxin reductase 2; TXN2: thioredoxin 2; GLRX2: glutaredoxin 2; NNT: nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase; PRDX3: peroxiredoxin 3; GPX: glutathione peroxidase; MnSOD: manganese superoxide dismutase. NNT mutations account for 5–10% of FGD patients. The first mutations in the NNT gene were identified six years ago in 20 patients with FGD (candidate region localized on chromosome 5p13–q12), in whom mutations of MC2R, MRAP and StAR had not been detected. A novel homozygous missense mutation at exon 5 of the NNT gene was subsequently reported in a Japanese patient and was predicted to have a loss-of-function effect (c.644T>C, p.Phe215Ser) ( 37 , 38 ). In mice with Nnt loss, higher levels of adrenocortical cell apoptosis and impaired glucocorticoid production were observed. NNT knockdown in a human adrenocortical cell line resulted in impaired redox potential and increased ROS levels. It is of great interest, that two patients from non-consanguineous parents of East Asian and South African origin were diagnosed with FGD at the ages of 21 and 8 months respectively, caused by compound heterozygous mutations in NNT, i.e. a heterozygous intron 20 mutation (pseudoexon activation) in combination with a heterozygous stop-gain mutation in exon 3 of NNT gene (p.Arg71) ( 21 ). Recent studies provide new insights
