Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


i.e. a heterozygous intron 20 mutation (pseudoexon activation) in combination with a heterozygous stop-gain mutation in exon 3 of NNT gene (p.Arg71) ( 21 ). Recent studies provide new insights into the effects of NNT deletion. Altered mitochondrial morphology, lower ATP content and increased ROS levels have been observed in fibroblasts derived from a patient harboring biallelic NNT mutations ( 35 ). Most recently, it was shown that both NNT loss and overexpression can negatively affect steroidogenesis and cause redox imbalance, resulting in reduced protein levels of two mitochondrial antioxidant enzymes (Prdx3 and thioredoxin reductase 2/Txnrd2) and CYP11A1. Transcriptomic analysis of Nnt−/− mice demonstrated upregulation of heat shock proteins, alpha- and beta-hemoglobins, possibly reflecting activations of compensatory mechanisms to cope with oxidative stress ( 39 ). To date, more than 40 pathogenic variants of NNT gene have been identified. They are scattered throughout the gene, including abolishment of the initiating methionine, and splice, missense and nonsense mutations (35, 40, www.hgmd.cf.ac.uk). Phenotypic heterogeneity has been observed among patients carrying the same mutation or within the same family. Unlike “classic FGD”, adrenal dysfunction is not restricted to glucocorticoid deficiency, but may include mineralocorticoid deficiency as well ( 35 , 40 ). AI is usually diagnosed around the first year of life, may be severe and present with hypoglycemic seizures Although, NNT mutations have been known to affect preferentially the adrenal glands, all tissues rich in mitochondria may be affected. Extra-adrenal features have been first demonstrated in Nnt-mutant mice, which had reduced insulin secretion and high-fat diet-induced diabetes mellitus, in addition to adrenal dysfunction ( 27 ). More recently, extra-adrenal manifestations were also noted in patients harboring homozygous or compound heterozygous NNT mutations, including: precocious puberty associated with testicular nodules (Leydig cell adenoma identified in one case), hypothyroidism, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, azoospermia associated with testicular adrenal rests and elevated FSH levels and mild plagiocephaly ( 40 , 41 ). Of note, heterozygous loss of function mutations in NNT have been recently identified in two patients presenting with left cardiac ventricular noncompaction, an autosomal-dominant cardiomyopathy, which is frequently associated with mitochondrial disorders and cardiac hypertrophy ( 42 ). In 2014, Prasad et al described the first homozygous mutation in the thioredoxin reductase 2 (TXNRD2) gene in an extended consanguineous Kashmiri kindred presenting with FGD (stop gain mutation, c.1341T>G; p.Y447X within exon 15). The selenoprotein TXNRD2, one of three thioredoxin reductases, is mitochondria specific and contributes
