Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


in an extended consanguineous Kashmiri kindred presenting with FGD (stop gain mutation, c.1341T>G; p.Y447X within exon 15). The selenoprotein TXNRD2, one of three thioredoxin reductases, is mitochondria specific and contributes to the maintenance of redox homeostasis. Particularly high TXNRD2 mRNA levels have been noted in the adrenal cortex compared with the other human tissues investigated, suggesting a susceptibility of the adrenal cortex and especially zona fasciculata to oxidative stress. Given that the final step of cortisol production, which is catalyzed by CYP11B1 in the mitochondria, accounts for approximately 40% of the total electron flow from NAPDH directed at reactive oxygen species production during steroidogenesis, individuals with TXNRD2 and NNT mutations primarily develop glucocorticoid deficiency. Extra-adrenal manifestations, associated with TXNRD2 mutations have also been reported. Txnrd2 deletion in mice is embryonically lethal, resulting in fatal cardiac and hematopoietic defects. In humans, two novel heterozygous mutations in TXNRD2 were identified in 3 of 227 patients with a diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy, however, no data are available on their adrenal function ( 15 , 34 ). Oxidative stress has been implicated in other causes of adrenal insufficiency, including triple A syndrome and X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD). In ALD, mutations in ABCD1 (encoding the peroxisomal ABCD transporter) result in the accumulation of very long-chain fatty acids in the tissues and plasma, the toxic effects of which are thought to result from an increase in steady-state ROS production, depletion of glutathione and dysregulation of the cell redox homeostasis. The adrenal and CNS are most susceptible to the disease process ( 34 ). Triple A Syndrome Triple A syndrome (OMIM 231550) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ACTH-resistant adrenal insufficiency, achalasia of the esophagus, alacrima (absence of tears) and a variety of progressive central, peripheral and autonomic neurological defects ( 62 ). It was first described by Jeremy Allgrove in 1978 ( 63 ). It has been estimated that Triple A accounts for approximately 1% of all cases of primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI) with a prevalence of 1 per 1,000,000 individuals ( 64 , 65 ). CLINICAL FEATURES OF TRIPLE A SYNDROME The spectrum of clinical manifestations is unique and encompasses a range of phenotypic abnormalities that vary even within families. Alacrima is the most consistent sign, and is attributed to both autonomic dysregulation and structural abnormalities of the lacrimal glands. Achalasia usually presents within the first two decades of life and may precede the adrenal
