Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


sign, and is attributed to both autonomic dysregulation and structural abnormalities of the lacrimal glands. Achalasia usually presents within the first two decades of life and may precede the adrenal failure by several years ( 62 , 66 ). Older children/adults usually complain of dysphagia especially for liquids ( 67 ). The pathogenesis of achalasia includes a decrease in non-adrenergic and non-cholinergic neurons, as well as a lack of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in autonomic plexus ( 68 ). Adrenal failure does not occur in the immediate postnatal period. It usually presents during the first, or more rarely, the second decade of life, suggesting progressive adrenal destruction or degeneration. However, in some cases it may be the presenting symptom leading to the diagnosis of the condition. AI in Triple A syndrome typically manifests as isolated glucocorticoid deficiency, with less than 15% of patients having evidence of mineralocorticoid deficiency ( 69 , 70 ). Neurodegenerative disease may include progressive central, peripheral, autonomic neuropathy (pupillomotor, lacrimotor, erectile dysfunction), sensory and motor defects, hyperreflexia, cerebellar dysfunction, bulbospinal syndrome, distal amyotrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spastic paraparesis, syringomyelia, atrophy and myofasciculations of the tongue, epilepsy, pyramidal syndrome, dystonia, dysarthria, ataxia, optic atrophy chorea, deafness, mental retardation, Parkinsonism and dementia ( 64 , 65 , 67 - 69 ). Based on data of 133 index cases, alacrima was present in all but one patient (99.2%), achalasia in 93.2%, AI in 90.1% and ND in 79.4%. The most common presenting features were AI and achalasia, followed by neurological dysfunction and alacrima. Eight percent of patients developed clinical features of the syndrome in the 3rd to 5th decade of life, however, none presented with AI ( 70 ). The above data support previous recommendations, that in cases of presence of alacrima and at least one more symptom of triple A syndrome, adrenal function testing and molecular analysis should be performed ( 71 ). Moreover, a number of associated features have been described in association with Triple A syndrome, including palmo‐plantar and punctate hyperkeratosis, short stature, osteoporosis, xerostomia, nasal speech, angular cheilitis, glossitis and fissured tongue, enamel defect, poor wound healing, hypolipoproteinemia type IIb, scoliosis, pes cavus, long QT syndrome, microcephaly and dysmorphic features, such as long narrow face, long philtrum, down-turned mouth, thin upper lip, and lack of eyelashes. Premature loss of permanent teeth has also been reported ( 62 , 64 - 70 , 72 - 74
