Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


long philtrum, down-turned mouth, thin upper lip, and lack of eyelashes. Premature loss of permanent teeth has also been reported ( 62 , 64 - 70 , 72 - 74 ). DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis should be confirmed by the Schirmer test, basal and dynamic endocrine testing, genetic analysis and detailed gastroenterological and neurological evaluation ( 75 ). The diagnosis may be extremely challenging, given that the clinical manifestations may evolve at a variable time. Therefore, patients who undergo surgery for achalasia may be at risk of life-threatening adrenal crisis during anesthesia. GENETICS The first step towards in identifying the genetic etiology of triple A syndrome was the chromosomal localization by linkage analysis of the gene responsible for this condition to an 6cM area in chromosome 12 ( 76 ). Subsequently, homozygote or compound heterozygote mutations were found in the AAAS gene on 12q13 in families with triple A syndrome ( 77 ). This gene encodes a 60-kDa nuclear pore protein, termed ALADIN (alacrima-achalasia-adrenal insufficiency, neurologic disorder) ( 62 ). AAAS belongs to WD-repeat regulatory protein family, which exhibits wide functional diversity, in that they are involved in signal transduction, RNA processing, vesicular trafficking, cytoskeleton assembly and cell division control. WD-repeat proteins are characterized by the presence of four or more repeating units containing a conserved core of approximately 40 amino acids that usually end with tryptophan-aspartic acid (WD). AAAS mRNA and the ALADIN protein are ubiquitously expressed with predominance in the adrenal and CNS structures in humans and rats ( 34 , 77 ). ALADIN is the only nucleoporin to be associated with hereditary adrenal disease and the first to be associated with hereditary neurodegenerative disease. Screening of patients with triple A syndrome worldwide revealed that the IVS14+1G A splice donor mutation is the most common AAAS mutation. In the Puerto Rican and Middle Eastern/southern European populations, the frequent presence of this mutation is the result of a founder effect. A variety of disease-associated missense, nonsense, splice-site and frameshift mutations have been shown to result in either ALADIN deficiency or mis-localization of the abnormal protein, found predominantly into the cytoplasm, suggesting that correct targeting of ALADIN to the nuclear pore complex is required. Splice-site, indel, intronic region, regulatory element and 5′ UTR mutations have been also detected in affected individuals ( 70 ). Over 75 different mutations have been described in the literature (www.hgmd.cf.ac.uk), some of which are shown in
