Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


X-linked Adrenal Hypoplasia Congenita (AHC) The incidence of X-linked AHC is unknown. The latest reports estimate it to be less than 1:70,000 live male births ( 5 , 93 ). X-linked AHC is characterized by infantile-onset acute adrenal insufficiency at an average age of 3 weeks in approximately 60% of affected individuals. Onset in childhood accounts for 40% of the cases, whilst only a few individuals are diagnosed in adulthood due to infertility. CLINICAL FEATURES OF X-LINKED AHC Adrenal insufficiency typically presents acutely with vomiting, feeding difficulties, dehydration and shock owing to salt-wasting. Hypoglycemia, frequently presenting with seizures, may be the first symptom. If untreated, adrenal insufficiency may lead to hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, hypoglycemia, hypovolemic shock and death. Cryptorchidism may be present. Affected males typically present with delayed puberty due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and are infertile. Carrier females may occasionally have symptoms of adrenal insufficiency or hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 5 , 94 ). Imaging studies may reveal small, ectopic, or normal in size adrenal glands ( 5 ). DIAGNOSIS Primary adrenal insufficiency, as evidenced by hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, low aldosterone and elevated ACTH concentrations in the presence of normal or low 17-hydroxyprogesterone concentrations, in a male infant strongly suggests X-linked AHC ( 5 ). Serum cortisol concentrations in the first weeks of life vary from very low to high ( 95 ). An ACTH test would detect cortisol deficiency, whilst a GnRH test would most possibly reveal impaired gonadotropin secretion ( 94 , 96 , 97 ). Elevated 11-deoxycortisol concentrations have been documented in kindreds with DAX1 mutations, but only when determined very early in life. A mouse model that displays elevated 11-deoxycorticosterone concentrations and evidence of hyperplasia of the zona glomerulosa has recently been described. DAX1 testing may be considered in patients with evidence of 11β-hydroxylase deficiency, especially in those with severe salt-wasting ( 98 ). GENETICS Males with the above manifestations should undergo genetic analysis for the DAX1 gene. The DAX1 gene also known as NR0B1, (Nuclear Receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 1) is located on chromosome Xp21.2 and is responsible for the X-linked AHC ( 93 , 97 , 99 ). The NR0B1 gene (MIM#300473) encodes an orphan member of the nuclear receptor superfamily that is expressed in the hypothalamus, the anterior pituitary, the adrenal glands and the gonads. Nuclear receptors are thought to play a functional role in the establishment and maintenance of steroidogenic
