Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


is expressed in the hypothalamus, the anterior pituitary, the adrenal glands and the gonads. Nuclear receptors are thought to play a functional role in the establishment and maintenance of steroidogenic tissues. They are transcription factors that regulate gene networks important for reproduction, development and homeostasis in response to various extracellular and intracellular signals. The DAX1 carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) shares high similarity to the ligand-binding domain (LBD) of other nuclear receptors. The amino-terminal region is an atypical DNA binding domain, consisting of 3.5 repeats of 66–67 amino acid repeat motifs ( 100 ). At this time, DAX1 lacks a known ligand and is therefore named an orphan nuclear receptor. The molecular mechanism of DAX1 action during development remains unclear. However, many studies have shown that DAX1 functions as a transcriptional repressor of steroid biosynthesis pathways regulated by other nuclear receptors, such as the SF1-mediated transactivation of genes StAR, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc). In addition to SF1, it acts as a repressor to other nuclear receptors, such as the estrogen receptor (ER) ( 101 ) , progesterone receptor (PR), glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ( 102 ), androgen receptor (AR) ( 103 ) and the liver receptor homologue-1 (LRH-1) ( 104 ). DAX1 has also been proposed to act as a shuttling RNA binding protein associated with ribonucleoprotein structures in the nucleus and polyribosomes in the cytoplasm, raising the possibility that it plays an additional regulatory role in post-transcriptional processes ( 105 ). Other studies have demonstrated that DAX-1 may activate gene transcription ( 5 , 100 ). It has been suggested that DAX-1 represses adrenal stem cell differentiation during organ development so that a pool of progenitor stem cells can be expanded before these cells differentiate into mature steroidogenic cells. Loss of DAX-1 function, would lead to premature differentiation of progenitor cells into mature cells before expansion of cell number takes place, resulting in a transient overactivity of the gland followed by adrenal hypoplasia. To date, more than 200 mutations of the DAX1 gene have been reported ( www.hgmd.cf.ac.uk ). These include large and small deletions, insertions, missense, nonsense, frameshift and splice site mutations ( 93 , 106 - 111 ). Most missense mutations tend to cluster within the C-terminal region of the DAX-1 gene, indicating the essential role of the ligand-binding domain for the biological function of DAX1 protein ( 112 ). Gross deletions usually occur as a
