Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


C-terminal region of the DAX-1 gene, indicating the essential role of the ligand-binding domain for the biological function of DAX1 protein ( 112 ). Gross deletions usually occur as a continuous gene deletion including the genes of glycerol kinase (GK) and Duchene muscular dystrophy (DMD). Of note, some of the patients with the contiguous gene syndrome also present with mental retardation. DAX1 mutations have been detected in 58% of males with primary adrenal insufficiency of unknown etiology, in which common causes of adrenal failure, such as 21-hydroxylase deficiency, ALD or autoimmune disease had been excluded ( 93 ). A family history of AI (or unexplained death) or hypogonadism in male relatives is highly suggestive of X-linked AHC. Of note, positive adrenal (21-hydroxylase) antibodies and normal adrenal imaging have been recently reported in a male patient presenting with adrenal insufficiency who had a DAX-1 mutation ( 113 ). Two thirds of the patients have point mutations. Small deletions and insertions causing frameshift mutations, as well as nonsense mutations are mutations scattered throughout exons 1 and 2, whereas missense mutations are detected in exon 2 (encoding the putative ligand binding domain in the carboxyl-end of the protein). It has been estimated that isolated and contiguous NR0B1 gene deletions account for 22 and 5% of all NR0B1 mutations, respectively. Mental retardation (MR) associated with AHC cannot be explained with GK deficiency or DMD in every case. Deletions extending to the IL1RAPL1 gene have been shown to be responsible for MR in several cases. Moreover, female carriers of NR0B1, as well as of GK or DMD mutations are at risk of developing symptoms, due to non-random X inactivation. Furthermore, in case of a contiguous gene deletion, the manifestation of the symptoms depends on the pattern of X inactivation in different tissues. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) analysis is a valuable tool to detect NR0B1 and contiguous gene deletions in patients with AHC, showing a good genotype-phenotype correlation. It is especially helpful for the detection of IL1RAPL1 deletions causing MR, as no clinical markers for MR are available. Furthermore, MLPA has the advantage of identifying female carriers manifesting milder symptoms ( 114 ). Patients with AHC harboring DAX1 mutations present with variable phenotypes. Typically, they develop primary adrenal failure during infancy but also later in childhood, adolescence or early adulthood. Of note, a milder form of AHC, presenting with isolated mineralocorticoid deficiency was described in
