Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


develop primary adrenal failure during infancy but also later in childhood, adolescence or early adulthood. Of note, a milder form of AHC, presenting with isolated mineralocorticoid deficiency was described in an 11-yr-old boy carrying a W105C missense mutation in the amino-terminal region of DAX1 ( 115 ). The hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may manifest as delayed puberty or pubertal arrest at about Tanner stage 3. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism seems to involve combined hypothalamic and pituitary defects, as reflected by an impaired gonadotropin response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) stimulation. However, normal mini-puberty of infancy has been observed in affected boys, implying that hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis defects may develop after early infancy. In addition, patients with normal puberty, gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty, central precocious puberty ( 5 , 95 , 116 , 117 ), and impaired spermatogenesis with low inhibin B levels ( 5 , 107 , 118 ) have also been reported. Gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty in affected individuals may be due to a) enhanced stimulation of human melanocortin 1 receptors (MC1R) on Leydig cells by ACTH and b) an increased expression of testicular steroidogenesis activators secondary to a reduction of DAX1 repression activity. The above mechanisms may result in an increased testicular testosterone production, despite prepubertal gonadotropin levels. Isolated infertility with normal pubertal development and normal integrity of the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal axis has been recently reported in a patient with adrenal insufficiency owing to a DAX1 mutation. The severely impaired spermatogenesis in this patient suggests that DAX1 mutations may lead to progressive deterioration of testicular function, independently of gonadotropin and testosterone production. The DAX1 represses aromatase production and therefore the production of estrogen in Leydig cells. It has been recently suggested that the deletion of the second exon of DAX1 may abolish the aforementioned repressor effect, resulting in aromatase overexpression and increased estrogen production. Consequently, this DAX1 dysfunction, through an indirect effect, may be able to disrupt spermatogenesis even in the presence of normal testosterone concentrations ( 119 ). Hence, semen preservation should be offered to young men with DAX1 mutations ( 120 ). Patients with oligo- or azoospermia usually fail to respond to gonadotropin treatment. Frapsauce et al reported a unique case of an infertile azoospermic patient harboring a nonsense mutation in DAX1, who was treated with FSH/hCG for 20 months and fathered a healthy boy following testicular sperm extraction-intracytoplasmic sperm injection (TESE-ICSI) ( 100 , 121 ).There is no clear phenotype – genotype correlation, and
