Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


with FSH/hCG for 20 months and fathered a healthy boy following testicular sperm extraction-intracytoplasmic sperm injection (TESE-ICSI) ( 100 , 121 ).There is no clear phenotype – genotype correlation, and the phenotypes are heterogeneous even within families, with respect to the age of onset of adrenal insufficiency, the severity of the disease and the occurrence (or not) of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 95 , 122 - 126 ). It is noteworthy, however, that adult-onset adrenal insufficiency and hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism have been linked to eight DAX1 mutations ( 127 , 128 ). Interestingly, a novel non-sense p.Gln208X mutation in the amino terminal domain of the DAX-1 gene has been associated with both precocious puberty and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in different members of a large pedigree, who had all presented with adrenal manifestations at different ages ( 129 ). This heterogeneity within families may be explained by the unique structure of the DAX-1 gene. It is also indicative of the presence of modifier genes or environmental effects on the expression of clinical manifestations ( 94 , 130 , 131 ). Although this is an X-linked condition, females carrying homozygous or heterozygous mutations may present with isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism or extreme pubertal delay, respectively. Moreover, adrenal insufficiency, moderate developmental delay and mild muscular dystrophy was reported in a girl with deletion at Xp21.2 on the maternal chromosome and skewed X inactivation ( 5 , 108 , 132 - 134 ). Other phenotypic features such as attention deficit disorder, short stature and growth hormone deficiency have been noted in a few patients ( 135 , 136 ). Inappropriate tall stature and renal ectopy associated with a DAX-1 missense mutation was reported in a single case ( 137 ). Macrophalia in infancy may be a rare feature of X-linked AHC ( 31 ). Hepatic iron deposition was documented in a male infant presenting with adrenal insufficiency as part of Xp21 deletion ( 138 ). It is worth noting that DAX1 has anti-testis properties and antagonizes SRY (sex-determining gene region of the Y chromosome) action, required for male sex determination. NR0B1 locus duplications have been associated with 46,XY DSD/testicular dysgenesis ( 100 ). Congenital Adrenal Hypoplasia Due to SF1 Mutations The steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) protein, encoded by the nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 1 (NR5A1) gene, is also an orphan member of the nuclear receptor family. It was first recognized in 1992 as an element
