Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


the patient was 46,XY, normal Müllerian structures and streak-like gonads containing poorly differentiated seminiferous tubules and connective tissue were detected ( 154 ). The patient had a de novo , heterozygous loss-of-function missense mutation (p.G35E) causing substitution of glycine at amino acid 35 by glutamate in the DNA-binding domain of the protein, abolishing its DNA-binding activity. Pituitary gonadotropins responded to GnRH stimulation, but testosterone did not respond to exogenous hCG administration, suggesting defective gonadal function. After introduction of estrogen and progesterone, the uterus grew and regular menstruation ensued. This case was the first to indicate that SF1 is essential for sex determination, steroidogenesis and reproduction. The second patient was a phenotypically female infant, who presented with hypoglycemic convulsions, progressive hypotonia, weight loss, hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Genetic testing revealed homozygosity for the p.R92Q mutation, whilst her consanguineous parents and her sister were heterozygous for the mutation. Although DHEA concentrations were detectable, 17-hydroxyprogesterone concentrations were low. The abdominal CT scan demonstrated left adrenal hypoplasia and right adrenal agenesis. The patient’s karyotype was 46,XY and a uterus was seen on pelvic ultrasound and confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging ( 155 ). A phenotypically and genotypically normal girl (46,XX), with adrenal failure and no apparent defect in ovarian maturation was described in 2000 ( 156 ). The patient had a heterozygous G to T transversion in exon 4 of the NR5A1 gene, resulting in the missense p.R255L mutation. The inability of the mutant NR5A1/SF1 to bind canonical DNA sequences offered a possible explanation for the failure of the mutant protein to transactivate target genes. This was the first report of a mutation in the NR5A1 gene in a genotypically female patient, suggesting that SF1 is not necessary for female gonadal development, although it plays a crucial role in adrenal gland formation in both sexes. Since then, only two cases of isolated adrenal insufficiency (AI) have been reported ( 31 , 157 ). One of them, a 46 XX female, with early-onset primary AI, was homozygous for the p.R92Q mutation, previously associated with 46XY DSD ( 31 ). In contrast, there have been several reports of various types of NR5A1 mutations (including missense, nonsense, and frameshift), affecting the DNA binding domain of the protein in individuals with different forms of 46,XY disorders of sex differentiation (DSD) and associated adrenal insufficiency ( 93 , 158 , 159 ) or without an adrenal phenotype ( 160 -
