Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


Mb microdeletion in a patient with 46,XY DSD and mild developmental delay ( 184 ). Recently, a novel heterozygous p.Cys65Tyr mutation in NR5A1 gene has been identified in three 46,XY siblings of a Brazilian family, who presented with ambiguous genitalia without Müllerian derivatives and apparently normal Leydig function after birth and at puberty, respectively. Their mother, who reported symptoms suggestive of primary ovarian insufficiency was also heterozygous for this mutation. Basal ACTH and cortisol concentrations were slightly elevated and normal, respectively, in all three patients. After 1 mcg ACTH stimulation test, only the older sibling showed subnormal cortisol response. The above data indicate that NR5A1 analysis should be performed in 46,XY DSD patients with normal testosterone concentrations without AR mutations. Furthermore, a long-term follow-up for adrenal function is important for those patients ( 185 ). IMAGe Syndrome CLINICAL FEATURES AND LABORATORY FINDINGS The acronym IMAGe indicates the presence of I ntrauterine growth restriction, M etaphyseal dysplasia, Adrenal hypoplasia congenita , and Genital anomalies ( 10 , 186 ). The life-threatening components of the adrenal insufficiency in this syndrome generally develop in the neonatal period. It usually manifests in the first few days of life with adrenal crises and may be the first sign of the disease. In some patients it may present later in childhood with failure to thrive and recurrent vomiting or in early adulthood. Hypoaldosteronism without evidence of glucocorticoid deficiency was also reported in one case ( 187 ). On imaging studies, the adrenal glands may appear small or normal in size. Radiologic identification of metaphyseal dysplasia is often crucial for the diagnosis, but this could be very mild and identifiable only in late infancy or in childhood and then progress with age. Additional radiographic features may include: epiphyseal dysplasia, mesomelia, osteopenia, gracile long bones, and delayed bone age ( 188 ). A more precocious sign, i.e. delayed endochondral ossification associated with osteopenia, hypercalcemia, and/or hypercalciuria of unclear aetiology and of variable degree can be encountered in patients with this syndrome. Abnormalities in serum calcium concentrations may be present at birth and resolve later in infancy. Soft tissue calcifications have been occasionally reported ( 188 ). Another endocrine involvement in these patients is GH deficiency and early substitution therapy could improve linear growth. Specific dysmorphic craniofacial features in IMAGe syndrome include nonspecific signs, such as prominent forehead, macrocephaly, low-set ears, ear dysplasia, flat nasal bridge, and short nose,
