Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


therapy could improve linear growth. Specific dysmorphic craniofacial features in IMAGe syndrome include nonspecific signs, such as prominent forehead, macrocephaly, low-set ears, ear dysplasia, flat nasal bridge, and short nose, short arms and legs. micrognathia or retrognathia, cleft palate or cleft uvula, craniosynostosis, short palpebral fissures, smooth philtrum, microglossia, arachnodactyly, and bilateral 2–3 toe syndactyly ( 187 - 189 ). Genital abnormalities seem to be confined to males and include micropenis, undescended testes, chordee and hypospadias of variable severity. Two female patients were reported to give birth to children. Labor may be complicated by cephalopelvic disproportion. Additional features associated with the syndrome include: Skeletal abnormalities: progressive and severe scoliosis with onset before age five years, ovoid-shaped vertebral bodies, short first metatarsals, hallux valgus, hip dysplasia, fractures of the humerus and tibia present at birth Renal abnormalities: hydronephrosis, hypercalciuria-associated nephrocalcinosis Other: oligohydramnios ( 187 - 188 ). GENETICS IMAGe syndrome (OMIM 614732) is exclusively related to mutations of CDKN1C gene [cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1C (p57, Kip2)] ( 190 ). Notably, familial analysis demonstrated de novo mutations or an imprinted mode of inheritance, exclusively with maternal transmission of the mutation. The responsible gene lies on 11p15, contains three exons and encodes p57 (KIP2), a potent tight-binding inhibitor of several G1 cyclin/Cdk complexes (cyclin E-CDK2, cyclin D2-CDK4, and cyclin A-CDK2). It is a negative regulator of cell proliferation, playing a role in the maintenance of the non-proliferative state throughout life, probably acting as a tumour suppressor gene. CDKN1C is expressed in the placenta, heart, brain, lung, skeletal muscle, kidney, pancreas, testis, eye, and in the subcapsular or developing definitive zone of the adrenal gland. To date, clinical manifestations suggestive of IMAGe syndrome have been described in 28 individuals. Six missense mutations have been documented in 17 out of 28 patients, all of which occur in the PCNA-binding domain in the carboxy-terminal region of CDKN1C ( 186 , 188 ). Recently, Hamajima et al ( 191 ) demonstrated that the IMAGe-associated mutations cause a dramatically increased stability of the CDKN1C proteins, which probably results in a functional gain of growth inhibition properties. Further studies have shown that mutations in the PCNA-binding site of CDKN1C lead to a block in the G1 phase and impaired S-phase entry resulting in decreased cell proliferation ( 192 ). In contrast, loss-of-function CDKN1C mutations are associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), which represents an additional imprinting disorder with a
