Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


S-phase entry resulting in decreased cell proliferation ( 192 ). In contrast, loss-of-function CDKN1C mutations are associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), which represents an additional imprinting disorder with a mirror phenotype of IMAGe syndrome. BWS mutations are not clustered within a single domain and promote cell proliferation ( 186 ). A novel CDKN1C mutation (c.842G>T, p. R281I) that did not entirely abrogate proliferating cell nuclear antigen binding has been recently associated with features of IMAGe syndrome, however, without adrenal insufficiency or metaphyseal dysplasia, but with early-adulthood-onset diabetes ( 189 ). A novel missense variant of CDKN1C (c.836G>[G;T], p.Arg279Leu) was also identified in a familial case of Russell Silver syndrome ( 193 ). Of note, both mutations were located within the PCNA-binding site of CDKN1C gene and were maternally inherited, thus producing phenotypic overlaps of IMAGe syndrome. MIRAGE Syndrome MIRAGE syndrome (OMIM 617053) is a rare form of syndromic adrenal hypoplasia, associated with high mortality rates during the first years of life. First described in 2016, MIRAGE stands for Myelodysplasia, Infection, Restriction of growth, Adrenal hypoplasia, Genital phenotypes and Enteropathy. The genetic basis of the syndrome has been linked to germline, mostly de novo , gain-of-function, heterozygous mutations in SAMD9 (sterile alpha motif domain-containing protein 9) gene. Homozygous loss-of-function SAMD9 mutations have been shown to result in normophosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis ( 194 ). GENETICS SAMD9 gene resides on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q21.2) and encodes a 1,589-amino acid protein that regulates cell proliferation and exhibits wide tissue expression, including in adrenal glands, colon, bone marrow, liver, immune system, lung, and testis ( 195 , 196 ). SAMD9 facilitates endosome fusion and is likely to function as a growth repressor. It has been shown that expression of the wild-type SAMD9 resulted in decreased cell proliferation, whereas expression of mutants resulted in profound growth inhibition. At the cellular level, patient-derived fibroblasts displayed increased size of early endosomes, intracellular accumulation of giant vesicles and decreased plasma membrane epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression, likely due to defects in receptor recycling ( 194 ). CLINICAL FEATURES AND LABORATORY FINDINGS To date, heterozygous SAMD9 mutations associated with two or more components of MIRAGE syndrome have been reported in 24 patients ( 194 - 198 ). Genital abnormalities may range from micropenis, cryptorchidism and hypospadias to ambiguous genitalia and completely feminized external genitalia in 46XY affected individuals. Of note, only 25% of reported
