Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


- 198 ). Genital abnormalities may range from micropenis, cryptorchidism and hypospadias to ambiguous genitalia and completely feminized external genitalia in 46XY affected individuals. Of note, only 25% of reported cases were females, indicating that the syndrome may be underdiagnosed in girls. Histologically, the ovaries were markedly hypoplastic and dysgenetic in two patients, containing few primordial follicles ( 194 , 195 , 199 ). Neonatal severe adrenal insufficiency is a common manifestation. Adrenal imaging may reveal hypoplasia or even absence of adrenal glands. Histologic studies have shown very small, highly disorganized, dysgenetic adrenal glands ( 194 , 195 ). Thrombocytopenia and/or anemia, requiring transfusions may manifest within the first week of life, however spontaneous resolution has been reported in many cases ( 196 , 197 ). Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) associated with monosomy 7 or monosomy 7q was reported in 6 out of 24 MIRAGE-affected individuals. The researchers demonstrated that the preferential loss of the allele harboring the gain-of-function SAMD9 mutation, through the development of monosomy 7 (–7), deletions of 7q (7q–) or secondary somatic loss-of-function provide a survival advantage in affected hematopoietic cells. This is an example of an “adaptation by aneuploidy” mechanism, relieving the growth-restricting effect of the mutated gene, however at the expense of an increased risk for MDS ( 194 , 195 , 197 , 199 ). Interestingly, two patients harboring two de novo SAMD9 mutations on the same allele, one activating SAMD9 mutation, and one second-site reversion nonsense mutation in the haematopoietic cells, exhibited no haematologic manifestations ( 198 ). Additional features of the disorder include ( 194 - 196 , 198 - 199 ): Moderate-to-severe growth restriction during both the prenatal and postnatal periods, premature delivery, fetal death Severe bacterial and viral infections, including sepsis, meningitis, and fungal infections thymus hypoplasia Chronic diarrhea with colonic dilation, feeding difficulties frequently requiring surgical feeding tube placement Dysmorphic features: frontal bossing, low-set ears, ptosis, down-turned corners of the mouth, round face, sparse hair, small feet and hands, tapered fingers, short phalanges, abnormal nails Bronchopulmonary dysplasia Neurologic abnormalities: dysautonomia hypolacrima, hyperhidrosis and blood pressure dysregulation, syringomyelia, hypoplastic pons and cerebellum, hydrocephalus, bilateral auditory neuropathy, developmental delay Skeletal abnormalities: scoliosis, joint contracture in wrists and ankles Renal defects: renal tubular acidosis, glucosuria, defects in phosphate reabsorption and urinary concentration Apneas Reduced body fat The majority of patients reported to date died within the first two years of life. Familial Steroid-Resistant
