Familial or Sporadic Adrenal Hypoplasia Syndromes
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, mutations, syndrome, gene, mutation, deficiency, patients, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol


acidosis, glucosuria, defects in phosphate reabsorption and urinary concentration Apneas Reduced body fat The majority of patients reported to date died within the first two years of life. Familial Steroid-Resistant Nephrotic Syndrome with Adrenal Insufficiency Most recently, in 2017, three study groups unraveled concurrently the genetic basis of a syndrome encompassing steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRNS) and primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI). Using whole exome sequencing analysis on patient cohorts with PAI or SRNS the researchers identified novel genetic mutations in the gene encoding sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) lyase 1 (SGPL1), located on chromosome 10q22.1 (200-202). GENETICS SGPL1 is an important endoplasmic reticulum (ER) enzyme that catalyzes the irreversible cleavage of the lipid molecule S1P to trans-2-hexadecenal and ethanolamine phosphate. S1P exhibits extracellular actions by activating a family of five differentially expressed extracellular G-protein-coupled receptors (G protein-coupled receptors (S1PRs) and intracellular functions via S1PR-independent mechanisms as well. S1P regulates multiple biological processes including cell migration, differentiation, angiogenesis, vascular maturation, cardiac development and immunity ( 200 - 202 ). A total of 13 SGPL1 variants in 14 families have been reported so far ( 203 ). These were recessive loss-of-function mutations (homozygous or compound heterozygous) resulting in decreased or absent SGPL1 expression and/or enzyme activity, subcellular mis-localization of SGPL1 and altered levels of sphingolipid metabolism intermediates ( 200 - 202 ). The pathogenesis of the syndrome may involve an excess of intracellular S1P, an imbalance of other sphingoid bases, S1P signaling through the S1P receptors or a lack of phosphoethanolamine production ( 201 , 202 ). SGPL1 is expressed in several mammalian tissues, among which in the adrenals and testes. Sgpl1–/– mice were shown to have impaired testicular and ovarian steroidogenesis and infertility. Recent studies have documented several histologic abnormalities in the adrenal glands of Sgpl1–/– mice, including compromised cortical zonation with less definition between zona glomerulosa (ZG) and zona fasciculata (ZF) and between ZF and X-zone as well as loss of vacuolization in the ZF. Furthermore, Sgpl1–/– adrenals displayed decreased cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (CYP11A1), reflecting impaired steroidogenesis. These data may indicate the potential role of SGPL1 on adrenal development ( 200 ). CLINICAL FEATURES AND LABORATORY FINDINGS Human SGPL1 mutations cause a multisystemic disorder, with the main components being PAI and SRNS ( 200 - 204 ). PAI is manifested in almost all cases, usually during infancy and less frequently during childhood or later. Most patients exhibit an FDG phenotype, necessitating treatment with
