Echocardiography
KEYWORDS: echocardiography, heart, used, left, stress, cardiac, doppler, structures, flow, blood, ventricular, blood flow, information, velocity, assess


Echocardiography uses ultrasound waves to produce an image of the heart, the heart valves, and the great vessels. It helps assess heart wall thickness (eg, in hypertrophy or atrophy) and motion and provides information about ischemia and infarction. It can be used to assess systolic function as well as diastolic filling patterns of the left ventricle, which can help in the assessment of left ventricular hypertrophy, hypertrophic or restrictive cardiomyopathy, severe heart failure, and constrictive pericarditis. It also is used to assess the structure and function of the heart valves; detect valvular vegetations and intracardiac thrombus; and provide an estimate of pulmonary arterial pressure and central venous pressure. Echocardiogram (4-Chamber View) CHRIS GALLAGHER/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Techniques There are 3 techniques for doing echocardiography: Transthoracic Transesophageal 1/4 Intracardiac Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) is the most common echocardiography technique. In TTE, a transducer is placed along the left or right sternal border, at the cardiac apex, at the suprasternal notch (to allow visualization of the aortic valve, left ventricular outflow tract, and descending aorta), or over the subxiphoid region. TTE provides 2- or 3-dimensional tomographic images of most major cardiac structures. TTE is a relatively inexpensive and non-invasive imaging technique for diagnosis of right and left ventricular function and wall motion, chamber size and anatomy, valvular structure function, aortic root structure and intracardiac pressures. Point of care ultrasonography (POCUS) is a limited TTE (focused on detecting significant pericardial effusion and ventricular dysfunction) that is sometimes done at the bedside of critically ill patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) and emergency department (ED); many intensivists and emergency department physicians have training to do this procedure with portable hand-held machines when experienced radiologists or cardiologists are not available. Portable hand-held machines act as a good screening tool to determine which patients may require more detailed testing. With expanding use by less experienced clinicians, the major limitation is missed diagnoses. As a result, national societies are making recommendations for training in cardiovascular POCUS to facilitate the best use of the diagnostic test. Sites using cardiovascular POCUS should develop standards for use within their practice. In transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), a transducer on the tip of an endoscope passed into the esophagus and stomach allows visualization of the heart. TEE is used to assess cardiac disorders when transthoracic study is technically difficult, as in patients with obesity or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It reveals better detail
