Echocardiography
KEYWORDS: echocardiography, heart, used, left, stress, cardiac, doppler, structures, flow, blood, ventricular, blood flow, information, velocity, assess


outflow tracts. Color is used to code blood flow information; by convention, red is toward and blue away from the transducer. Tissue Doppler imaging uses Doppler techniques to measure the velocity of myocardial tissue contraction (rather than of blood flow). Myocardial tissue movement can also be evaluated with speckle-tracking echocardiography, which uses algorithms to track myocardial echo speckles (characteristic reverberations from the myocardium during an ultrasonography) from frame to frame. Strain imaging uses these data to calculate myocardial strain (percentage change in length between contraction and relaxation) and myocardial strain rate (rate of change in length). Strain and strain rate measurements can help assess systolic and diastolic function and identify ischemia during stress testing. Three-dimensional echocardiography is increasingly used; special transducers can obtain a real-time, 3- dimensional image of cardiac structures. Three-dimensional echocardiography is particularly useful in evaluating the mitral valve apparatus for surgical correction. It is also increasingly being used to quantify right ventricular volumes, because the crescent shape of the right ventricle limits evaluation by 2- dimensional echocardiography, and during interventional procedures such as transcatheter edge-to- edge repair of the mitral valve. Use of 3-d imensional echocardiography continues to evolve. Stress echocardiography Transthoracic echocardiography is an alternative to radionuclide imaging to identify myocardial ischemia during and after exercise or pharmacologic stress testing. Stress echocardiography shows regional wall motion abnormalities that result from an imbalance in blood flow in epicardial coronary vessels during stress. Computer programs can provide side-by-side assessment of ventricular contraction during systole and diastole at rest and under stress. Exercise and pharmacologic protocols are the same as those used in radionuclide stress testing, except that dobutamine is used rather than dipyridamole as the pharmacologic agent in the United States. Stress echocardiography is valuable in evaluating the hemodynamic severity of aortic valve stenosis in patients with significant symptoms but whose resting transvalvular pressure gradient is not markedly high. Stress echocardiography and radionuclide stress testing detect ischemia equally well. The choice between tests is often based on availability, the provider’s experience, and cost. Evidence of high left ventricular filling pressures during exercise, including elevated E/e' ratio (ratio of transmitral flow to mitral annular velocity) or elevated tricuspid regurgitant velocity, can be used to diagnose heart failure with preserved ejection fraction or dynamic valvular disease such as mitral regurgitation.
