Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infliximab, covid-, patients, evidence, ton, recommendation, critical, severe, society, care, guidelines, guideline, infectious, diseases, use


St, Ste 1512, Houston TX 77030, USA (). Infliximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody that targets tu- © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases kine mainly generated by activated macrophages, lymphocytes, for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our and natural killer cells. By neutralizing TNF-α, infliximab reduc- RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information es inflammation and immune system overactivation, making please contact . it effective for autoimmune and inflammatory conditions . i22 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Nadig et al Downloaded from by guest on May Infliximab is U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) ap- 69), called CATALYST, treated patients 16 years or older proved. Indications include Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, with a single intravenous dose given over 2 hours on day 1 rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, plus standard of care, which consisted of the following: dexa- and plaque psoriasis . Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, in- methasone (100%), corticosteroids (94%), remdesivir (29%), creased levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and TNF-α were identified and tocilizumab (6%) . Patients in the comparison arm re- as independent predictors of disease severity and survival . ceived standard of care alone: dexamethasone (100%), cortico- Moreover, several cohort studies noted that people receiving steroids (85%), remdesivir (62%), and tocilizumab (3%). One TNF-α inhibitors were at lower risk for COVID-19–related hos- blinded and placebo-controlled trial (N = 1049), ACTIV-1, pitalizations and severe disease in comparison to people who treated patients with a single infusion of infliximab plus stan- were receiving non-TNF-α biologics . Although infliximab dard of care compared to standard of care alone . is not FDA-approved for COVID-19, it has been studied for its Standard of care across the treatment and control arms includ- potential role in managing severe COVID-19–related inflamma- ed remdesivir (93%–94%), corticosteroids (89%–93%), tocili- tion (eg, cytokine storm), most notably in the ACTIV-1 trial . zumab (3%), and baricitinib (1%–3%). Though the primary In this focused update to the 2023 guideline , a recom- endpoints of O’Halloran et al and Fisher et al were mendation is provided for infliximab. The primary audience time to recovery from COVID-19 pneumonia and improve- for this recommendation is clinicians treating hospitalized ment in inflammation, respectively, the trials also reported adults with severe or critical COVID-19. on outcomes of mortality
