Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infliximab, covid-, patients, evidence, ton, recommendation, critical, severe, society, care, guidelines, guideline, infectious, diseases, use


from COVID-19 pneumonia and improve- for this recommendation is clinicians treating hospitalized ment in inflammation, respectively, the trials also reported adults with severe or critical COVID-19. on outcomes of mortality at 28 days, recovery at 28 days (as- sessed by the first day a hospitalized participant did not re- METHODS quire oxygen or ongoing care, or patient was not hospitalized The panel’s recommendation is based upon a systematic Organization categories 6, 7, or 8), length of hospitalization, review of available evidence and adheres to a standardized meth- and serious adverse events (Table 1). odology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of BENEFITS Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach (Supplementary Figure 1) . The recommendation Among hospitalized patients, infliximab reduces mortality at has been endorsed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, 28 days compared to no infliximab treatment (risk ratio [RR]: Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and the Society of Critical 0.70; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.51–0.96]; low certainty Care Medicine. of evidence). In addition, patients receiving infliximab trended Strong recommendations are made when the recommended toward improved recovery as measured by improvement to course of action would apply to most people with few exceptions. hospitalization without oxygen requirements or release from course of action would apply to the majority of people with certainty of evidence). The effect of infliximab treatment on many exceptions and shared decision making is important. hospitalization is very uncertain (mean difference, 1 day fewer; A literature search was conducted in August 2024 as part of a 95% CI: 13.27 days fewer to 11.27 days more; very low certainty systematic review. Key eligibility criteria at both the topic and of evidence). clinical question levels guided the selection of studies for inclu- cluded. The primary comparison of interest was infliximab Serious adverse events among patients receiving infliximab did versus no infliximab. not differ from those receiving usual care (RR: 0.97; 95% CI: A critical appraisal of the evidence according to the GRADE 0.78–1.19; low certainty of evidence). The low certainty of approach, along with an assessment of the benefits and harms evidence was due to very serious concerns with imprecision, of care options, informed the recommendation(s) . reflecting both the wide CI, which includes appreciable benefits Details of the systematic review and guideline development and possible harms, and few reported events. processes are available in the Supplementary Material. OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
