Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infliximab, covid-, patients, evidence, ton, recommendation, critical, severe, society, care, guidelines, guideline, infectious, diseases, use


suoires toN suoires toN dezimodnaR ]11 ,7[ 2 rewef 45 morf( )91.1–87.0( )%5.42( )%7.32( slairt woL )erom 74 ot .tneve esrevda suoires ,EAS ;oitar ksir ,RR ;ecnereffid naem ,DM ;oitar drazah ,RH ;lavretni ecnedfinoc ,IC ;tneve esrevda ,EA :snoitaiverbbA .redlo ro sraey stneitap dedulcni ]11[ la te rehsiF .redlo ro sraey 81 stneitap dedulcni ]7[ la te narollaH’Oa .etamitse eht htiw ytiligarf stseggus hcihw ,ezis noitamrofni lamitpo teem ton seod elpmaSb .ecnereffid lufgninaem on rof laitnetop eht edulcxe tonnac IC %59c .8 ro ,7 ,6 seirogetac noitazinagrO htlaeH dlroW ot tnelaviuqEd .oitar drazah a ot tnelaviuqe si oitar etar yrevoceRe .sdioretsocitroc dna rivisedmer snoitnevretnioc fo noitartsinimda nevenu ot gnidael ylbissop ,gnidnilb dna tnemlaecnoc noitacolla fo kcal htiw snrecnoc emoSf .bamixiflni htiw noitazilatipsoh desaercni ro ecnereffid lufgninaem on rof laitnetop eht edulcxe tonnac IC %59g i24 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Nadig et al Downloaded from by guest on May Regarding the definition of severe, rapidly progressing Drs Adarsh Bhimraj and Rajesh T. Gandhi are chair and vice chair of the COVID-19, the panel recognizes that SpO alone may not al- panel, respectively. The Hospitalized Patients subgroup, under the leader- ship of Dr Nandita Nadig, led the development of the recommendation. ways correlate with disease severity, and the recommendation Remaining panelists assisted with interpretation of data, as well as draft- There are multiple biosimilars for infliximab, likely impact- Rebecca L. Morgan, lead methodologist, and Yngve Falck-Ytter, method- ologist, were responsible for designing and performing the data analyses ing the cost of the medication. In pregnant people, there are no and leading the panel according to the GRADE process. Jennifer RCTs on infliximab use in pregnancy; however, in available ob- Loveless, methodologist, was responsible for project planning and man- servational data on exposures in pregnancy, infliximab has not agement, including revisions to and final approval of the recommendation and manuscript. been associated with increased risk of miscarriage or birth defects Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines cannot always . Use in the third trimester has sometimes been minimized account for individual variation among patients. They are assessments of due to the concern of increased risk of infant infection in the first current scientific and clinical information provided as an educational ser- year of life, though registry data have not suggested this increased vice; are not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evi- dence (new evidence may
