Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infliximab, covid-, patients, evidence, ton, recommendation, critical, severe, society, care, guidelines, guideline, infectious, diseases, use


educational ser- year of life, though registry data have not suggested this increased vice; are not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evi- dence (new evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted risk. Use of infliximab in the setting of COVID-19 is reasonable and when it is published or read); should not be considered inclusive of all Additionally, due to the large size of the molecule, minimal infant mandate any course of medical care; and are not intended to supplant cli- nician judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether exposure via breastmilk would be expected [13–16]. to follow guidelines, and to what extent, is voluntary, with the ultimate de- termination regarding their application to be made by the clinician in the light of each patient’s individual circumstances. While IDSA makes every CONCLUSIONS AND RESEARCH NEEDS effort to present accurate, complete, and reliable information, these guide- Head-to-head comparisons of baricitinib, tocilizumab, abata- lines are presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) assume cept, and infliximab in patients with severe, rapidly progressing no responsibility for any loss, damage, or claim with respect to any liabil- COVID-19 and critical COVID-19 would be informative. It is ities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential damages, incurred also uncertain whether a combination of 2 or more immuno- in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information present- modulatory agents (ie, baricitinib, tocilizumab, abatacept, in- ed. The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views or fliximab) offers additional mortality or recovery benefits. In mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply en- theory, infliximab (a TNF-α inhibitor) targets a different in- dorsement by the US government. flammatory pathway than tocilizumab (an IL-6 receptor block- The guidelines represent the proprietary and copyrighted property of er) or baricitinib (a JAK-STAT pathway inhibitor) and hence, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photo- may have a complementary benefit. Additionally, the efficacy copying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the of infliximab has not been evaluated in children or adolescents prior written permission of IDSA. Permission is granted to physicians and with severe or critical COVID-19. Future studies evaluating in- healthcare providers solely to copy and use the guidelines in their profes- sional practices and clinical decision making. No license or
