Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infliximab, covid-, patients, evidence, ton, recommendation, critical, severe, society, care, guidelines, guideline, infectious, diseases, use


with severe or critical COVID-19. Future studies evaluating in- healthcare providers solely to copy and use the guidelines in their profes- sional practices and clinical decision making. No license or permission is fliximab for COVID-19 should consider enrolling children and granted to any person or entity, and prior written authorization by IDSA adolescents, particularly given the extensive pediatric experi- is required to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative ence with infliximab and available pediatric dosing recommen- works of or incorporate the guidelines into any product, including, but not dations for non-COVID-19 indications. Except for the permission granted above, any person or entity desiring to The guideline panel suggests the use of infliximab in hospi- use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in accor- talized adults receiving systemic glucocorticoids who are expe- dance with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular, any use of the guidelines in any software product. riencing severe, rapidly progressing COVID-19 or critical Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases COVID-19, when baricitinib and tocilizumab are not available. Society of America. This project has been funded in whole or in part with tion does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Department of Supplementary materialsare available at Clinical Infectious Diseases online. Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government. materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, so Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding author. conflicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review process. The assess- ment of disclosed relationships for possible COIs is based on the relative Notes weight of the financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the rele- Acknowledgments. The expert panel acknowledges former panelists for vance of the relationship (ie, the degree to which an association might rea- their work on the primary guideline. The panel also acknowledges the fol- sonably be interpreted by an independent observer as related to the topic or lowing organizations and selected reviewers for their review of the draft recommendation of consideration). No panelists had COIs directly related manuscript: Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, Society of Infectious to infliximab. The following panelists have scientific advisory/consultant Diseases Pharmacists, Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and the roles
