Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infliximab, covid-, patients, evidence, ton, recommendation, critical, severe, society, care, guidelines, guideline, infectious, diseases, use


panelists had COIs directly related manuscript: Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, Society of Infectious to infliximab. The following panelists have scientific advisory/consultant Diseases Pharmacists, Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and the roles not related to the topic of COVID-19 with indicated companies: Society of Critical Care Medicine; Drs Judith Aberg and John O’Horo; R. B. with Merck and Gilead, E. S. D. with Gilead, D. V. G. with Merck and Drs Robin Colgrove and Nicolás Cortés-Penfield on behalf of the and Gilead, S. S. with Pfizer (concluded), P. T. with Merck, and R. T. G. IDSA Standards and Practice Guidelines Subcommittee. with Merck. The following panelists have scientific advisory/consultant IDSA 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update on the Treatment and Management of COVID-19: Infliximab • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i25 Downloaded from by guest on May roles related to COVID-19 but not severe/critical COVID-19 with indicat- immune-mediated inflammatory disease and COVID-19. JAMA Netw Open ed companies: R. B. with Shionogi, K. C. with Pardes Biosciences (conclud- 2021; 4:e2129639. ed), A. Y. K. with Shionogi, S. S. with Adamis and Immunome (concluded), 7. O’Halloran JA, Ko ER, Anstrom KJ, et al. Infliximab, cenicriviroc, or infliximab and P. T. with Shionogi. J. C. P. had a scientific advisory/consultant role for treatment of adults hospitalized with COVID-19 pneumonia. JAMA 2023; 330:328–39. (concluded) with InflaRx related to vilobelimab for critical COVID-19. 8. Bhimraj A, Morgan RL, Shumaker AH, et al. Infectious Diseases Society of No disclosures were reported for all other authors (the majority of panel- America guidelines on the treatment and management of patients with ists), including chair and vice chair. COVID-19 . Clin Infect Dis 2024; 78:e250–349. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 9. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, et al. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the con- quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6. tent of the manuscript have been disclosed. 10. Infectious Diseases Society of America. IDSA handbook on clinical practice Additional information. More detailed information on the analysis and guideline development. Available at: development of the recommendation is available in the Supplementary clinical-practice-guidelines-development-training-and-resources/. Accessed 10 Material. February 2025. standard of care in hospitalised patients with COVID-19 (CATALYST): a rando- References mised, multicentre, multi-arm, multistage, open-label, adaptive, phase 2, 1. Boulianne GL, Hozumi N, Shulman MJ. Production of functional chimaeric proof-of-concept trial.
