Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, insulin, glucose, patients, levels, symptoms, glucagon, plasma, plasma glucose, hypoglycemic, table, glucose levels, diabetes, c-peptide, meal


For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hypoglycemia is frequently seen in patients treated tor diabetes but is uncommon in people who do not have diabetes. Low blood glucose concentrations lead to both adrenergic and neuroglycopenia symptoms ( Table 1 ). Glucose levels below 55 mg/dl cause adrenergic symptoms while glucose levels below 48-50 mg/dL result in neuroglycopenic symptoms. In individuals with frequent hypoglycemia the adrenergic symptoms of hypoglycemia may be blunted. At times hypoglycemia may present with focal neurological deficits that resolve with increasing the glucose levels. Table 1. Symptoms of Hypoglycemia View in own window Adrenergic Neuroglycopenic Sweating Anxiety Tremor Nausea Palpitations Tachycardia Hunger Behavioral changes Warmth Changes in vision or speech Confusion Dizziness Lethargy Seizure Loss of consciousness Coma Symptomatic hypoglycemia is diagnosed clinically using Whipple’s triad: symptoms of hypoglycemia, plasma glucose concentration <55 mg/dL (3.0 mmol/L), and resolution of those symptoms after the plasma glucose concentration is raised. Capillary blood glucose measurements and continuous glucose monitors (CGM) should not be used in the diagnosis of hypoglycemia due to poor accuracy when blood glucose levels are low. However, capillary blood glucose levels or CGM may be helpful in understanding the pattern of hypoglycemic episodes and whether there are triggering factors. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes is typically the result of treatments that raise insulin levels (insulin administration, sulfonylureas, and meglitinides) thereby lowering plasma glucose levels. In adults not taking glucose-lowering drugs to treat diabetes a variety of disorders should be considered ( Table 2 ). Additionally, a number of drugs may cause hypoglycemia (Table 3). Ingestion of unripe ackee fruit can also cause hypoglycemia. The timing of hypoglycemia (relationship to food ingestion, physical activities, day versus nocturnal time) and severity (frequency, presence of neuroglycopenia, and requiring assistance to treat), are critical in the differential diagnosis. A history of nutritional status, current medication/supplement use, and concurrent multisystem illnesses such as liver, heart, kidney failure, or sepsis, as well as a thorough physical exam and laboratory data, can point to existing primary conditions that predispose to hypoglycemia. Table 2. Causes of Hypoglycemia View in own window Artifactual Hypoglycemia (without symptoms) Reticulocytosis (polycythemia, sickle cell anemia) Leukocytosis (leukemia) Thrombocytosis Fasting Hypoglycemia (> 5 hours from the last meal) High Insulin, Low beta-hydroxy butyrate, High glucagon response Insulinoma Auto immune syndrome (antibodies to insulin or the insulin
