Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, insulin, glucose, patients, levels, symptoms, glucagon, plasma, plasma glucose, hypoglycemic, table, glucose levels, diabetes, c-peptide, meal


insulin/IGF mediated Yes <3 <0.2 <5 <25 >2.7 >> indicates often very high, *Antibodies to insulin, **Free C-peptide and proinsulin concentrations are low. Adapted from: Cryer, PE, et al. Evaluation and Management of Adult Hypoglycemic Disorders: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 94:709-728, 2009. For patients with hypoglycemic symptoms several hours after meals, a mixed meal test may be performed. This test has not been well standardized. Patients eat a meal similar to one that provokes their symptoms, or a commercial mixed meal. Samples for plasma glucose, insulin, c-peptide, and proinsulin are collected prior to the meal and every 30 minutes thereafter for 5 hours. If symptoms occur prior to the end of the test then additional samples for the above are collected prior to administration of carbohydrates. If Whipple’s triad is demonstrated, testing for oral hypoglycemic drugs and testing for insulin antibodies should be done. Interpretation of test results is the same as for the 72-hour fast or spontaneous hypoglycemia ( Table 4 ). In a patient with documented hypoglycemia with laboratory findings consistent with endogenous hyperinsulinism localizing studies should be done to evaluate for insulinoma. These may include computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging, transabdominal and endoscopic ultrasonography, and, where available, nuclear medicine scans (Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy SPECT / PET, 18F-DOPA PET, and Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 (Exendin-4) Receptor Imaging SPECT / PET). If the diagnosis remains unclear, selective pancreatic arterial calcium injections with measurements of hepatic venous insulin levels can be performed. TREATMENT Immediate treatment should be focused on reversing hypoglycemia. If the patient is able to ingest carbohydrates 15-30 grams of glucose should be given every 15 minutes until the hypoglycemia has resolved. If the patient is unable to ingest carbohydrates, or if the hypoglycemic episode is severe then parenteral glucose should be administered. In a healthcare setting intravenous dextrose is used. Twenty-five-gram boluses of 50% dextrose are given until the hypoglycemia has been resolved. If needed, an infusion of 10% or 20% dextrose can be used to sustain euglycemia in patients with recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia. In the outpatient setting, glucagon, given as an intramuscular injection or nasally, may be used to correct hypoglycemia, depending upon the etiology of the hypoglycemia. In patients with recurrent hypoglycemia the availability of ready-to-use glucagon treatments is advantageous. Glucose gel and other forms of oral glucose should be used in impaired patients with caution and only
