Hypoglycemia
KEYWORDS: hypoglycemia, insulin, glucose, patients, levels, symptoms, glucagon, plasma, plasma glucose, hypoglycemic, table, glucose levels, diabetes, c-peptide, meal


patients with recurrent hypoglycemia the availability of ready-to-use glucagon treatments is advantageous. Glucose gel and other forms of oral glucose should be used in impaired patients with caution and only in circumstances where no alternative is available, as they pose an aspiration risk. Long-term treatment should be tailored to the specific hypoglycemic disorder, taking into account the burden of hypoglycemia on well-being and patient preferences. Offending medications should be discontinued and underlying illnesses treated, whenever possible. Surgical resection can be curative for insulinomas, and can alleviate hypoglycemia in non-islet cell tumors, even if the malignancy cannot be cured. Partial pancreatectomy can be considered in patients with β-cell disorders. Medical treatment with frequent feedings, α-glucosidase inhibitors, diazoxide, or octreotide can be used if resection is not possible, or as a temporizing measure. New drugs that may be helpful include long-acting somatostatin analogs, mTOR inhibitors, and GLP-1 antagonists. Autoimmune hypoglycemic conditions may be treated with either glucocorticoids or immunosuppressants, but these disorders may be self-limited. For adults taking insulin or insulin secretagogues for diabetes mellitus risk factors for hypoglycemia, such as advanced age and renal insufficiency, should be considered. The treatment regimen and glycemic goals should be reviewed and adjusted if needed. Patients should be instructed on how to manage hypoglycemia, either by the ingestion of carbohydrates if possible, or by parenteral glucagon or glucose. If the patient has hypoglycemia unawareness, a 2-to 3-week period of strict avoidance of hypoglycemia should be maintained, as hypoglycemia awareness will return in many patients. For individuals with type 1 diabetes and a history of serious hypoglycemia, the use of a personal continuous glucose monitoring device, sensor-augmented insulin pump therapy, or a hybrid closed loop system should be considered. ACKNOWLEGEMENTS This work was supported by grants from the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. GUIDELINES 1. Cryer, PE, Axelrod L, Grossman AB, Heller SR, Montori VM, Seaquist ER, Service FJ. Evaluation and Management of Adult Hypoglycemic Disorders: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 94:709-728, 2009. [ PubMed : 19088155 ] 2. McCall AL, Lieb DC, Gianchandani R, MacMaster H, Maynard GA, Murad MH, Seaquist E, Wolfsdorf JI, Wright RF, Wiercioch W. Management of Individuals With Diabetes at High Risk for Hypoglycemia: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2023 Feb 15;108(3):529-562. [ PubMed : 36477488 ] REFERENCES 1. Davis HA, Spanakis EK, Cryer PE, Siamashvili M, Davis SN.
