Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296
KEYWORDS: liver, hcc, transplantation, liver transplantation, damage, liver damage, criteria, tace, treatment, milan, patients, patient, severe, hccs, milan criteria


underlying liver disease and cancer. However, indications for liver transplan- tation in Japan include only HCC patients with severe liver damage, such as Child-Turcotte- Pugh class C, 3 tumors not more than 3 cm in diameter or a single tumor not more than 5 cm in diameter. These Milan criteria for HCC treatment are well known as indications of liver transplantation in Japan . We describe a case of advanced HCC complicated with severe liver damage and esophageal varices that was treated with transcatheter arterial chemoem- bolization (TACE) without exacerbation of liver damage, followed by radical liver transplan- tation. Case Report A man in his 50s was transferred by ambulance to a nearby physician because of rupture of gastric varices. At that time, he was diagnosed as having cirrhosis after chronic type B hep- atitis and had been followed up with by the physician afterward. He was suspected to have developed HCC based on the imaging examination in December 2014, and he was referred to our hospital in March 2015 for further examination and treatment. At the time of the first visit, his consciousness was clear, but he had a flapping tremor. He presented with notable conjunctival yellowing. His abdomen was flat and soft without tender- ness. Laboratory test results indicated pancytopenia, a prolonged prothrombin time-interna- tional normalized ratio, hypoalbuminemia, and jaundice. The result of the indocyanine green retention test was as high as 36.5%. The alpha-fetoprotein level was within the normal range Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296 291 DOI: © 2019 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel www.karger.com/cro Nakamura et al.: Liver Transplantation after Successful Downstaging in a Patient with Severe Liver Damage of 2.8 ng/mL, but the protein induced by vitamin K absence/antagonist-II (PIVKA-II) level was as high as 163 mAU/mL. He had cirrhosis after chronic type B hepatitis. The nucleotide analog was positive for hepatitis B virus DNA (Table 1). Abdominal dynamic computed tomography (CT) showed that the liver edge was blunt, and the surface was irregular. A 39-mm nodule, which was enhanced in the arterial phase and slightly washed out in the equilibrium phase, was located in segment 8 of the liver. Moreover, prominent splenomegaly, collateral circula- tion, and a small amount of ascites in the pelvis were confirmed (Fig. 1a, b). In gadolinium- ethoxybenzyl-diethilene-triamine-pentaacetic acid-enhanced dynamic magnetic resonance imaging, the 39-mm nodule, which was enhanced in the early phase and had a low signal
