Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296
KEYWORDS: liver, hcc, transplantation, liver transplantation, damage, liver damage, criteria, tace, treatment, milan, patients, patient, severe, hccs, milan criteria


the pelvis were confirmed (Fig. 1a, b). In gadolinium- ethoxybenzyl-diethilene-triamine-pentaacetic acid-enhanced dynamic magnetic resonance imaging, the 39-mm nodule, which was enhanced in the early phase and had a low signal in the hepatocyte phase, was also observed in segment 8 of the liver. Aside from this tumor, a small nodule measuring 9 mm in diameter showed the same contrast pattern in segment 8 of the liver (Fig. 1c, d). CT during arterial portography showed perfusion defects in the 2 HCCs, and CT during arteriography showed hypervascular tumors in the early phase and peripheral enhancement in the late phase, which was consistent with typical HCC contrast patterns (Fig. 1e–g). These HCCs were enhanced simultaneously during arteriography of A8, and obvious vascular invasion was not observed (Fig. 1h, i). No other lesions suspected of HCC were found in the liver. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed high-risk esophageal varices (Lm, F2, Cb, RC-sign [+]). On the basis of these findings, we diagnosed the patient as having HCCs (cT3N0M0, clini- cal stage III) with severe liver damage. Regarding liver damage, the Child-Turcotte-Pugh clas- sification was class C (11 points), and the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score was 16 points, suggesting that he was a candidate for liver transplantation. Although there were 2 HCCs, one of them had a diameter exceeding 3 cm, which deviated from the Milan criteria. When applying the HCC therapy algorithm in Japan to this patient’s comprehensive disease condition, only palliative care was recommended. Therefore, to determine treatment other than palliative care, we consulted with a transplant surgeon. As both HCCs were perfused with A8, locoregional therapy could be conducted to downstage HCC and maintain the liver reserve. Moreover, since this patient was relatively young, and his performance status was good, we considered liver transplantation as a curative treatment for HCC and sever liver damage. After confirming the wishes of the patient and his family, we decided to perform TACE following radical liver transplantation. Before these treatments, endoscopic varicocele ligation was per- formed for the esophageal varices. After confirming the disappearance of varices, lipiodol TACE was performed in segment 8 of the liver with 20 mg of epirubicin and gelatin sponges. There were neither postoperative complications nor changes in the Child-Turcotte-Pugh score. The PIVKA-II level decreased from 163 to 33 mAU/mL after TACE. Abdominal dynamic CT on day 60 after TACE showed sufficient lipiodol deposition in the 2 HCCs in segment
