Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296
KEYWORDS: liver, hcc, transplantation, liver transplantation, damage, liver damage, criteria, tace, treatment, milan, patients, patient, severe, hccs, milan criteria


score. The PIVKA-II level decreased from 163 to 33 mAU/mL after TACE. Abdominal dynamic CT on day 60 after TACE showed sufficient lipiodol deposition in the 2 HCCs in segment 8, but a tiny lipiodol deposit-free area remained (Fig. 1j, k). On the basis of these findings, we determined that the progress of HCCs was successfully downstaged within the Milan criteria, and this patient underwent liver transplantation 110 days after TACE. Surgery was performed using a left lobe graft (graft weight, 298 g; graft-to-standard liver vol- ume ratio, 25.8%). The operative time was 13 h and 53 min, and the bleeding volume was 7,885 mL. Pathologically, most of the tumor was successfully treated by TACE, except for the small remaining HCC where lipiodol deposition was insufficient. The smaller HCC which was 9 mm Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296 292 DOI: © 2019 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel www.karger.com/cro Nakamura et al.: Liver Transplantation after Successful Downstaging in a Patient with Severe Liver Damage before TACE was completed (Fig. 2a, b). Postoperatively, hyperbilirubinemia and ascetic ac- cumulation due to small-for-size syndrome were temporarily observed but gradually im- proved after enlargement of the graft volume. This patient was discharged on day 35 after liver transplantation. Two and half years after transplantation, he remains alive without HCC recurrence or liver deterioration. Discussion Liver transplantation for HCC was formerly conducted on unresectable advanced HCC, but the outcome was poor because of high recurrence within a few years postoperatively . Based on these dismal outcomes, the Milan criteria (a single HCC not more than 5 cm or up to 3 HCCs not more than 3 cm) have been adopted worldwide for the selection of patients with HCC for liver transplantation, and a good outcome is achieved in patients who fulfill these cri- teria . Some patients with advanced HCC beyond the Milan criteria were reported to achieve long-term survival after liver transplantation, and these reports have led to the development of expanded criteria worldwide . University of California San Francisco criteria (a single tumor less than 6.5 cm, maximum of 3 total tumors less than 4.5 cm, and cumulative tumor size less than 8 cm) and Asian criteria (tumor diameter not more than 5 cm, number of lesions less than 7, and no gross vascular invasion) are well known as extended criteria . There- fore, the Milan group (Mazzaferro et al.) also created
