Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296
KEYWORDS: liver, hcc, transplantation, liver transplantation, damage, liver damage, criteria, tace, treatment, milan, patients, patient, severe, hccs, milan criteria


5 cm, number of lesions less than 7, and no gross vascular invasion) are well known as extended criteria . There- fore, the Milan group (Mazzaferro et al.) also created a new up-to-seven criteria (7 is the sum of the size of the largest tumor [in cm] and the number of tumors), and the authors reported that patients who met these criteria achieved a 5-year overall survival of 71.2% (64.2–77.0) . Despite good outcomes overseas, liver transplantation was limited to the Milan criteria in Japanese patients with advanced HCC. In recent years, locoregional therapy, such as TACE or radiofrequency ablation, for HCC downstaging within the Milan criteria has been reported. Yao et al. reported encouraging re- sults of patients with HCC beyond the Milan criteria for liver transplantation . However, aside from our case, most patients in this study had a Child-Turcotte-Pugh score less than 10 (Child-Turcotte-Pugh classes A and B). As even locoregional treatment causes liver damage to some extent, effective and safe treatment of HCC in patients with severe liver damage, espe- cially Child-Turcotte-Pugh class C, remains to be seen. In our case, there were some advantages for downstaging treatment of HCC. One ad- vantage was the location of the two HCCs. As these two HCCs were located within the same perfused area of A8, TACE could minimize the adverse effect of liver damage, resulting in a sustained Child-Turcotte-Pugh score. Additionally, prophylactic treatment of esophageal var- ices before locoregional TACE would also decrease the risk of mortality . Finally, coopera- tion with transplant surgery could lead to a prompt intervention, resulting in successful liver transplantation. In conclusion, TACE following liver transplantation with sustained liver damage is a fea- sible treatment option for severe liver damage patients with HCC beyond the Milan criteria in terms of its safety and efficacy. Regarding management of liver disease and treatment of ad- vanced HCC, multidisciplinary treatment could have a beneficial result in tumor downstaging, enabling radical liver transplantation without further exacerbation of liver damage. Case Rep Oncol 2019;12:289–296 293 DOI: © 2019 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel www.karger.com/cro Nakamura et al.: Liver Transplantation after Successful Downstaging in a Patient with Severe Liver Damage Statement of Ethics Written informed consent for publication was obtained from the patient. Disclosure Statement The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
