Takahashietal.BMCNephrology (2019) 20:120
KEYWORDS: tumor, gists, imatinib, kidney, transplant, high, solitary, small, daily, resection, fig, cyclosporine, low, gist, etal


reproductioninanymedium,providedyougiveappropriatecredittotheoriginalauthor(s)andthesource,providealinkto theCreativeCommonslicense,andindicateifchangesweremade.TheCreativeCommonsPublicDomainDedicationwaiver ( Takahashietal.BMCNephrology (2019) 20:120 Page2of7 intestinal wall at the tumor location shortly after the diag- He visitedouroutpatientdepartmentofsurgeryinJuly nosis. We also review existing literature on GISTs, which 2017 (72months after the transplant), suffering from were written in English, in solid organ transplantation re- right colic pain, abdominal distention, and diarrhea. The cipients and summarized in Tables 1 and 2, including the initial non-contrast-enhanced computed tomography oneinthepresentreport. (CT) scan revealed a solitary tumor with a diameter of 11cm in his lower abdomen. CTcolonography was per- Case presentation formed to determine the tumor location, which revealed A 64-year-old male with diabetic nephropathy received an origin from the small intestine, not the colon or the nated kidney from his wife in August 2011. Splenectomy The tumor was well circumscribed with a smooth was performed one month before the transplant and boundary and lobulated contour. There were relatively plasmapheresis was performed three times for the pre- low attenuation areas in the tumor, which were sus- conditioning treatment. An interleukin-2-receptor pected to correspond to the areas of necrotic degener- monoclonal antibody (basiliximab) was used as an in- ation. Moreover, a trapped air bubble was detected in duction immunosuppressant and maintenance immuno- thetumorandmucosalulcerformationatthetumorsite suppression included cyclosporine (target trough level, was suspected. Distant metastasis was not observed on 150–200ng/mL for the first month after transplant; CT. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a moderately 100–150ng/mL for the second month; 50–100ng/mL high signal intensity on fat-suppressed T2-weighed im- from the third month to one year after transplant; and ages and a clear high signal intensity on 30–50ng/mL thereafter), mycophenolate mofetil (1500 diffusion-weighted images, which suggested the tumor mg daily), and methylprednisolone (starting dose of 20 had malignant potential (Fig. 2). The preoperative differ- mg daily with a subsequent weekly reduction by 4mg ential diagnosiswasGISTorpost-transplantlymphopro- and maintenance dosage at 4mg thereafter). His postop- liferative disorder of the small intestine. Resection of the erative course was good with no evidence of acute rejec- tumor was planned several weeks later because oper- tion. His serum creatinine level and estimated ationroomschedule wasvery tightat thattime. glomerular filtration rate level were 1.3±0.6mg/dL and One week after diagnosis, the patient visited the emer- 48±5mL/min/1.73m2, respectively, at 6years after gency room suffering from acute onset of abdominal transplantation. pain. Emergent CT revealed free air around the tumor Table1BackgroundofreportedcasesofpatientswithGISTafterorgantransplantation Case Author Year Transplanted Age/ Primarydisease Timefromtransplantation Symptoms/causes Location Treatment Solitary/ organ Sex todiagnosis(months) atdiagnosis Multiple 1 Agaimy 2007
