Takahashietal.BMCNephrology (2019) 20:120
KEYWORDS: tumor, gists, imatinib, kidney, transplant, high, solitary, small, daily, resection, fig, cyclosporine, low, gist, etal


of the small intestine (Fig. 3). Emergent laparot- positive for KIT, CD-34, and discovered on gastrointes- omy was performed and revealed that small intestinal tinal stromal tumor 1 (DOG1); the positive ratio of perforation had occurred due to tumor necrosis on the Ki-67 was 20% (Fig. 4d-h). The nuclear mitotic count luminal side. Cytological examination of ascites, which was 20/50 in high power fields. Negative staining of des- were collected during the operation, showed no malig- min and weak staining for S-100 protein excluded the nant cells. Resection of the tumor and intestinal anasto- possibility of a leiomyoma or schwannoma (Fig. 4i, j). mosis was performed simultaneously. The patient’s These pathological findings supported a diagnosis of postoperative course was good without any comorbidity. GIST. Risk classification of the tumor was classified as The pathological findings showed a perforation hole, 2 high-risk. Genetic screening revealed a mutation in exon mm in diameter, at the intestinal wall above the tumor 11 of c-kit and the deletion of two amino acids (Fig. 4a). The tumor had a clear boundary and grew (Tyr553Trp557del). nodularly from just below the muscularis mucosa to- Imatinib mesylate at a dose of 400mg daily was intro- wards theabdominalcavity(Fig. 4b).In the center of the duced 2months after the operation as an adjuvant ther- tumor there was a cavity due to coagulative necrosis, apy due to the tumor’s high malignant potential, its size which resulted in tumor rupture (Fig. 4c). The tumor (>5cm), and the mitotic count (20/50 in high power fields) . We needed to decrease the dose at 300 mg daily a month after the introduction of imatinib be- cause the patient experienced severe hyponatremia (112.7mmol/L). Although the cyclosporine trough level was relatively low (30–50ng/mL) before and after the operation, we withdrew cyclosporine 2months after the operation without tapering off. Therefore, maintenance immunosuppression comprised mycophenolate mofetil (1500mg daily) and methylprednisolone (4mg daily). The patient tolerated reduced imatinib treatment well and his kidney function was well preserved without any evidence of rejection. At follow-up 18months after the operation,therewasnorecurrenceofthetumor. Discussion and conclusions The present case described a huge GIST with perforated Fig.3Emergentcomputedtomographyimagesonthedayofthe small intestine in a kidney transplant recipient in a operation.Arrowsrepresentfreeairclosetothetumor long-term immunocompromised state due to the Takahashietal.BMCNephrology (2019) 20:120 Page5of7 Fig.4Pathologicalimagesofthegastrointestinalstromaltumor.aMacroscopicfindingofthetumorrepresentsthatthiswasamultinodular tumorcontinuoustotheintestinalwall.Thearrowrepresentstheperforatedhole.bThetumorwaslocatedjustunderthemuscularismucosa, andtheboundarywasclear.[Hematoxylin-Eosin(HE)×4].cThecentralpartofthetumorfellintonecrosisandbecamecystic.dTumorcells werespindleshapedcellswithrodlikehyperchromaticnuclei.Thearrowsrepresentthecellsduringmitosis(HE×40).Thetumorcellswere stronglypositiveforKIT(e),CD34(f),andDOG1(g)stainings.hThepositiveratioofKi-67stainingwas20%.Thestainingfordesminwasnegative (i)andthestainingforS-100proteinwasweak(j) combination of immunosuppressive drugs. To the best of according to tumor size, site of organ, and number of mi- ourknowledge,thisisthefirstreportedcaseofaGISTwith toses . Tumor
