Takahashietal.BMCNephrology (2019) 20:120
KEYWORDS: tumor, gists, imatinib, kidney, transplant, high, solitary, small, daily, resection, fig, cyclosporine, low, gist, etal


Page5of7 Fig.4Pathologicalimagesofthegastrointestinalstromaltumor.aMacroscopicfindingofthetumorrepresentsthatthiswasamultinodular tumorcontinuoustotheintestinalwall.Thearrowrepresentstheperforatedhole.bThetumorwaslocatedjustunderthemuscularismucosa, andtheboundarywasclear.[Hematoxylin-Eosin(HE)×4].cThecentralpartofthetumorfellintonecrosisandbecamecystic.dTumorcells werespindleshapedcellswithrodlikehyperchromaticnuclei.Thearrowsrepresentthecellsduringmitosis(HE×40).Thetumorcellswere stronglypositiveforKIT(e),CD34(f),andDOG1(g)stainings.hThepositiveratioofKi-67stainingwas20%.Thestainingfordesminwasnegative (i)andthestainingforS-100proteinwasweak(j) combination of immunosuppressive drugs. To the best of according to tumor size, site of organ, and number of mi- ourknowledge,thisisthefirstreportedcaseofaGISTwith toses . Tumor size is very important; in the present perforated small intestine at the site in a kidney transplant case,thetumordiameterwas11cmandthesmallintestinal recipient. Because a huge GIST can perforate the gastro- wall at the site of the tumor was perforated before the intestinal tract, immediate surgical resection, if appropriate, scheduledoperation. shouldbeconsidered. ToreviewthepreviouslyreportedcasesofGISTsintrans- GISTs have unique characteristics that are useful when plantrecipients,weusedthekeywords“gastrointestinalstro- differentiating from other mesenchymal tumors, e.g., leio- mal tumor,” “transplantation,” OR “transplant” to search myoma,leiomyosarcoma,schwannoma,desmoidtumor,in- PubMed and Web of Science for English language reports. flammatory myofibroblastic tumor, or solitary fibrous We also checked articles in the reference lists of these case tumor. In general, GISTs originate in the submucosal layer reports [1–8]. Tables 1 and 2 summarize these patients, in- of the gastrointestinal tract and grow extraluminally or cludingtheoneinthepresentcase. intraluminally.Morethan90%oftheseneoplasmsareasso- Some risk criteria of GISTs according to size, nuclear ciatedwithmutationsoftheproto-oncogenec-kitwhereits mitotic counts, and tumor location have been advocated encoding protein KIT, a type III receptor tyrosine kinase, is in the previous papers . The search revealed only constitutively expressed without stimulation of its ligand, five high-risk (early tumor recurrence of metastasis) thestem cell factor .Strong positivityofKIT orCD34is cases of 11 total cases according to Fletcher’s criteria a typical pathological feature of GISTs . DOG1 was re- orfourhigh-riskcasesof11totalcasesaccordingto cently reported as a specific GIST marker and ubiquitous Joensuu’s criteria , including this case, which sug- expression of DOG1 was observed in patients with GISTs gests that immunosuppressed patients are not necessar- .ScarcepositivityofdesminandS-100proteinalsohelp ily at a high risk of GISTs (Table 2). Adjuvant differentiate GISTs from other mesenchymal tumors . therapy with imatinib mesylate, a tyrosine kinase inhibi- Interestingly, only subpopulations of GISTs have malignant tor, at a dose of 400mg daily for three years is recom- potentialandseveralriskstratificationshavebeenadvocated mended for high-risk patients . Precise genetic Takahashietal.BMCNephrology (2019) 20:120 Page6of7 analysis of c-kit is also useful when considering the effi- should be resected immediately after diagnosis. Ima- cacy of imatinib treatment, and a good response to ima- tinib treatment is feasible in transplant recipients tinib treatment in GIST patients is associated with under immunosuppression, although immunosuppres- mutationsinexon11 . sive drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 should be used at Another concern is the interaction between imatinib a reduced dosage or withdrawn. Modifications to mesylate and immunosuppressive drugs and
