International Journal o f
KEYWORDS: cells, dxn, apoptosis, cell, txn, cid, usa, lines, cid cid, cell lines, dxn txn, colon, sci, carcinoma, mol sci


to synthesis . Because of the inexpensive production of XN and its purported health benefits, it is marketed as a dietary supplement. Preclinical animal studies show that XN is safe in high doses. Female BALB/c mice fed XN at 1000 mg/kg body weight for three weeks exhibited no adverse effects on major organ function and homoeostasis . Furthermore, Sprague Dawley rats treated with 1000 mg/kg body weight per day by oral gavage showed only weak hepatotoxicity and poor development of mammary glands, neither of which are fatal . In humans, an escalating dose study was performed in menopausal women using an extract from hops rich in XN. The results showed that the extract does not affect the sex hormones estradiol, follicle stimulating hormone, or luteinizing hormone, does not affect blood clotting, and caused no acute toxicity . Previous studies show that XN readily isomerizes to isoxanthohumol (IX), which is the first step in the metabolism of XN (Figure 1, pathway 1). This isomerization is enhanced by the high temperatures used during wort boiling . It also occurs in the stomach, due to the acidic conditions encountered there . After isomerization, the gut microbiome and the host’s hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes metabolize IX into 8‐PN . A previous study showed Eubacterium limosum metabolizes IX via O‐demethylation (Figure 1, pathway 2) . Up to 34% of XN entering the gut can be converted to 8‐PN; therefore, the microbiome plays a significant role in the formation of 8‐PN from XN and IX. . Our own research group recently discovered that E. ramulus metabolizes XN into DXN, and 8‐PN into O‐desmethylxanthohumol and O‐desmethyl‐α,β‐dihydroxanthohumol . On the other hand, both DXN and TXN differ from XN in that they lack the α,β‐unsaturated ketone found in XN; therefore, interconversion to XN or IX is not metabolically possible . This property prevents the formation of 8‐PN, one of the most potent phytoestrogens known (Figure 1) . Interestingly, 8‐PN possesses anti‐proliferative effects in vitro against the colon carcinoma cell line Caco‐2, breast carcinoma line MCF‐7, the melanoma line SK‐MEL‐28, and a Burkitt lymphoma cell line [21–25]. The estrogenic effects of 8‐PN also show promising clinical results in treating postmenopausal symptoms, but these studies are usually short term and were not designed to assess the effect of potential cancer promoting properties . In the host, 8‐PN acts as a strong agonist for estrogen receptors located in cells throughout the
