Case report
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcaemia, beads, case, patient, sulfate, hypercalcemia, serum, calcium sulfate, antibiotic, patients, serum calcium, cases, bmj, use


Case report Hypercalcaemia caused by calcium sulfate beads Samuel Epstein, Diego E Vanegas Acosta Gainesville, Florida, USA disturbance seen in hospitalised patients; however, this case, we will discuss a patient with acute onset given the complicated systems of calcium regulation, hypercalcaemia after surgery and highlight the Correspondence to it can take a significant amount of time and testing to schema for workup of hypercalcaemia. Dr Diego E Vanegas Acosta; pinpoint the aetiology. This case discusses a patient who diego. vanegasacosta@ medicine. ufl. edu developed acute hypercalcaemia from calcium sulfate- CASE PRESENTATION containing antibiotic beads placed during an orthopaedic We present a woman in her 70s with a medical Accepted 17 September 2022 procedure. These beads are used in surgical procedures history significant for papillary thyroid cancer and to fill gaps/voids in bony structures and for local delivery post thyroidectomy complicated by metastasis to of antibiotics. The case highlights the importance of right femur, hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, type 2 the administration of medical products that may right hip arthroplasty due to her bony metastasis not be clearly documented on a patient’s medicine as mentioned above. She was admitted from her administration record when working up an unexplained orthopaedic clinic for concern for prosthetic joint finding. infection with draining sinus tract despite 2 months of cefadroxil therapy. She underwent a revision of her total hip arthroplasty which included irrigation and debridement as well as insertion of biodegrad- BACKGROUND able antibiotic beads and cement. During the proce- There are several mechanisms through which dure, 3 g of vancomycin mixed with cement along calcium homeostasis can be disrupted. As such, with rapid cure antibiotic beads was placed into the derangements in calcium levels are a relatively right hip capsule. The date of this procedure will be common clinical conundrum for physicians. Both listed as postoperative day (POD) 0. hypercalcaemia and hypocalcaemia can have She was recovering well with no apparent post- significant clinical consequences if unrecognised operative complications until she was noted to have or untreated; however, in this case report, we will an acute rise in serum calcium on POD 3 (figure 1). discuss hypercalcaemia. As shown, the patient had no history of hyper- Roughly 90% of all cases of hypercalcaemia are calcaemia and developed a persistent elevation in related to primary hyperparathyroidism or related serum calcium level (as well as associated elevations to malignancy.1–3 Determining if hypercalcaemia is in ionised calcium, however, this
