Case report
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcaemia, beads, case, patient, sulfate, hypercalcemia, serum, calcium sulfate, antibiotic, patients, serum calcium, cases, bmj, use


developed a persistent elevation in related to primary hyperparathyroidism or related serum calcium level (as well as associated elevations to malignancy.1–3 Determining if hypercalcaemia is in ionised calcium, however, this measurement was parathyroid hormone (PTH) dependent or indepen- not monitored regularly through the hospitalisa- dent is a crucial first step in the diagnostic workup. tion). It is important to note that despite elevated In primary hyperparathyroidism, the rise in calcium levels of calcium (peak of 14.4 mg/dL), the patient is related to overproduction of PTH from the did not experience any change in mental status. parathyroid gland.1 Primary hyperparathyroidism can be diagnosed in cases of hypercalcaemia when INVESTIGATIONS serum PTH is elevated.2 4 Although nearly any type The patient was treated with aggressive fluid resus- of cancer can cause hypercalcaemia, there are few citation with normal saline running continuously typical mechanisms for calcium elevation in malig- at rates between 100 and 200 mL/hour throughout nancy —secretion of parathyroid-r elated hormone much of her postoperative course. Expert consulta- (PTHrP) and more rarely PTH from tumour cells, tion from both nephrology and endocrinology was osteolytic metastasis causing bony breakdown and called on POD 5 and 7, respectively. On POD 6, the osteoclast activation, and secretion of calcitriol patient was treated with pamidronate and 3 days of from tumour cells.3 calcitonin (figure 1). Hypercalcaemia related to primary hyperpara- Given the patients comorbid conditions listed thyroidism and malignancy each have their own above, a broad workup for hypercalcaemia was characteristic features. Typically, patients with initiated. Results of various laboratory tests and primary hyperparathyroidism develop hypercal- their date of collection are noted on the graph. © BMJ Publishing Group caemia more gradually and are commonly asymp- PTH was low at 21 pg/mL (laboratory refer- Limited 2022. No commercial re- use. See rights and tomatic.2 In hypercalcaemia driven by malignancy, ence range has normal 12–88). PTHrp was only permissions. Published by BMJ. elevations in serum calcium can be more abrupt, mildly elevated which was difficult to interpret in reach higher serum values and are typically more the setting of prior malignancy and was felt to be To cite: Epstein S, symptomatic.2 3 Additionally, in these cases, other unlikely to represent a source of hypercalcaemia. Vanegas Acosta DE. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e251069. symptoms of malignancy are typically present.3 Vitamin 1,25 dihydroxy was normal at 25.3 pg/ doi:- Most cases of hypercalcaemia fall into one of mL as
