Case report
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcaemia, beads, case, patient, sulfate, hypercalcemia, serum, calcium sulfate, antibiotic, patients, serum calcium, cases, bmj, use


DE. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e251069. symptoms of malignancy are typically present.3 Vitamin 1,25 dihydroxy was normal at 25.3 pg/ doi:- Most cases of hypercalcaemia fall into one of mL as was vitamin D 25 at 30.65 ng/mL. Subse- 251069 these two categories. Having a stepwise approach quent ACE level was near normal. Serum and urine Epstein S, Vanegas Acosta DE. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e251069. doi: 1 Case report Evaluation with positron emission tomography (PET) scan was considered given history of bone metastasis; however, following her resolution of hypercalcaemia was ultimately deferred after deliberation between primary and consulting teams. At this point, based on a diagnosis of exclusion, it was suspected that the antibiotic beads placed during the procedure was the most likely cause. There were several patient factors that likely contributed to the degree of hypercalcaemia but were unlikely to repre- sent the primary source of this derangement. The patient had a history of chronic kidney disease (CKD) which likely led to decreased calcium excretion of the antibiotic beads as they were absorbed—renal disease is actually listed as a warning for use on Figure 1 Trend of serum calcium (image created by Dr S Epstein). PTH, the Rapid Cure website.5 Additionally, postoperative immobili- parathyroid hormone; PTHrP, parathyroid- related hormone. sation likely contributed to the rise in calcium. Hypercalcaemia from immobilisation is typically observed only in cases of severe and prolonged immobilisation primarily in patients with brain protein electrophoresis as well as free light chains were within and spinal cord injury and elevations in serum calcium usually roidism from thyroidectomy, she was treated with levothyroxine patient was also found to be in an exogenous hyperthyroid state 250 mcg daily and had thyroid levels checked before and after with severely depressed thyroid stimulating hormone levels. period of hypercalcaemia with TSH level of <0.03 mIU/L and Although hyperthyroidism can cause hypercalcaemia, it does not Free T4 level of 0.76 and 1.1 ng/dL, respectively. usually cause a rapid or significant elevation in serum calcium Given the extensive workup and hypercalcaemia that was but certainly could exacerbate the hypercalcaemia seen in our refractory to typical treatment modalities, it was felt that the case.1 7 calcium sulfate- containing beads were the most likely culprit and were exacerbated by patients underlying renal function, immo- bility and recent surgery. Feasibility of removal of the beads was OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP discussed with orthopaedic surgeon who felt that the benefit
