Case report
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcaemia, beads, case, patient, sulfate, hypercalcemia, serum, calcium sulfate, antibiotic, patients, serum calcium, cases, bmj, use


exacerbated by patients underlying renal function, immo- bility and recent surgery. Feasibility of removal of the beads was OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP discussed with orthopaedic surgeon who felt that the benefit Following improvement of serum calcium levels and after appro- of such a procedure would not outweigh the risks, particularly priate postoperative monitoring, the patient was discharged as the patient was asymptomatic. An X- ray taken on POD 16 home. She was readmitted 2 months after hospital discharge due showed complete absorption of the beads (figure 2). to recurrence of draining sinus tract and concern for recurrent prosthetic joint infection. Her admission and preoperative labs showed normal levels of serum calcium. She underwent another DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS revision total hip arthroplasty with removal of the cement placed Throughout this case, the differential remained broad. As previ- in the previous procedure. Her second operation was similar to ously mentioned, primary hyperparathyroidism and malignancy her first including the placement of antibiotic-c ontaining cement account for most cases of hypercalcaemia. Low PTH level effec- prior to closure. Notably, no calcium sulfate-c ontaining anti- tively ruled out primary hyperparathyroidism as the cause. biotic beads were used during this procedure. Postoperative Malignancy was strongly suspected given the patient’s history of calcium levels remained near the upper limit of normal and no thyroid cancer with bony metastasis; however, low PTHrp, nega- periods of severe hypercalcaemia were observed. tive surgical biopsy and lack of other symptoms suggestive of active malignancy made this less likely. The low vitamin D (both 25 and 1,25) ruled out granulomatous diseases or lymphoma DISCUSSION as well as vitamin D toxicity (the patient was instructed to stop The schema for undifferentiated hypercalcaemia involves several vitamin D supplementation regardless).2 Serum and urine protein time and resource intensive steps given the broad differential of electrophoresis as well as kappa to lambda ratio were all within this clinical finding. Understanding the epidemiological factors to help narrow a diagnosis. In cases of acute hypercalcaemia, it is particularly important to carefully review potential iatro- genic sources like medications or procedures. Another important teaching point from this case is to carefully review medical inter- ventions that may not be obviously recorded in the medicine administration record. Lastly, patients undergoing procedures with calcium sulfate-c ontaining antibiotic beads should have close lab monitoring for early recognition and treatment of hypercalcaemia. Studies of calcium sulfate bead-i nduced hypercalcemia are limited but data show that
