Case report
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcaemia, beads, case, patient, sulfate, hypercalcemia, serum, calcium sulfate, antibiotic, patients, serum calcium, cases, bmj, use


calcium sulfate-c ontaining antibiotic beads should have close lab monitoring for early recognition and treatment of hypercalcaemia. Studies of calcium sulfate bead-i nduced hypercalcemia are limited but data show that at least some patients will have hyper- calcaemia after administration of calcium sulfate beads.2 3 8–17 Typically calcium levels peak on POD 2 and resolve around POD 10–12.16 17 One case report involves a patient who had acute onset of undifferentiated hypercalcaemia on two separate Figure 2 Postoperative hip radiograph on postoperative day (POD) 1 occasions following administration of calcium-c ontaining anti- (left) and POD 16 (right). biotic beads during orthopaedic procedures.8 This suggests that 2 Epstein S, Vanegas Acosta DE. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e251069. doi: Case report there may be patient factors that predispose to hypercalcaemia Contributors DEVA solved the clinical scenario as an internal medicine consultant. after placement of calcium sulfate beads. According to a limited SE performed literature review of the topic. SE took the lead in writing the manuscript. SE elaborated figures. All authors discussed and contributed to the final review, women appear to have more episodes of hypercalcaemia manuscript. as nearly two out of three of available case reports involve female patients.8 Unsurprisingly, patients with factors predisposing Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. them to disorders of calcium homeostasis (renal disease, malig- Competing interests None declared. nancy, parathyroid disease) are more likely to develop hypercal- cemia.8 17 There may also be procedure-r elated factors like the Patient consent for publication Consent obtained directly from patient(s) volume of beads used; however, in a relatively large study of Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. cases, this was not observed.16 Early canine studies of surgical implantation of calcium- REFERENCES containing compounds suggest that some degree of elevated 1 Burman KD, Monchik JM, Earll JM, et al. Ionized and total serum calcium and parathyroid hormone in hyperthyroidism. Ann Intern Med 1976;84:668–71. serum calcium was common; however, none of canine study 2 Lafferty FW. Differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia. J Bone Miner Res 1991;6 Suppl participants developed symptomatic hypercalcaemia.18 In the 2:S51–9. available human literature, most patients, including the patient 3 Rosol TJ, Capen CC. Mechanisms of cancer- induced hypercalcemia. Lab Invest detailed in this case, remain asymptomatic despite a significant 1992;67:680–702. degree of calcium elevation (mean calcium level
