Hyperglycemic Hyperosmolar Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, hhs, glucose, dka, patients, diabetes, meq, fluid, potassium, treatment, dehydration, hyperglycemia, serum, severe, care


For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION The hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state (HHS) is a life-threatening metabolic decompensation of diabetes which presents with severe hyperglycemia, marked hyperosmolality, and profound dehydration, typically accompanied by alteration in consciousness ranging from lethargy and focal deficits to coma; the mental status changes are thought to be a direct consequence of the severe hypertonicity and resultant neuronal dehydration. The clinical manifestations of HSS are shown in table 1 . Table 1. Clinical Manifestations of the Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State View in own window Fatigue, lethargy, and weakness Polyuria and polydipsia Unintentional weight loss preceding the acute presentation Confusion, focal neurological deficits, seizures, and coma Severe dehydration and volume depletion causing tachycardia and severe hypotension Blurry vision In contrast to diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in which acidemia and ketonemia are key features, these abnormalities are limited or absent in HHS. Mortality in HHS ranges from 5-20% and is higher at the extremes of age and in the presence of coma on admission. HHS is more prevalent in type 2 diabetics and in about 7-17% of cases is the initial presentation classically seen in institutionalized elderly patients with diminished thirst perception or physical limitations that preclude access to free water. HHS is extremely rare as first presentation in patients with type 1 diabetes. Infections are the leading precipitant of HHS, but it can also be precipitated by poor medication compliance, cerebrovascular accident, myocardial infarction, pancreatitis, trauma, alcohol abuse, and drugs such as corticosteroids and atypical antipsychotics. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY HHS and DKA represent the two ends of the spectrum of markedly decompensated diabetes, differing mainly in severity of acidosis, ketosis and dehydration. HHS usually occurs with relative rather than absolute insulinopenia compared with DKA, but the pathophysiology is otherwise similar. In both entities, there is a decrease in net effective insulin action with concomitant elevation of counterregulatory hormones. In HHS, insufficient insulin action combined with elevated glucagon, catecholamines, and cortisol stimulate hepatic glucose production through glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. High catecholamines and low insulin reduce peripheral glucose uptake. Unlike DKA, there is adequate insulin available in HHS to restrain lipolysis and ketogenesis, as well as to restrain marked elevation of counterregulatory hormones, such cortisol, glucagon and growth hormone. However, there is significant hyperglycemia with resultant glycosuria leading to loss of water and electrolytes, dehydration, decreased renal perfusion, decreased glucose clearance, and
