Hyperglycemic Hyperosmolar Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, hhs, glucose, dka, patients, diabetes, meq, fluid, potassium, treatment, dehydration, hyperglycemia, serum, severe, care


hormones, such cortisol, glucagon and growth hormone. However, there is significant hyperglycemia with resultant glycosuria leading to loss of water and electrolytes, dehydration, decreased renal perfusion, decreased glucose clearance, and exacerbation of hyperglycemia, ultimately causing impaired level of consciousness. In HHS, the initial increase in proinflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen species and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) can contribute to increased prothrombotic risk. The convergence of elevated PAI-1, endothelial activation, and systemic inflammation is increasingly recognized as a pivotal driver of macrovascular ischemia and venous thromboembolism risks inherent to HHS. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL HHS usually has a slower onset than DKA, with symptoms developing over several days or weeks, and classic features include profound dehydration, altered sensorium, and severe hyperglycemia with minimal or absent ketosis. Patients present with polyuria, polydipsia, weakness and blurred vision. Altered sensorium is classic in HHS, but mental status can range from fully alert to confused, lethargic, or comatose. Seizure can occur in up to 20% of the patients. Exam reveals physical signs of dehydration, including dry mucous membranes, poor skin turgor, cool extremities, hypotension, and tachycardia. Fever may or may not be present, suggesting underlying infection, although normothermia or even hypothermia may be present due to concomitant vasodilatation. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) 2024 consensus report ( 1 ) and Standards of Care in Diabetes-2025 ( 2 ) provide updated diagnostic criteria and highlight the overlap between HHS and DKA, as well as the importance of comprehensive laboratory evaluation and infection screening. The diagnostic criteria for HHS include severe hyperglycemia, and hyperosmolality with preservation of near normal pH and bicarbonate, and minimal or absent serum and/or urine ketones. The ADA specifies that DKA is diagnosed by plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL (or prior history of diabetes), ketosis (β-hydroxybutyrate ≥3.0 mmol/L or urine ketone strip ≥2+), and metabolic acidosis (pH <7.3 and/or bicarbonate <18 mmol/L) ( Table 2 ). For HHS, the criteria include severe hyperglycemia (often >600 mg/dL), hyperosmolality (>320 mOsm/kg), minimal or absent ketosis, and near-normal pH and bicarbonate ( 1 , 2 ) ( Table 2 ). However, newer evidence highlights several nuances that clinicians should consider. First, the recognition of euglycemic DKA, particularly in patients using SGLT2 inhibitors, means that DKA can present with glucose levels below the traditional threshold ( 3 ). Second, the literature notes that mixed DKA-HHS presentations are increasingly common, especially in older adults and those with type 2 diabetes, and
