Hyperglycemic Hyperosmolar Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, hhs, glucose, dka, patients, diabetes, meq, fluid, potassium, treatment, dehydration, hyperglycemia, serum, severe, care


, 2 ); (iv) Serum electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, chloride, and anion gap ( 1 , 2 ); (v) Serum osmolality that is important to distinguish HHS from DKA and assess severity of dehydration; (vi) Renal function (BUN, creatinine) to assess for acute kidney injury and guide fluid management ( 1 , 3 ); (vii) Phosphate, magnesium, and calcium: monitor for deficits, especially in severe cases ( 1 , 3 ); (viii) Complete blood count with differential to screen for infection or other precipitating factors ( 1 , 3 ); (ix) Additional tests as indicated: A1C, hepatic transaminases, amylase, lipase, troponin, creatine kinase, blood and urine cultures, chest radiography, and ECG may be warranted to identify precipitating causes (such as infection, myocardial infarction, pancreatitis) and complications ( 1 , 3 ). HHS produces significant loss of several electrolytes as well as a prerenal azotemia and increased hematocrit, the latter due to hemoconcentration. An increase of serum sodium in the presence of hyperglycemia indicates severe dehydration. Altered mentation appears to correlate with the degree of hyperosmolality; hence significantly diminished mentation in the setting of an osmolality of <320 mOsm/kg should prompt a search for other causes. It is notable that despite significant potassium losses, serum potassium is usually normal or even elevated on presentation because of extracellular shift in the setting of hyperosmolality and insulin deficiency. HgbA1c may be useful to discriminate chronic uncontrolled hyperglycemia from acute metabolic decompensation. THERAPY There is a lack of randomized controlled trials for the treatment of HHS and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) has developed guidelines that attempt to specifically guide care of HHS versus DKA. The treatment of HHS includes a four-pronged approach: reestablishment of volume status with vigorous intravenous hydration; electrolyte replacement; correction of hyperglycemia with volume expansion and administration of intravenous insulin; diagnosis and management of potential precipitants. The initial emergent treatment has been summarized in table 3 . Fluid Replacement Aggressive fluid replacement is critical in order to prevent cardiovascular collapse, with repletion of intravascular and extravascular volume, thereby decreasing lactate, and restoration of renal perfusion, thereby permitting for urinary loss of glucose. The total fluid deficit should be estimated (usually 100-200 ml/kg), with the goal of replacement over 24-48 hours. In the absence of cardiac or renal failure, 500-1000 ml/hour of isotonic saline or balanced crystalloid such as lactated ringers should be given over the first 2-4 hours. Subsequent fluid
