Hyperglycemic Hyperosmolar Syndrome
KEYWORDS: insulin, hhs, glucose, dka, patients, diabetes, meq, fluid, potassium, treatment, dehydration, hyperglycemia, serum, severe, care


In the absence of cardiac or renal failure, 500-1000 ml/hour of isotonic saline or balanced crystalloid such as lactated ringers should be given over the first 2-4 hours. Subsequent fluid replacement at 250-500 ml/hour depends on the hydration and electrolyte status. In patients with hypotension, aggressive isotonic saline infusion should continue until the patient is stabilized. Increased plasma sodium concentration in the setting of hyperglycemia suggests a significant water deficit; clinical practice guidelines recommend adding a correction factor of 1.6 mg/dl to the plasma sodium concentration for each 100 mg/dl of glucose above 100 mg/dl. The rate of glucose decline should not exceed 90-120 mg/dl/h and the rate of fall in osmolality should be no greater than 3.0-8.0 mOsm/kg/h to minimize risk of neurologic complications. It is suggested that half normal saline only be administered if the osmolality is not declining despite adequate positive fluid balance and appropriate insulin administration. Patients who are older or have a history of heart failure or end stage renal disease may require smaller boluses of isotonic saline or balanced crystalloid to avoid fluid overload. When serum glucose reaches 250 mg/dl, fluid should include 5-10% dextrose solution in saline or crystalloid. Electrolyte Replacement Electrolyte replacement is the second crucial step in HHS management. Serum potassium can be normal or elevated on presentation despite total body potassium depletion. Osmotic-induced intracellular dehydration results in potassium efflux from the cells. Since insulin causes a shift of potassium into the cell, it is mandatory to correct the potassium level to >3.5 mEq/L before starting insulin therapy. If potassium is between 3.5 and 5.0 mEq/L, 20-30 mEq of potassium should be given in each liter of intravenous fluid to keep serum potassium between 4 to 5 mEq/L. Potassium should be monitored if >5.0 meq/L. Magnesium should be checked and repleted as necessary; this is important to prevent renal wasting of potassium with exacerbation of hypokalemia. There are no recommendations for bicarbonate administration in HHS. However, for patients with a mixed DKA/HHS clinical picture, it is reasonable to consider administration of bicarbonate for a pH of <7.0 as is recommended for treatment of DKA. Routine administration of phosphate is not recommended; however, careful phosphate replacement can be considered in patients with very low levels (<1 meq/L), cardiac dysfunction, or respiratory distress. Insulin Therapy The treatment of choice for correction of hyperglycemia is regular insulin by continuous infusion after adequate fluid and
