Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


gastrointestinal symptoms. istrationuntilthedaytothelastDSStreatment.Avolumeof Although the etiology of IBD and psychiatric symptoms in 100μL/10gbodyweightwasadministered,whilethecontrol IBD patients are not fully defined, several studies suggest andDSSgroupmicereceivedthesameamountofphosphate that interactions among the microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) bufferedsaline.Freshfecalsampleswerecollectedonthe6th axislikelyaffectthedevelopmentofIBDandpsychiatric to 8th day. The body weights were recorded once daily. On symptomsinIBDpatients.Thegutmicrobiotaisthought the 6th and 7th day of DSS administration, behavioral tests tobeavirtualorganofthebody.Inhumanbeings,99% wereperformed. Allmice were anesthetized by anintraper- ofthe genesare microbes ,the gutmicrobiotacan not itonealinjectionof1%pentobarbitalsodium(50mg/kg)and onlyaffectthefunctionofthedigestivesystem,andevidence sacrificedbythecervicaldislocation methodonthe8thday has also suggested that the gut microbiota can modulate after initiation of DSS. Serum and brain tissues were col- ° brainfunctionandhostbehaviors.Therefore,some lected, and all samples were stored at -80C until further scholars suggest theMGB axis, which involvesbidirectional use. The drug treatment schedule is shown in Figure 1(a). communicationbetween themicrobiota and brain . ThisexperimentwassupervisedandapprovedbytheExper- Curcumin (1,7-bis(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-1,6- imentalAnimal Ethical Committee of the Zhejiang Chinese heptadiene-3,5-dione) is the main natural polyphenol MedicalUniversity (approved no.: ZSLL-2018-014). extracted from the rhizome of Curcuma longa and other Curcuma spp. . Curcuma longa has been traditionally 2.2.OpenFieldTest(OFT).TheOFTwasdesignedtoassess used as a medicinal herb due to its antioxidant and the level of anxiety in mice by using an open environment anti-inflammatory properties . Currently, curcumin is model.Each mouse was randomly selectedand individually most commonly used as a dietary spice in addition to an testedinanopen-fieldapparatus (50×50cm2 and40cmin additive in cosmetic and pharmaceutic products . In height). The bottom of the apparatus was equally divided addition, curcumin is also believed to hold medicinal prop- into 16 squares. Each subject was put in a corner of the erties against many diseases, including gastrointestinal apparatusfor1minutetoacclimate.Allspontaneousactivi- , cardiovascular , and mental diseases . How- ties were recorded (5min) and calculated by an automated ever,thebioavailabilityofcurcuminisunstable,andthecon- motor activity recording tracker (SMART 3.0, Panlab, Bar- centration of curcumin in plasma is very low after oral celona, Spain). Considering the total distance of movement administration of large doses of curcumin . High con- as an indicator of locomotor activity, the proportion of the centrationsofcurcumin havebeendetectedinthegastroin- time and distance spent in the center of the square (25% of testinaltractafteroraladministration.Supplementation the inner surface area) was used as an indicator of anxiety- ofcurcuminsignificantlyenrichedbeneficialbacteriasuchas likebehaviors.Theapparatuswascleanedwith75%ethanol Butyricicoccus, a butyrate producing genus in the intestinal solutionbefore and aftereach test. tract , and reduced Ruminococcus, and Mucispirillum, which were implicated in the development of obesity and 2.3. Elevated Plus-Maze (EPM) Test. The EPM apparatus diabetes . These findings were the basis to suggest consistsofa“+”shapedmazeelevated50cmabovethefloor that curcumin directly affects the gut microbiome despite with two oppositely
