Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


and 2.3. Elevated Plus-Maze (EPM) Test. The EPM apparatus diabetes . These findings were the basis to suggest consistsofa“+”shapedmazeelevated50cmabovethefloor that curcumin directly affects the gut microbiome despite with two oppositely positioned open arms, two oppositely its lowsystemic bioavailability. positionedclosedarms,anda5cm×5cmcenterarea.Each While curcumin can relieve inflammation and digestive arm was 30cm long and 5cm wide. The closed arms had tract symptoms caused by IBD , whether curcumin 15cmhighwallswhiletheopenarmshad3mmhighledges. canalleviateIBD-inducedanxiety-likebehaviorshasnotbeen Eachmousewasplacedinthecenteroftheapparatus,facing reported.Hence,weuseddextransulfatesodiumsalt(DSS)to an open arm. All spontaneous activities were recorded induceacutecolitisinmice.Then,16SrDNAgenesequencing (5min) and calculated by SMART 3.0, as previously wasusedtoidentifyacutechangesinthemicrobiome.Meta- described.Thefrequencyofopenarmentriesandtimespent bolicstudieswerealsousedtodeterminetheroleofcurcumin intheopenarmswasusedasanindexofanxiety-likebehav- ontheMGBaxisinDSS-treatedmicebysystematicanalysisof ior. The apparatus was cleaned with 75% ethanol solution feces, serum, and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Furthermore, to before and after each test. clarify whether curcumin can alleviate IBD-induced anxiety symptoms by regulating gut microbiota, fecal microbiome 2.4.16SrRNAMiseqSequencingandBioinformaticAnalysis. transplantation(FMT)wascarriedout. The total genomic DNA of the gut microbiome was extracted from 200mg of fecal samples using the E.Z.N.A. ®Stool DNA Kit (D4015, Omega, Inc., USA) following the 2. Materials and Methods manufacturer’s instructions. Then, the V3-V4 region of the 2.1. Animal Treatment. C57BL/6 mice (n=30) were ran- bacterial16SrRNAgeneineachsamplewasamplifiedwith ′ ′ domly divided into 3 groups with 10 mice each: (1) control primers 341F (5 -CCTACGGGNGGCWGCAG-3 ) and ′ ′ group; (2) DSS group; (3) DSS+CUR group. The drinking 805R (5 -GACTACHVGGGTATCTAATCC-3 ). Subse- water of DSS group and DSS+CUR group was supple- quently,amixtureofPCRproductswaspurifiedbyAMPure mented with 3% DSS to induce acute colitis for 8 days. XTbeads(BeckmanCoulterGenomics,Danvers,MA,USA) The DSS+CUR group was administered 100mg/Kg/day and quantified by Qubit (Invitrogen, USA). The 16S rRNA curcumin (Sigma M5250) dissolved with phosphate- genesequenceswereanalyzedusingIlluminaNovaSeqplat- bufferedsalinefor8daysfromthebeginningofDSSadmin- form. According to the unique bar code and truncated by PBS 28 OPTEPM Control Day-7 Day-0 Day 6 Day 7Day 8 26 Collect feces PBS 24 3% DSS OPTEPM DSS Day-7 Day-0 Day 6 Day 7Day 8 22 Collect feces CUR (100 mg/kg/day) 20 3% DSS OPTEPM DSS+CUR Day-7 Day-0 Day 6 Day 7Day 8 Collect feces (a) cuttingoffthebarcodeandprimersequenceofthesamples, (PFC)andserumwith50%.Briefly,20μLofsamplewaspre- the paired-end reads were assigned to the samples. Paired- cooled by 120μL 50% methanol extraction, vortexed for ° end reads were merged using Fast Length Adjustment of 1min, and incubated at 24C for 10min; the supernatants SHort reads (FLASH). According to fqtrim (version 0.94), were extracted after centrifugation at 4,000 g for 20min the raw reads data were quality filtered under certain filter- and transferred into new 96-well plates for the liquid chro- ing conditions to obtain a high-quality, clean label. Then, matographymassspectrometry(LC-MS)analysistoidentify
