Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


differences in metabolite concen- izedtothetotalsumofthespectralintegralspriortopattern trations between 2 phenotypes. The P value was adjusted recognition analysis. The characteristic peaks of all fecal for multiple tests using an FDR (Benjamini-Hochberg). metabolites were determined based on related literature Supervised PLS-DA was conducted through metaX to dis- and HMDB. criminate the different variables between groups. The VIP value was calculated. A VIP cut-off value of 1.0 was used 2.7.Pseudogerm-FreeMiceModeling.20mice(8weeks)were to select important features. randomly assigned into two groups (n=10): FMT (DSS) group and FMT (DSS+CUR). Both groups of mice were 2.11. Statistical Analysis. The experimental data were proc- treatedwithnormalwatermixedwithantibiotics(1g/Lmet- essedandanalyzedbyGraphPadPrism6software(Version ronidazole,0.2g/Lciprofloxacin,1g/Lneomycin,and0.5g/L 6.01). All values were expressed as mean±SEM. Data of vancomycin) for 14 consecutive days. All antibiotics were multiple groups such as weight, length of the colon, and purchased from Meilun Bio (Dalian, China), and drinking behaviors were assessed by one-way analysis of variance water was renewed every 2 days. After 14 days of antibiotic (ANOVA).AvalueofP<0:05wasconsideredasstatistically treatment, the antibiotics containing water were replaced significant. 16S rRNA and metabolomics data between two with normal water and the pseudogerm-free mice were groups were analyzed by unpaired Student’s t-test. PCA transplanted withdonor microbiota. and PLS-DA analyses were performed using SIMCA soft- ware (Version 14.1). The differential metabolites were fil- 2.8. Gut Microbiota Transplantation. 200mg of the fecal tered by variable influence on projection (VIP) selection samples were suspended in 3mL of PBS. The mixture was according to the PLS-DA, and only metabolites with VIP mixed and centrifugated at 1000g for 10min at 4 ° C. The >1:0andP<0:05wereidentifiedasdifferentialmetabolites. FMT (DSS) group mice were administered with the fecal Further, R language (R version 3.5.2) was used to make the suspension from DSS group, and the FMT (DSS+CUR) classified tree heatmap. Enrichment analysis of KEGG group mice were administered with the fecal suspension metabolic pathways were performed using metaboAnalyst Oxidative Medicine andCellular Longevity 5 ( Venn diagrams aeota, and Deinococcus-Thermus. In contrast, curcumin were drawn using Bioinformatics ( treatment corrected the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes .ugent.be/webtools/Venn/). Pearson correlation analysis and Deinococcus-Thermus changed by DSS (Figures 4(b) resultsweregeneratedusingIBMSPSSStatistics25.0software. and 4(c)). ThecorrelationnetworkdiagramwasdrawnbyRlanguage(R Usingtheobserveddifferencesbetweenthethreegroups version3.5.2). atthephylumlevel,theabundanceofthetop30generawas depicted using a heatmap (Figure 4(d)). The Venn analysis 3. Results of Figure 4(e) demonstrated the regulation of 4 differential gut microbiota between the DSS vs. control group and 3.1. Curcumin Suppresses DSS-Induced Anxiety-Like DSS+CUR vs. DSS group. Notably, at the genus level, DSS Behaviors. The body weight of DSS and DSS+CUR mice reduced Muribaculaceae_unclassified and
