Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


control group and 3.1. Curcumin Suppresses DSS-Induced Anxiety-Like DSS+CUR vs. DSS group. Notably, at the genus level, DSS Behaviors. The body weight of DSS and DSS+CUR mice reduced Muribaculaceae_unclassified and increased the was statistically significantly lower after 8 days of DSS free amount of Bacteroides and Ruminococcaceae_unclassified. drinking water intervention. On the 7th and 8th day, the Meanwhile, curcumin treatment could partly reverse these body weight of mice in the DSS+CUR group was signifi- changes(Figure 4(f)). cantly different compared to those in the DSS group The Linear Discriminant Analysis Effect Size (LEfSe) (Figure 1(b)). In addition, the colonic length of DSS group algorithmwasperformedtoidentifythecharacteristicbacte- was also significantly decreased compared to the control ria which were specific for each group. As shown in group. However, curcumin treatment significantly reversed Figures 5(a) and 5(b), a total of 21 prokaryotic clades were the effect of DSS on colonic length (Figures 1(c) and 1(d)). selected with an LDA threshold greater than 4 and P< Additionally, the OFT test showed that DSS-treated mice 0:05.Taxawithsignificantlyhigherabundanceinthecontrol significantly decreased total distance, center distance (%), groupallbelongedtoPhylumBacteroidetesincludinggenus and center time (%). Moreover, the EPM test revealed that Muribaculum and Muribaculaceae_unclassified. DSS group DSS-treated mice also decreased open arm entry (%) and showed a high abundance of Phylum Proteobacteria and timeintheopenarm(%).However,curcumintreatmentsig- genera Bilophila, genera Ruminococcaceae_UCG_014, and nificantlyreversedtheDSSeffectsontheanxiety-likebehav- genera Bacteroides. DSS+CUR group showed a high abun- iors measured by OFT and EPM test(Figures2(a)–2(k)). danceofPhylumFirmicutesandgeneraKineothrix,andgen- era Odoribacter. 3.2. CurcuminReprogramed the Gut Microbiota in DSS Treatment Mice 3.3.CurcuminChangedFecalMetabolitesinDSSMice.Fecal metabolites and their respective characteristics were deter- 3.2.1.AlphaDiversity.Alpha diversity analysis included the mined in accordance with prior studies and the HMDB Observed species, Chao1, Shannon, and Simpson indices; database. All in all, 39 fecal metabolites were detected. The the Observed species and Chao1 were used to represent PCA scatter plot (Supplement Figure 1A) suggested the richness of the bacterial community, while Shannon differences between the control group and the DSS and and Simpson were used to describe the diversity of the DSS+CUR groups. In addition, the degree of separation bacterial community. In our study, alpha diversity, as mea- and cluster characteristics between the three groups were sured by the Observed species, Chao1, and Shannon indi- ces, was significantly reduced after treatment with DSS. shown using the PLS-DA score plot (Supplement Figure 1B-1D), indicating that the fecal metabolites among While treatment with curcumin increased alpha diversity indexes, there was no statistical difference compared with these three groups showed
