Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


score plot (Supplement Figure 1B-1D), indicating that the fecal metabolites among While treatment with curcumin increased alpha diversity indexes, there was no statistical difference compared with these three groups showed significant differences. The two the DSS group (Figures 3(a)–3(d)). These data suggest that PLS-DA models were determined by the parameters R2Y and Q2Y, in which both models R2Y and Q2Y equate to 1 DSS treatment decreased the richness and diversity of gut indicating effective models (Supplement Figure 1E-1F). microbiota, but curcumin treatment did not increase them. Significantly differential metabolites were determined 3.2.2. Beta Diversity. The beta diversity was determined to according to the following criteria: PLS−DAVIPðvariable examine the consistency of the microbial community importanceintheprojectionÞ>1, P<0:05. With the between different samples. Based on the unweighted Uni- criteria mentioned above, 18 and 14 metabolites were Frac principal components analysis (PCA) and principal highlighted between the DSS vs. control group and the coordinates analysis (PCoA), control, DSS, and DSS+CUR DSS+CUR vs. DSS group (Supplement data 1 and 2), groupspresentedadistinctclusteringofmicrobiotacommu- respectively. Venn analysis revealed 8 metabolites as key nity structure (Figures 3(e) and 3(f)). These results suggest differential metabolites specific to curcumin treatment that the gut microbiota structure was changed after DSS (Supplement Figure 1G). These key differential metabolites and curcumin intervention. wereshown inSupplement Figure 1H. 3.2.3. Microbial Community Composition. Figure 4(a) 3.4.PFCMetabolomicChangesinDSSandDSS+CURMice. showed the microbial community composition of each Themetabolomicanalysisyielded4037characteristicsinthe sample at the phylum level. Compared with the control positive ion mode (PIM) and 4595 characteristics in the group, DSS treatment decreased the relative abundance negative ion mode (NIM). The metabolic parameters were of Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria, increased the relative utilized to build a batch query against the human metabo- abundance of Firmicutes, Cyanobacteria, Epsilonbacter- lome database (HMDB) in the two-stage (MS2) mass Control DSS DSS+CUR (a) (b) (c) spectrometry analysis and annotated 275 MS2 features in were submitted to the SIMCA-P software package for PCA PIM and 265 MS2 features in NIM. In order to understand and PLS-DA analysis. PCA reveled distinct factors between the differences between the 3 groups, the metabolomic data all three groups (Figure 6(a)). According to the PLS-DA )mc( ecnatsid latoT ⁎⁎⁎ ⁎ 15 ⁎⁎ 5 1000 ntrol DSS C U R Co DSS + (d) )%( ecnatsid ertneC ⁎ 8 ntrol DSS C U R Co DSS + (e) )%( emit ertneC ⁎ ⁎⁎⁎ ⁎ ntrol DSS C U R Co DSS + (f) Control DSS DSS+CUR
