Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


anxiety-likebehaviors.Throughtwopartsoftheexperiment, inducedbyDSS,whichmayunderlieitsantianxietyeffects. )g( thgieW ⁎ ⁎⁎⁎ ⁎⁎⁎ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Time (day) FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (a) )mc( htgneL ⁎⁎⁎ FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (b) )mc( ecnatsid latoT ⁎⁎ 25 FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (c) )%( ecnatsid ertneC ⁎⁎ FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (d) )%( emit ertneC ⁎⁎⁎ FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (e) )%( yrtne mra nepO ⁎⁎ FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (f) )%( mra nepo ni emiT Oxidative Medicine andCellular Longevity 13 ⁎ FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) FMT (DSS) FMT (DSS+CUR) (g) Figure7:Basic conditionsand behavioraltestsafterFMT.(a)BodyweightofFMT(DSS)andFMT(DSS+CUR)group.(b)Thecolon length of FMT (DSS) and FMT (DSS+CUR) group. (c–e) Results of OFT, respectively, were total distance, center distance (%), and centertime(%).(f,g)ResultsofEPMtest,respectively,wereopenarmentry(%) andtimeintheopenarm(%).Datawererepresented asmean±SEM.∗P<0:05;∗∗P<0:01;∗∗∗P<0:001. PCA Analysis –50 –2 –100 –100 –50 50 100 Sample group PC1 (28.22%) FMT (DSS+CUR) FMT (DSS) (a) )%11.01( 2CP 14 OxidativeMedicine and Cellular Longevity Sample class FMT (DSS+CUR) FMT (DSS) (b) KEGG Enrichment Scatter Plot P-value 1.00 Glycerophospholipids Fatty Acyls 0.75 30 35 Organic oxygen compounds 0.50 Prenol Lipids Sphingolipids 0.25 8 1 2 1 Lipids and lipid-like molecules Total =77 0.00 0 5 10 Glycerophospholipids Glycerolipids –log 10 (p-value) Sphingolipids Fatty Acyls Enrichment Ratio Prenol Lipids Others (c) (d) Figure8:Continued. Up-regulated Consistent with prior literature, a greater prevalence of Other studies indicated that taking curcumin orally can gut microbiome dysregulation in DSS-induced IBD model increase the level of helpful bacteria including Lactobacilli, mice was also seen. Specifically, the contents of Firmicutes, Bifidobacteria, and butyrate-producing bacteria . In Cyanobacteria, Epsilonbacteraeota, and Deinococcus-Ther- addition, the richness and diversity of gut microbiota were musincreased,whilethecontentsofBacteroidetesandActi- increasedalongsideareductioninpathogenicbacteriaasso- nobacteria content significantly dropped. The etiology of ciatedwithavarietyofsystemicdiseases,suchasEnterobac- IBD is not clear; numerous studies have shown that the gut teria, Prevotellaceae, and Rikenellaceae [37–39]. However, microbiota plays an important role in the development and for the first time, we discovered that curcumin can achieve progressionofIBD.Althoughithasbeenrecognized therapeutic effects by increasing the abundance of Muriba- that DSS can significantly alter the diversity, richness, and culaceae. Bacteria within the Muribaculaceae family also composition of gut microbiota, the specific impact on the designated as S24-7 or Candidatus Homeothermaceae are composition of the microflora is still controversial. The oneofthedominantbacterialtaxainthemicegutmicrobial effect of DSS on the two most abundant groups of bacteria composition . Studies have shown that increasing the atthephylumlevel,FirmicutesandBacteroidetes,washighly abundance of Muribaculaceae can improve the intestinal controversial, and many experimental results in the litera- microenvironment,increasetheoutputofmetabolitesbene- ture were contradictory. For example, Chen et al. ficialtotheintestinaltract,andprolongthelifespanofmice observed that DSS
