Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


the atthephylumlevel,FirmicutesandBacteroidetes,washighly abundance of Muribaculaceae can improve the intestinal controversial, and many experimental results in the litera- microenvironment,increasetheoutputofmetabolitesbene- ture were contradictory. For example, Chen et al. ficialtotheintestinaltract,andprolongthelifespanofmice observed that DSS could reduce the abundance of Bacteroi- . To clarify the function of the Muribaculaceae family, detes, but had no significant effect on Firmicutes. However, Ormerodetal.foundthatthegenomeoftheMuribacu- Munyaka et al. found that the level of DSS was able to laceae contains genes related to the fermentation pathway; lower the level of Bacteroidetes while increasing Firmicutes. data from thegene library also suggest thatMuribaculaceae DSS could decrease the abundance of Bacteroidetes and canproducesuccinicacid,aceticacid,andpropionicacidin increase the abundance of Firmicutes, while Dou et al. theintestine.Muribaculaceaealsohavetheprotectiveability found that DSS could increase the abundance of Bacteroi- of antioxidation and antistress properties . A decline of detes. Park et al. concluded that the alteration of the the abundance of Muribaculaceae has also been associated composition of the gut microbiota by different concentra- with a number of diseases. Numerous clinical studies have tions of DSS was highly variable. This likely explains why shown that the abundance of Muribaculaceae is reduced in thisexperimentaldatadifferedfrompreviousstudies.How- avarietyofinflammatorydiseasessuchasIBDandtype ever, the effect of DSS on gut microbiota is recognized and Idiabetes.Moreover, thesefindingswerealsoobserved significant,whichwassimilartothealterationofgutmicro- in mice models of IBD induced by DSS , although we biota in clinical IBDpatients . have proved that Muribaculaceae was the key bacteria for Fromthetwopartsofthemicrobialcommunitycompo- curcumintoalleviateanxiety-likebehaviorsintheIBDmice. sitionandLEfSeanalysis,wefoundthattheMuribaculaceae However,Muribaculaceae,asananaerobicbacterium,isdif- family was significantly higher in abundance in the control ficultcultureandgrowintheintestinaltractofmice.There- group mice, and curcumin treatment can effectively reverse fore, it remains to be further investigated how curcumin the decrease of Muribaculaceae abundance caused by DSS. produces its therapeutic effect through Muribaculaceae. )% ecnadnubA evitaleR( 2goL Down-regulated PC (22: P 5 C /2 0 (2 :5 0 ) : P 4 C /1 5 (2 :0 0 ) : P 4 C /2 0 (2 :5 0 ) : P 2/ C 2 0 (1 :5 8 ) : P 3/ C 2 0 (1 :4 8 ) : P 3/ C 2 P 0 ( C 1 :3 8 ) ( : 1 2 8 /1 :1 8 ( : 9 2 Z ) P ) C /1 8 (1 :0 8 ) : P 0/ C 2 0 (1 :5 8 ) : P 0 C /2 0 (1 :2 6 ) :0/22:6) FMT (DSS+CUR) FMT (DSS) (e) )% ecnadnubA evitaleR( 2goL Oxidative Medicine andCellular Longevity 15 PC (16:0/18:1(9Z)) PC (14:0/20:0) PC (22:2/1
