Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


P 0 C /2 0 (1 :2 6 ) :0/22:6) FMT (DSS+CUR) FMT (DSS) (e) )% ecnadnubA evitaleR( 2goL Oxidative Medicine andCellular Longevity 15 PC (16:0/18:1(9Z)) PC (14:0/20:0) PC (22:2/1 P 5 C :0 ( ) 20:2/18:1(11 P Z C ) ) (20:1(11Z)/15:0) FMT(DSS+CUR) FMT(DSS) (f) Figure8:PFClipidmetabolismanalysis(n=9/group).(a)TheheatmapofthedifferencesinthePFCmetabolicprofilebetweenFMT(DSS) group and FMT (DSS+CUR) group in PIM and NIM. (b) The PCA scatter plot of PFC samples between FMT (DSS) group and FMT (DSS+CUR) group. (c) KEGG enrichment scatter plot of FMT (DSS+CUR) vs. FMT (DSS) group. (d) The pie chart showed the categorization of differential metabolites. (e, f) The change of differential metabolites belonging to the PC species of FMT (DSS+CUR) vs.FMT(DSS)group. 16 OxidativeMedicine and Cellular Longevity To clarify how curcumin alleviated anxiety-like behav- micsdataofthePFCprovidedfavorableevidenceforcholine iors in IBD mice via the MGB axis, we integrated pathway deficiency. That is, the PC content in the PFC of mice was enrichment data from the metabolomics of the PFC and significantly lower in the DSS group when compared with serum to elucidate the key pathways. These two metabolic thecontrol.Mostofthecholinefromfoodintakeandendog- pathways were all enriched into the glycerophospholipids enous production is converted into PC, which accounts for metabolism. The brain is a lipid-rich organ, in which lipids 95% of the total choline pool in most animal tissues . account for approximately half of the brain dry weight and When choline content is insufficient, the CNS choline is play crucial roles in maintaining several complex and key preferentially used for the synthesis of acetylcholine, which physiological functions , such as transmitting nerve is used in cholinergic neurotransmission, and that process impulses , involving in the myelin sheath formation may restrict the production of phosphatidylcholine . In , and acting as the signaling molecules . The lipids addition, the body converts PC to choline through the of the CNS are mainly composed of glycerophospholipids, PEMT/phospholipasereactions,thuscompensatingforcho- glycerolipids, sphingolipids, sterols, and fatty acids , linecontent.PCisthehighestcontentofthephospho- which glycerophospholipids rank amongst the most abun- lipids, which mainly concentrates in the myelin and dant lipids in neuron cells and serve as both structural and neuronal membranes . PC is involved in the composi- signaling molecules of the membrane . Disturbances in tion of cellular lipid bilayers, and the PC content is also lipid function can be a trigger for a range of conditions important for maintaining the stability of neuronal cell . Previous clinical and animal experiments have found membranesandformaintainingtheactivityofionchannels that stress and psychiatric
