Hindawi
KEYWORDS: dss, group, cur, dss cur, vol, fmt, fmt dss, control, metabolites, curcumin, gut, analysis, mice, dss dss, dss group


can be a trigger for a range of conditions important for maintaining the stability of neuronal cell . Previous clinical and animal experiments have found membranesandformaintainingtheactivityofionchannels that stress and psychiatric disorders may also be caused by andreceptors.DecreasedPClevelshavebeenassociated changes in lipid metabolism . IBD is characterized withavarietyofpsychiatric andneurologicaldisorders.For bydysregulationofthegutmicrobiota,whichcanregu- example, decreased PC content in the brain has been latelipidmetabolismandabsorptionattheintestinalmuco- observed in Parkinson’s disease , Alzheimer’s disease sal level . Additionally, the gut microbiota can change , and stroke . A chronic stress study showed that thelipidmetabolismoftheliverbyregulatingtheexpression the PFC is the brain region most affected by chronic stress, of genes related to lipid metabolism, and the short-chain and that rats showed a significant decrease in PC levels in fatty acids produced by gut microbiota are also the sub- thePFCalongwithanxiety-likebehaviors.Thisissim- strates of liver lipid production . Due to the lack of a ilar to what we observed in the PFC of mice treated with gut microbiome, germ-free mice showed higher levels of DSS. Moreover, PFC PC levels were significantly increased anxiety-like behaviors and significantly different lipid after curcumin treatment, and the same phenomenon was metabolisminthePFCfromnormalmice.Weobserved observed after the pseudosterile mice received DSS+CUR similar findings in DSS-induced IBD mice as in GF mice. micefeces.Hence,thesefindingsprovidedastrongrationale However, after treatment with curcumin, the content of for the efficacy of curcumin through the MGB axis, and short-chainfattyacidsinthefecesoftheDSSgroupsignifi- decreased prefrontal PC content may be a marker for the cantlyincreased.Inaddition,theconditionoflipidmetabo- development ofanxiety-like behaviorsin DSS-treated mice. lismintheprefrontallobesandserumofDSSmicewasalso In conclusion, our results suggest that curcumin can significantly improved. Additionally, through the FMT effectively relieve anxiety-like behaviors caused by DSS in experiments and the analysis of lipid metabolomic data mice. Curcumin treatment can alleviate disturbances in the between mice receiving microbiota from DSS mice and gut microbiota and systemic disorders of lipid metabolism DSS+curcumin mice group, the glycerophospholipids causedbyDSS.TheFMTexperimentverifiedthatcurcumin metabolism was also the most significantly enriched meta- can increase the PC content in PFC and alleviate DSS- bolicpathway.Therefore,wehavereasontobelievethatcur- induced anxiety-like behaviors by modulating specific gut cuminmayimprovesystemiclipidmetabolismbyregulating microbiota. We also revealed that Muribaculaceae may be the gut microbiota and alleviating anxiety-like behaviors. akeycomponentofthegutmicrobiotaforcurcumintoalle- Our fecal metabolomics analysis suggested that DSS viate DSS-induced anxiety-like behaviors through the MGB treatment significantly reduced thecholinecontentinfeces. axis. In addition, PFC PC content was highly negatively Inanimals,cholineisanessentialnutrient.Mostofthecho- associated with DSS-induced anxiety-like behaviors. Future line is exogenous through diet , while small amounts of work should aim to determine whether prefrontal PC is a choline can also be endogenously produced through
