Treatment the
KEYWORDS: patients, months, infusion, ofthe, group, survival, cancer, disease, resection, liver, tumors, table, fig, versus, colorectal


Treatment the of Cancer of Liver Twenty Years' Experience with Infusion and Resection in 414 Patients JOHN S. STEHLIN, JR., M.D., F.A.C.S.,* PETER D. DE IPOLYI, M.D., F.A.C.S.,* PIERRE J. GREEFF, M.D., F.A.C.S.,* CHARLES J. McGAFF, JR., M.D.,* BARRY R. DAVIS, M.D., PH.D.,t and LAWSON McNARY, M.D.* liver were studied by reviewing the records of 414 patients Houston, Texas,*andtheSchoolofPublicHealth, the operatedoninaprivateoncologypractice.Approximatelyhalf Universityof TexasHealth Sciences Center, Houston, Texast (47%) had colorectal metastasis; 17% had metastatic breast carcinoma, 14% had malignant hepatoma, 5% had metastatic melanoma,andtheremainderhadavarietyofprimarycancers. ment ofthe liverby metastatic disease isthe most com- Eighty-two per cent ofall patients had advanced liver disease mon cause ofdeath from malignant tumors, and that when first diagnosed. One quarter of the patients had some despite concomitant extrahepatic cancer, the extent of type of resection; the remainder had abdominal exploration tumor within the liver largely determines the length of plus insertion ofan infusion catheter into the hepatic artery. survival for most patients. Unfortunately, this situation The postoperative mortality rate after liver resection for 108 patients was 6.5%. After resection, the most important prog- has changed very little since 1974.2 The liver is still the nostic factor influencing survival was the presence orabsence vitalorganmostlikelytobeinvadedbymetastaticcarci- ofextrahepatic metastases. When possible, resection was by noma, andprimary cancerofthe liverremainsa signifi- farthebesttreatmentavailable,andthebestresultswereseen cant problem. To estimate the effect that an aggressive inpatientswhohadresectionofasolitarylesion.Foradvanced approach to cancer ofthe liver hason survival, we have disease,whenresectionwasnotpossible,intra-arterialchemo- therapy, primarily with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), was associated reviewed the records of414 patients treated in our pri- with response rates of 36% for colorectal cancer, 45% for vate oncology practice since 1967. breast cancer, 13% for hepatocellular cancer, 12% for mela- During the 20-year period ofthis study, we operated noma, and 14% for metastases from other primary sites. The on 414 patients who had cancer ofthe liver. Ofthese, patientswhorespondedtoinfusionlivedlongerthanthosewho 196 (47.5%) had colorectal metastasis, 71 (17%) had did not respond. For example, at 18 months, 26% ofthe re- sponderswithcolorectal cancerwerealive,aswere50%ofthe metastatic breast carcinoma, 58 (14%) had malignant responderswith breastcancerand40% oftheresponderswith hepatoma, and 21 (5%) had metastatic melanoma. The hepatocellularcancer.Incontrast,at18months,therewereno remaining 68 patients (16.5%) had metastatic disease survivors amongthe nonresponders with colorectal, breast, or from a variety ofprimary sites (Table 1). hepatocellular cancer. For those patients treated solely by in- Extensive preoperative investigations were under- fusionchemotherapy, theextentofdiseaseintheliverwasthe mostreliable factor in predicting the length ofsurvival. How- taken in each instance. During abdominal exploratory ever,veryfewpatientstreatedinthismannerlivedlongerthan surgery, the amount ofcancer within the liver was esti-
