Treatment the
KEYWORDS: patients, months, infusion, ofthe, group, survival, cancer, disease, resection, liver, tumors, table, fig, versus, colorectal


ambulatory chemotherapy with a lower andmiscellaneoustumors). Allsurvivaltimesarecalcu- dosageofthedrug. Thelongestcontinuousperiodthata lated from the date ofinfusion orresection. In calculat- catheter has been left in place is49 months. ing the survival rates, no patient was excluded for any Themostcommonlyemployeddrugwas5-fluoroura- reason. Ourgraphs include those who died after opera- cil (5-FU), which in two thirds ofthe patients was used tion, those who had inadequate treatment, and both exclusively. In an additional 15% ofthe patients, 5-FU responders and nonresponders. was used in combination with other anticancer agents. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the In another 8% ofthe patients, 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine survival pattern forpatientsinthe study.3 TheCoxpro- (FUDR) (Roche) was used, alone and in combination portional hazard model was used to identify prognostic with other drugs. Doxorubicin was used in 6% ofour factors that might influence the length ofpostoperative patients, always as part ofa multidrug regimen. Other survival.4 The level ofp < 0.05 was used to determine less-used drugs included mitomycin, cisplatin, melpha- statistical significance. The Cox model allows one to lan, actinomycin D, methotrexate, cyclophosphamide, investigatetherolethateachfactorplaysindifferentiat- vincristine sulfate, BCNU, and bleomycin. Our highest ing survival patterns for patients in the study. The Cox loading dose of5-FU was 40govera 5-week period. model also provides an estimate ofthe relative risk, Vol.208.No. I TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE LIVER 27 TABLE7.Deaths Within30DaysFollowingHepaticResectionfor108Patients Day Patient/Age (After (yrs) PrimaryTumor Group Operation Operation) Complications 1/57 Colon II Rightlateralsegmentectomy 27 Fatalarrythmia andinfusion 2/76 Colon II Extendedrightlobectomy 13 Acuterenalfailure andinfusion 3/60 Colon II Rightlobectomyand 22 Intestinalobstruction infusion (Gelusil" bezoar), hepatorenalfailure 4/57 Gastriclymphoma I Majorleftsegmentectomy 4 Hemorrhagicpancreatitis andgastrectomy 5/71 Colon II Rightlobectomyand 24 Intestinalobstruction- infusion appendectomy adhesions,hepatorenal failure,myocardial infarction 6/64 Hepatoma III Extendedrightlobectomy 12 Myocardialinfarction 7/78 Ovariancarcinomatosis I Multiplelocalexcisions 29 Sepsis prognostic factor to the risk forthe same period asthat thus we were unable to personally evaluate their re- ofapatientwithout that prognostic factor. sponse. The responsesto infusionare shown in Table 8. In general, the factorsconsidered werethe amount of cancer within the liver (Group I, <25%, Group II, Results 25%-75%, andGroup III, >75%); thepresence ofextra- ColorectalMetastasis-Infusion hepatic metastasis; the numberanddistribution ofmet- astatic nodules; the presence ofjaundice; and sex and Of the 138 patients who were treated by infusion age. Each ofthese factors was fitted singly into the Cox alone (90% ofwhom had advanced disease), 50 (36.2%) regression model. In studyingcolorectal cancer, we also had a positive response (Table 8). The longest survivor examinedtheprognosticsignificance oftheDukes' clas- hadGroupIII disease(>75%)andlived 54months. The sification of the primary tumor and the
