Treatment the
KEYWORDS: patients, months, infusion, ofthe, group, survival, cancer, disease, resection, liver, tumors, table, fig, versus, colorectal


decompression and infu- temic therapy.'2 With regard to colorectal metastasis, sion,thepatientwhosurvivedthelongest(apatientwith more evidence has accumulated in the last decade breast metastasis) lived 60 months. showingthe superiorityinresponse ratesforthehepatic intra-arterial infusion offluorinated pyrimidines versus Complications intravenous administration. For colorectal cancer, the Tenpercentofthepatientsundergoinginfusionther- intravenous route is associated with a response rate of apy died within the first 30 days. Of these, 94% had about20%.13-16 Incontrast, responseratesafterintra-ar- advanceddisease(GroupII orIII). Today, patientswho terial administration (mainly ofFUDR) have averaged areinsuchdesperateconditionwouldprobablybegiven 50% and varied from 30% to 80%.5,7,17-24 Two recent atrial ofmore conservative therapy in the form ofper- randomized studies comparing intra-arterial and intra- cutaneous hepatic arterial infusion. venous administration ofFUDR provided further evi- Sixteen per cent of our patients had complications dencethatintra-arterial administration oftheagentwas related directly to catheters and drugs; the most com- associated with asignificantly higherresponse rate, that mon complication was dislodgement of the catheter, is, 50% versus 19.6% and 37% versus 10%.25,26 Vol.208*No. I TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE LIVER 33 What has not yet been proven is whether these im- 1 O Anyresection provedresponse ratesarereflected inimproved survival C,9 (N=17) z rates. The ideal proofwould be a prospective random- 5c * Infusionalone (N=51) ized study oftreated versus untreated patients. Such a studyhasnotbeenreported, norisitlikely, inouropin- U) ion, that such a study will be done in this country. z Others have attempted to compare patients who under- I- went infusion with historical controls ofuntreated pa- 00~ tients."7"8 Their results indicate that survival appeared 0 CL to be prolonged in patients who received arterial infu- sion. Inreportinganearlierretrospective studyfromthe 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 MONTHS tients treated with intravenous 5-FU with those who FIG. 12. Miscellaneous cancers. Survivals following infusion alone were untreated, stating thatthe patients were "identical versusanyresection(p=0.001). in every identifiable clinical parameter." He foundthat patients classified as nonresponders had survival curves opinion astothe prognostic significance ofone tothree that were "identical" tothose ofuntreated patients. We clustered tumors 343537,3841 Our data suggest that analyzedtherespondersandnonrespondersinourstudy there is a difference-namely, that the presence oftwo and, based on evidence found during surgical explora- orthreelesionsconnotesaslightlyworseprognosisthan tion, compared the extent ofdisease in each category. does a single lesion. When patients with two or three The two groups were similar with regard to extent of tumors were added to those who had solitary tumors, disease: 84% ofthe responders and 95% ofthe nonre- the 5-year survival rate of47.6% for the patients with sponders had advanced disease (Group II or III). At
