Images in…
KEYWORDS: case, insulin, pos, severe, maximiano, acanthosis nigricans, acanthosis, testosterone, figure, nigricans, cristiana, cristiana maximiano, bmj, abdominal, neck


Images in… Singular case of acanthosis nigricans Cristiana Maximiano ,1 Marta Ribeiro Silva,1 Maria Miguel Gomes,1 Ana Antunes1,2 Braga, Portugal A 12- year-o ld Caucasian girl was referenced to a 2Pediatric Endocrinology Unit, paediatric endocrinology consultation for exten- sive acanthosis nigricans (AN), hirsutism and severe Portugal obesity (Body Mass Index (BMI): 37.5 kg/m2, z- score 3.57). She had a normal psychomotor devel- Correspondence to opment. Her mother and her maternal grandfather Dr Cristiana Maximiano; cristiana. maximiano@ gmail. com had obesity. Examination revealed Tanner 5 with deep voice, hirsutism (Ferriman and Gallwey score Accepted 2 February 2021 14), abdominal and lumbar striae, and severe lesions of AN involving the neck, armpits, intermammary Figure 2 Lighter skin lesions of acanthosis nigricans cleft and inframammary area (Burke score1 11/14) especially on the neck, armpits and intermammary cleft; (figure 1). Biochemical evaluation revealed dyslipi- aged 15 years. daemia (triglycerides 213 mg/dL), insulin resistance (IR) (insulin 43.5 μUI/mL, HOMA-I R 10.2), high testosterone (74 ng/dL) and low sex hormone- In AN related to obesity, increased insulin acti- binding globulin (8 nmol/L). She had menarche and vates keratinocyte insulin-l ike growth factor (IGF) there was no oligomenorrhea. Congenital adrenal receptors, particularly IGF-1. At high concentra- hyperplasia and hypercortisolism were excluded. tions, insulin may displace IGF-1 from IGF-b inding Oral glucose tolerance test was normal. In order to proteins. Increased circulating IGF leads to kerati- screen for a virilising tumour, an abdominal MRI nocyte and dermal fibroblast proliferation. Among was performed, showing regular adrenal glands patients with POS, AN is associated with higher but large ovaries (right ovary 27 mm and left ovary free testosterone levels, which may be explained 29 mm) with multiple millimetric cysts related by the association with hyperinsulinaemia, which to polycystic ovary syndrome (POS). Treatment can promote ovarian thecal androgen secretion and comprised dietary and physical activity counsel- inhibit hepatic synthesis of sex hormone- binding ling, as well as a gradual treatment with metformin, globulin, as in the case of our patient.3 pioglitazone, spironolactone and oral combined AN is a manageable condition, however, the hormonal contraceptive. After 3 years of follow- up, complete reversion of the lesions is difficult to although maintaining a BMI z-s core of 3.57, there achieve. Although weight reduction is acknowl- was partial regression of AN (figure 2) and improve- edged as the most efficient strategy to tackle AN, ment in the biochemical evaluation: absence of this report suggests
