Images in…
KEYWORDS: case, insulin, pos, severe, maximiano, acanthosis nigricans, acanthosis, testosterone, figure, nigricans, cristiana, cristiana maximiano, bmj, abdominal, neck


is acknowl- was partial regression of AN (figure 2) and improve- edged as the most efficient strategy to tackle AN, ment in the biochemical evaluation: absence of this report suggests that metformin and piogli- dyslipidaemia and lower testosterone (50.84 ng/dL). tazone should be considered in order to improve IR has worsened (insulin 51.9 μUI/mL, HOMA- IR insulin sensitivity and endocrine and metabolic 12.4), which may be due to the absence of weight indices, which may have a visible impact on AN loss and to pubertal physiological IR. extension.3 4 AN is characterised by dark and thickened skin, In this case, despite the lack of hyperandrogenic symmetrically distributed more frequently on the signs (acne, alopecia or oligomenorrhea), it was neck, axillae and groin folds. AN is usually associ- imperative to exclude adrenal and abdominal malig- ated with obesity, POS, type 2 diabetes, monogenic nancies. This report highlights a rare case of severe causes of IR and malignancy (particularly, gastric carcinoma, Wilm’s tumour and virilising tumours). Paraneoplastic syndromes are often associated with severe AN.2 Learning points ► Severe acanthosis nigricans (AN) is rare and may be associated with malignancy or syndromic conditions. © BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2021. No commercial ► In case of patients with polycystic ovary re- use. See rights and syndrome (POS), AN is associated with higher permissions. Published by BMJ. free testosterone levels which are related to a To cite: Maximiano C, hyperinsulinaemic state. Silva MR, Gomes MM, ► Improvement of insulin sensitivity and free Figure 1 Severe acanthosis nigricans involving neck, et al. BMJ Case Rep testosterone levels with metformin and 2021;14:e240143. armpits, intermammary cleft and inframammary area and pioglitazone may be determinant to manage AN doi:- abdominal striae; recorded at first consultation, aged 12 in patients with POS. 240143 years. Maximiano C, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e240143. doi: 1 Images in… AN in which the aetiology was a non-m alignant pathology: C ORCID iD Cristiana Maximiano http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0001- 9916- 925X phenotype POS. Contributors CM conceptualised and wrote the article. MRS, MMG and AA offered
