Percutaneous laser coronary angioplasty
KEYWORDS: angioplasty, laser, patients, balloon, reported, balloon angioplasty, coronary, laser angioplasty, treated, procedure, treated laser, artery, follow-up, patients treated, restenosis


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of percutaneous laser coronary angioplasty is adequate to support the use of this procedure in carefully selected patients for whom conventional angioplasty would otherwise be technically difficult, provided that normal arrangements are in place for clinical governance, consent and audit. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications and current treatments 2.1.1 Coronary artery disease (CAD) refers to the narrowing and occlusion of the coronary arteries as a result of atherosclerosis. This can cause angina, myocardial infarction and heart failure. 2.1.2 Treatment options for patients with CAD with severe stenosis or occlusion include thrombolysis, percutaneous balloon angioplasty, stent placement, percutaneous cutting balloon or coronary artery bypass grafting. 2.1.3 Percutaneous laser coronary angioplasty has been used for CAD with severe stenosis or atherosclerotic occlusion, when standard techniques for recannalisation are unlikely to succeed or have failed. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Percutaneous laser coronary angioplasty aims to penetrate plaque within coronary arteries that is not amenable to standard techniques such as balloon angioplasty or stenting alone. 2.2.2 A thin, flexible fibre-optic catheter connected to a laser-generating source outside the body is introduced via the femoral artery. The catheter is advanced over a guidewire through the artery to the blockage in the coronary artery, under fluoroscopic guidance. The tip of the catheter system emits pulses of laser light to vaporise the plaque while being slowly advanced across the lesion. 2.2.3 Percutaneous laser coronary angioplasty has also been done using a laser guidewire system but that method is not now in regular use. 2.2.4 This procedure is often used with adjunctive balloon angioplasty and followed by angiography to document the results. 2.3 Efficacy Sections 2.3 and 2.4 describe efficacy and safety outcomes from the published literature that the Committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more detailed information on the evidence, see the overview. 2.3.1 A randomised controlled trial (RCT) of 303 patients treated with laser guidewire or mechanical guidewire reported procedural success (defined as the ability to cross the target lesion at the first attempt) in 53% (76 out of 144) and 47% (75 out of 159) of patients respectively (p=0.33). A non-randomised controlled study of 3,733 procedures reported that 'lesion success' assessed angiographically was achieved in 89% and 94% of native vessels treated with laser angioplasty using 2 different laser devices, and in 91% and 95% of saphenous vein
