Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


5–1 CHAPTER 5 PREEXISTING DIABETES AND PREGNANCY John L. Kitzmiller, MD, MS, Assiamira Ferrara MD, PhD, Tiffany Peng, MA, Michelle A. Cissell, PhD, and Catherine Kim, MD, MPH Dr. John L. Kitzmiller retired in 2015 as Consultant in Maternal-Fetal Medicine and Director of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Program at Santa Clara County Medical and Health Centers, San Jose, CA, and previously as Professor of Obstetrics at UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Dr. Assiamira Ferrara is Associate Director of Women’s and Children’s Health, Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA. Ms. Tiffany Peng is Senior Data Consultant, Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA. Dr. Michelle A. Cissell is a science writer and editor, Chicago, IL. Dr. Catherine Kim is Associate Professor of Medicine, Obstetrics & Gynecology, and Epidemiology at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. Received in final form January 24, 2018. SUMMARY The prevalence of diabetes in adolescents and women of reproductive age has increased since 1995. However, no prospective national population-based data from the United States are available regarding women with preexisting diabetes in pregnancy (pregestational)— that is, type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes identified before pregnancy. Knowledge of the true prevalence depends on inclusion of women with early pregnancy losses, which are not available in birth certificate or hospital discharge data. In this chapter, prevalence data are presented from selected populations, including women who have recently given birth to a live infant, women who have used diabetes medications during pregnancy, women who have delivered in hospitals, and women enrolled in specific health plans. These reports, as well as population-based reports from other countries, suggest that diabetes during pregnancy has at least doubled since 1995, with increases in pregnancies affected by type 1 and type 2 diabetes and across all age groups. Surveys of diabetes in female youth show that the prevalence of type 1 diabetes is greater than type 2 diabetes, but by the time in life of pregnancy, the ratio has reversed in population-based analyses of births. The former crude prevalence of preexisting diabetes mellitus in pregnancy of approximately 0.3% has risen to 1.0%–1.9% in major parts of North America, paralleling the diabetes prevalence in repro­ ductive-age women, which was approximately 1.85%–3.0% between 2002 and 2009. Preconception care of diabetes has consistently been reported to reduce major congenital malformations and perinatal complications by over 60%, thus rendering such care cost-effective. Utilization
