Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


1.85%–3.0% between 2002 and 2009. Preconception care of diabetes has consistently been reported to reduce major congenital malformations and perinatal complications by over 60%, thus rendering such care cost-effective. Utilization of preconception care is suboptimal, in part because of the high frequency of unplanned pregnancy, as well as lack of access to care. No national or regional surveillance systems are in place to prospectively monitor utilization of preconception care of diabetes and outcomes in the United States. Even though the risks of unplanned pregnancy are greater in women with diabetes than in nondiabetic women, women with diabetes are less likely to receive contraception counseling than women without diabetes. Large prospective studies of diabetic women from the preconception period forward are needed in order to obtain reliable data on the prevalence of preconception care of diabetes and the use of contraception, as well as the number of diabetic women becoming and remaining pregnant. This effort might also have the effect of better linkage of general diabetes care to enhanced preconception manage­ ment of diabetic women. Severe maternal complications of pregnancy may be rare in the United States, but diabetes increases the relative risks of maternal mortality, ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, preeclampsia-eclampsia, and possibly sepsis and venous thromboembolism. Prevention of diabetic ketoacidosis and severe maternal hypoglycemia is crucial; their frequencies should be monitored as indicators of quality of care, including self-care by the patient. Population-based systems to monitor these important comorbidities are lacking in the United States. Proliferative retinopathy can progress during pregnancy, but risk of vision loss can be reduced by comprehensive ophthalmologic screening and photocoagulation as necessary. Data from other countries suggest that pregnancy does not exacerbate mild nephropathy in the long term, although the presence of nephropathy can contribute to poorer birth outcomes and worsen prognosis over the long term. Hypertensive disorders affect >10% of diabetic pregnancies, contributing to neonatal morbidity. Prospective data on treatment of hypertension during diabetic pregnancy are lacking. First trimester glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) levels >7.0% are associated with poorer birth outcomes. The teratogenic effects of hyper­ glycemia may be compounded by obesity, smoking, alcohol use, and/or poor nutrition. Fetal complications include a higher frequency of major congenital malformations, the most common of which are cardiovascular. It is controversial whether the use of medications 5–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition common among women with diabetes contributes to the malformation risk, although insulin, antihyperglycemic medications, and oral
