Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


It is controversial whether the use of medications 5–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition common among women with diabetes contributes to the malformation risk, although insulin, antihyperglycemic medications, and oral contraceptives do not appear to do so. Stillbirths occur more frequently among women with poorer glucose control, and degree of risk increases with degree of A1c elevation. The prevalences of major malformations and stillbirths in surveys depend on the inclusion of terminations of pregnancy or late fetal losses at 20–23 weeks gestation, respectively. Women with diabetes also have a 30%–60% higher risk of infants affected by preterm delivery and macrosomia with concomitant birth trauma events, such as shoulder dystocia with vaginal delivery. In 2009, approximately 56.5% of births to women with pregestational diabetes mellitus were by cesarean section, and 16%–27% of births resulted in birth weights >4,000 g. Other adverse events among infants of mothers with diabetes include infant mortality and neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, although such events are infre­ quent. Infants of diabetic mothers can experience a higher frequency of respiratory distress, polycythemia, hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia, and hyperbilirubinemia compared to infants of mothers without diabetes. In rare cases, these complications also can contribute to neonatal encephalopathy. The increasing frequency of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in young women and increasing maternal age at conception are likely to further increase the risk of adverse maternal, birth, and infant outcomes. Population-based data are needed to track conception, miscarriage, major malformations, and livebirth and stillbirth frequencies among women with diabetes. Such data would guide the optimal timing and tailoring of preconception interventions. Interventions are needed that quantify the optimal amount of surveillance during fetal develop­ ment (balancing costs and benefits), along with interventions that examine long-term risk to mothers and offspring. The subject matter in this chapter is necessarily broad, as it not only discusses prevalence of pregestational diabetes mellitus in preg­ nancy but also prevalence of diabetes in reproductive-age women; preconception care and contraception; complications in the mother, fetus, infant, and developing offspring; and methodologic issues related to assessment of outcomes in the mother, fetus, and infant. The beauty and the devil is in the details. The definitions and management of pregnancy-related conditions can vary considerably among studies and, in many cases, are controversial. INTRODUCTION OBJECTIVE This chapter presents population-based or multicenter data on: (1) the growing preva­ lence of type 1 and type 2 diabetes before and during pregnancy in North
