Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


are controversial. INTRODUCTION OBJECTIVE This chapter presents population-based or multicenter data on: (1) the growing preva­ lence of type 1 and type 2 diabetes before and during pregnancy in North America, (2) preconception care and contraception among those with diabetes, (3) maternal complications of preexisting diabetes in pregnancy, and (4) fetal, neonatal, and offspring outcomes among women with diabetes. Information on diabetes with onset or recognition during pregnancy is provided in Chapter 4 Gestational Diabetes. This chapter focuses on data published in peer-reviewed journals since 2000. If ample U.S. data are not available on the different topics, relevant international popula­ tion-based or multicenter studies are cited. If population-based data are sparse, reports from regional centers may be cited, espe­ cially if they provide data that can guide future epidemiologic surveys. (Note to reader: selected additional multicenter and regional/national population based studies published from January 2016 to July 2017 appear in Appendix 5.1, in the same order as topics in this chapter. Commentary is provided by the lead author of this text.) HISTORICAL CONTEXT Prior to the application of (a) medical nutrition therapy, self-monitoring of maternal blood glucose, and individualized insulin regimens, (b) technologies of fetal assessment, and (c) intensive neonatal care, pregnancy in women with type 1 diabetes (then defined as child-onset, insulin-dependent) was a frightening affair (1). Maternal risks included diabetic keto­ acidosis (DKA), hypoglycemic coma, and progression of vascular disease, including superimposed preeclampsia. Excess rates of early fetal loss, major congenital malfor­ mations, fetal growth restriction, stillbirth, birth trauma, and neonatal death from hyaline membrane disease were observed. Reports of striking improvements in outcomes since 1975 were based on multidisciplinary care at single medical centers with a regional referral system. This experience has been widely reviewed and updated (2). Persisting problems include access to care, wider dissemination and adoption of standards of care, patient-related barriers to effective care, and the rising tide of obesity and type 2 diabetes. The latter is too often unrecognized until pregnancy is well established. Regional or national surveillance of diabetes and pregnancy outcomes at the community level in the United States has not kept pace with achievements at centers of excellence. These problems gain even more impor­ tance with the recognition of the lifelong influences of preconception, fetal, and neonatal processes on many features of health or disease. In the 1980s–1990s, two national prospective studies included a focus on type 1 diabetes and
