Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


in the United States for women age 15–49 years. This was used to estimate the prevalence of pregnancy complicated by preexisting diabetes (8). Data were obtained from birth records, hospital medical records, and questionnaires sent to mothers and their health care providers. The weighted prevalence of pregnancies affected by juvenile-onset diabetes was 0.17% compared to 0.31% for pregnancies affected by adult-onset diabetes. The prevalences of both types of preexisting diabetes in pregnancy have increased greatly since 1988. DATA SOURCES AND LIMITATIONS Beyond the two pioneering national prospective studies including a focus on type 1 diabetes and pregnancy that are cited above, few national popula­ tion-based diabetes outcome data for pregnancy in the United States have been published in peer-reviewed journals since 2000. The limited number of United States-based studies that focused on pregnancy outcomes are cited later in the chapter. Most notably lacking are data from the growing numbers of pregnant women with type 2 diabetes. Mainly international population-based studies of preexisting (pregestational) diabetes mellitus in pregnancy are available after 2000, and these are cited where appropriate. Due to the limited U.S. data, prospectively collected data from the Kaiser Permanente Northern California (KPNC) multicenter health care system were analyzed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition. KPNC is a large group practice prepaid health plan comprising 44 medical centers with 544,687 deliveries in 1996–2011. Analysis of U.S. census data demonstrates that KPNC members are similar to the general population with regard to ethnicity and education and differ only slightly with regard to income (9). Whether preconcep­ tion care is better in the KPNC compared to the general population is uncertain. A potential barrier to preconception care for women with diabetes is access to care, which in turn might be sensitive to lower household income. The methods of KPNC data collection and analysis have been published (10,11). Briefly, the KPNC diabetes registry gathers data from electronic medical records and identifies patients based on primary hospital discharge diagnoses, two or more outpatient visit diagnoses of diabetes, any prescription for a diabetes-related medication, and any record of an A1c test result >6.7% (>50 mmol/mol). References to unpublished data from KPNC in this chapter rely on this diabetes and pregnancy registry. The National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) contains data from birth and death certificates that are provided by the states, compiled and prepared by the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics, and presented in national
