Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


System (NVSS) contains data from birth and death certificates that are provided by the states, compiled and prepared by the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics, and presented in national statistical files (12). In 2009, the 2003-revised birth certificate was used in 28 states, New York City, and the District of Columbia. The 2003-revised birth certificate discriminates preexisting diabetes in pregnancy from gestational diabetes. The NVSS tables presented in this chapter were analyzed specifically for Diabetes in America. Only “national- average” data are used in this chapter. Of 2,689,579 births in 2009 (~66% of all U.S. births), 17,784 cases were listed as pre­ existing diabetes (0.66%). Birth certificates are known to underrepresent complicating conditions, and other population-based data sets reviewed in this chapter yield higher rates of preexisting diabetes in the same time period. When possible, definitions of maternal and fetal outcomes used in this chapter are consistent with those proposed by the Working Group on Outcome Definitions of the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG) (13). In this chapter, use of the term preconception diabetes refers to women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes studied prior to pregnancy, and the term preexisting diabetes refers to women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes studied during pregnancy, but with data not specified for either type of diabetes. Some authors prefer the term pregesta­ tional diabetes, and that term may be used here in commenting on their publications. White’s classification of preexisting diabetes in pregnancy was based on duration of diabetes and presence of diabetes complica­ tions, but it is rarely used since 2000. 5–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Many of the epidemiologic studies of the relation of maternal diabetes factors to pregnancy or long-term outcomes reviewed in this chapter attempted to control for confounding variables. However, few of the data sets were used to analyze for interacting effects of comorbidities that are common in diabetes, yet often are not measured in retrospective or even prospective studies. Pioneering studies of comorbidity measures for use with administrative data showed that comorbidities, separated from the primary reason for hospital­ ization, had independent effects on outcomes, differing among separate patient groups (14). Comorbidity indexes have been validated for use in obstetric populations (15,16), for quantification of diabetes comorbidity risks across life (17), and assessment of comorbidity interrelatedness among patients with multiple chronic conditions (18). New morbidity and comorbidity measures
