Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


in obstetric populations (15,16), for quantification of diabetes comorbidity risks across life (17), and assessment of comorbidity interrelatedness among patients with multiple chronic conditions (18). New morbidity and comorbidity measures based on International Classification of Diseases (ICD), Tenth Revision, groups were developed to be used to control for confounding (an example of outcome was death in hospital) (19). The challenge is to evaluate such approaches in future population-based studies of diabetes and pregnancy. Some studies of epidemiologic data on pregestational diabetes in pregnancy used modeling to control for effects of possible confounders in a group of patients. The usual approach was to be able to state, for example, that there was an indepen­ dent effect of average glycemic control on excess birth weight, with or without maternal obesity. These statements apply to outcomes for groups, and they have been used to guide current management. What is needed is individual information on risks, or probable benefit of certain treatments, taking into account individual patient characteristics and relevant comorbidities. The emerging hope is to use advanced epidemiologic and epigen­ etic data to provide information that will improve individual patient care, as well as to understand and “manage” large populations. CONSIDERATIONS BEFORE PREGNANCY PREVALENCE OF DIABETES IN WOMEN OF CHILDBEARING AGE It is important to note the prevalence of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in women of childbearing age in the United States, because these women may become pregnant. The major types of surveys used since 2000 include those based on population sample blood testing (National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey [NHANES]), questionnaire/telephone surveys of women after giving birth (Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System [PRAMS]), telephone surveys of a population sample of women with diabetes by self-report (Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System [BRFSS]), and examination of medical records of youth (SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study [SEARCH]). In a new analysis conducted for Diabetes in America, among 1,338 women age 20–44 years in the NHANES 2005–2010, 2.6% had diagnosed diabetes, 2.0% had undiagnosed diabetes, and 22.8% had prediabetes based on blood sampling (A1c, fasting plasma glucose [FPG], or oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT] results). The prevalence of diagnosed diabetes varied from 2.3% to 3.5% in the three major racial/ethnic groups tested (Table 5.1). A published analysis including earlier data from the NHANES 1999–2010 showed that 10,491 nonpregnant women of reproductive age (15–44 years) reported no diabetes diagnosis; many of these women had
