Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


of diabetes reached 4.03/1,000 (95% CI 3.90–4.16) (37). A summation of the SEARCH study published in 2014 noted that many youth with diabetes, especially those with type 2 diabetes, have very poor glycemic control and already have strong risk factors for chronic complications (38). This does not bode well for young diabetic women becoming pregnant. A special problem is the transition of young patients with type 1 diabetes from pediatric to adult care (38). PRECONCEPTION CARE OF DIABETES AND CONTRACEPTION Planning of Pregnancy Counseling of the female adolescent or woman with type 1 or type 2 diabetes about risks of pregnancy associated with diabetes and its complications and the means of lowering risks is an important step of planning for pregnancy or its delay. Thorough clinical and laboratory evalua­ tion of the patient is necessary, including assessment of mental health status and her support system. Until this is done and a safe level of glycemic control is established, provision of contraception is important (39,40). The details of the recommended preconception process for diabetic women have been published as official guidelines (40,41,42,43,44). The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends: “Starting at puberty, preconception counseling should be incor­ porated into routine diabetes care for all girls of childbearing potential. Family plan­ ning should be discussed and effective contraception should be prescribed and used until a woman is prepared and ready to become pregnant” (40). There is information from the general population about optimal interpregnancy interval (pregnancy spacing) that should be considered in the counseling of parous diabetic women. Intervals that are less than 6–11 months (45,46,47,48) or longer than 24–60 months (depending on the study) (45,46,48,49) were associated with increased rates of neonatal mortality, morbidity, and major congenital malfor­ mations (50,51). A common explanation for a short interval association is maternal depletion of nutrient stores, although the observed association might be due to residual familial confounding (49,52). Risk factors for the association also may be risk factors for adverse perinatal outcomes, such as socioeconomic status, relation­ ship (marital or non-marital) status, high or low maternal weight, or poor glycemic control coupled with the stress of infant care (52). A few of the studies of inter­ pregnancy interval included women with pregestational diabetes (47,48,51), but separate analyses were not done for this subgroup. Whether short interpregnancy interval in particular is causal for poor pregnancy outcomes remains controver­ sial, and more studies need to be
