Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy 5–13 contraindications to estrogen-containing contraception are being offered the safest and most effective methods, including long acting reversible contraceptives, such as intrauterine devices and the contracep­ tive implant” (181). Regarding renal disease, the finding that oral contraception use was associated with microalbuminuria in nondiabetic women (182,183) was confirmed in a 20-year follow-up study of 114 women with type 1 diabetes in Denmark (184). None of the patients had microalbuminuria at baseline, but macroalbuminuria developed in 18% of 33 oral contraceptive users compared to 2% of 81 nonusers. After adjustment for known risk factors, oral contraception use remained a predictor for the development of macroalbuminuria (RR 8.90, 95% CI 1.79–44.4). The find­ ings might be related to the well-known effect of oral contraceptives stimulating the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (184,185), but the association needs to be studied in large cohorts. Combined hormonal contraception with a transdermal patch did not stimulate the renin-angio­ tensin system in healthy premenopausal women, presumably related to lack of first-pass hepatic metabolism with the patch (185). This could be a fruitful area for research in diabetic women. Regarding hormonal contraceptive use among women with known dyslipidemias, a systematic review of only three articles meeting inclusion criteria concluded that the limited data from poor-quality case-control or cohort studies suggested that such women may be at increased risk for myocardial infarction and may experience a minimally increased risk for cerebrovascular accidents or venous thromboembolism (186). Additional rigorous research is needed to assess true associations. There are many factors potentially affecting contraceptive use in women with diabetes. A meta-analysis of seven North American clinical trials on the effect of obesity on the effectiveness of oral contraceptives in the general population suggested a 44% higher pregnancy rate during combined oral contraceptive use for obese women after adjusting for age and race (187). Studies also have exam­ ined the lack of use of contraception in women prescribed potentially teratogenic medications (188,189,190). The possible benefit of hormonal contraception to diabetic women, e.g., reduction of risk of some types of cancers, has not been well studied. In summary, the focus of preconception care for diabetic women should be provi­ sion of effective and safe contraception (and multivitamins with folic acid) until all high-risk conditions are brought under control as well as possible (40), including hyperglycemia, hypertension, albuminuria/renal function, retinopathy, depression (53,191,192), eating disor­ ders (193,194,195), gastropathy, and hyperlipidemia. PREVALENCE OF PREEXISTING DIABETES
