Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


in women with type 1 and type 2 diabetes; data recorded in the European Quality Indicators and Data Collection Database; chronic nephropathy and retinopathy assessed at booking; progression of nephro- pathy during pregnancy (3.4% in type 1 diabetes; 1.2% in type 2 diabetes) or retinopathy during pregnancy (5.1% in type 1 diabetes; 1.8% in type 2 diabetes) defined as a higher stage at the last evaluation than at baseline. ¶¶ Includes early pregnancy losses <20 w, spontaneous or induced. ## Uncertain definitions of nephropathy or retinopathy in the article. Authors may have referred to another source for definition. *** Northern Diabetes and Pregnancy Survey of all singleton pregnancies ≥24 w in women with PDM diagnosed at least 6 months before pregnancy (prevalence 0.42% in the total population of 401,149 pregnancies), plus late fetal loss at 20–23 w and termination of pregnancy following prenatal diagnosis of a fetal anomaly (any gestation). Text states nephropathy (undefined) was prepregnancy. Calculations for prepregnancy retinopathy (undefined) exclude 59 cases with missing data in the type 1 diabetes group and 24 cases in the type 2 diabetes group. ††† Prospective cohort study of 414 women with PDM (65% type 1 diabetes, 35% type 2 diabetes) attending antenatal centers along the Irish Atlantic Seaboard. The 414 pregnan­ cies include 61 miscarriages <20 w. Definitions of nephropathy and retinopathy not stated. ‡‡‡ Retrospective 40-hospital survey throughout Japan, using prospective systematic database created by the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group of Japan. All patients received antidiabetic therapy prior to pregnancy. Pregnancies beyond 9 w included. Definitions of nephropathy and retinopathy not stated in the article, but additional infor­ mation supplied by Dr. Takashi Sugiyama, personal communication to JLK; diabetic nephropathy included microalbuminuria and macroalbuminuria, and diabetic retinopathy included NPDR and PDR. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy 5–29 1 diabetes and none of 363 women with type 2 diabetes. The presence of neuro­ pathy was not associated with the risk of major congenital anomalies, which is a marker for glycemic control before and in early pregnancy (99). In West Ireland, the frequency of neuropathy was recorded as 2.7% in 414 women during pregnancy with preexisting diabetes in 2006–2014 (89). Regarding the risk of developing diabetic neuropathy after a pregnancy, the EURODIAB Prospective Complications Study followed 425 women with type 1 diabetes who were childless at baseline, for a mean of 7.3 years. The incidence
