Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


¶ Preeclampsia was undefined in the article. # Retrospective study using health discharge data for all deliveries in California during 2001–2007, based on dataset of the Office of Statewide Health Planning. Diagnosis based on ICD-9 codes. Subjects missing age or race/ethnicity data, as well as extremes of age (<15 and >55 years), were excluded. ** A. Ferrara and T. Peng, unpublished data from the Kaiser Permanente of Northern California multicenter system prepared for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition. Retrospective analysis of prospectively entered data in linked perinatal and diabetes databases. 62% type 2 diabetes, 66% BMI >30 kg/m2; 174 cases with dual coding for CH and GH were omitted. †† Singleton births; data collected retrospectively from electronic medical records of 20 hospitals in Utah; subjects were women with at least two consecutive pregnancies with PDM in both; data from last pregnancy. Only 75.8% of subjects were coded as using insulin during the index pregnancy. Tested for differences between 58,224 controls (women without any type of diabetes in the previous and current pregnancy) using Poisson regression models with robust variance estimators. ‡‡ Deliveries >19 w entered into the Ontario Niday Perinatal Database, a branch of the provincial Perinatal Surveillance System; 72 participating hospitals; data collected by nursing staff; diagnoses extracted by codes that are unique to the database. Excess risks of each birth outcome by diabetes subtype calculated by unconditional logistic regressions, adjusted by maternal age, region of residence, smoking, parity, attendance at first trimester visit, type of antenatal provider, but not maternal comorbidities. §§ Data from Canadian Institute for Health Information hospital discharge abstracts database linked to Ontario Diabetes Database. Included all deliveries of diabetic women entered in the Ontario Diabetes Database >270 days prior to delivery, to be sure of PDM diagnosis. Total deliveries: 133,316 in 1996; 128,745 in 2001. Gestational diabetes possibly included in the control deliveries. Diagnoses based on ICD-9 codes 642.4–642.7. CH and GH omitted because hypertension during pregnancy without preeclampsia was not specified. Adjusted odds ratios omitted due to inordinately low frequency of preeclampsia in the control population. ║║ Data obtained from the Nova Scotia Atlee Perinatal Database, representing 11 maternity units throughout the province (50% of deliveries at the tertiary center in Halifax), using unique standardized clinical forms. Included all pregnancies reaching 20 w and 500 g at birth. PDM included women with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes using insulin before pregnancy, and
