Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


unique standardized clinical forms. Included all pregnancies reaching 20 w and 500 g at birth. PDM included women with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes using insulin before pregnancy, and type 2 diabetes not using insulin before pregnancy (excluded gestational diabetes). PIH included preeclampsia. Controls were 150,589 singleton pregnancies of nondiabetic mothers. Outcomes reaching statistical significance on univariate analysis were entered into a backward conditional regression to obtain adjusted relative risk. ¶¶ Based on the Alberta Vital Statistics Birth File, included all live births or stillbirths at ≥20 w or ≥500 g at birth. Used the Alberta Diabetes Database registry to identify women with diabetes diagnosed before conception. Used the Alberta Hypertension Database registry to define preexisting hypertension, if hypertension was diagnosed before 20 w. Used the Hospital Abstract Database to obtain preeclampsia (included eclampsia). Controls were 306,576 births without any type of diabetes (311,673, including twin gestations for risk of CH). Used multinomial logistic regression to examine the association of diabetes in pregnancy with adverse outcomes, controlling for maternal charac­ teristics. Adjusted for mother’s age, First Nation status, parity, and CH for risk of PET (singletons only). Frequency of PET was 10% in twins in mothers with PDM versus 7.4% for singletons (NS). Denominator for CH is all deliveries; denominator for PET is singleton births only. ## Used linked population databases to obtain all singleton births at >20 w or >400 g (n=370,703). ICD-10 codes used for diagnoses. Pregestational diabetes (type 1, 57%; type 2, 20%; unclassified, 23%) was underreported to the databases (sensitivities 50%–95.5%). Used chi-square contingency tables to compare PDM with no diabetes, with crude odds ratios and 95% CI. *** Survey of all practitioners in the Netherlands to identify all births ≥24 w in women with type 1 diabetes; national data for comparison n=196,981. ††† Subject data from central registry of the Danish Diabetes Association. Background data from National Danish Patient Registry 1998–2000. ‡‡‡ Prospective multicenter study at 33 sites participating in the Italian Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group of all pregnant women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Data recorded in the European Quality Indicators and Data Collection Aggregated Database. N excludes abortion <180 days of gestation. §§§ Singleton births; study based on information prospectively entered into the Swedish Medical Birth Registry; before 2008, the registry only collected data from 28 w and did not register data on earlier fetal losses or induced abortions;
