Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


prospectively entered into the Swedish Medical Birth Registry; before 2008, the registry only collected data from 28 w and did not register data on earlier fetal losses or induced abortions; diagnosis based on ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes; 97% of pregnant women had an ultrasound examination to determine gestational age; severe preeclampsia defined as diastolic blood pressure >110 mmHg or proteinuria >5 g/day, or both; multivariate analysis by logistic regression limited to mothers without missing BMI data; odds ratios adjusted for group differences in maternal age, BMI, parity, chronic hypertensive disorder, smoking habits, and ethnicity. Reference population n=1,260,207 controls. ║║║Singleton births; study based on information prospectively entered into the Swedish Medical Birth Registry; before 2008, the registry only collected data from 28 w and did not register data on earlier fetal losses or induced abortions; diagnosis based on ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes. BMI calculated based on maternal weight and height by recall. The reference population included 764,498 singleton pregnancies to mothers without a diagnosis of diabetes. Unconditional logistic regression used to explore associations between maternal type 1 diabetes and preeclampsia, with normal weight nondiabetic women as the reference category; adjusted for ethnicity, maternal age, height, parity, smoking first trimester, and CH. ¶¶¶ Retrospective case-control study using regional electronic database with prospective data collection; singleton births; comparison with matched controls by chi-square analy­sis; controls >12,000 women with normal glucose tolerance; cosine similarity matching for age, BMI, ethnic group, and parity with a customized nearest neighbors selection without replacement. ### Data obtained from a randomized placebo-controlled trial of vitamins C and E (no effect) for prevention of preeclampsia in women with type 1 diabetes at 25 antenatal meta­ bolic clinics in the U.K. Subjects included 112 women with CH (14.7%), 36 women with microalbuminuria (4.7%), and four women with macroalbuminuria (0.5%) at baseline. A Linked two nationwide registries for subject and background data (n=1,161,092; preeclampsia defined as any preeclampsia registered in the Birth Registry, including protein­ uria, eclampsia, and HELLP syndrome [and possibly PIH]); used logistic regression in SPSS to estimate odds ratios adjusted for maternal age, parity, ethnic origin, marital status, educational level, year of delivery, and sex of child. For the analysis of preterm deliveries, 15 diabetic women with preeclampsia were excluded due to no registered gestational age. B Prospective cohort study of all singleton pregnancies in women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes in East Anglia, U.K. Pregnancies with
