Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


of and methodology for assessing gestational age, pregnancy losses, fetal deaths, and neonatal/infant deaths, as well as congenital anomalies/ malformations or birth defects, have been highly variable in North America, as well as internationally. A consensus approach was published by the IADPSG (13). Gestational age is established by post­ menstrual completed weeks, confirmed by ultrasound examination when possible (using ultrasound dates if >5 day discrep­ ancy in the first trimester or >10 day discrepancy in the second trimester). Miscarriage is defined as pregnancy loss at <20 weeks. Stillbirth (fetal death) is delivery of an infant showing no signs of life at ≥20 weeks, if gestational age is known, or a weight ≥350 g, if the gesta­ tional age is not known. Late fetal death is at ≥28 weeks of gestation. Major congen­ ital malformations include the ICD-10 codes Q00–Q99 (European Surveillance of Congenital Anomalies [EUROCAT] Guide). In addition, a major congenital abnormality requires medical or surgical treatment, has a serious adverse effect on health and development, or has significant cosmetic impact (13). SPONTANEOUS ABORTION Reliable data on spontaneous abortions (miscarriage; early fetal loss in some reports) require prospective evaluation from preconception to very early and later in gestation. The prospective DIEP five- center study conducted in 1980–1985 enrolled 386 women with type 1 diabetes before conception or by 21 days after conception (287). A caveat is that the willingness of diabetic subjects to enroll early for intensive glycemic monitoring meant that the DIEP did not represent the general population of women with type 1 diabetes. A major strength of the DIEP is that it is still the only prospective study that enrolled nondiabetic women as controls, also before or by 21 days after conception. Women may have been more carefully monitored as a result, with lower fetal loss rates than observed in other studies. In the DIEP, the embryonic and early fetal loss rate <20 weeks gestation was 16.1% (62/386; including one ectopic pregnancy and one hydatidiform mole) in diabetic women compared to 16.2% (70/432; including three ectopic pregnancies) in nondiabetic controls (287). The proportion of the early pregnancy losses at 4–8 post­ menstrual weeks gestation was 43.5% in diabetic women versus 52.4% in controls, 42.0% versus 37.1% at 9–12 weeks, and 14.5% versus 10% at 13–19 weeks. In the subgroup of diabetic women with poor glycemic control, the risk of pregnancy loss increased linearly with increasing glycohemoglobin levels (p=0.015).
