Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


in first week of life 5 (1.52) Table includes prospective population-based and multicenter studies reported in 2000–2014. AdjOR, adjusted odds ratio versus background population; BMI, body mass index; CI, confidence interval; ICD-9/10, International Classification of Diseases, Ninth/Tenth Revision; IDM, infant of diabetic mother; NS, not significant; OR, odds ratio; PNM, perinatal mortality (definition varies per study); RR, relative risk (95% CI, significant) versus background population; w, weeks gestation. * Unless otherwise defined in a footnote: neonatal death is defined as the number and percentage of liveborn infants dying at 1–28 days after birth; PNM is defined as the combination of stillbirths and neonatal death in births ≥20 w; late infant death is defined as liveborn infants dying at 29 days to 1 year of life. † Retrospective cohort study based on all deliveries in California using birth certificates, death certificates, and hospital discharge data from the Department of Health; diag­ noses based on ICD-9 codes ‡ Data source from the 2005–2006 fiscal year of the Ontario Niday Perinatal Database, a branch of the provincial Perinatal Surveillance System. Web-based data entry by 72 participating hospitals; diagnoses extracted by codes unique to the database, which included 873 singleton and 31 multiple gestations, and pregnancies with pre - existing hypertension and nephropathy. Apparently, the rate of stillborn infants is based on the first of x infants from the multiple births, if any were stillborn. Excess risks of outcomes calculated by unconditional logistic regressions, using 115,996 pregnancies without maternal complications, including gestational diabetes, as controls; odds ratios were adjusted for maternal age, region of residence, smoking, parity, multiple birth, use of assisted reproductive technology, attendance at a first trimester visit, and Table 5.20 continues on the next page. 5–42 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 5.20. (continued) type of antenatal provider. Shoulder dystocia rate is 25/438 vaginal deliveries; adjusted odds ratio for shoulder dystocia compares rates per total deliveries between type 1 diabetes and control populations. § Study cohort drawn from 10 maternity units in Cheshire, Lancashire, and Merseyside, England; diabetes database excludes 72 miscarriages and 16 terminations of preg­ nancy, but includes six twin gestations (all livebirths); study findings compared with regional background population data on all pregnancies published by the Office for National Statistics for the same time period. Gestational age limits for miscarriage and stillbirth undefined. ║ A 1-year prospective audit of all pregnancies of women with type 1 diabetes prior
