Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


National Statistics for the same time period. Gestational age limits for miscarriage and stillbirth undefined. ║ A 1-year prospective audit of all pregnancies of women with type 1 diabetes prior to pregnancy, in Scotland’s 22 consultant-led maternity units (including assessment during first year of infant life). Original data set of 273 pregnancies included 40 miscarriages and 20 induced abortions (seven due to congenital anomalies); the 213 pregnancies progressing to delivery of liveborn or stillborn infants included 210 singleton births and three twin births for 216 total infants. ¶ Results of two national audit periods of all pregnancies in women with preconception type 1 diabetes in Scotland. Women registered at first contact in pregnancy; data form sent to study center after conclusion of pregnancy. N for births excludes 54 miscarriages, two ectopic pregnancies, one molar pregnancy, (early loss rate 13.5%), 15 induced abortions, four twin gestations, and 10 pregnancies in the same woman. Gestational age limits for miscarriage and stillbirth undefined. # Multicenter analysis (25 antenatal metabolic clinics across Northern Ireland, Scotland, and northwest England), at 8–22 w, women with type 1 diabetes preceding pregnancy were enrolled in randomized controlled trial of vitamins C and E (no effect on preeclampsia); excludes eight miscarriages and six pregnancy terminations. ** Denominator includes both singleton and twin births (n=812). †† All singleton pregnancies with type 1 diabetes diagnosed at least 12 months before pregnancy were enrolled at first antenatal visit at one of 10 regional maternity units participating in the East Anglia Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group. Standardized data collection completed within 3 months of end of pregnancy. Miscarriage (n=53) or pregnancy termination (n=21) defined as <24 w (both excluded from N births). Denominator for preterm delivery is number with gestational age information. Of 205 cesarean deliveries, 109 were “emergency,” and 96 were “planned.” ‡‡ Retrospective multicenter study at three hospitals with diabetes and pregnancy units in Dublin, Ireland. §§ Case control study (data recorded electronically and prospectively) among five multidisciplinary diabetes and pregnancy units at maternity centers in the Irish Atlantic Seaboard. Type 1 diabetes at least 6 months prior to pregnancy. Miscarriage defined as pregnancy loss before 24 w. Singleton pregnancies. Controls were selected from a group of >12,000 women screened negative for gestational diabetes, group-matched for maternal age, BMI, parity, and ethnic group to the group with type 1 diabetes, using cosine similarity matching with a customized nearest neighbor selection without
