Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


the Ontario Niday Perinatal Database, a branch of the provincial Perinatal Surveillance System. Web-based data entry by 72 participating hospitals; diagnoses extracted by codes unique to the database, which included 500 singleton and 16 multiple gestations, and pregnancies with preexisting hypertension and nephropathy. Apparently, the stillborn outcomes were calculated based on the first of x infants of the multiple births. Excess risks of outcomes calculated by unconditional logistic regressions, using 115,996 pregnancies without maternal complications, including gestational diabetes, as controls; odds ratios were adjusted for maternal age, region of residence, smoking, parity, multiple birth, use of assisted reproductive technology, attendance at a first trimester visit, and type of antenatal provider. § Retrospective multicenter study of five maternity units; data transferred to central database; subjects were 55% Indo-Asian, 26% Caucasian, and 19% Afro-Caribbean; 16 miscarriages and three terminations of pregnancy were excluded; of the 95 cesarean deliveries, 54 were emergency (21 during induction of labor), and 41 were elective. Text says two early (first week) and one late (8–28 days) neonatal death, plus two postnatal infant deaths. Discrepancy noted between table 1 versus table 2 on the number of neonatal deaths; two of three neonatal deaths and both late infant deaths were due to congenital anomalies; their PNM rate has different denominator and is undefined, so not compared with reference population. Mortality comparisons were made with regional data published by the Office of National Statistics using z-scores. ║ All singleton pregnancies with type 2 diabetes diagnosed at least 12 months before pregnancy were enrolled at first antenatal visit at one of 10 regional maternity units partici­ pating in the East Anglia Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group. Standardized data collection completed within 3 months of end of pregnancy. Miscarriage (n=46) or pregnancy termination (n=4) defined as <24 w (both excluded from N births). Denominator for preterm delivery is number with gestational age information. Of 113 cesarean deliveries, 58 were “emergency,” and 55 were “planned.” ¶ Combined data from three regional U.K. pregnancy audits to yield 556 women with type 2 diabetes for analysis; 543 pregnancies with data >23 w. # Retrospective case-control study using regional electronic database with prospective data collection; five maternity units on the Irish Atlantic seaboard; comparison with matched controls by chi-square analysis; controls were selected from >12,000 women with normal glucose tolerance; cosine similarity matching for age, BMI, ethnic group, and parity with a customized nearest neighbors selection
