Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


controls by chi-square analysis; controls were selected from >12,000 women with normal glucose tolerance; cosine similarity matching for age, BMI, ethnic group, and parity with a customized nearest neighbors selection without replacement (213 matched controls for type 2 diabetes). ** Italian maternity centers (n=33) participated in this prospective study as part of the Italian Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group; all pregnant women with type 2 diabetes recruited; data entered into the European Quality Indicators and Data Collection Aggregated Database; 17 spontaneous abortions and three terminations of pregnancy <180 days gestation excluded. Stillbirth defined as ≥180 days gestation (~26 w). Neonatal death defined as before 28 days of life. Therefore, PNM rate is unique to this study and not given here. †† Data from the Swedish Medical Birth Registry for 1998–2007, with inclusion of all singleton births ≥22 w; diagnoses were based on ICD-10 codes and provided to the registry on standardized forms at discharge from hospital after birth. Gestational age was confirmed by ultrasound by mid-pregnancy. Divided analysis between female and male infants. “Information on live births includes all infants born after 22 completed weeks of gestation.” Stillbirth defined as ≥28 w, so number of fetal deaths between 22 and 27 w inclusive is unknown. Authors’ text and table 2 ignore neonatal death in first week of life (they include those deaths in their definition of PNM), and they present data on late neonatal death (8–28 days of life) and infant death within the first year of life (methods unclear on follow-up of infants). The authors of this chapter cannot discriminate between unknown number of stillbirths and early neonatal deaths to make up two perinatal deaths in females and three in males by their definitions. Comparisons were made to 439,525 singleton births of female infants and 466,040 male infants born to mothers without diabetes with the chi-square test and Fisher’s exact test. ‡‡ Retrospective analysis of prospective data collected from 40 hospitals throughout Japan. Additional information provided by Dr. Takashi Sugiyama as personal communication to JLK. Denominator of births is different than in published paper due to exclusion of early fetal deaths (pregnancy losses) at 10–19 w (69 for type 2 diabetes, so 510 births >19 w and 508 liveborn infants). Of the 202 cesarean deliveries, 165 were primary and 37 were repeat. Authors’ PNM definition is stillbirths ≥20 w (n=2) plus neonatal deaths (n=3) in first week of life.
