Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


(10.4)‡ vs. (2.1) crOR 5.45 (4.51–6.58) 587 (47.8)‡ vs. (1.6) crOR 56.8 (50.5–63.8) Table includes prospective population-based and multicenter studies reported in 2000–2014. Neonatal is defined as 1–28 days of life. AdjOR, adjusted odds ratio (95% CI); CH, chronic hypertension; CI, confidence interval; crOR, crude odds ratio; ICD-9/10, International Classification of Diseases, Ninth/Tenth Revision; LGA, large-for-gestational age, ≥90th percentile for age (and sex); NICU, neonatal intensive care unit; NR, not reported; PDM, preexisting diabetes mellitus in pregnancy, undifferentiated; RDS, respiratory distress syndrome; SGA, small-for-gestational age, <10th percentile for age (and sex); TTN, transient tachypnea of the newborn; w, weeks gestation. * Undefined birth trauma Table 5.26 continues on the next page. 5–52 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 5.26. (continued) † Multicenter: References 248 and 322 are aspects of the same prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial of low-dose aspirin use in pregnancy to prevent preeclampsia; aspirin without effect. Diabetic women required insulin before pregnancy; included 55 diabetic women with CH; singleton births, excluded congenital anom­ alies; recruited at 13–26 w. Numbers from reference 322 exclude cases with missing data. Reference 322 also showed three cases of neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage among 34 spontaneous preterm deliveries at <35 w. ‡ Denominators are all liveborn infants. § Includes normally formed singleton infants recorded in the California Vital Statistics Birth Certificate Database linked with the California Patient Discharge Database. Women with PDM and CH identified by ICD-9 codes. Multivariable logistic regression used to determine estimated effect size versus women without disease, adjusted for maternal age, race/ethnicity, insurance type at delivery, education level, parity, number of prenatal visits, obesity, and renal disease. ║ Denominators are total deliveries. ¶ Statewide hospital delivery discharges with complete data; subjects missing age or race/ethnicity data as well as extremes of age (<15 and ≥55 years) were excluded. Diagnoses based on ICD-9 codes. “Poor fetal growth” and “excess fetal growth” were undefined in the report. No prevalences given in article for infants of nondiabetic women, only for women with gestational diabetes. # A. Ferrara and T. Peng, unpublished data from the Kaiser Permanente of Northern California system of 10 maternity hospitals, prepared for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition. Included number of infant records linked to maternal records. SGA and LGA if having <10th and ≥90th centiles, respectively, of the race-specific cutpoints for birth weight. Neonatal hypoglycemia (ICD-9 775.6) was treated in NICU. Hyperbilirubinemia if meeting the American Academy of Pediatrics
