Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


if having <10th and ≥90th centiles, respectively, of the race-specific cutpoints for birth weight. Neonatal hypoglycemia (ICD-9 775.6) was treated in NICU. Hyperbilirubinemia if meeting the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines to treat with phototherapy based upon the bilirubin level, time after birth, and several risk factors (i.e., gestational age, Coombs testing). ** Retrospective multicenter analysis of electronic medical records of 20 hospitals. Included here preexisting diabetes ICD-9 codes in the previous and current index pregnancy (type 1 diabetes 103, type 2 diabetes 118, unknown 581; 75.8% used insulin, 11.4% oral agents, 12.8% diet). Number of liveborn versus stillborn infants unknown, so denomi­ nator for all outcomes here is total deliveries. Relative risks compared to population of 58,224 births to women without any type of diabetes in the previous and current index pregnancy; assessed by Poisson regression models with robust variance estimators. ICD-9 code 769 used for respiratory distress syndrome: a condition of the newborn marked by dyspnea with cyanosis, heralded by such prodromal signs as dilatation of the alae nasi, expiratory grunt, and retraction of the suprasternal notch or costal margins. ICD-9 code 775.6 used for listing of neonatal hypoglycemia. Jaundice based on ICD-9 codes 774.6 for unspecified fetal and neonatal jaundice and 774.2 for neonatal jaun­ dice associated with preterm delivery. †† Here included all singleton pregnancies that resulted in delivery of live births ≥20 w, based on the Alberta Vital Statistics Birth File. Clinical diagnoses based on ICD-10 codes, linking the Alberta Diabetes Database, the Notice of Birth database, the Hospital Abstract Database and Ambulatory Care Classification System, and the Hospital Discharge Database. Here, denominator of livebirths in PDM includes unknown number of cases in which data for SGA and LGA were not available; 176 cases were unavailable in total population, including PDM, gestational diabetes, and controls. Used multinomial logistic regression to examine the association of PDM with adverse outcomes, controlling for maternal characteristics; 306,576 pregnancies without any type of diabetes. ‡‡ All hospitals in regional diabetes and pregnancy program in the Irish Atlantic seaboard; 39% type 2 diabetes. Births >23 w. Denominators for SGA and LGA include five still­ births in period 1 and one stillbirth in period 2. Neonatal hypoglycemia stated for liveborn infants, but undefined. §§ Data obtained from linkage of two New South Wales Department of Health computerized datasets: the Midwives Data Collection and the Inpatient Statistics Collection, covering all births of >20
