Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


multidisciplinary diabetes and pregnancy programs; data transferred to central database; subjects 55% Indo- Asian, 26% Caucasian, and 19% Afro-Carribean; 16 miscarriages and three terminations of pregnancy excluded. ** Retrospective case-control study using regional electronic database with prospective data collection; five maternity units with multidisciplinary diabetes and pregnancy programs on the Irish Atlantic seaboard; type 1 and type 2 diabetes diagnosed more than 6 months prior to index pregnancy. Comparison with matched controls by chi-square analysis; controls selected from >12,000 women with normal glucose tolerance; cosine similarity matching for age, BMI, ethnic group, and parity with a custom­ ized nearest neighbors selection without replacement (447 matched controls for type 1 diabetes and 213 for type 2 diabetes). Neonatal hypoglycemia and hyperbilirubinemia undefined. †† Repeated questionnaire survey throughout pregnancy of 364 patients with type 1 diabetes in 118 hospitals from April 1, 1999 through March 2000. Excluded 23 women due to early spontaneous abortion, 16 due to diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, four terminations of pregnancy due to anomalies, four cases of late fetal loss <24 w, one maternal death at 17 w, and two lost to follow-up; includes eight twin pregnancies and one triplet pregnancy. Compared maternal and perinatal outcomes with national data from the 1998 Dutch perinatal database and with data from Statistics Netherlands; calculated crude relative risks and associated 95% confidence intervals. Defined macrosomia as birth weight >90th centile corrected for gestational age, sex, and parity; fetal growth chart based on the 1998 Dutch perinatal database (including 181,000 deliveries). Defined infant RDS and TTN according to X-ray and clinical findings. Defined neonatal hypoglycemia as <36 mg/dL (<2.0 mmol/L) and hyperbilirubinemia as infant needing phototherapy for jaundice. ‡‡ Nationwide prospective multicenter study in eight centers; information collected after each delivery by one to three caregivers per center and reported to a central registry. Included repeat (n=228) and twin (n=28) pregnancies ≥24 w; excluded earlier fetal losses. Macrosomia defined as birth weight >90th centile for a Danish standard population or as ≥4,500 g (compared to background population of 70,089). Respiratory distress defined as need for continuous positive airway pressure for >1 hour after delivery; hyper­ bilirubinemia defined as needing phototherapy. §§ Multicenter prospective study in 33 units participating in the Italian Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group; recruited all pregnant women with type 1 and type 2 diabetes at booking; data recorded in the European Quality Indicators and Data Collection Aggregated Database
