Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


(218,403), and limb malformations (99,403,405,406). The few studies that consider them show that multiple nonsyndromic malforma­ tions in the same infant are significantly more common in the setting of maternal § Population-based study using the Nova Scotia Atlee Perinatal Database (11 maternity units throughout the province; 96% white population) which included 150,589 infants of nondiabetic mothers as controls and excluded multiple pregnancies, gestational diabetes, and infants whose gestational ages or birth weights were unknown. The authors did not have access to data concerning pregnancies resulting in loss or termination before 20 w, even if associated with major malformations. Major congenital anomaly was defined as lethal, life-shortening, life-threatening, required major surgery, or affecting in a significant way the quality of life. The definition included chromosomal abnormalities. Infant death followed up to 1 year of life, but it was unclear when diagnoses of major anomalies were made. Many infants were counted more than once in the rows due to multiple anomalies in same infant. The category musculoskeletal anomaly included three cases of caudal regression (RR 219). The category central nervous system included one case of spina bifida (RR 17). Odds ratio was adjusted for maternal age and smoking. Outcomes reaching statistical significance on univariate analysis were entered into a backward conditional regression to obtain adjusted relative risks. ║ Data source from the 2005–2006 fiscal year of the administrative Ontario Niday Perinatal Database, a branch of the provincial Perinatal Surveillance System Web-based data entry by 72 participating hospitals; diagnoses extracted by codes unique to the database, which included singleton and multiple gestations and pregnancies with preexisting hypertension and nephropathy. Gestational age of anomalies undefined, including length of follow-up of infant; percentage in authors’ table 2 would indicate n=32 for type 1 diabetes, but table 3 shows only 15 cases, including one of trisomy 21; text referring to that table indicates exclusion of cases of spontaneous or therapeutic terminations of pregnancy (<20 w) that occurred as a result of a congenital malformation. Excess risks of outcomes calculated by unconditional logistic regressions, using 115,996 pregnancies without maternal complications (including gestational diabetes) as controls; odds ratios adjusted for maternal age, region of residence, smoking, parity, multiple birth, use of assisted reproductive technology, attendance at a first trimester visit, and type of antenatal provider. ¶ Liveborn infants (n=2,839,680) in the national Discharge Abstract Database (excluding Quebec). Information previously validated. Mother-newborn records linked. Type 1 or type 2
