Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


EUROCAT (6 of 109 offspring with anomalies were chromosomal; offspring included fetal losses after 20 w and terminations of pregnancy at any gestational age). Calculated the congenital anomaly rate as the number of offspring with one or more major anoma­ lies divided by the number of livebirths and stillbirths. Urogenital anomalies here are of the internal urogenital system. 65% of all anomalies diagnosed antenatally. Compared the numbers of observed major anomalies with expected numbers based on age-specific rates for 2002 reported to EUROCAT, adjusted for the maternal age distribution in this study. Used the Poisson distribution to obtain the exact 95% confidence intervals for the prevalence ratios. ║ Multicenter, from five maternity units in a defined area of the West Midlands. Includes miscarriages, terminations of pregnancy <20 w, live births, and stillbirths. Congenital abnormalities undefined. One miscarriage with Klinefelter syndrome; includes two terminations for diaphragmatic hernia and for severe neural tube defect. Of 15 liveborn IDM with malformations, two had neonatal deaths due to congenital heart disease, and two had post-neonatal deaths due to congenital heart disease or osteogenesis imper­ fecta. Total recorded pregnancy loss rate due to congenital anomalies in 182 type 2 diabetic women was 3.85%. Reference population was national data published by the Office for National Statistics. ¶ The Northern Diabetes in Pregnancy Survey recorded data on all singleton pregnancies in 1996–2008 resulting in live birth, stillbirth ≥24 w, late fetal loss at 20–23 w, and terminations of pregnancy for fetal anomaly at any gestational age. Included women with diabetes diagnosed at least 6 months prior to the index pregnancy, and excluded gestational diabetes. Diabetes and pregnancy registry data were linked to data on congenital anomalies diagnosed up to age 12 years in the registry of the Northern Congenital Anomaly Survey. Major congenital anomalies were coded according to ICD-10 and categorized using EUROCAT criteria by group (the system affected), subtype (the individual disorder), syndrome (patterns of anomalies arising from a single cause, e.g., genetic), skeletal dysplasias (syndromes of skeletal development), sequences (patterns of anomalies arising from a prior anomaly or a mechanical factor), associations (recognized patterns of anomalies of unknown cause), and chromosomal anomalies (see authors’ table 3). Cases were classified as multiple anomalies if they had two or more unrelated anomalies across separate organ systems. Individuals with several anomalies from the same organ system were included in that group but not classified by subtype. A congenital
