Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


cases of late fetal loss <24 w, one maternal death at 17 w, and two lost to follow-up; includes eight twin pregnancies and one triplet pregnancy. Classified a malformation as major (n=18) if it was fatal, potentially life-threatening, likely to lead to serious handicap or a major cosmetic defect, required major surgery, or was a chromosomal abnormality (n=4). Compared maternal and perinatal outcomes with national data from the 1998 Dutch perinatal database and with data from Statistics Netherlands. Text states that major anomaly rate in pregnancies with type 1 diabetes was three times the national rate. §§ Nationwide prospective multicenter study in eight centers; information collected after each delivery by one to three caregivers per center and reported to a central registry. Included repeat (n=228) and twin (n=28) pregnancies ≥24 w; excluded earlier fetal losses. Women entering the study were all considered to have type 1 diabetes by their caretakers and used insulin treatment before conception. Congenital malformations assessed during postbirth hospital stay only, except for three pregnancy terminations <24 w for severe malformations. Malformations in the study sample and the background population (n=70,089) include major and minor malformations, but in the back­ ground population, congenital malformations were reported to a central registry after the first year of life. Both factors would contribute to a lower rate of malformations reported in this survey of diabetic women. Uncertain if chromosomal abnormalities were included. Major malformations defined as those responsible for death, causing a significant future handicap, or requiring major surgery. Major malformations (n=32) represented 52.5% of those in the study sample. ║║ Data from Swedish Medical Birth Registry, Registry of Congenital Malformations, and the Hospital Discharge Registry combined. Use of the latter registries showed 26% (n=97) underreporting of congenital malformations in IDM to the Medical Birth Registry. All registries used for the national reference population. Gestational age for inclusion in registry not given. Congenital malformations identified by specific ICD-9 codes, with length of infant follow-up not reported. Total malformations number and percentage represents “any congenital malformation”, including four with chromosomal anomaly, three with diaphragmatic hernia, three with spleen malformation, 19 with orofacial clefts (0.49% of IDM vs. 0.21% of reference population), and with a number of less severe malformations listed in report, but not shown in the types in this table. Groups of types of major malformations are constructed from authors’ original table 1. ¶¶ Combined data from Medical Birth Registry
