Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


report, but not shown in the types in this table. Groups of types of major malformations are constructed from authors’ original table 1. ¶¶ Combined data from Medical Birth Registry (ICD-10 diagnoses made by physicians before infant left the nursery, including infants transferred to a neonatal ICU and neonatal deaths, and for stillbirths and terminations of pregnancy after 12 w because of antenatally diagnosed anomalies) and from the Norwegian Diabetes Registry to be sure all pregnancies with type 1 diabetes were included (96.8% of all cases of type 1 diabetes were in the Medical Birth Registry). Excluded anomalies categorized as minor in accor­ dance with the EUROCAT system, but included three cases of chromosomal malformation and 10 cases of isolated patent ductus arteriosus at term birth (see authors’ table 5). Background population (n=349,378) taken from the Medical Birth Registry for 1999–2004. Odds ratios were adjusted for maternal age, parity, gender of infant, maternal education, maternal smoking in pregnancy, European origin of mother, and year of birth. ## Pregestational insulin-treated diabetes ascertained by questionnaire (requested information on underlying maternal diseases, drugs used, and pregnancy complications by gestational month) sent to all parents of cases and controls; nonrespondents visited by regional district nurses (5% of case mothers refused to participate). Maternal ante­ natal logbooks were available for 88% of cases and 94% of controls. Hungarian Congenital Abnormality Registry (compulsory for all physicians in Hungary) comprises cases, including malformed fetuses after termination of pregnancy due to antenatal diagnosis of fetal defects, stillborn fetuses, and liveborn infants diagnosed with congenital abnormalities in the first year of life. Autopsy data included. Excluded mild abnormalities and syndromes of known origin, like chromosomal disorders. Controls were two newborns without congenital abnormalities for each case, selected from the National Birth Registry of the Central Statistical Office, matched according to sex, birth week, and district of parent’s residence. Used unconditional logistic regression to adjust for potential confounding from maternal age, birth order, and use of antiepileptic and antipsychotic drugs. *** Multicenter, with referral centers throughout Italy. Study fostered by the Italian Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Group. Congenital malformations undefined. Original data set included 30 spontaneous abortions in the type 1 diabetes group and 17 in the type 2 diabetes group, excluded here. Unknown whether any of the 31 malformations were among the eight pregnancies with induced abortions (five with type 1 diabetes, three with type 2 diabetes) that were
