Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


group, excluded here. Unknown whether any of the 31 malformations were among the eight pregnancies with induced abortions (five with type 1 diabetes, three with type 2 diabetes) that were excluded from the n in this table. ††† Population-based cohort and case-control study in the Northern Italy Emilia-Romagna region. Linked maternal and newborn hospital discharge records with birth certificates and the Region Birth Defects Registry. Singleton liveborn and stillborn infants and repeat pregnancies included. Diagnoses based on ICD-9 codes and anomalies according to EUROCAT. Authors state that severe cardiovascular and nervous system anomalies were missing because they have no data on spontaneous abortions and terminations of pregnancy due to malformations. Of the congenital anomalies in IDM, five were chromosomal anomalies; of the 202 congenital anomalies in controls, 10 were chromo­ somal anomalies (adjPR 2.35, 95% CI 0.80–6.86); all excluded here. This table excludes three cases of polydactyly/syndactyly in the diabetes group and 13 in the control group. Multiple malformations were nonsyndromic. Authors identified only 18% of the total diabetic population as type 1 and only 20.7% as type 2, based on an incomplete prescription database, so data are included as total pregestational diabetes here. Controls were 10,648 births to nondiabetic women, used for adjusted odds ratio (95% CI) for total congenital anomalies, adjusting for maternal age and area of residence, hospital and year of delivery, education, and smoking habits. No data on maternal BMI or maternal medications that were possibly teratogenic. For the adjusted prevalence ratios, authors matched each birth to a diabetic woman with five randomly selected births to nondiabetic women and used a conditional logistic model that controlled for the matching factors of maternal age, province of residence, year, and hospital of delivery. ‡‡‡ South Australian Birth Defects Register receives notifications of congenital anomalies up to a child’s fifth birthday. Congenital anomalies coded by ICD-9, British Pediatric Association Perinatal Supplement. The Register excluded most minor anomalies, unless they were disfiguring or required treatment. Multiple anomalies in same infant not discussed. Chromosomal, hematologic, metabolic, and respiratory anomalies were included in the reference population but were not recorded in the group with PDM. Birth defects data were linked to data of the Pregnancy Outcomes Statistics Unit of the South Australian Department of Health. Pregestational diabetes examined separately from gestational diabetes. Includes stillbirths ≥400 g or ≥20 w, singleton livebirths, but not pregnancy terminations. The comparatively high rate of anomalies in
