Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


mmol/L]) in the first 48 hours of life found that 32% had mild neurosensory impairment and 3.8% had moderate-severe impairment on cognitive, language, or motor scores (495). The infants had been enrolled in a randomized controlled trial of oral dextrose gel to treat the hypoglycemia, which had no effect on the 2-year outcomes (495). However, another analysis of a somewhat larger sample of 404 New Zealand infants at risk for hypoglycemia, revealed that 216 had blood glucose levels <47 mg/dL and were treated with any combination of additional feeding, buccal dextrose gel, or intravenous dextrose to maintain blood glucose >47 mg/dL for 24–48 hours on frequent monitoring (496). Of the total group, 161 were infants of diabetic mothers, and 49.7% of them had blood glucose levels <47 mg/dL. Infants who were followed for 2 years showed that hypoglycemia, as defined and treated as above, was not associated with the risk of neurosensory impairment or processing difficulty (496). Follow-up data were not presented separately for the infants of diabetic mothers. Of note, the 5th quin­ tile of all infants with the highest blood glucose levels on treatment during the first 48 hours (>70 mg/dL) did have signifi­ cantly more neuroimpairment at age 2 years (496). The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) published a guideline in 2011 for the screening and management of neonatal hypoglycemia in late-preterm infants and term infants at risk, who are those “born to mothers with diabetes, small for gestational age, or large for gestational age” (491). The guide was intended to provide adequate screening and treatment for infants who need it, to avoid cerebral energy deficiency, without creating a huge barrier to initiation of successful breastfeeding, which is also important for long-term health. It is known that successful breastfeeding at discharge from hospital is strongly dependent on breastfeeding at the first feed in diabetic women (497). The AAP protocol should be reviewed because it is apparent that prenatal diabetes and pediatric management teams must work in concert to reduce the frequency of neonatal hypoglycemia and NICU admissions and provide for optimal long-term health and development of the child. In 2015, recom­ mendations from the Pediatric Endocrine Society focused on the evaluation and management of persistent hypoglycemia in neonates, infants, and children. The Society agreed that infants of diabetic mothers are among the neonates at increased risk for hypoglycemia and require glucose screening (498). In the analysis of
