Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


lab values, there was an inverse relation of maternal A1c (711) and fasting blood glucose levels >180 mg/dL (712) with the validated intelligence test. Among 357,768 Swedish males, lower intellectual performance at military conscription was associated with being born SGA at term, or with shorter length, and smaller head circumference at any gestational age, all independent of maternal, socioeconomic, or familial factors. Maternal diabetes was not considered in this study (713,714). Another Danish follow-up study of 158 adult offspring of women with type 1 diabetes compared to a matched refer­ ence group found lower global cognitive scores in the subjects, but the difference was insignificant when adjusted for psychosocial confounders, and there was no association with maternal glycemia during pregnancy (715). Delivery <34 weeks gestation predicted lower cognitive scores, and the authors reasoned that this could explain a previous association with poorly controlled diabetic mothers (715). Large epidemiologic surveys reported lower school marks in Swedish 16-year-old offspring of diabetic women (716), a consistent negative association between maternal A1c levels >7.4% in pregnancy and primary school grades in Denmark (717), and lower cognition and educational attainment in children (ages 4, 8, or 16 years) of women with type 1 diabetes in southwest England (Avon Longitudinal study), even with adjustment for many potential confounders (718). Additional analysis of the Avon study confirmed that 8-year-old offspring of mothers with existing diabetes, gestational diabetes, or glycosuria twice during pregnancy exhibited a lower IQ score than children born to nondiabetic mothers (mean differ­ ence -3.5, 95% CI -5.6 to -1.5, p=0.001), with adjustment for child’s age and sex, maternal age at delivery, gestational age, birthweight, and duration of breastfeeding (719). The authors were suspicious of a likely causal link between fetal exposure to glucose and the children’s IQ scores, because there were mixed results for the association of maternal genetic variants for fasting glucose and type 2 diabetes with lower or higher child IQ test results (719). Results may have been diluted by inclusion of women with gestational diabetes (720), and certainly glycos­ uria, which may occur in nondiabetic pregnancy. A study linked national registers in Sweden to explore associations between maternal pregnancy diabetes and male offspring educational achievement at age 16 years, as well as IQ at the mandatory military conscription examination at age 18 years (721). Among nonsiblings, maternal diabetes was significantly associated with slightly lower offspring cognitive ability, even after adjustment for
