Chapter 5: Preexisting Diabetes and Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, women, type, pregnancy, type diabetes, age, data, prevalence, years, diabetic, maternal, preexisting, care, risk, preexisting diabetes


partial breastfeeding. Uusitalo U, Liu X, Lang J, Aronsson CA, Hummel S, Butterworth M, Lernmark A, Rewers M, Hagopian W, She JX, Simell O, Toppari J, Ziegler AG, Akolkar B, Krischer J, Norris JM, Virtanen SM; TEDDY Study Group: Association of early exposure to probiotics and islet autoimmunity in the TEDDY Study. JAMA Pediatr 170:20–28, 2016 Ongoing prospective cohort follow-up study of 7,473 infants with high-risk HLA (human leukocyte antigen)-DR genotypes at three U.S. and three European centers to determine persistent islet autoimmunity. In children with the DR3/4 genotype, early (age 0–27 days), but not later, supplementation with varied probi­ otics by parental report (mainly in Europe; from dietary supplements in Finland and probiotic infant formulas in Germany) was associated with decreased risk of later islet autoimmunity when adjusting for duration of exclusive breast­ feeding and many other factors (HR 0.40, 95% CI 0.21–0.74) and strongly associated with diarrhea and antibiotic use in the first year of life. Krischer JP, Lynch KF, Lernmark A, Hagopian WA, Rewers MJ, She JX, Toppari J, Ziegler AG, Akolkar B; TEDDY Study Group: Genetic and environmental interactions modify the risk of diabetes-related autoimmunity by 6 years of age: the TEDDY Study. Diabetes Care 40:1194– 1202, 2017 Infants with HLA-DR high-risk genotypes were prospectively followed for diabetes-related autoantibodies. The persisting GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase) antibody was associated with only father as the diabetic proband and infant weight at age 12 months; mother as the diabetic proband was not a significant risk factor. Hummel S, Beyerlein A, Tamura R, Uusitalo U, Andren Aronsson C, Yang J, Riikonen A, Lernmark A, Rewers MJ, Hagopian WA, She JX, Simell OG, Toppari J, Ziegler AG, Akolkar 5–106 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition B, Krischer JP, Virtanen SM, Norris JM; TEDDY Study Group: First infant formula type and risk of islet autoimmunity in the Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young (TEDDY) Study. Diabetes Care 40:398–404, 2017 Confirms an earlier analysis that islet autoim­ munity is not reduced and may be increased by using hydrolyzed compared with nonhydro­ lyzed cow’s milk-based infant formula as the first formula in infants at increased genetic risk for type 1 diabetes. Halipchuk J, Temple B, Dart A, Martin D, Sellers EA: Prenatal, obstetric and perinatal factors associated with the development of childhood-onset type 2 diabetes. Can J Diabetes 42:71–77, 2018 Retrospective matched case (270)-control (1,341) study using Manitoba, Canada, admin­ istrative data. Low maternal
