Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


are being studied in phase II/III trials and future management will involve the use of combination therapy, as for other chronic metabolic conditions. In summary, endocrinologists need to be aware of the severe metabolic and liver-specific complications of NASH and establish early-on a long-term management plan. Screening will likely take place in the same way as for diabetic retinopathy or nephropathy. A better understanding of its natural history and pathogenesis of NASH, combined with improved diagnostic and treatment options, will likely place endocrinologists at the forefront of the management efforts to prevent end-stage liver disease in patients with NASH. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver condition that is on the rise. It has become the most common chronic liver condition in many parts of the world. It encompasses a wide spectrum of disease with different clinical implications. NAFLD means that there is evidence of liver steatosis, either by imaging or histology, in the absence of secondary causes of hepatic fat accumulation such as significant alcohol consumption, chronic use of steatogenic medication, or another established chronic liver disease. Between 40 to 50% of patients that are obese have NAFLD and this rises to about 70% if they have type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In its simplest form, known as isolated steatosis or NAFL (nonalcoholic fatty liver), there is triglyceride accumulation of ≥5% without evidence of hepatocellular injury in the form of hepatocyte ballooning or evidence of fibrosis. Although the natural history of this condition remains uncertain, and may possibly progress to more severe disease, at the present moment NAFL is considered to be associated with limited risk of liver morbidity. However, it is associated with insulin resistance so that the liver can be seen as a “mirror” of metabolic health (i.e., in obesity steatosis being a reflection of insulin resistance, and in particular, of adipose tissue dysfunction) and with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). In its more severe form, known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis or NASH, steatosis ≥5% is associated with hepatocyte injury with necrosis (“ballooning”) and lobular inflammation, with or without fibrosis. Steatohepatitis is often a progressive disorder in T2DM associated with the development of fibrosis that can eventually lead to cirrhosis. Liver fibrosis is defined by its severity in stages ranging from absence of fibrosis (stage F0)
