Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


in T2DM associated with the development of fibrosis that can eventually lead to cirrhosis. Liver fibrosis is defined by its severity in stages ranging from absence of fibrosis (stage F0) to mild (stage F1), moderate (stage F2, with zone 3 sinusoidal fibrosis plus periportal fibrosis), and “advanced” fibrosis referring specifically to stages 3 (bridging fibrosis) or 4 (cirrhosis). Having fibrosis is the most important histological feature of NAFLD associated with long-term mortality. Fibrosis also predisposes patients to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Type 2 diabetes mellitus has been a well-established factor in the progression of NAFLD to more severe forms, including a higher incidence of HCC ( 1 - 3 ). However, in clinical practice NAFLD still remains an under-recognized complication of T2DM, unlike the other microvascular and macrovascular complications. As discussed later, isolated steatosis and NASH may carry an increased risk of CVD and being the most common cause of death in patients with NAFLD, independent of other metabolic comorbidities. It is important for endocrinologists and primary care physicians to recognize that NAFLD in T2DM has been shown to be associated with adverse metabolic changes resulting in increased atherosclerotic disease and cardiovascular consequences ( 4 , 5 ). NAFLD: KEY CONCEPTS The incidence of NAFLD is rising, paralleling that of obesity and diabetes mellitus. There has been extensive research in the area of NAFLD, especially over the past two decades. However, given the lack of highly reliable noninvasive diagnostic methods, the burden of NAFLD probably remains overlooked. By liver ultrasound, studies have demonstrated the prevalence of NAFLD to be 24% in United States, whereas using blood testing alone this is underestimated at just 13% ( 6 ). By the gold-standard magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy ( 1 H-MRS), the prevalence of NAFLD in the general population is estimated to be 34% ( 7 ). Unfortunately, imaging techniques cannot adequately evaluate for hepatocellular necrosis or inflammation (i.e. NASH). Studies that have utilized a liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of NAFLD have shown that 59% of patients with NAFLD have NASH, this being much higher in obese individuals ( 6 ). Moreover, recent studies have reported that about 18% of unselected patients with T2DM have moderate-to-severe (F2-F4) fibrosis ( 6 , 8 ). NAFLD often progresses to steatohepatitis (NASH), especially in patients with T2DM. NASH is hallmarked by hepatocellular necrosis, lobular inflammation and often fibrosis. Many studies have now documented that patients
