Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


). NAFLD often progresses to steatohepatitis (NASH), especially in patients with T2DM. NASH is hallmarked by hepatocellular necrosis, lobular inflammation and often fibrosis. Many studies have now documented that patients with NASH and fibrosis have the worst mortality ( 9 ). As fibrosis progresses, cirrhosis develops. This rate of progression to cirrhosis is highly variable and dependent on age, BMI, blood pressure control, presence of T2DM, and degree of steatohepatitis ( 10 ). The three most relevant risk factors are obesity (excessive BMI or visceral obesity), T2DM, and presence of moderate to severe fibrosis ( 11 ). However, given the high heterogeneity in disease progression one must admit that the precise factors leading to cirrhosis remain unclear. NASH is currently the second most common indication for liver transplantation, after hepatitis C. It is predicted to be the leading indication for liver transplantation in the next decade given the rise in incidence ( 8 ). The annual incidence of HCC in NAFLD – related cirrhosis is about 1% ( 1 , 8 , 12 , 13 ). Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis related cirrhosis is currently the third leading cause for HCC, after HCV and alcohol-related liver disease. Importantly, those with NASH- related HCC that undergo liver transplantation are more likely to have a higher BMI and higher rate of T2DM ( 13 ). In one study, it has also been demonstrated that HCC can develop in NASH in the absence of cirrhosis ( 14 ). NAFLD and Cardiovascular Disease Many factors lead to cardiovascular disease in patients with T2DM and NAFLD. For instance, they have increased intrahepatic triglyceride accumulation and insulin resistance. This is associated with increased hepatic VLDL secretion and a decrease in the peripheral clearance of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. This results in a proatherogenic profile, which includes hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL-C, and an increase in small, dense LDL particles, plus a state of subclinical inflammation ( 8 ). These patients also often have more severe hepatic insulin resistance leading to progressive deterioration of glycemic control ( 9 ). Hepatic insulin resistance is associated with hyperinsulinemia from increased insulin secretion and decreased insulin clearance ( 3 , 15 ). Hyperinsulinemia per se has been associated with atherogenesis in animal models of disease and in epidemiological studies. Chronic hyperinsulinemia also causes downregulation of insulin signaling pathways and acquired insulin resistance in short-term clinical studies in humans ( 11 ). In this context, hyperglycemia is more
