Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


epidemiological studies. Chronic hyperinsulinemia also causes downregulation of insulin signaling pathways and acquired insulin resistance in short-term clinical studies in humans ( 11 ). In this context, hyperglycemia is more severe and also appears to contribute to CVD. Endothelial dysfunction also has been shown to cause increased cardiovascular risk in patients with NAFLD ( 16 ). Early left ventricular “diastolic dysfunction” (or heart failure with preserved ejection fraction or HFpEF) has been noted in patients with NAFLD and well controlled T2DM independent of other risk factors ( 17 ). Patients with NAFLD are often found to have a significantly worse carotid intima-media thickness with increased atherosclerotic disease when compared with clinically matched patients without NAFLD. This has been correlated in some studies with an advancing degree of steatosis, inflammation, and/or fibrosis ( 18 , 19 ). In NASH with cirrhosis, CVD is the leading cause of mortality ( 1 , 8 , 20 ). Thus, it is not unexpected that in NAFLD many studies have reported a higher rate of CVD ( Tables 1 and 2 ). In addition to insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia, NAFLD and CVD cluster with other common risk factors, including hypertension, hyperlipidemia, T2DM, obesity and inflammation ( 8 ). The evidence of the association between NAFLD and increased CVD often persists even after adjusting for traditional cardiovascular risk factors ( Tables 1 and 2 ) ( 9 , 21 ). This suggests that the presence of NAFLD may independently increase an individual’s cardiovascular risk, but whether this is worse in patients with steatohepatitis compared to those just having isolated steatosis remains controversial. It should also be noted that many investigators have failed to see the association of NAFLD with CVD after adjusting for traditional cardiovascular risk factors, as detailed in Tables 1 and 2 . Table 1. Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with NAFLD without Type 2 Diabetes View in own window Author (year) NAFLD vs controls (n) Diagnosis of NAFLD Primary endpoint Increased CVD Adjusted CV risk Study design Villanova et al ( 22 ) 80 Liver biopsy Endothelial function Yes Yes Prospective case-control, Cross-sectional Brea et al ( 23 ) 80 Ultrasound (US) Carotid intima-media thickness test (CIMT) Yes No Case-control, Cross-sectional Adams et al ( 24 ) 420 US, CT, MRI or Liver biopsy All cause and CV mortality Yes No Retrospective cohort, Longitudinal Volzke et al ( 25 ) 4222 Ultrasound CIMT Yes
