Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


Cross-sectional Kwak et al ( 61 ) 213 Ultrasound Coronary artery calcium score Yes*** Yes Cross-sectional Mantovani et al ( 62 ) 222 Ultrasound LV diastolic dysfunction Yes Yes Cross-sectional * CV risk remained significant after adjustment for other traditional cardiovascular risk factors, however did not remain significant after adjustment for HOMA-IR. ** Only significant association was between NAFLD and significant CAD (defined as more than or equal to 50% stenosis in at least one coronary artery). *** Only significant association in patients with NAFLD and A1C > 7% but not in lower A1C. NAFLD and Chronic Kidney Disease The presence of NAFLD and NASH with fibrosis have been recently associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and more severe forms of fatty liver disease correlate with worse and progressive stages of CKD. In most studies, CKD has been defined as having an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 60 ml/min/1.73m 2 or increased albuminuria/proteinuria ( 20 , 63 , 64 ). In a case control study by Targher et al, the severity of liver histology in patients with biopsy-proven NASH was found to be independently associated with the degree of worsening eGFR ( 65 ). A cross-sectional study of Japanese patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD showed an increased prevalence of CKD with worsening liver histology. They found that overall, 14% of patients with NAFLD had evidence of CKD. Of the patients with biopsy proven NASH, 21% had the presence of CKD; and of the patients with NAFLD with no evidence of NASH, only 6% had CKD ( 64 ). This was higher than in patients without NAFLD or NASH. The pathophysiology of this association is not well understood, but the increased atherogenicity associated with NAFLD is likely a contributing factor ( 20 ). A more recent meta-analysis also showed a higher prevalence of CKD in patients with NASH when compared with patients with NAFLD without NASH, and a higher prevalence of CKD in patients with advanced fibrosis when compared with patients with lower degree of fibrosis ( 63 ). NAFLD and Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) have been found to have an increased prevalence of NAFLD. This association has been present even after adjusting for other factors associated with the metabolic syndrome, such as BMI, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 66 , 67 ). Evidence of hyperandrogenism, especially with testosterone level > 3 nmol/L has
