Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


associated with the metabolic syndrome, such as BMI, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 66 , 67 ). Evidence of hyperandrogenism, especially with testosterone level > 3 nmol/L has been associated with increased risk of NAFLD in women with PCOS ( 66 , 68 ). PATHOGENESIS Of note, the pathogenesis of NASH is poorly understood in humans. Most proposed mechanisms at the molecular level have only been observed in cell systems or animal models, but not confirmed in humans. Animal models of NASH are far from ideal in resembling human disease ( 69 ). Often treatments that are promising in animal models are in discordance with results in humans – indeed, most treatments that have resolved NASH, and even fibrosis, in mice have failed so far in large RCTs. A detailed description of the potential pathways leading to steatohepatitis exceeds the scope of this review, therefore we refer the reader to recent in-depth reviews involving a broad spectrum of mechanisms involved in the development of NASH and liver fibrosis ( 11 , 69 - 72 ). In Figure 1 (below) we propose a schematic representation of the factors and many pathways leading to NASH and fibrosis. Figure 1: Pathogenies of NAFLD, adapted from Cusi K ( 11 ). PNPLA3=patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3. TM6SF2=transmembrane-6 superfamily member 2. GCKR=glucokinase regulator. HSD17B13=hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13. NAFLD=non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. HDL-C=high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. LDL-C=low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. VLDL=very low-density lipoprotein. CETP=Cholesteryl ester transfer protein. Development of Steatosis Clinical studies have shown that the source of intrahepatic triglycerides in NAFLD is about two-thirds from free fatty acids originating from adipose tissue. However, higher rates of de novo lipogenesis (DNL) are also observed in obesity and T2DM ( 73 ). In obesity, adipocytes adapt to chronic excess energy supply by undergoing hypertrophy and hyperplasia. This is likely a protective adaptation to allow for an increase in adipocyte storage capacity and ameliorate the potential for ectopic triglyceride accumulation in tissues with limited ability to do so such as the liver, skeletal muscle, pancreas and others. When these adaptive mechanisms are overwhelmed by a chronic excess in nutrient supply, the chronic flux of FFAs promotes a state of “lipotoxicity” across different tissues ( 11 ). Adaptation to chronic overnutrition occurs at the expense of developing adipose tissue insulin resistance and triggering mechanisms that attract macrophage accumulation and activation in fat and systemic subclinical inflammation. Moreover, it has
