Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


chronic overnutrition occurs at the expense of developing adipose tissue insulin resistance and triggering mechanisms that attract macrophage accumulation and activation in fat and systemic subclinical inflammation. Moreover, it has been shown that hypertrophic adipocytes share a gene expression pattern that is similar to macrophages and produce adipocytokines similar to those produces by foam cells ( 74 ). Adipocytokines have a key role to play in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance by inhibiting insulin signaling pathways via action of insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 and c-Jun N terminal kinase (JNK) pathways. Insulin resistance and inflammation is also triggered by the generation of reactive oxygen species, and lipid intermediates such as diacylglycerol (DAG) ( 75 ), ceramides ( 76 , 77 ) and acylcarnitines ( 77 ). Normally, insulin decreases gluconeogenesis and increases hepatic synthesis of fatty acids and triglycerides. Based on animal models of T2DM, it has been postulated that there may be a selective hepatic insulin resistance to glucose metabolism pathways (i.e., inhibition of gluconeogenesis) while preservation of insulin sensitivity at lipid synthetic pathways ( 78 , 79 ). Selective insulin resistance in the gluconeogenic pathway would explain (at least in part) how hyperinsulinemia may attempt to normalize glucose metabolism at the expense of driving triglyceride synthesis, as hepatic lipid synthetic pathways retain a normal insulin sensitivity, explaining the etiology of both hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia in diabetes. More recently, Perry et al ( 80 ) reported that the major mechanism by which insulin suppresses hepatic glucose production appears to be through a reduction in hepatic acetyl CoA by suppression of lipolysis in white adipose tissue (WAT). This is associated with a reduction in pyruvate carboxylase flux. Of interest, insulin’s ability to inhibit hepatic acetyl CoA and lipolysis is lost in high-fat-fed rats, a phenomenon reversible by IL-6 neutralization and inducible by IL-6 infusion ( 80 ). However, the above relationship between hyperinsulinemia and steatosis does not completely explain the role of both factors in patients with NASH. In subjects with hepatic steatosis, increasing insulin levels only have a modest correlation with the severity of intrahepatic triglyceride accumulation ( 81 ) and there is no relationship between hyperinsulinemia or hepatic steatosis with the severity of inflammation, hepatocyte ballooning (injury), or fibrosis ( 15 , 81 ).This is despite patients with NASH having worse hyperinsulinemia compared to patients with isolated steatosis (NAFL). This suggests that other mechanisms play a role in human
