Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


( 15 , 81 ).This is despite patients with NASH having worse hyperinsulinemia compared to patients with isolated steatosis (NAFL). This suggests that other mechanisms play a role in human disease. Lipotoxicity has been extensively studied in skeletal muscle, where accumulation of ectopic triglycerides promotes the formation of toxic lipid metabolites (i.e., such as DAGs) that are closely associated with impairment in insulin signaling. Lipid infusions in healthy subjects have shown that at levels of plasma FFAs typically seen in obesity and NAFLD, there is suppression of insulin signaling and hence development of insulin resistance ( 82 ). Lipotoxicity has also reported in pancreatic beta-cells in humans. Normally, FFAs are the main energy source in the fasting state, with a switch to using glucose as the primary fuel after a meal. However, chronically elevated plasma FFA concentrations impair insulin secretion in subjects that are genetically prone to T2DM ( 83 ). NAFLD has been shown to also be a heritable disease ( 72 , 84 - 90 ). Nuclear receptors such as peroxisome proliferator-activated nuclear receptors (PPAR) play a key role in hepatic lipid metabolism, however results on association of PPAR and severity of NAFLD have been variable ( 75 ). Studies have shown that first-degree relatives of subjects with NAFLD are more susceptible to develop chronic liver disease as compared to the general population ( 72 , 84 ). Patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) gene polymorphism has been shown to be associated with worse hepatic steatosis and a worse long-term prognosis in patients with NASH ( 85 ). PNPLA3 is usually involved in hydrolysis of hepatocyte triglycerides. This polymorphism results in a loss of function mutation resulting in accumulation of intrahepatic triglycerides. Recently, it has been described that accumulation of PNPLA3 on lipid droplets is the basis of associated hepatic steatosis observed with this polymorphism ( 86 ). Another commonly described polymorphism involves transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2) which normally plays a role in interaction between triglycerides and Apolipoprotein B during the extrahepatic secretion of very low-density lipoprotein ( 87 ). This polymorphism results in increased hepatic triglyceride deposition, and lower circulating lipoproteins. Recent studies show this polymorphism is associated with higher risk of NAFLD but lower cardiovascular risk ( 87 ). A loss of function mutation in the glucokinase regulator (GCKR) gene locus has been implicated in the accumulation of hepatic fat ( 88 , 89
