Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


cardiovascular risk ( 87 ). A loss of function mutation in the glucokinase regulator (GCKR) gene locus has been implicated in the accumulation of hepatic fat ( 88 , 89 ). Normally, GCKR is involved in controlling the glucose influx into hepatocytes and hence regulating DNL. A protective splice variant HSD17B13 has also been identified. HSD17B13 encodes the lipid droplet protein hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) ( 90 ). This allele was associated with a reduced risk for progression from steatosis to steatohepatitis and fibrosis. Interestingly, it also seems to mitigate the effects of PNPLA3 polymorphism. Finally, an interesting observation is that individuals with familial hypobetalipoproteinemia (FHBL) are prone to NAFL but are characterized by very low levels of plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol that is protective against CVD ( 91 ). However, at the present time, genetic testing is not recommended in clinical practice as it remains unclear how the presence of a given mutation should modify current management of NASH ( 92 ). Development of Hepatocyte Injury and Steatohepatitis: Role of Mitochondrial Dysfunction It should be emphasized that the mechanisms leading to steatohepatitis in humans remain unknown. With limited exceptions that point to subtle defects in mitochondrial function in the liver of subjects with NAFLD and/or T2DM (reviewed in ref. 71 ), almost all of the available information has been extrapolated from cell culture studies or animal models of NASH. It is also unclear if NASH is always heralded by isolated steatosis, and what are the drivers of disease. While there is an increasing recognition that NASH is an heterogeneous disease affecting obese and non-obese individuals, disease progression is often with associated with obesity/weight gain and T2DM. Obvious limitations in obtaining sufficient liver tissue for molecular studies, as well as ethical challenges for performing paired liver biopsies before and after a given intervention, have greatly hampered our ability to make significant progress in understanding the pathogenesis of NASH in humans. However, factors associated with overnutrition and insulin resistance likely play a role in the maladaptation of mitochondrial oxidative function that leads to inefficient oxidative flux, accumulation of lipotoxic intermediates and the progression from isolated steatosis to NASH ( 71 , 93 ). As mentioned above, genetic factors may also regulate lipid droplet accumulation that may exacerbate disease progression. Many other trigger factors associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, oxidative stress and inflammasome activation have been described. However, the
