Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


also regulate lipid droplet accumulation that may exacerbate disease progression. Many other trigger factors associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, oxidative stress and inflammasome activation have been described. However, the exact temporal relationship and sequence of events remains elusive. Normally, there is a close regulation between beta-oxidation, hepatic tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity, ketogenesis and ATP synthesis. Normally, FFAs influx is efficiently dealt through beta-oxidation. However, in states of chronic overfeeding, beta-oxidation can over time become relatively ineffective, resulting in the accumulation of hepatocyte ceramides and DAGs (as well as acylcarnitines), as seen in states of hepatic steatosis ( 71 , 75 - 77 ). As summarized in Figure 2 , the current working hypothesis in NASH is that overactive hepatic TCA cycle carries the risk of overloading the mitochondrial electron transport chain and hence promoting not only the formation of toxic metabolites but the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and other inflammatory mediators. In this setting, it is believed that inflammatory pathways are triggered which then lead to hepatocyte necrosis and chronic inflammation, Kupffer cell activation and recruitment, as well as hepatic stellate cell activation. This disruption of the normal equilibrium between hepatocyte and its microenvironment (i.e., in particular with Kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells, the latter promoting fibrogenesis) seems to determine the degree of hepatocyte injury and the triggering of downstream pathways that lead to cirrhosis, as reviewed in-depth elsewhere ( 70 ). However, while many recent interventions successful in animal models have failed in humans, it is of interest that there is a correlation between successful treatment for NASH in humans (with GLP-1RA or pioglitazone [8]) with studies in vivo with such interventions that restore hepatocyte TCA function and reduce intracellular toxic lipids ( 94 , 95 ), giving support to the hypothesis of increased mitochondrial FFA flux as a potential therapeutic target for patients with NASH. Figure 2. Hepatic Mitochondrial Oxidative Dysfunction during NASH ( 71 ). Adipose tissue insulin resistance results in increased lipolysis and higher flux of FFAs into the liver ( 1 ), resulting in high rates of hepatic triglyceride accretion ( 2 ). Initial breakdown of FFA in the liver proceeds through b-oxidation, generating two-carbon units of acetyl-CoA ( 3 ). During hepatic insulin resistance, disposal of acetylCoA units through ketogenesis undergoes an early compensatory induction in simple steatosis, but is impaired in NASH ( 4 ). In spite of
