Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


). During hepatic insulin resistance, disposal of acetylCoA units through ketogenesis undergoes an early compensatory induction in simple steatosis, but is impaired in NASH ( 4 ). In spite of FFA overload, hepatic insulin resistance and steatosis result in beta-oxidation being inefficient and incomplete as evident from accumulating levels of hepatic ceramides, DAGs, and long-chain acylcarnitine ( 5 ). However, complete oxidation of acetyl-CoA units through the mitochondrial TCA cycle continues unabated during simple steatosis and NASH ( 6 ), potentially to meet the energetic demands of maintaining high rates of gluconeogenesis ( 7 ). The chronically elevated oxidative flux through TCA cycle during NASH has the potential to uncouple hepatic TCA cycle activity from mitochondrial respiration ( 8 ) by disrupting the mitochondrial electrochemical gradient and to impair ATP synthesis ( 9 ). This mitochondrial milieu could be a chronic source of ROS generation ( 10 ) and cellular inflammation, and could be a target for therapeutic manipulations. Abbreviations: Cer, ceramides; CoA, coenzyme A; DAGs, diacylglycerols; FFAs, free fatty acid; NASH, nonalcoholicsteatohepatitis; PEP, phosphoenolpyruvate; ROS, reactive oxygen species; TCA, tricarboxylic acid. However, linking NASH only to altered mitochondrial flux is obviously an oversimplification of a complex web of many factors at play. Other pathways that have been implicated in hepatocyte injury and the development of NASH, although rather broadly, include cholesterol accumulation in hepatocytes ( 96 ) and a tangled web involving activation of apoptotic pathways with ER stress and abnormal unfolded protein response ( 97 ), as well as defects in autophagy ( 98 ). Recently, inflammasome activation has gained attention as it integrates many cytoplasmic signals into danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) from diverse sources such as intracellular lipids to the gut microbiome ( 97 , 98 ). Diet and gut microbiota have been repeatedly implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. In particular, fructose appears to play a role in NASH by stimulating DNL and suppressing β-oxidation of FFAs, hence leading to hepatocyte injury ( 99 ). Many studies have shown that excess fructose consumption, usually as sugar-sweetened beverages with sucrose (converted to fructose and glucose after ingestion), is associated with development of NAFLD and NASH. Obesity is also associated with a change in gut microbiota that produce more reactive oxygen species and are involved in triggering a variety of inflammatory pathways ( 100 ). However, the causative role of the gut microbiome in
