Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


gut microbiota that produce more reactive oxygen species and are involved in triggering a variety of inflammatory pathways ( 100 ). However, the causative role of the gut microbiome in the development of T2DM or NAFLD remains overall poorly understood ( 101 ). Development of Liver Fibrosis Here too the data in humans is scarce and largely limited to in vitro and in vivo evidence. Potential mechanisms linked to the development of NASH have focused on hepatocyte apoptosis with the release of a broad spectrum of cytokines (e.g., interleukins [-1, -2, -18], hedgehog ligands, TNF-α, TGF-β, and many others) ( 11 , 97 , 98 ). Wang et al ( 102 ) have identified one such pathway (the transcriptional activator TAZ) that appears to play an important profibrogenic role in NASH in a mouse model of NASH. Taken together, this extensive signaling network, triggered by injured hepatocytes, activates nearby Kupffer cells that induce hepatic stellate cells to become myofibroblasts and increase the production of matrix proteins that result in cirrhosis over time. Genetics also appear to play a role as the PNPLA3-I148M variant may not only modify lipid droplet metabolism but have a direct role on stellate cell function in NASH ( 103 ). Recently, Lindén et al ( 104 ) reported a reduction in liver inflammation and fibrosis in a Pnpla3 knock-in 148M/M mutant mice (with a human PNPLA3 I148M mutation) with a liver-targeted GalNAc3-conjugated antisense oligonucleotide (ASO)-mediated that silenced Pnpla3 expression. At a clinical level, a recent study examined factors associated with disease progression in a large (n = 475 patients) clinical trial ( 105 ). The main factor associated with clinical disease progression is severity of fibrosis at baseline and greater increases in hepatic collagen content, level of alpha-smooth muscle actin, and Enhanced Liver Fibrosis score overtime. Over a follow-up period of 96 weeks, progression occurred in 22% of patients with bridging fibrosis (F3), while liver-related clinical events occurred in 19% of patients with cirrhosis. Beyond liver histology, from a clinical perspective, practitioners must keep in mind that obesity and T2DM remain the two major risk factors for liver disease progression which calls for screening and early intervention. DIAGNOSIS Having T2DM is associated with a much greater risk of NAFLD with approximately 70% of patients with T2DM having NAFLD when MRI-based techniques are used, as well as higher risk of having more advanced forms of the disease,
