Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


risk of NAFLD with approximately 70% of patients with T2DM having NAFLD when MRI-based techniques are used, as well as higher risk of having more advanced forms of the disease, such as fibrosis and cirrhosis ( 6 , 8 , 106 ). Despite all the current evidence, there is lack of awareness in primary care physicians and endocrinologists to evaluate patients with prediabetes or type 2 diabetes mellitus for NAFLD. Even if suspected to have NAFLD based on clinical characteristics, there is currently a lack of further investigations being undertaken as non-invasive biomarkers of the disease and even imaging, are not as reliable as wished and not available at every clinic. The widely accepted thought by primary care physicians, as well as many endocrinologists, is to not pursue any confirmatory testing to assess for the presence or degree of fibrosis, as it is believed to seldom change their management, except to re-emphasize lifestyle modifications and weight loss. However, few healthcare providers are aware about the efficacy of lifestyle changes and some currently available pharmacological agents to revert NASH, and even fibrosis, if done early and before the development of end-stage liver disease. Early detection and treatment of NAFLD can lead to better histological and metabolic outcomes, including CVD, and improve overall morbidity and mortality. NAFLD is a diagnosis of exclusion, so it is imperative to eliminate all other causes of liver disease (such as, alcoholic liver disease, medication induced toxicity, viral or autoimmune hepatitis, hemochromatosis, alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency, Wilson’s disease, other) prior to the diagnosis of NAFLD. Often management may require referral to hepatology and developing multidisciplinary teams ( 107 , 108 ). Once NAFLD is diagnosed, there needs to be further testing to evaluate for the presence and severity of fibrosis ( 8 ). Blood Tests Plasma aminotransferases are considered an insensitive marker for the presence of NAFLD. It has been shown that the prevalence of NAFLD may be as high as 50% in patients with T2DM and “normal” (≤40 IU/L) plasma aminotransferases using 1 H-MRS for the detection of hepatic steatosis ( 109 ). Of note, 56% of these patients had a diagnosis of NASH on liver biopsy, highlighting that reliance on ALT/AST alone may be an inadequate approach for the systematic detection of NASH in endocrinology or primary care clinics ( 50 ). Maximos et al ( 110 ) have reported a comparable degree of NASH
