Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


inadequate approach for the systematic detection of NASH in endocrinology or primary care clinics ( 50 ). Maximos et al ( 110 ) have reported a comparable degree of NASH in patients with normal vs. abnormal levels of plasma aminotransferases, emphasizing the non-reliability of plasma aminotransferases as clinical biomarkers for presence or severity of disease, a finding consistent with the literature by others ( 6 , 9 , 111 ). Factors affecting elevation of plasma aminotransferases included adipose tissue insulin resistance and intra-hepatic triglyceride content, rather than hepatic insulin resistance ( 110 ). There is some evidence to suggest lowering the optimal threshold for considering plasma alanine transferase (ALT) as normal to be ≤30 U/L in men and ≤19 U/L in women ( 112 ). This increases the sensitivity of this screening method. Plasma ALT is usually more elevated than AST in the presence of NAFLD and NASH, unless there is advanced disease or cirrhosis, when AST usually increases. Significant efforts have been made in finding the ideal biomarker panel for the diagnosis of NAFLD/NASH. Simple metabolic algorithms such as fatty liver index (using measures, such as BMI, waist circumference, triglyceride levels, and GGT) used for diagnosis of NAFLD have not been shown to be very reliable when compared with more accurate and advanced techniques, such as 1 H-MRS ( 113 ). It is not a test for the diagnosis of inflammation or fibrosis ( 114 ). Several biomarker clinical scores (using different measures, such as AST, ALT, BMI, platelets, albumin, T2DM) have been developed to evaluate for the presence and degree of liver fibrosis ( 8 ). These tests are listed in the Table 3 . Among these, only the NAFLD fibrosis score and FIB-4 have been confirmed across a broad spectrum of populations and considered the most reliable for the exclusion of advanced fibrosis ( 115 ). It is apparent that these scores are only able to distinguish relatively well between the two extremes – a population without evidence of NAFLD and a population with advanced fibrosis (F3-4). Most times, results fall in an intermediate or undetermined range, thus are not able to accurately classify patients in the spectrum of mild (F1) to moderate (F2) disease ( 9 ). These scores are also limited for use in population without T2DM. They have not been shown to be very reliable in this specific high-risk population of patients with T2DM
