Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


). These scores are also limited for use in population without T2DM. They have not been shown to be very reliable in this specific high-risk population of patients with T2DM ( 9 ). Table 3. Biomarkers Available for use in Diagnosis of Advanced Fibrosis (Stages 3 or 4). Modified from reference ( 8 ) View in own window Test Parameters included number PPV NPV Patients unable to be classified “grey zone” NAFLD fibrosis score Age, BMI, diabetes, AST/ALT ratio, platelets, albumin 733 82% 88% 24% Fibrotest Age, sex, total bilirubin, GGT, a2-macroglobulin, apolipoprotein A1, haptoglobin 267 60% 98% 32% †FIB-4 index Age, AST and ALT, platelets 541 80% 90% 30% †BARD score BMI, diabetes, AST/ALT ratio 827 43% 96% N/A NAFIC score Ferritin, type IV collagen, insulin 619 36% 99% 15% †Hepascore Age, sex, total bilirubin, GGT, a2-macroglobulin, hyaluronic acid 242 57% 92% 11% N/A, not applicable; NPV, negative predictive value; PPV, positive predictive value. † No independent validation cohort included in the study. Some commercially available tests based on a metabolomic profile have been tested as a novel means to evaluate for NAFLD or NASH and recently tested in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. These tests have shown some promise to distinguish between normal liver and NAFLD and also able to detect NASH in people without diabetes. However, when applied to a population with T2DM, these tests have not been as accurate as expected to predict presence of NAFLD, NASH or fibrosis ( 115 , 116 ). There is an increasing interest in assessing the utility of novel biomarkers, such as plasma fragments of propeptide of type III procollagen (PROC3) for the detection of liver fibrosis in patients with T2DM. A recent study reported that PRO-C3 performed well (overall similarly to APRI or FIB-4) but with the added value of predicting histological changes in fibrosis stage with treatment ( 117 ). However, more studies are needed to determine its real value to monitor therapy. At the present time, available genetic tests include PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 and a few others (as described above), but they are not routinely performed at this time and limited to academic centers for research only. This is likely to change in the near future as more sophisticated genetic testing becomes available. In summary, clinicians may use plasma aminotransferases or simple panels such as FIB-4 or NAFLD fibrosis score to identify patients at the highest
