Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


as more sophisticated genetic testing becomes available. In summary, clinicians may use plasma aminotransferases or simple panels such as FIB-4 or NAFLD fibrosis score to identify patients at the highest risk of having NASH with advanced fibrosis (F3-4) in the clinic, but knowing that while the specificity may be acceptable (“rule out” advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis) the sensitivity is rather low. A screening strategy should include the above and imaging as described below as ultrasound and/or controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) have better sensitivity for the diagnosis of steatosis. The 2019 American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines for the first time recommend screening to identify liver fibrosis in patients with prediabetes or T2DM with elevated plasma aminotransferases and/or steatosis ( 118 ). Imaging Modalities MEASUREMENT OF INTRAHEPATIC TRIGLYCERIDES Liver Ultrasound Ultrasound is a relatively low-cost technique that is widely availability. Because of this it is routinely used for the diagnosis of NAFLD. However, it should be noted that the sensitivity of the test can be widely variable due to differences in operator technique and devices available, definition of steatosis, use of different echographic parameters to define steatosis, as well as the heterogeneity of the liver disease. While in one meta-analysis liver ultrasound was found to have a pooled sensitivity of 84.8% and specificity of 93.6% to detect hepatic steatosis of more than 20-30% ( 119 ), this literature is largely from liver clinics where disease severity is greater (i.e., more steatosis and better performance) but may not reflect the setting of primary care physicians or endocrinologists. More relevant was also the fact that the investigators calculated the sensitivity to diagnose moderate-to-severe fatty liver from the absence of steatosis, without considering mild-to-moderate NAFLD. However, clinicians are faced with many patients with NAFLD that have only mild-to-moderate intrahepatic triglycerides, emphasizing the importance of having simple imaging tools that can make the correct diagnosis in the clinic. In a study by Bril et al ( 120 ), the authors compared in 146 patients the performance of ultrasound using a score from five echographic parameters for steatosis or liver fat quantified by 1 H-MRS. They used as the gold-standard histology (liver biopsy). They reported that the performance of liver ultrasound (parenchymal echo alone) was relatively poor but improved to an acceptable level when compared to 1 H-MRS when enhanced by the five echographic parameter score for steatosis was utilized. The greatest sensitivity of the ultrasound test
