Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


but improved to an acceptable level when compared to 1 H-MRS when enhanced by the five echographic parameter score for steatosis was utilized. The greatest sensitivity of the ultrasound test was reached at a hepatic steatosis content of at least 12.5%. Below this threshold, the test was unreliable. Technological improvements may enhance in the near future the performance of liver ultrasound and its value in the management of patients with NAFLD. Controlled Attenuation Parameter (CAP) CAP is a relatively new imaging methodology to quantify steatosis. It is based on the principle that intrahepatic triglycerides delay ultrasound waves, so that when travelling through tissue with steatosis they will be attenuated when compared to normal liver tissue. The diagnostic range of CAP is from 100 to 400 dB/m. The higher the value the more suggestive of the presence of steatosis. The sensitivity of the test to diagnose hepatic steatosis was 68.8% and specificity was 82.2% in a meta-analysis of patients with biopsy-proven steatosis ( 121 ). Usually the cut-off of ≥280 dB/m is used to establish the diagnosis of steatosis. As discussed below, one advantage of CAP is that in addition to being a simple and useful point-of-care tool (often available in liver clinics), the estimation of CAP can be performed simultaneously with that of the liver stiffness measurement (LSM; Fibroscan ® ) and from the same liver region of interest, significantly facilitating clinical management although the test has its limitations when liver fat is only mildly elevated. MR Spectroscopy MR-based techniques have been the most accurate procedure to quantify liver triglyceride content ( 122 ). The use of 1 H-MRS has proven to be very accurate for quantification of intrahepatic triglyceride content, with the results correlating well with steatosis on histology ( 120 ). MR spectroscopy derived proton density fat fraction (MR-PDFF) has recently evolved into a simpler and easier to standardize method for multicenter studies examining the effect of liver steatosis of new agents for the treatment of NASH ( 9 , 108 , 114 ). It has shown better diagnostic and grading capabilities for liver steatosis when compared with controlled attenuation parameter modality using transient elastography ( 122 ). However, MR spectroscopy remains an expensive test available mostly in academic centers, and requires special expertise for performance and analysis of the test ( 108 ). MEASUREMENT OF LIVER FIBROSIS Liver Stiffness Measurement (LSM; Fibroscan ® ) Liver fibrosis can
