Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


academic centers, and requires special expertise for performance and analysis of the test ( 108 ). MEASUREMENT OF LIVER FIBROSIS Liver Stiffness Measurement (LSM; Fibroscan ® ) Liver fibrosis can be assessed in the clinic or bedside by measuring the “stiffness” of the liver. The LSM is estimated by using vibration controlled transient elastography or VCTE (Fibroscan ® ) to assess presence and severity of fibrosis. This modality also allows for a reasonably accurate quantification of the degree of fibrosis and hence, prognosis ( 108 , 92 ). It is a quick (10 minutes), easy, and economical tool for assessment, however the test requires a 3-hour fast, and in obese people liver fibrosis cannot be always estimated and performance is worse (particularly when BMI ≥40 kg/m 2 ) ( 108 ). At present, this test is not FDA-approved to be performed in patients with a pacemaker or during pregnancy. MR Elastography This modality is based on the same principle of liver “stiffness” as VCTE but it is a MR-based technique that has a sensitivity of 86% and specificity of 91% for assessment of degree of fibrosis ( 108 ). It is shown to be superior to VCTE, especially in diagnosis of early as well as advanced stages of fibrosis and cirrhosis. It is however much more expensive, requires special expertise to perform, and the current availability is limited. It also needs to take into account patient’s size and weight, any metal implants, as well as anxiety and claustrophobia during the procedure ( 92 , 108 ). Liver Biopsy Liver biopsy remains the gold-standard for diagnosis of NASH and for assessing the degree/severity of fibrosis ( 94 ). It is the only modality to reliably distinguish between steatosis alone from NASH and advanced fibrosis and to eliminate other etiologies of liver disease 108,123-125). The degree of liver disease on histopathology is graded on a score that has been developed, called the NAFLD activity score (NAS). NAS score ranges from 0-8 and includes three parameters that are graded separately – steatosis (0-3), hepatocellular ballooning (0-2), and lobular inflammation (0-3). The degree or stage of fibrosis is graded separately from 0-3. These scores and staging ranges allow for a more accurate and reproducible way of monitoring of disease ( 108 , 123 , 125 ). However, there are limitations involving liver biopsies as well due to the inter-pathologist variability in interpretation of grades
