Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


way of monitoring of disease ( 108 , 123 , 125 ). However, there are limitations involving liver biopsies as well due to the inter-pathologist variability in interpretation of grades and degree of steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis ( 92 , 124 ). Despite all the current advances, there remains an urgent need for development of more cost-effective and reliable methods for non-invasive screening of NAFLD to ensure early and prompt diagnosis for the best treatment outcomes. TREATMENT The aim of treatment for patients with NASH is to delay or reverse the progression of fibrosis and improve NASH-related morbidity/mortality due to hepatic (cirrhosis and HCC) and extra-hepatic complications, mainly cardiovascular disease (CVD). Currently there is no pharmacotherapy approved by regulatory agencies for the treatment of NAFLD, although pioglitazone is recommended by the current guidelines as a choice for patients with or without T2DM, and vitamin E for patients without diabetes ( 92 , 124 ). The FDA has accepted 2 endpoints as valid ones for drug approval in clinical trials: a) Resolution of the histological findings that define NASH (necroinflammation) without worsening of fibrosis, and b) Reversal of ≥1 fibrosis stage without worsening of steatohepatitis/NASH ( 124 , 126 , 127 ). Despite the many ongoing efforts to find novel pharmacological agents the first-line of treatment will always be lifestyle modification including diet, exercise and weight loss ( 92 , 124 ), to combat insulin resistance and the related conditions like diabetes and obesity so closely related to NAFLD ( 128 - 130 ). Weight loss: Lifestyle, Bariatric Surgery and Weight Loss Agents Numerous studies have shown the beneficial effect of weight loss to improve hepatic steatosis. It has been reported that weight loss not only improves liver steatosis and other histological features of NASH (including fibrosis) but can decrease insulin resistance and blood pressure as well as improve atherogenic dyslipidemia (elevated LDL-C and triglycerides, low HDL-C) ( 92 , 131 ). In a meta-analysis of eight trials including 373 patients, improvement in hepatic steatosis was seen in patients who lost ≥5% of body weight, while NAFLD activity score (NAS) improvement was associated with weight loss of ≥7% body weight ( 132 ). In another randomized well-controlled trial paired with liver biopsy, weight loss and exercise program resulted in improvement of NASH. Moreover, this study showed that the magnitude of weight loss correlated strongly with improvement in histology ( 133 ).
