Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


biopsy, weight loss and exercise program resulted in improvement of NASH. Moreover, this study showed that the magnitude of weight loss correlated strongly with improvement in histology ( 133 ). However, even with intensive multidisciplinary lifestyle interventions, more than half of patients were unable to achieve the weight loss target (weight loss of ≥7% body weight) which makes patient compliance the main concern ( 132 ). Despite the presence of multiple studies that correlates weight loss with the improvement of histological disease in NASH, little is known about the long-term effect (i.e. beyond 1 year) of weight loss on liver histology ( 8 ). Weight reduction of 10% by lifestyle modification may cause a signiﬁcant regression of ﬁbrosis ( 133 , 134 ). A greater and a more sustained over time decrease in weight loss with improvement in steatohepatitis, and even fibrosis, can be achieved by bariatric surgery ( 92 , 135 , 136 ). In a systematic review that included 21 observational studies of bariatric surgery in patients with NASH, an improvement in steatosis was reported in 18 studies, decreased inflammation was reported in 11 studies and improvement in fibrosis was reported in 6 studies ( 137 ). Only four studies reported some (minor) worsening of fibrosis ( 137 ). However, most bariatric surgery studies have some limitations: these include small size, lack of proper standardization of preoperative low-caloric diet, frequent dropouts, and often no standardized time after the repeat postoperative liver biopsy. Finally, there are no randomized clinical trials (RCT) that compare bariatric surgery versus conservative management in patients with NASH with liver histology as the primary endpoint ( 137 , 138 ). Weight loss agents had no specific liver benefit ( 131 ), but can help with weight control and cause improvement in plasma aminotransferases and liver histology ( 139 , 140 ). Adding regular moderate-intensity aerobic exercise/resistance training is highly encouraged as a lifestyle intervention for NAFLD. Exercise not only improves steatosis but the high cardio-metabolic risk profile, even in the absence of significant weight loss ( 92 , 124 , 141 ). In an uncontrolled study of 293 patients paired with liver biopsies, one year of structured exercise (walking 200 min/week) combined with a hypocaloric diet improved hepatic steatosis and necroinflammation ( 133 ). In order to sustain weight loss, most dietary recommendations for NAFLD reflect a combination of hypocaloric diet (500–1000 kcal/day energy deficit)
