Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


diet improved hepatic steatosis and necroinflammation ( 133 ). In order to sustain weight loss, most dietary recommendations for NAFLD reflect a combination of hypocaloric diet (500–1000 kcal/day energy deficit) with exercise ( 92 , 134 ). Heavy alcohol consumption should be avoided by patients with NAFLD and NASH. Heavy drinking is defined as four standard drinks on any day or more than 14 drinks per week in men, or more than three drinks on any day or seven drinks per week in women ( 92 ). There are no longitudinal studies reporting the effect of ongoing alcohol consumption on disease progression or the natural history of NAFLD or NASH. Pharmacological Agents with Evidence from RCTs for the Treatment of NASH Pharmacologic treatment has been extensively studied for patients with NASH with or without diabetes mellitus. For patients with NASH and T2DM, the typical initial therapy is with metformin. However, randomized controlled trials did not show improvement in liver histology ( 92 , 142 ). Given that insulin resistance is a core feature in the pathogenesis of NAFLD/NASH, thiazolidinediones (TZDs), targeting the transcription factor PPAR gamma in adipose tissue and other tissues, has been tested in several RCTs in patients with NASH ( 3 ). Pioglitazone at the molecular level modulates glucose and lipid metabolism and improves adipose tissue and hepatic insulin signaling and insulin sensitivity, collectively leading to improved liver histology in patients with NASH ( 143 - 149 ). However, the exact mechanism of action in humans is unknown and likely involves other pathways, for instance, activation of a mitochondrial pyruvate carrier (MPC) and/or PPAR alpha effects that may enhance mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. A recent study in vitro and in vivo suggested effects independent of activation of MPC ( 150 ). Of note, when rosiglitazone was compared to placebo in patients with NASH it did not show any improvement beyond a reduction in steatosis as hepatocyte necrosis, lobular inflammation and fibrosis were unchanged ( 151 ). This suggests that improvement in fibrosis is not necessarily due to PPAR gamma as rosiglitazone is strictly a PPAR gamma agonist while pioglitazone is a considered a weaker agonist that also has PPAR alpha activity. Of note, different PPAR gamma activators do not modulate function or increase the expression of identical genes. The expression profiles can vary, which can explain differential effects via PPAR gamma activation. Pioglitazone has been the agent
