Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


do not modulate function or increase the expression of identical genes. The expression profiles can vary, which can explain differential effects via PPAR gamma activation. Pioglitazone has been the agent most studied to date in patients with and without diabetes and biopsy-proven NASH ( 143 - 149 ), as recently reviewed in-depth along with other medications to treat diabetes regarding their effect in NAFLD ( 152 ). Resolution of NASH with pioglitazone treatment has been fairly consistent across studies of 6 to 36 month duration and ranges from ~47% (or 29% placebo-subtracted) in patients without diabetes with pioglitazone 30 mg/day for 24 months ( 94 ), to ~60% (or ~40% placebo-subtracted) with pioglitazone 45 mg/day in those with prediabetes or T2DM treated for 6 to 36 months ( 143 , 148 , 149 ). Taken together, these results suggest that pioglitazone might play a role in modifying disease progression and its natural history in patients with or without diabetes. In addition, pioglitazone may improve the cardiometabolic profile of patients with NASH by reducing progression to diabetes and CVD. Many patients with obesity and NAFLD/NASH have (often undiagnosed) prediabetes. Pioglitazone has proven effective for the prevention of diabetes in subjects with prediabetes ( 153 ) and shown to ameliorate cardiovascular events in patients with metabolic syndrome or prediabetes with a history of a stroke. Recently, the IRIS study reported the effect of pioglitazone in patients that had taken ≥80% of the prescribed medication reduced stroke by 36%, acute coronary syndromes by 53%, and the combined endpoint of stroke/MI/hospitalization for heart failure by 39% ( 154 ). However, it remains puzzling that for a population with such a high cardiovascular risk from having obesity, T2DM and NASH, the cardiometabolic benefits of pioglitazone are frequently dismissed because of potential side effects that can be mitigated with close monitoring: bone loss, weight gain (3-5%) (most usually associated with improved insulin action on adipose tissue, not edema), or lower extremity edema in ~5% but higher if on amlodipine or high-dose insulin ( 152 , 155 ). Consistent with diabetes prevention and CVD reduction ( 156 - 160 ), patients become more metabolically healthy despite weight gain ( 143 , 149 ). While pioglitazone improves left ventricular function in healthy patients with T2DM ( 161 ), it may trigger heart failure in patients who have fluid retention and subclinical (undiagnosed) heart failure with preserved left ejection
