Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


ventricular function in healthy patients with T2DM ( 161 ), it may trigger heart failure in patients who have fluid retention and subclinical (undiagnosed) heart failure with preserved left ejection fraction (HFpEF), also known as “diastolic dysfunction” (≤1%) ( 155 ). Obese patients with T2DM and NASH are more prone to HFpEF ( 162 ). Therefore, in our experience, this can be avoided if pioglitazone is not prescribed to poor candidates, such as those with long-standing history of severe CVD that could be associated with heart failure, baseline presence of unexplained shortness of breath or lower extremity edema, severe obesity (BMI ≥40 kg/m 2 ), or longstanding diabetes on high-dose insulin. Concomitant use of amlodipine, that is often already associated with lower extremity edema, should also be avoided. The clinician suspecting HFpEF may consider ruling this condition out before initiating therapy. Options to this end are ordering a transthoracic echocardiogram or plasma N-terminal (NT)-pro hormone B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), the non-active prohormone from BNP. Both BNP and NT-proBNP are released in response to changes in cardiac pressure with plasma levels increasing when heart failure develops or worsens ( 162 ). There is significant controversy about the risk of bladder cancer with pioglitazone and unlikely ever to be resolved given the overall low frequency of bladder cancer in the general population. A recent 10-year prospective study was negative for bladder cancer ( 163 ) and there was no association found in a recent meta-analysis comparing patients who had been ever vs. never users of pioglitazone, but there was a small but significant association with 1–2 years (HR = 1·28 [1·08–1·55]) and >2 years (HR = 1·42 [1·14–1·77]) of exposure ( 164 ). In absolute terms, bladder cancer developed in <0.3% of patients both exposed and not exposed to pioglitazone. The numbers needed to treat for one additional case of bladder cancer ranged from 899 to 6380 (median of 2540), while the benefit for CVD and NASH ranged from 4–256 and 2–12, respectively. Taken together, pioglitazone is an evidence-based treatment option for patients with and without diabetes and NASH ( 92 ). It is also a generic medication recommended by the current ADA and EASD guidelines as a low-cost option, along with sulfonylureas, for the management of T2DM. Pioglitazone is likely to become for patients with NASH what metformin is for the management of T2DM, an inexpensive and effective option offering liver
