Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


sulfonylureas, for the management of T2DM. Pioglitazone is likely to become for patients with NASH what metformin is for the management of T2DM, an inexpensive and effective option offering liver histological and cardiometabolic benefit and likely to be combined with novel therapeutic agents under development. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are another group of pharmacologic agents widely used for the treatment of diabetes that also have significant cardiometabolic benefits. A recent review summarized the many studies that have tested GLP-1RAs in patients with NAFLD ( 152 ). Typically, treatment is associated with weight loss and a decrease in plasma aminotransferases and hepatic steatosis. In the only study to date examining their role in NASH, Armstrong et al ( 165 ) randomized 52 patients with NASH to receive either liraglutide or placebo for 48 weeks. NASH resolved in nine patients (39%) who received liraglutide compared to two patients (9%) in the placebo group (RR 4.3; 95% CI 1.0-17). Patients who received liraglutide were less likely to have progression of fibrosis (9 versus 36 percent; RR 0.2; 95% CI 0.1-1.0). These results are consistent with most other controlled and uncontrolled trials with liraglutide and other GLP-1RAs that have consistently led to weight loss and a reduction hepatic steatosis on imaging and in plasma aminotransferases in patients with NAFLD ( 166 ). In contrast, DPP-IV agents have largely been ineffective in RCTs in NAFLD ( 166 ). The sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors have a significant role in the management of patients with T2DM ( 167 ). They promote weight loss, reduce the risk of CKD and of heart failure, and decrease overall rates of cardiovascular events in patients with T2DM ( 168 ). Several studies in animal models of NAFLD have reported that this class of agents reverses hepatic steatosis and necroinflammation. Early studies reported improvements in plasma aminotransferases and hepatic steatosis ( 152 ). Recent controlled RCTs have reported a (modest) reduction in hepatic steatosis on imaging with canagliflozin ( 169 ) and dapagliflozin ( 170 ) in patients with T2DM and NAFLD. These findings combined with their attractive properties of weight loss and decreasing diabetic comorbidities would make them potentially valuable for combination therapy (i.e., pioglitazone) for patients with NAFLD, as shown from combination therapy trials in patients with T2DM ( 171 - 173 ). Finally, it is important to mention vitamin E as it has been examined in
