Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


NAFLD, as shown from combination therapy trials in patients with T2DM ( 171 - 173 ). Finally, it is important to mention vitamin E as it has been examined in RCTs for the treatment of NASH in patients with ( 149 ) and without ( 147 ) T2DM. In a study in patients with NASH but without diabetes, vitamin E showed improvement in the primary outcome, but had borderline efficacy for resolution of NASH (considered today a more relevant outcome) compared to placebo (36% vs. 21%; p = 0.05) and numerically appeared as less significant compared to pioglitazone (47%; p = 0.001 vs. placebo) ( 147 ). Recently, Bril et al ( 149 ) found that vitamin E alone appeared to not be as effective in patients with T2DM, as it failed to meet the primary outcome of a two-point reduction in the NAFLD activity score from two different parameters, without worsening of fibrosis. However, when vitamin E was combined with pioglitazone more patients on combination therapy achieved the primary outcome versus placebo (54% vs. 19%, P = 0.003) although the efficacy did not seem to be greater than that with pioglitazone alone in previous trials ( 143 , 148 ). Resolution of NASH occurred in both groups compared with placebo (combination group: 43% vs. 12%, P = 0.005; vitamin E alone: 33% vs. 12%, P = 0.04). Other relevant group of agents tested in NASH include the lipid-lowering drugs (e.g. statins, colesevelam, omega 3 fatty acids, fibrates and niacin), which have not shown much success when studied in clinical trials in patients with NASH ( 174 - 179 ). The Future: Many Agents on the Horizon for NASH Given the rapid evolution of the field, with constant new drugs entering the arena of trials and others failing, we to refer the reader to recent in-dept reviews on the topic ( 180 , 181 ). Many pharmacological agents are being tested in phase 2 and phase 3 trials targeting a broad spectrum of pathways involved in the pathogenesis of NASH. Therapeutic targets of significant interest include farnesoid X receptor (FXRs), which regulate hepatic glucose and lipid metabolism ( 182 ). In the FLINT trial ( 183 ), in which obeticholic acid (manufactured by Intercept) was compared to placebo there was some evidence of histological improvement, including a mild effect on fibrosis that was recently confirmed in the Interim Analysis of
