Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


acid (manufactured by Intercept) was compared to placebo there was some evidence of histological improvement, including a mild effect on fibrosis that was recently confirmed in the Interim Analysis of the Phase 3 REGENERATE trial but showed no improvement in resolution of NASH ( 184 ). Unfortunately, a significant number of patients complain of pruritus and there was a worsening of dyslipidemia that can be mitigated by co-administration of statins ( 183 ). Several novel FXR compounds are in development ( 180 , 181 ). As discussed, PPAR nuclear receptors play a key role in insulin sensitivity. In the light of their roles in NAFLD and NASH several combined PPAR agonists have been studied. Elafibranor (manufactured by Genfit), is a dual receptor PPAR-α/δ agonist that improves in insulin resistance and glucose/lipid metabolism ( 185 ). In the GOLDEN trial, a phase study 2b study, elafibranor 120 mg/day for a year led to a modest improvement in resolution of NASH compared to placebo in the subgroup with worse steatohepatitis ( 186 ). Another PPAR agonist is lanifibranor, a panPPAR agonist (PPAR-α/δ/ γ), is currently undergoing phase 2 clinical trials in NASH ( 187 ). Saroglitazar (by Zydus), is a dual PPAR-α/γ agonist with a predominant PPAR-α activity, reverses steatohepatitis in experimental NASH models ( 188 ) and is undergoing clinical trials. A phase 2b RCT of MSDC-0602K by Cirius is expected to report results in late 2019 for the treatment of NASH. It is a compound designed to minimize PPAR gamma binding activity but to maintain binding affinity to a second cellular target of all TZDs that has been identified as the mitochondrial target of the TZDs (mTOT) or mitochondrial pyruvate carrier (MPC) ( 189 ). Other insulin-sensitizers in earlier stages of development include PXL-065 (by Poxel), an enantiomer of pioglitazone, and CHS-131 (by Coherus) a compound with PPARγ activity tested earlier in patients with T2DM. Other pharmaceutical compounds being tested for the treatment of NASH aim at a variety of potential pathways. We will mention only a few examples for the reader to appreciate the broad spectrum of targets being studied. Aramchol (by Galmed) is a novel compound that downregulates stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), a key enzyme involved in triglyceride biosynthesis ( 190 ). Inhibition of de novo lipogenesis (increased in NASH) by an inhibitor of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), the rate limiting enzyme in this pathway, is also being studied
