Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed, patients, disease, nash, nafld, nonalcoholic, fatty, liver disease, fatty liver, diabetes, fibrosis, steatosis, hepatic, free


biosynthesis ( 190 ). Inhibition of de novo lipogenesis (increased in NASH) by an inhibitor of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), the rate limiting enzyme in this pathway, is also being studied in RCTs in patients with NASH (GS-0976, Gilead) ( 191 , 192 ). Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-19 functions as a hormone that regulates bile acid metabolism with effects on glucose and lipid metabolism ( 193 ). NGM282 (NGM Biopharmaceuticals) is an engineered analogue of FGF-19 for the treatment of NASH with promising early results ( 194 ). Several companies are testing analogues of FGF21 that have significant metabolic effects on glucose and lipid metabolism as well as hepatic fat ( 180 , 181 ). Thyroid hormone receptor (THR) β-selective agonists, appear to specifically target the liver and improve steatohepatitis in animal models and early clinical trials in patients with NASH ( 195 , 196 ). Many other agents are being tested at this time. CONCLUSION Endocrinologists must be aware that NAFLD is a potentially severe disease in patients with T2DM, due to both its hepatic and extrahepatic complications. In 2019 the ADA included for the first time in its recommendations to implement regular screening for advanced fibrosis in all patients with prediabetes or T2DM with evidence of elevated plasma aminotransferases or steatosis, so an early diagnosis can prevent long-term complications ( 118 ). This is the first step of management while being aware of the significant need for accurate and cost-effective diagnostic modalities and for continued research efforts for new treatments. Figure 3 is a suggested algorithm to be used for endocrinologists and primary care settings when evaluating a patient with prediabetes or T2DM for the possibility of having NASH. In the future, we anticipate that patients with T2DM will be routinely screened for NASH in the same way they are today for diabetic retinopathy or nephropathy. Figure 3. Management of patients with prediabetes or type 2 diabetes mellitus and suspected NAFLD. Based on figure from reference ( 8 ). *High risk patients include patients with type 2 diabetes > 10 years, A1c > 8.5%, triglycerides > 250mg/dl, evidence of steatosis based on MR imaging or controlled attenuation parameter (CAP), or genetic testing (PNPLA3 and/or TM6SF2). REFERENCES 1. Wainwright P, Scorletti E, Byrne CD. Type 2 diabetes and hepatocellular carcinoma: risk factors and pathogenesis. Curr Diab Rep. 2017; 17 :20. [ PubMed : 28290049 ] 2. Lallukka S, Yki-Järvinen H.
