REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


pathological changes caused by a variety of pathogenic factors conditions, macrophages of other origins are also continuously both inside and outside, which largely affect the normal recruitedtothetissues(8).Forexample,inlivertissues,inaddition physiological function of the human body. At present, to Kupffer cells residing permanently within the hepatic sinuses, numerous factors can trigger liver diseases, such as drugs, therearealsoabdomen-derivedmacrophagesandbonemarrow- chemical agents, viral infection, excessive alcoholconsumption, derived monocyte macrophages (9). More importantly, malnutrition, acid-base disorders, etc. (2–4). Based on the macrophageshaveextremeplasticity,whichcanexhibitdifferent different etiologies and pathogenesis, liver diseases are activation states due to the changes of tissue microenvironment classified as acute liver injury (ALI), viral hepatitis, alcoholic (10). Macrophages differentiate into different phenotypes under liver disease (ALD), metabolic-associated fatty liver disease the stimulation of various factors, and exhibit different (MAFLD), liver fibrosis (LF), cirrhosis, and hepatocellular characteristics and effects, thus exerting different regulatory carcinoma (HCC) (5). Due to the changes of living functions in the body’s physiological and pathological activities, environment and the guaiac irregularity of life habits, the whichisalsoknownasthepolarizingeffectofmacrophages(10). number of patients with liver diseases is increasing worldwide In recent years, a large body of literature has shown that in recent years, which has gradually developed into a global macrophage polarization plays a crucial role in many statistics,thenumberofglobaldeathscausedbyend-stageliver tissue repair, and metabolism (11–13). Interestingly, these diseases such as viral hepatitis, cirrhosis and HCC is up to 2 pathologicalprocessesare preciselyalsopresent inliver diseases, million every year (6). Therefore, clarifying the pathogenesis of suggestingthatmacrophagepolarizationmaybecriticallyinvolved liverdiseasesanddevelopingdrugsfortheirtargetedtherapyare inthedevelopmentandreversalofseveralliverdiseases,suchas ofgreatsignificancefortheclinicaltreatmentofliverdiseases. fattyliverdisease,hepatitis,fibrosis,andHCC(14–16).Withthe FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 2 December2021 | Volume12 | Article803037 Wangetal. MacrophagePolarizationinLiverDisease further study of macrophage polarization in liver diseases, Collectively, in normal liver, Kupffer cells, known as sentinel targeting macrophage polarization to block or even reverse cells of the liver, account for the majority of hepatic hepatic pathological changes has been considered as a potential macrophages and are dominant, which mainly maintain liver strategy for the treatment of liver diseases (17). However, the homeostasis (20). When the liver is invaded by external factors originofhepaticmacrophagesandthemechanismofmacrophage to develop lesions, Kupffer cells first receive the signals to polarization are complex, and their effects on different types of differentiate into different phenotypes to produce pro- or anti- liverdiseasesandevenondifferentstagesofoneliverdiseaseare inflammatory factors, and recruit a large number of other not the same (18). Therefore, the process of macrophage macrophagesintothe liver at the same time,which havesimilar polarization and its role and mechanism on liver diseases need plasticity and multiple functions as Kupffer cells, and play an to be
