REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


M2 by forming the M3 switching phenotype. The phenotypes TLR4/NF-kB signaling pathway. For example, berberine could andfunctionsofmacrophagepolarizationareshowninFigure1. competitively inhibit the combination of TLR4 and MyD88 to FIGURE1| Thephenotypesandfunctionsofmacrophagepolarization. FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 4 December2021 | Volume12 | Article803037 Wangetal. MacrophagePolarizationinLiverDisease inhibit the TLR4/MyD88/NF-kB signaling pathway, thus Smad3. Similarly, there have been multiple studies showing the inhibiting M1 macrophage polarization (37). Similarly, role of TGF-b/Smads signaling pathway in promoting M2 quercetin downregulated the expression of NF-kB and IRF5, macrophage polarization. For example, quercetin was found to and then inhibited the activity of upstream TLR4/MyD88 to inhibit M2 polarization through inhibiting TGF-b1-smad2/3 inhibit M1 polarization (38, 39). In addition, the chemical pathway (39). In addition, both TGF-b and Smads signaling compounds NZ, meisoindigo, and others can inhibit M1 canindividuallymediatemacrophagepolarization.Forexample, macrophage polarization, which is associated with the down- underhypoxia,TGF-bexpressionwasupregulated,whichmight regulationoftheTLR4/NF-kBsignalingpathway(38,40).These increase M2 polarization through the receptor tyrosine kinase/ findings sufficiently indicate the critical role of TLR4/NF-kB phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) pathway (55). Chen et al. signalingpathwayinM1macrophagepolarization. (56)experimentally demonstrated thatSmad3could bedirectly activatedbymacrophagephagocytosisindependentlyofTGF-b, 3.2.2 JAK/STAT Signaling Pathway whichmightpromotemacrophagepolarizationtowardtheanti- The Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of inflammatory phenotype via peroxisome proliferators-activated transcription(STAT)pathwaymainlymediatesthesignalingof receptors(PPARs). cytokinereceptors(41).IFN-gbindstoitsreceptorandactivates JAK,thusinducingthephosphorylationofSTAT1,whichleads 3.2.4 PPARg Signaling Pathway tothepolarizationofmacrophagestoM1(42).Moreover,IFN-g PPARg is an important transcription factor for cell can enhance the sensitivity of macrophages to inflammatory differentiation and has many functions, such as regulating mediators,andexertasynergisticeffectbyblockingthefeedback glucose and lipid metabolism, anti-inflammation, reducing inhibition to TLR signaling; meanwhile, NF-kB and mitogen- oxidative stress, and so on (57). PPARg usually regulates the activated protein kinase (MAPK) can also enhance the polarizationofmacrophagesbyinteractingwithothersignaling transcriptional activity of JAK/STAT1 (42, 43). Research found pathways. The study by Luo et al. (58) showed that PPARg that azithromycin promoted M2 polarization by inhibiting the interacted with NF-kB to regulate the balance of M1/M2 transcriptionofSTAT1andNF-kB(44).Inaddition,IFN-gcan macrophages.Gaoetal.(47)found PPARg wasinvolvedinthe alsopromotethemetabolicswitchofM1macrophages,whichin process of M2 macrophage polarization induced by IL-4/IL-13. turn enhances their cell viability and pro-inflammatory activity This suggests that PPARg plays an important role in M2 through the JAK/STAT1 pathway (45). JAK/STAT6 is an macrophagepolarization.Forexample,HuoxueTongfuformula important pathway by which IL-4 inhibits M1 and induces M2 activatedPPARgtoup-regulatetheexpressionofSOCS1/STAT6 polarization (46). For example, curcumin up-regulated STAT6 signaling pathway and inhibit SOCS3/JAK2/STAT1 pathway, expressionbysecretingIL-4andIL-13,therebyinducingM0and thereby promoting M2 polarization (59). In addition, insulin M1macrophagestopolarizetoM2(47). and a-ketoglutarate can also increase the expression of PPARg In addition, STAT3 is important for M2 macrophage signaling to promote M2 polarization, thus slowing down the polarization. Studies have shown that the inhibition of IL-6/ developmentofvariousinflammatorydiseases(60,61). STAT3 and JAK3/STAT3 signaling
