REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


acetaminophen (APAP) can cause ALI and have mostly been could inhibit M1 and promote M2 polarization by promoting used to establish experimental ALI models (87, 88). Through a autophagy, thus alleviating liver injury in different ALI study in the TAA-treated rats, Golbar et al. (87) demonstrated mousemodels. thatthedepletionofhepaticmacrophagesobviouslyaggravated M1 macrophages aggravate liver tissue injury because of liver injury. Zigmond et al. (89) further found that the promoting inflammatory responses; conversely, M2 macrophages of different origins differentiated into different macrophages can attenuate liver injury through their effects of subpopulations and had different functions in the APAP- anti-inflammation and tissue repairing (23). Therefore, in induced ALI mouse model. In addition, the study by Rahman theory, the increase of M2 macrophage polarization or the et al. (90) showed that M1 and M2 macrophages together inhibition of M1 polarization is good for ALI alleviation. In contributed to D-GalN-induced ALI in rats and interconverted fact, the promoting or slowing effects of most internal and during the lesion progression. These findings provided ample external factors on ALI are achieved by regulating macrophage evidencethatmacrophagesplayedanimportantroleinALI,and polarization,asshowninTable2. indicated thatitwaspossible to controlthedisease progression byregulatingmacrophagepolarization. 4.2 Viral Hepatitis JAK/STAT1 and TLR4/NF-kB pathways are important Viralhepatitisisaclassofinfectiousdiseasescausedbyhepatitis mechanisms of M1 macrophage polarization, while STAT6 is viruswithhepatocytedegeneration,necrosisandapoptosisasthe mainly related to M2 (45, 46, 91). Through the in vivo and in mainlesions,includingfivetypes:A,B,C,D,andE(105).Itisvery vitro experiments, Xie et al. (92) demonstrated that protein likelytoformchronichepatitisafterhepatitisvirusinfection,and interacting with C kinase 1 up-regulated the expression of thenprogresstoliverfibrosis,ultimatelyleadingtocirrhosisand STAT6 and p38a as well as inhibited the NF-kB signaling evenHCC(105).Currently,inhibitingthereplicationandspreadof pathway, promoting M2 and inhibiting M1 polarization, which hepatitisvirusbyregulatingthebody’simmunesystemisthekeyto EP4 receptor, and then alleviated hepatic inflammation by immune cell, is considered to be an important player in the reducing the release of inflammatory factors as well as development and resolution of chronic viral hepatitis (107). promoted M2 polarization by up-regulating the expression of When viral infection occurs in the liver, Kupffer cells will STAT6 and mTOR signaling, thus alleviating ALI (93). recognize danger signals first, and trigger the recruitment of Cannabinoid receptor 2 can down-regulate the expression of circulatingmonocytestothe liver and subsequent differentiation TLR4 signaling via miR145 and promote macrophage tomacrophages,togetherexertingimmunoregulatoryfunctionas polarization from M1 to M2, thus playing a protective role in wellashavingpathogeneliminationandanti-viraleffects(18). mice with acute liver failure (94). Conversely, Wang et al. (95) Hepatitis B, mainly caused by hepatitis B virus (HBV) found that hyperglycemia promoted M1 and inhibited M2 infection, is one of the leading causes of chronic hepatitis polarization
