REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


PPAR-gsignaling↑ 2019,China (97) p300/CBPinhibitorA-485 Mice,cells M1↓ H3K27ac/H3K18ac↓;NF-kB,MAPK,NLRP3signaling 2019,China (99) pathway↓ Humanamnioticmesenchymal Mice,cells M1↓;M2↑ LC3B-II↑ 2019,China (103) stromalcells Carbonmonoxide Mice,cells M1↓;M2↑ HIF-1a↓;PI3k/Akt/mTORsignaling↑ 2021,China (96) AggravatingALI Hyperglycemia Mice,cells M1↑;M2↓ STAT1↑,STAT6↓;AMPK↓,PI3K/AKTpathway↑ 2019,China (95) CCL5 Patientsamples, M2↓ MAPKandNF-kBsignalingpathway↑ 2020,China (98) mice activation,wassignificantlyincreasedinHCV-infectedpatients, 4.3 Alcoholic Liver Disease butdecreasedaftertheanti-viraltherapy,confirmingthecrucial ALD mainly refers to the hepatic inflammatory responses role of M2 polarization in the progression of hepatitis C. induced directly or indirectly by ethanol and its derivatives Moreover, a recent study showed that the M1 macrophages during their metabolism, which is the result of the interaction from the livers of HCV-infected patients exhibited M2 of various factors including oxidative stress, gut-derived phenotypic features, and the M2 macrophages exhibited M1 endotoxin, inflammatory mediators, and nutritional imbalance phenotypicfeatures(113).Similarly,astudybySahaetal.(114) (122).Inparticular,theactivationofKupffercellsbyendotoxins found that HCV-infected HCC cells induced monocytes to due to impaired intestinal barrier function plays an important differentiate into macrophages and polarize to M2 phenotype. roleintheinitiationandprogressionofALD(123).WhenALD Moreover, a previous study showed that exogenous HCV core occurs, Kupffer cell activation plays a central role; meanwhile, proteinpromotedmacrophagestosecretepro-inflammatoryand monocyte macrophages are recruited to the liver and polarized anti-inflammatory factors, and mediated the pro-proliferative to M1 or M2 phenotype according to the state of the liver effect of macrophages on human normal hepatocyte line LO2, microenvironment (19). Voican et al. (124) found that which was accompanied by increased expression of M2- macrophage infiltration in subcutaneous adipose tissue was associated STAT3 and CD206 (115). Subsequently, further reduced,andM2macrophagepolarizationwasincreasedinthe research showed that HCV core protein inhibited M1 and M2 ALD patients with alcohol withdrawal. Moreover, M2 macrophage polarization through the TLR2/STATs pathway, macrophages were shown to induce hepatocyte senescence via andimpairedtheirphagocyticactivityandfunctions(116). IL-6andresistalcohol-inducedhepatocyteapoptosisandhepatic Vaccine is an important means to prevent and control viral steatosis (125). Therefore, the pathogenesis of ALD involves hepatitis, and the development of an effective vaccine against macrophage polarization, and M2 macrophages seem to be HCV infection is of great importance. Ohtsuki et al. (117) beneficialforALDresolution. showed that the number of M2 macrophages in the liver of Ethanolcansignificantlyinducetheexpressionoftelomerase HCV-infectedmicewassignificantlyincreased,accompaniedby reversetranscriptaseinvitroandinvivo,therebypromotingM1 high expression of IL-6 and TNF-a, whereas the recombinant macrophagepolarizationthroughtheNF-kBsignalingpathway, vaccinia virus expressed HCV nonstructural protein rVV-N25 whichhasanimportantroleinthepathogenesisofALD(126). and inhibited the number and activation of M2 macrophages, CannabinoidCB2receptoractivationattenuatesalcohol-induced thus preventing the development of chronic hepatitis. Taken hepaticsteatosisandinflammationbyinhibitingM1polarization together,M2macrophageshaveanimportantroleduringHBV of Kupffer cells, and partially by promoting M2 polarization and HCV infection, and are mostlyaccompanied byacomplex (127).b-caryophyllene,afoodadditive,canreduceM1activation cytokine profile, not only including increased M2-related anti- ofKupffercellsandcontributetotheameliorationofALD,which inflammatory cytokines but also involving M1. These results ispartiallydependentonCB2(127).TLRsarewidelyexpressed suggest that
