REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


2020,China (154) cells asignaling↑ excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) (187). LF is activation is directly regulated by hepatic macrophages. On the essentially an excessive reparative response of the liver against one hand, macrophages activate HSCs and promote the chronic injury, and the formation mechanism is quite complex, progression of LF (190). On the other hand, during the reversal which involves not only multiple cells, but also the complex of LF, macrophages can drive HSC apoptosis and ECM cytokinenetworkconstitutedbycellularautocrineandparacrine degradation (191). Beljaars et al. (192) localized and quantified components(188).Theactivationofhepaticstellatecells(HSCs)is themacrophageswithdifferentphenotypesintheliverofhumans the major source of ECM as well as the central link of LF andmicewithLF.Theresultsdemonstratedthatthenumbersof formation (189). The initiation and persistence of HSC bothM1andM2macrophagesweresignificantlyincreasedduring FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 11 December2021 | Volume12 | Article803037 Wangetal. MacrophagePolarizationinLiverDisease LF formation phase (192). However, compared with M2 macrophages to play a synergistic role in the reversal of LF. intheregressionofLF(192).Inaddition,Xietal.(193)foundthat couldpromoteM2andinhibitM1macrophagepolarization,as activated HSCs could promote hepatic macrophage infiltration wellasincreaseMMP13expressionandinhibitHSCactivation, throughtheCCL2/CCR2pathwayandinduceM2polarizationto whichexertedasynergisticanti-LFeffect.Subsequently, further aggravate liver fibrosis. These studies amply suggest that research has found that TNF-stimulated gene 6 is a major macrophage polarization occupies an important role in cytokine by which MSCs exert anti-fibrotic effects (205). LFprogression. Specifically, its liver-targeted delivery through calcium Because there are various factors causing LF, and the phosphate nanoparticles contributed to LF treatment, which pathogenesis and pathological process of different types of was related to promoting M2 macrophage polarization and LF are different, the effects of macrophage polarization also increasing MMP12 expression (205). Furthermore, in the vary.AstudyhasshownthatM1macrophagesandrelatedpro- development of LF, increased NKp46+ cells produced IFN-g to inflammatory cytokines are markedly increased in carbon induce M1 macrophage polarization, and limited M2 tetrachloride (CCl )-induced LF, whereas M2 macrophage polarization and the production of pro-fibrotic factors, which polarization seems to predominate in schistosome infection- inhibited the occurrence of metabolism-related LF (206). The induced LF (194). Therefore, the inhibition of M1 and M2 role and mechanisms of macrophage polarization in LF are macrophagepolarizationmayrespectively alleviateCCl -and showninTable6. schistosome infection-induced LF. For example, margatoxin reduced M1 and increased M2 macrophage polarization by 4.6 Hepatocellular Carcinoma inhibiting STAT1 and promoting the phosphorylation of Chronicliverdiseasesandtherelatedinflammationmayleadto STAT6, which down-regulated pro-inflammatory cytokines ECM deposition to form LF, which if left unchecked, fibrous and increased IL-10 expression, alleviating CCl -induced LF scarswillcontinuouslyaccumulatetoformcirrhosis,ultimately in mice (195). Corilagin inhibited M2 polarization by causing HCC (220). HCC is the end stage of chronic liver inhibiting IL-13Ra1 signaling pathway, which alleviated diseases, and accounts for more
