REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


in mice (195). Corilagin inhibited M2 polarization by causing HCC (220). HCC is the end stage of chronic liver inhibiting IL-13Ra1 signaling pathway, which alleviated diseases, and accounts for more than 80% of primary liver schistosome egg-induced LF (196). However, this is not a cancersworldwide,whichisthefourthleadingcauseofcancer- completely uniform law. Ma et al. (14) showed that M1 relateddeath(221).AlthoughthereareFDA-approveddrugsfor polarization rather than M2 polarization contributed to the theclinicaltreatmentofHCCcurrently,theirtherapeuticeffects reduced activation and number of HSCs in the CCl and bile arequitelimited.Therefore,itisstillofgreatinteresttoexplore duct ligation-induced LF mouse model. Similarly, 2- the pathological mechanism of HCC and develop effective methoxyestradiol alleviated CCl -induced LF in mice by therapeutic drugs. Tumor growth, metastasis, and regression reducing macrophage infiltration and M2 polarization (197). are influenced by the microenvironment in which it resides. These findings sufficiently indicate the complex association Tumor-associatedmacrophages(TAMs)aremajorcomponents between LFandmacrophagepolarization. oftumor microenvironment, and candifferentiate intoM1 and Themechanismsbywhichmacrophagepolarizationregulates M2phenotypesbecauseoftheirplasticity,having animportant LF are complex, involving multiple pathways and signaling roleintheprogressionofHCC(222). molecules. Among them, Notch signaling pathway is closely Autophagyisakeyphysiologicalandpathologicalprocessof relatedto multiple cellularactivities, and hasan importantrole the body, which is particularly important in tumor research inLFbyregulatingHSCactivationandmacrophagepolarization (223).ThestudyofChangetal.(224)foundthatTLR2ligandsin (198). Bansal et al. (199) experimentally demonstrated that HCC decreased NF-kB activity and promoted M2 macrophage Notch pathway inhibition contributed to reducing M1 and polarization. Further research showed that HCC-derived high promoting M2 macrophage polarization, as well as reducing mobility group box 1 protein induced M2 polarization via the the activation of HSCs and fibroblasts. Similarly, capsaicin TLR2/NOX2/autophagy axis, promoting HCC development and quercetin could also attenuate CCl -induced hepatic (225). These are perhaps potential targets for the treatment of inflammation and fibrosis in mice by inhibiting M1 HCC.Moreover,autophagymayinfluencethetherapeuticeffects polarization via the inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway ofdrugsonHCC.Tanetal.(226)foundthatbaicalinpromoted (76,200).However,inschistosomeinfection-inducedLF,Notch M2-TAMs to repolarize to M1 phenotype via autophagy- inhibition also suppressed M2 macrophage polarization, thus induced RelB/p52 activation, thus suppressing HCC. Sorafenib LF.Ontheonehand,IL-4RaactivationinducedM2macrophage HCC (227). However, Wei et al. (228) found that M2-TAMs polarization to accelerate the process of LF (201). On the could promote the autophagy of HCC cells and decrease the other hand, IL-4Ra-mediated STAT6 phosphorylation inhibitory effect of sorafenib on the proliferation of HCC cells, induced the production of MMP-12, contributing to hepatic ultimatelyleadingtosorafenibresistanceinHCCtreatment. fibrinolysis(201). The latest evidence has suggest that lncRNAs play a crucial strategy (202). Watanabe et al. (203) showed that MSCs could TP73AS1 down-regulates miR539 to promote MMP8 induce the M2 polarization of bone marrow-derived expression, thus activating TGF-b1 signaling, which promotes FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 12 December2021
