REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


better tumor-derived exosomesmostlyaccelerate tumordevelopment. prognosis but also for the targeted therapy of HCC. Shu et al. For example, lncRNA TUC339 of HCC-derived exosomes can (240) and Dong et al. (241) showed that M1/M2 macrophage promote M2 polarization, and its inhibition can promote the polarizationcanbeusedasanindependentprognosticfactorfor expression and phagocytic activity of M1 macrophage-related HCC, and the markers CD86 and CD206 can be used as the inflammatory factors (236). The transcription factor Sal like biomarkersforHCCprognosis.Asubsequentstudyshowedthat protein-4 can up-regulate miR-146a-5p expression of HCC- GdCl3couldinhibitHCCprogressioninmicebydown-regulating FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 13 December2021 | Volume12 | Article803037 Wangetal. MacrophagePolarizationinLiverDisease CD206 expression (242). In HBV-related HCC, T-UCR uc.306 According to the data, macrophage polarization is mainly expression is increased in M1 but down-regulated in M2 associated with TLR4/NF-kB, JAK/STATs, TGF- b/Smads, macrophages, which may serve as a HCC prognostic marker PPARg, Notch, and miRNA signaling pathways. In addition, and a potential therapeutic target (243). Moreover, both othersignalingpathways,suchasMAPK,mTOR,andsoon,may neuromedin U and transmembrane205 can serve as the be also involved. Therefore, targeting these signaling pathways biomarkersformacrophagepolarization-relatedHCCprognosis, may modulate macrophage polarization to alter the role of whichcontributestothetargetedtherapyofHCC(244,245). macrophagesinliverdiseases. In conclusion, it is currently generally accepted that M2 ALI refers to hepatic acute injury and hepatocellular macrophages induce tumor cell proliferation and metastasis to necrosis mostly resulting from chemical drugs and poisons promote tumor development, whereas M1 macrophages have (86). Current studies generally show that M1 macrophage- anti-tumor effects. In the HCC microenvironment, besides the secreted pro-inflammatory cytokines aggravate ALI, whereas role of HCC cells and macrophages, multiple internal factors M2 macrophages have the function of promoting tissue injury and external interventions may also induce macrophage repair and secrete anti-inflammatory cytokines, which is polarization to influence the development of HCC. For beneficial for inflammation resolution and ALI alleviation. example, IL-37 inhibits M2 macrophage polarization mediated Therefore, promoting macrophage polarization to M2 bytheIL-6/STAT3signalingpathway,therebypreventingHCC phenotype and inhibiting M1 phenotype are important development (246). 4-methylumbelliferone can induce M1 mechanismstoameliorateALI. macrophage polarization in the tumor microenvironment and M1 and M2 macrophages in viral hepatitis have a complex inhibit the invasion of HCC cells (247). However, the study by cytokine profile (113). Specifically, after HBV and HCV Wang et al. (248) found that M1 macrophages could activate infection, M2 macrophage polarization and IL-10 secretion are NF-kB/focal adhesion kinase signaling to contribute to HCC increased, and the pro-inflammatory factors produced by M1 metastasis. In addition, the study by Zong et al. (249) macrophagesaredecreased,whilesomeofthemcontributetothe demonstrated that M1 macrophages induced the
