REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


signaling to contribute to HCC increased, and the pro-inflammatory factors produced by M1 metastasis. In addition, the study by Zong et al. (249) macrophagesaredecreased,whilesomeofthemcontributetothe demonstrated that M1 macrophages induced the high alleviation of viral infection (274). Therefore, the inhibition of expression oftheprogrammed celldeath-ligand1inHCCcells M2 macrophage polarization and the promotion of M1- by up-regulating IL-1b. Their findings support the pro-HCC associated cytokine production contribute to the alleviation of effect of M1 macrophages. Therefore, the role of macrophage HBV- and HCV-related hepatitis. Differently, Labonte et al. polarizationinHCCisnotassimpleasitappears,andmorein- (118) infected the mice with recombinant adenovirus depthstudiesareneededinthefuture.Theroleandmechanisms expressing ovalbumin and performed an in vitro study of Kupffer cells polarized to M2 phenotype through up-regulating the expression of scavenger receptor AI, contributing to the 5 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION reversal of chronic inflammation and tissue damage caused by viral infection. This suggests that the polarization of Liverdiseasesareamajorpublichealthproblemworldwidewith macrophages of different origins in the liver under the highmorbidityandmortality(5).Atpresent,in-deepresearchon background of virus infection may have different effects on the the pathogenesis of liver diseases and the development of diseasedevelopment. effective drugs are important means for the treatment of liver Ethanol leads to M1 macrophage polarization by acting on diseases,aswellasanimportanttaskanddifficultyforscientific multiple receptors and targets in the body, thus aggravating researchers. It is worth mentioning that recent studies have inflammatory responses, which is one of the important revealed that macrophage polarization plays an important role pathogenesis of ALD (126). Current studies generally agree intheinitiationandprogressionofliverdiseases,andhasadual that M1 macrophages promote inflammation and aggravate regulatoryroleonvariousliverdiseases(273).Thissuggeststhat ALD, whereas M2 macrophages have anti-inflammatory effects macrophages can influence the progression of multiple liver and attenuate alcohol-caused liver injury. Therefore, the diseases through their polarization. Figure 3 clearly shows the development of targeted agents that induce macrophage ameliorative effects of macrophage polarization on various polarization from M1 to M2 is of great significance for the liverdiseases. clinicaltreatmentofALD.However,astudyshowedthatTGF-b, Hepatic macrophages have significant heterogeneity, which a M2-associated profibrotic factor, was highly expressed in the are composed of macrophages from multiple origins. Current liver of alcoholic hepatitis patients, which involved the studies have shown that macrophages mainly polarize to two interaction of M1 and multiple subtypes of M2 macrophages phenotypes, pro-inflammatory M1 and anti-inflammatory M2 (M2a,M2b,andM2c)(275).Therefore,theroleofmacrophage (25). Specifically, after being induced by their respective polarizationinALDwarrantsfurtherin-depthinvestigation. activators, M1 and M2 macrophages produce a large number MAFLDisakindofliverinjurycloselyrelatedtometabolism of pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory cytokines and andgeneticswithmultiplecomplications,initiallycharacterized chemokines, thus acting on different targets to activate the by fat accumulation and degeneration, and probably develops signaling
