REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


thusattenuating hepatic dominant role in cancer development and prognosis (280). steatosis and inflammation in MAFLD/NASH. Interestingly, The effect of macrophage polarization on HCC progression a controlled diet contribute to the improvement of MAFLD, autophagy, lncRNAs, miRNAs, and the classical pathways of whichwasshowntoberelatedtotheregulationofmacrophage macrophagepolarization.Exosomesserveasimportantvehicles polarization (174). In addition, the study by Wan et al. (277) for the signal transduction of HCC cells and macrophages. In foundthatKupffercellswithM2phenotypecouldpromote the general, M2 macrophages promote the proliferation and apoptosis of M1 macrophages, inhibiting alcohol and high-fat migration of HCC cells, whereas M1 macrophages can inhibit diet-induced liver injury and inflammation. This is perhaps a HCCdevelopment.However,somestudieshaveshownthatM1 potential mechanism by which M2 macrophages ameliorate macrophages may also have pro-tumor effects, indicating that ALDandMAFLD. the macrophage polarization in HCC is not restricted to pro- LFisachronicliverdiseaseresultingfromtheexcessiverepair tumorM2andanti-tumorM1(248,249). of liver tissue injury, characterized by excessive deposition of Inadditiontotheliverdiseasesdiscussedabove,autoimmune ECM in the liver, which manifests as intrahepatic connective liverdiseaseisagroupofspecialchronicliverdiseasescausedby tissue dysplasia (278). Due to extensive etiologies, such as immune dysfunction in the body, including autoimmune common CCl and schistosome infection in research, the hepatitis (AIH), primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), primary pathogenesis of LF is not consistent (279). Therefore, different sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) and their overlap syndrome (281). phenotypes of macrophages have different effects in different Interestingly,solubleCD163,amarkerofmacrophageactivation, typesofLF.Ingeneral,M1macrophagespromoteCCl -induced is closely associated with the severity of AIH, PBC and PSC, LFbutinhibitschistosomeinfection-inducedLF,buttheeffectof which can be used as a prognostic marker for them (282–284). M2 macrophages is reversed. However, an increase in M1 Guicciardi et al. (285) further experimented to directly polarization or a decrease in M2 polarization sometimes demonstrated that M1 and M2 macrophages were involved in contributes to the alleviation of CCl -induced LF (14, 197). thepathogenesisofPSC.Thesesuggest usthatitisworthyand Multiple mechanisms are involved in macrophage polarization necessary to pay more attention to the role of macrophage in LF. Research proved that Notch signaling inhibition could polarization in autoimmune liver disease. Li et al. (286) found alleviate CCl - and schistosome-induced LF by inhibiting M1 that M1 macrophage polarization and the self-renewal of transplantation, commonly used in LF treatment, also relies on with PSC, associated with enhanced expression of Notch the regulation of macrophage polarization. Furthermore, the signaling pathway. Consistently, Jiang et al. (287) used 3,5- study by Takemura et al. (211) found that s-allyl-glutathione diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine to induce a liver disease reduced HSC activation in the rats with CCl -induced LF by similartosclerosingcholangitis,andfoundthatM1polarization regulating macrophage polarization, rather than directly acting of macrophages led to
