REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, polarization, macrophage, cells, liver, macrophages, etal, mice, macrophage polarization, china, signaling, il-, pathway, hcc, cell


s-allyl-glutathione diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine to induce a liver disease reduced HSC activation in the rats with CCl -induced LF by similartosclerosingcholangitis,andfoundthatM1polarization regulating macrophage polarization, rather than directly acting of macrophages led to decreased Wnt secretion and aggravated on HSCs. Therefore, macrophage polarization may have an liver injury. A later study further found that cholangiocyte- indispensableroleinLF. derived exosomal lncRNA H19 exacerbated the inflammatory FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 16 December2021 | Volume12 | Article803037 Wangetal. MacrophagePolarizationinLiverDisease responses in patients with PBC and PSC by promoting Kupffer demonstrated (294–296). These suggest that the crosstalk cell activation and M1 polarization of bone marrow-derived between the liver and other organs plays a key role in the macrophage (288). Moreover, in a Con A-induced AIH mouse pathogenesis of liver disease. Furthermore, it is not difficult to model, IL-34 and splenectomy were shown to inhibit seethecriticalroleofmacrophages.Therefore,wespeculatethat inflammation and fibrosis, both of which were related to targeting the polarization of macrophages in multiple organs promotingM2macrophagepolarization(213,289).Fromthese rather than just in the liver may contribute to treating liver findings, it is concluded that M1 macrophage polarization disease by modulating the crosstalk between the liver and aggravates autoimmune liver disease and inflammation, while peripheraltissues. increased M2 polarization contributes to their remission. This Takentogether,macrophagepolarizationplaysanimportant canalsobeunderstoodfromthefactthatM2macrophageshave role in a variety of liver diseases. In general, M1 macrophages immunoregulatoryfunctions. have antigen presentation, pathogen clearance, and anti-tumor In addition, the pathogenesis of liver disease is complex, at functions, having a protective effect in viral hepatitis, parasitic leastpartlyduetothecrosstalkbetweentheliverandperipheral infection-induced LF, and HCC. In contrast, M2 macrophages tissues. Especially in fatty liver, the crosstalk of the liver with have an anti-inflammatory effect and promote wound healing, peripheralorgansthroughtheadiposetissue-liveraxis,gut-liver which can effectively ameliorate the liver diseases mainly axis, bone marrow-liver axis and brain-liver axis significantly characterized by inflammatory injury, such as ALI, ALD, influences the disease progression (290, 291). Altered MAFLD, and CCl -induced LF. However, in some cases (e.g., gene expression in liver cells (hepatocytes and hepatic different targets or species), the effects of M1 and M2 nonparenchymal cells) affects lipogenesis, lipolysis and macrophages in liver diseases may be opposite to the above. It inflammation in other tissues, and the metabolic and genetic is worth mentioning that current research is almost exclusively changesinadipocytesandenterocytesalsoaffecthepaticsteatosis focusing on the M1 and M2 phenotypes of macrophages, so and inflammation (291). The growing of adipose tissue is more macrophage phenotypes closely associated with disease accompanied by macrophage infiltration as well as the progressionareexpectedtobeuncoveredandstudied.Therefore, productionofadipokines(leptin,adiponectin,resistin,etc.)and duetothedualcomplexityofmacrophagepolarizationandliver multiplecytokines,leadingtoinflammation,ECMaccumulation
