RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hypertension, plwha, studies, cardiovascular, haart, adult, adult plwha, prevalence, study, disease, ethiopia, hiv, review, cross-sectional, age


To our knowledge, there is no comprehensive synthesis of existing evidence that maps the extent, range, and nature of studies conducted on this topic in Ethiopia. PLOS One | May 5, 2026 2 / 15 A scoping review is particularly well-suited to address this gap. Unlike systematic reviews that answer narrowly focused questions, scoping reviews are designed to provide an overview of the existing literature, clarify key concepts, identify research gaps, and inform future investigations or policy directions. Given the emerging and diverse nature of research on HIV-associated cardiovascular diseases in Ethiopia, a scoping review can help stakeholders, including clinicians, researchers, and policymakers, better understand the landscape and prioritise areas for intervention or further study. Therefore, this scoping review aimed to summarise and map the available evidence on cardiovascular diseases among PLWHA in Ethiopia. Specifically, it sought to: (1) describe the type and content of existing studies on cardiovascular dis- eases among PLWHA in Ethiopia, (2) report the magnitude and distribution of cardiovascular diseases within this popula- tion, and (3) identify factors associated with cardiovascular comorbidities among PLWHA in Ethiopia. Materials and methods This scoping review was conducted using the methodological framework proposed by Arksey and O’Malley , which was later refined by Levac et al. and aligned with the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) guidelines for scoping reviews . To ensure clarity and transparency in reporting, we adhered to the PRISMA extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA- ScR) checklist . Identification of the research questions The review was guided by the following research questions: (1) What are the types of studies conducted on PLWHA concerning cardiovascular diseases in Ethiopia? (2) What is the prevalence/incidence of cardiovascular diseases in PLWHA in Ethiopia? And (3) What are the key factors associated with cardiovascular diseases among this population? Studies were included if they investigated cardiovascular disease among PLWHA, were conducted in Ethiopia, and were published in English. There were no restrictions on the study design, participant age, or year of publication. We excluded studies that focused only on risk factors (such as obesity, dyslipidaemia, or metabolic syndrome) without mea- migrants living outside of Ethiopia, multi-country studies where Ethiopia-specific data could not be extracted, and com- mentaries, protocols, editorials, letters, conference abstracts, and anonymous reports. Studies without accessible full texts were also excluded after attempts to contact the authors. Identification of relevant studies We systematically searched five electronic databases, i.e., PubMed, Embase, ProQuest, Global Index
