RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hypertension, plwha, studies, cardiovascular, haart, adult, adult plwha, prevalence, study, disease, ethiopia, hiv, review, cross-sectional, age


Studies without accessible full texts were also excluded after attempts to contact the authors. Identification of relevant studies We systematically searched five electronic databases, i.e., PubMed, Embase, ProQuest, Global Index Medicus, and Web of Science, from inception to 13th November 2023, and later updated on 13th March 2026. A comprehensive search strategy was initially developed for PubMed using a combination of Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) and free text for four big terms, i.e., ‘cardiovascular disease,’ ‘HIV,’ AIDS,’ and ‘Ethiopia’. This strategy was then adapted for the remaining databases. In addition to electronic databases, we hand-searched the bibliographies of included studies and relevant grey provided in S1 File. Study selection and appraisal All identified records were imported into EndNote citation manager for de-duplication, and the screening process was managed using Covidence, a web-based platform for systematic reviews . Title and abstracts of each study were screened independently by two reviewers (DE and YG/SMA), and any discrepancies were resolved through discussion with a third reviewer (AD). After removing irrelevant studies, full texts were systematically reviewed for further eligibility analysis. Full texts of potentially relevant articles were then retrieved and assessed for eligibility by one reviewer (DE/ PLOS One | May 5, 2026 3 / 15 SMA), with input from a second reviewer as needed. The screening and selection process is presented in a PRISMA flow diagram (Fig 1). Data charting process For all included studies, we developed a standardized data extraction form to collect relevant information, including title, year of publication, aim or research questions, sampling technique, country, outcome variables, study design, study period, study participants/population, sample size, data collection method, main data analysis technique, the cardiovascu- lar disease of interest, and main findings and conclusions. Data extraction was performed by one reviewer (DE/SMA) and checked for accuracy and completeness by another reviewer (YG/AD/KB). Collating, summarising, and reporting of the results A narrative synthesis approach was used to summarise the findings due to substantial heterogeneity in study designs (e.g., cohort, cross-sectional, case report), population (e.g., patients on HAART versus not on HAART), outcomes (e.g., hypertension, ischemic stroke, atherosclerotic, and ECG abnormalities), and measurement and analysis methods. As such, meta-analysis was not feasible. The findings are presented in both narrative form and summary tables. The Pre- ferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guideline for scoping reviews was strictly followed in reporting the review results (S2 File). Results Characteristics of included
