RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hypertension, plwha, studies, cardiovascular, haart, adult, adult plwha, prevalence, study, disease, ethiopia, hiv, review, cross-sectional, age


ART: Antiretroviral Treatment; BMI: Body Mass Index; CHF: Congestive Heart Failure; ECG: Electrocardiogram; FBG: Fasting Blood Sugar; HAART: Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy; HEPI: Health Professionals Education Partnership Initiative; HIV: Human Immunodeficient Virus; PLWHA: People living with HIV/AIDS; RHD: Rheumatic Heart Disease (RHD): WHO: World Health Organi- zation. PLOS One | May 5, 2026 9 / 15 Factors associated with cardiovascular disease among PLWHA Most studies reported similar factors associated with hypertension. The most frequently reported factors were sociodemo- graphic factors such as male gender, old age, and rural residency; behavioural factors such as high levels of alcohol con- sumption, cigarette smoking, and insufficient physical activity; metabolic risk factors such as higher waist circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, body mass index (BMI), blood glucose and total cholesterol; disease-related factors such as current CD4 count and higher WHO stage; treatment-related factors such as the longer duration on HAART, type of HAART and taking concomitant other drug therapy; and family history of hypertension [28–34,37,38,40,42,43]. One study also reported that elementary educational status, compared to no education, and moderate monthly income, compared to low monthly income, were significantly associated with hypertension in PLWHA . Other studies have found different factors associated with various cardiovascular disorders. A study on cardiac disorders found that lower CD4 counts, not starting on ART, and lower BMI were associated with dilated cardio- myopathy, and ART status was associated with pericardial effusion . In studies assessing predictors of ath- erosclerotic cardiovascular disease, younger age, lower systolic blood pressure, second-line combined HAART, detectable viral load, alcohol use, and lower total cholesterol were associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease . In a study of echocardiographic abnormalities, various factors were reported to be associated with specific abnormal- ities. Hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, and older age predicted diastolic dysfunction abnormality; male gender, older age, and higher fasting blood glucose level predicted ischemic heart disease; elevated blood pressure and older age predicted left ventricular hypertrophy; and hypertension predicted the presence of an enlarged left atrium. On the contrary, the severity of HIV infection did not contribute significantly to echocardiography findings . Another study on the general cardiovascular effects of HIV exposure found no statistically significant differences between the HIV-exposed and non-exposed children . Similarly, a study on pulmonary hypertension found no significant differences in gender, cigarette smoking, previous history of pulmonary tuberculosis treatment, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or bron- chial asthma, duration of antiretroviral therapy, or antiretroviral regimen
