RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hypertension, plwha, studies, cardiovascular, haart, adult, adult plwha, prevalence, study, disease, ethiopia, hiv, review, cross-sectional, age


hypertension found no significant differences in gender, cigarette smoking, previous history of pulmonary tuberculosis treatment, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or bron- chial asthma, duration of antiretroviral therapy, or antiretroviral regimen type between PLWHA with or without pulmonary hypertension . One case report also presented the case of a 19-month-old HIV-positive boy from Addis Ababa who developed an ischemic stroke following disseminated extrapulmonary tuberculosis. The study suggests extrapulmonary tuberculosis to be considered a cause for sudden focal neurologic deficits in children and adolescents with HIV infection, especially in tuberculosis-endemic countries (Table 2). Discussion To the best of our knowledge, this scoping review represents the first systematic synthesis of available evidence on cardiovascular diseases among PLWHA in Ethiopia. We included 26 institution-based studies, predominantly conducted in three of the nine regions, focusing largely on hypertension but also covering conditions such as atherosclerotic cardio- vascular disease, ischemic stroke, diastolic dysfunction, left ventricular hypertrophy, and pericardial effusion. The majority of studies were cross-sectional, conducted after 2011, and had relatively small sample sizes. These findings underscore a growing but still limited and fragmented body of literature on cardiovascular disorders in the Ethiopian HIV population. The disproportionate focus on hypertension may reflect its relatively straightforward diagnosis using basic clinical tools such as blood pressure cuffs, compared with other cardiovascular disorders that require more advanced diagnostics like echocar- diography or laboratory biomarkers. The reported prevalence of hypertension among PLWHA in Ethiopia ranged widely from 11.0% to 41.3%, which could be attributed to variations in diagnostic thresholds, participant characteristics (e.g., HAART status), comorbidities, and institutional differences in clinical practice. This heterogeneity underscores the need for standardised diagnostic criteria and robust surveillance systems for hypertension and other cardiovascular comorbidities among PLWHA in Ethiopia. Our PLOS One | May 5, 2026 10 / 15 findings align with other regional and global studies. For instance, two recent meta-analyses reported the global hyperten- sion prevalence rates of 25.2% and 23.6% among PLWHA . In East Africa, a recent meta-analysis estimated the pooled prevalence in Ethiopia at 16.13% . These results suggest that Ethiopia’s rates are within global estimates but also reflect underrepresentation due to the limited number and scope of existing studies. The lack of community-based studies in Ethiopia limits the generalizability of findings, as institution-based research might not reflect the true preva- lence due to selection bias. Furthermore, according to the hypertension treatment guideline, in Ethiopia, hypertension is diagnosed if, on
