HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Published in final edited form as: Clin Liver Dis. 2016 February ; 20(1): 191–203. doi:. Liver Transplantation for Cholestatic Liver Diseases in Adults Synopsis Liver transplantation (LT) is an established lifesaving therapy for patients with cholestatic liver diseases, including primary cholestatic diseases, namely primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), as well as secondary forms of cholestatic liver disease, including those with cholestatic complications of LT needing a re-transplant. Patients with cholestatic liver diseases can be transplanted for either complications of end stage liver disease or for disease- specific symptoms prior to the onset of end stage liver disease. Patients with cholestatic liver disease need to be regularly assessed for symptoms, lab parameters, development of hepatobiliary tumors, and the status of concomitant IBD if present, including colon cancer screening. Patient survival after liver transplantation for cholestatic liver diseases is generally better than for other indications.1 Keywords MELD exceptions; living donor transplantation; cholestatic liver disease; waitlist mortality Introduction Liver transplantation (LT) is a lifesaving therapy for patients with primary cholestatic liver disease, including primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), as well as secondary forms of cholestatic liver disease, including those with cholestatic complications of LT needing a re-transplant. These three processes will be the focus for the purposes of this review as they are the most common forms of cholestatic liver disease necessitating LT. Patients with cholestatic liver disease can be transplanted for either complications of end-stage liver disease or for cholestatic disease-specific symptoms prior to the onset of endstage liver disease. Patients with cholestatic liver diseases face unique Corresponding Author: David Goldberg. Author Contact information Vandana Khungar: 3400 Spruce Street, 2 Dulles, Philadelphia, PA 19104; David Goldberg: Blockley Hall, 423 Guardian Drive, Room 730, Philadelphia, PA 19104; Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. Dr. Khungar has nothing to disclose. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author
