HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. Dr. Khungar has nothing to disclose. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript complications compared to patients with other chronic liver diseases, and need to be regularly assessed for symptoms of cholestasis (i.e., pruritus), lab abnormalities due to cholestasis (most notable fat-soluble vitamins), and for patients with PSC, development of hepatobiliary tumors, and complications of concomitant inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including colon cancer. Patient survival after liver transplantation for cholestatic liver diseases is generally better than for other indications, as will be discussed.1 Although a liver transplantation can be lifesaving for cholestatic liver diseases, one of the main challenges is the potential for recurrent disease which may necessitate re-transplantation. Other cholestatic diseases that may necessitate LT include total parenteral nutrition (TPN) induced cholestasis, biliary atresia, Alagille syndrome, progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis, sarcoidosis, cystic-fibrosis associated liver disease, secondary sclerosing cholangitis, and fibropolycystic disease of the liver, which are rare outside of the pediatric setting, and will not be covered in this review. Primary Biliary Cirrhosis Identifying patients most likely to need a liver transplant Several mathematical models have been developed to estimate projected survival in PBC in order to determine optimal timing for LT. The Mayo risk score was developed in an attempt to predict time to transplant in patients with PBC. This model incorporates: age, bilirubin, albumin, prothrombin time, peripheral edema, and presence or absence of diuretic therapy. When the score is >7.8 it is thought that patients benefit from LT1. Two studies found that pre-transplant disease severity as measured by the Mayo PBC risk score appeared to have a direct effect on survival following LT for PBC. Patients with higher risk scores had a tendency for worse outcomes regardless of the era of transplantation2,3. As expected, patients who were malnourished or chronically ill preoperatively were found to have less favorable short-term outcomes after LT2. These data suggest that predictive risk models such as the Mayo PBC risk score may be able to predict the probability of poor outcomes following LT for PBC. Indications for transplantation PBC has gone from the leading indication for liver transplantation in the 1980s to the sixth most common indication in 2006 due to effective medical therapy with UDCA4. It still remains the indication for LT in up to 5% of patients receiving an LT in the
