HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


most common indication in 2006 due to effective medical therapy with UDCA4. It still remains the indication for LT in up to 5% of patients receiving an LT in the US each year. Despite the effectiveness of UDCA, 30% of patients will be incomplete responders and face the greatest risk of progressing to cirrhosis. Furthermore, due to the disease being asymptomatic in some patients, PBC can be diagnosed at such a late stage that even effective medical therapy cannot stave off the need for LT. Most patients with PBC who require an evaluation for LT have developed decompensation from cirrhosis and portal hypertension, including ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal bleeding, or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Patients with more-preserved liver function can also be considered for LT if they suffer from intractable symptoms of PBC including pruritus, chronic fatigue, or severe metabolic bone disease5. These indications are controversial because the current system of LT follows an ‘urgency-based’ model that Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript prioritizes patients using the Model for End Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score. Unless a living donor is available, patients with PBC without complications from portal hypertension will have difficulty obtaining deceased donors due to their low MELD scores and the disparity in available deceased donors compared to the number of patients on the waiting list6–8.The other alternative is to apply for exception points for these patients, but these are not standard indications for exception points, and practices related to exception points vary from region to region9. Importantly, even though LT may be lifesaving for patients with decompensated cirrhosis from PBC, for those with symptoms such as fatigue from PBC, there is the potential that fatigue attributable to PBC may not resolve with LT.10 Waiting list mortality for patients with PBC Until recently, information on the waiting list mortality among PBC patients in the US relied on small case series or older data. However, a recent study evaluated the waitlist outcomes for these patients by analyzing United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) data for all adults on the waitlist between 2002 and 2014. During this time period, 16.5% of waitlisted patients with PBC died on the waiting list without receiving an LT, as compared to 12.4% with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and 8.5% with PSC. Importantly, the risk of waitlist mortality varied across the US, but
