HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


waiting list without receiving an LT, as compared to 12.4% with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and 8.5% with PSC. Importantly, the risk of waitlist mortality varied across the US, but despite this, PBC patients had higher waitlist mortality than PSC patients in the first three months after being waitlisted, and 40% higher overall. Compared to patients with PSC, PBC patients died more often from cardiovascular causes.11 MELD score in PBC and MELD exceptions As referenced above, since 2002, patients on the LT waitlist have been prioritized using the MELD score, an objective score to prioritize the ‘sickest first.’ The MELD score is a good predictor of survival in patients with all forms of liver disease, although the Mayo PBC risk performs similarly to the MELD score in predicting survival in PBC patients8 The MELD score is based on three parameters (serum creatinine, bilirubin, and INR), and does not account for symptoms of liver disease that do not affect laboratory tests. For patients with PBC, this most commonly manifests as intractable pruritus. There are no standardized policies for granting exception points for patients with pruritus. Transplant centers may submit an application to their regional review board (RRB; there is 1 RRB within each of the 11 UNOS regions), to have the case reviewed on a case-by-case basis. There is variability among centers and regions in the utilization of such exceptions, however, given that they are related to quality-of-life, and not mortality, they are being approved less frequently, and in the future, may be eliminated. As one example of geographic variability in exception points, a study published in 2011 by Argo et al examined regional differences in utilization of “symptom-based” MELD exceptions, which specifically excludes those for hepatocellular carcinoma. This would include exceptions for symptoms such as pruritus and fatigue commonly seen in patients with PBC. In this study, the authors reviewed OPTN data for waiting list registrants during the MELD allocation from February 27, 2002 to November 22, 2006. Interestingly, although utilization of system-based exception varied widely across UNOS regions, it did not correlate with organ availability as estimated by the regional mean physiologic MELD at transplantation. There were no statistical differences between PSC and PBC, and cholestatic diseases were treated as one group in this analysis.9 Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Living Donor Liver Transplantation for
