HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


as one group in this analysis.9 Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Living Donor Liver Transplantation for PBC Because the symptoms of PBC are not captured by the MELD score, living donor liver transplant (LDLT) is an attractive option for patients with PBC. Post-LDLT outcomes in PBC are excellent, with reported 5-year survival rates of 80%. No significant difference is seen in survival for deceased donor versus living donor transplants in patients with PBC.12 Post transplant outcomes in PBC Outcomes of LT in patients with PBC are excellent and in general better than for other indications for LT. In Western populations (US and UK), 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10- year survival rates post-transplantation were 93–94%, 90–91%, 82–86%, and 67% respectively. Graft survival in patients with PBC at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years was 85%, 83%, 57–81%, and 61%, respectively.1312 Patients with PBC, as with other autoimmune diseases, may need longer courses of steroid therapy or higher doses. Some patients are even kept on low doses of prednisone chronically. Interestingly, those who received a LDLT were more likely to have corticosteroid withdrawal than those who received deceased donor transplants for PBC in a study of 1032 patients.14 Nevertheless, there are no controlled trials that have identified the optimal immunosuppression regimen in these patients. Recurrence rates of PBC post-transplant are estimated at 21–23% at 10 years and >43% at 15 years.15 Median time to recurrence is 3–5.5 years, although it can be as rapid as less than 1 year after transplant. Diagnosing recurrent PBC after LT can be difficult as anti- mitochondrial antibodies can remain positive after transplant without recurrent disease. Anti-parietal cell antibodies may be useful in the diagnosis of post-transplant PBC recurrence, but are not yet a definitive tool.16 The diagnosis requires a liver biopsy with histologic features of portal inflammatory infiltrates, lymphoid aggregates, epithelioid granulomas, and bile duct damage. To date, no predictors of disease recurrence have been identified, but HLA mismatch and choice of immunosuppression may have an impact on recurrence rates. The treatment of post-transplant recurrent PBC is also unclear. Biochemical improvement can be seen with ursodeoxycholic acid but there is no clear evidence that it improves patient or graft survival or alters the natural history of disease recurrence.17 Despite a high rate of post-transplant recurrence, graft loss due to recurrent PBC occurs
