HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


evidence that it improves patient or graft survival or alters the natural history of disease recurrence.17 Despite a high rate of post-transplant recurrence, graft loss due to recurrent PBC occurs at a rate of 1–5.4%.18 While patient and graft survival are often used as outcomes for LT, an important multicenter study by Gross et al answered the question of what the quality-of-life before and after liver transplantation for cholestatic liver disease is.19 Using the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases Liver Transplant Database Quality of Life Questionnaire (NIDDK LTD-QOL), a validated and reliable instrument, four areas were assessed: liver – increase in disease severity led to a worsened quality of life, but this was reversible with LT. Patients with PBC were compared to those with PSC and there were no significant differences in the following measures of QOL before LT or at 1 year follow up: Symptoms Composite Score, pain rating, Function Composite Score, Karnofsky score, sick days, results were reported as composites for the 157 adult patients with PSC and PBC. Results Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript were remarkable for significantly improved health-related quality of life ratings after LT satisfaction, and overall quality of life. Importantly, the HRQOL at 1 year after LT was not even by those who are very ill prior to transplant.19,20 Secondary cholestatic disease post-transplantation Cholestasis post-transplantation is a common occurrence; it can be extrahepatic due to mechanical obstruction of the main bile ducts or intrahepatic, due to a variety of causes. Cholestasis in the post-LT period usually remains subclinical, but when severe, it is associated with irreversible liver damage, necessitating retransplantation. The causes of cholestasis are best categorized by time of occurrence: early (within 6 months of LT) or late (after 6 months post LT). Common causes of intrahepatic cholestasis include ischemia/reperfusion injury, bacterial infection, acute cellular rejection, cytomegalovirus infection, small for size grafts, medication injury, intrahepatic biliary strictures, chronic rejection, hepatic artery thrombosis or stenosis, ABO blood group incompatibility, biliary cast syndrome, fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis C, cholangiopathy post-donation after cardiac death (DCD) donation, and recurrent disease (Table 1). By contrast, extrahepatic cholestasis, is usually related to biliary stones or anastomotic strictures. Extrahepatic cholestasis due to anasomotic strictures typically require interventions to reverse, which can be endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) or percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTC) depending on
