HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


biliary stones or anastomotic strictures. Extrahepatic cholestasis due to anasomotic strictures typically require interventions to reverse, which can be endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) or percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTC) depending on the location, presence of a duct-to-duct anastomosis versus Roux-en-Y, and accessibility of the biliary tract. There has been a continued emphasis on increasing the utilization of DCD livers, which can provide good posttransplant graft and patient survival, but are frequently associated with biliary complications, most commonly ischemic cholangiopathy (diffuse intra-hepatic strictures). These patients need to be relisted, and the challenge is obtaining high enough priority for re-transplantation. A recent analysis of OPTN/UNOS data from 2002 to 2011 revealed that due to the use of MELD exception points, DCD patients relisted for LT underwent retransplantation 71.4% of the times. Of those with an approved MELD exception, 85.2% underwent retransplantation, compared to 57% of those with an exception denied, and 69.4% of those not applying for an exception. Patients with an approved exception were 3.3 times more likely to undergo retransplantation. Clearly, standardization of exception points for DCD recipients requiring retransplantation is required.21 Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis Indications for transplantation Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic disease that leads to progressive fibrosis and stricturing of the biliary tract and the hepatic parenchyma, and frequently develops into biliary cirrhosis. Similar to other forms of chronic disease, liver transplantation is indicated for patients with PSC who develop complications of portal hypertension, which include Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal hemorrhage, and/or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.22 Additionally, patients with PSC who develop cirrhosis are at risk for developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), although at a much lower rates than others forms of chronic liver disease (e.g., hepatitis C, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis).23 In the small increased waitlist priority (exception points) are based on the Milan criteria: 1 tumor ≤5cm, or 2 or 3 tumors ≤3cm.24 In contrast to other etiologies of chronic disease that almost uniformly require transplantation when complications of portal hypertension and/or HCC develop, PSC has two unique indications for liver transplantation: cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) and recurrent bacterial cholangitis. Although nearly all patients with chronic liver disease who are placed on a transplant waitlist have underlying cirrhosis, this is not a requirement for listing for liver transplantation. It is estimated that among patients with PSC, anywhere from 25–50% of patients waitlisted
