HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, psc, author, manuscript, author manuscript, pbc, disease, transplantation, transplant, patients psc, exception, manuscript author, recurrent, cholangitis


a transplant waitlist have underlying cirrhosis, this is not a requirement for listing for liver transplantation. It is estimated that among patients with PSC, anywhere from 25–50% of patients waitlisted for a liver transplant do not have radiographic and/or histologic evidence of cirrhosis25 and/or complications of portal hypertension (e.g., ascites).26 The incidence of CCA is dramatically higher in patients with PSC when compared to patients with other etiologies of liver disease, and/or the general population. Depending on the means of diagnosis (e.g., radiographic diagnosis, post-mortem), the lifetime risk of developing CCA in the setting of PSC ranges from 10–40% in patients with PSC.27–30 Historically CCA was deemed a contraindication to liver transplantation, yet in a subset of patients with CCA (hilar CCA occurring most commonly, but not exclusively in PSC), the post-transplant outcomes are quite good. Among patients with hilar CCA who undergo neo- adjuvant chemo-radiation and survive to undergo a liver transplant, the 5-year recurrence free survival is 65%.31 But hilar CCA, with or without PSC, should only be considered an indication for liver transplantation among patients who undergo the Mayo Clinic PSC protocol (discussed in detail in exceptions section).28–30 The second indication for transplantation that is unique to patients with PSC (or rarely in patients with biliary strictures from diseases such as autoimmune cholangiopathy or congenital or acquired structural biliary anomalies) is recurrent bacterial cholangitis. Longstanding biliary inflammation leads to the development of biliary strictures and subsequent stasis, which places patients with PSC at an increased risk of recurrent bacterial cholangitis. Although the risk of bacterial cholangitis is influenced by the severity of disease, presence of a dominant stricture, and history of prior biliary manipulation (i.e., endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with sphincterotomy), it is a common complication of PSC. Available data suggest that nearly 40% of patients with PSC waitlisted for a liver transplant in the US have a history of at least one episode of bacterial cholangitis prior to waitlisting, with almost 30% of patients developing at least one subsequent episode while on the waitlist.25 Recurrent cholangitis has been considered an indication for liver transplantation due to the potential for morbidity (e.g., frequent hospitalizations, impaired quality of life), and hypothesized risk of mortality. Patients with PSC may also develop complications from longstanding cholestasis including refractory pruritus, weight loss, and metabolic bone diseases resulting. These complications Clin Liver Dis. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2017 February 01. Author Manuscript
