Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


Interpersonal Violence Mark L. Rosenberg, Alexander Butchart, James Mercy, Vasant Narasimhan, Hugh Waters, and Maureen S. Marshall Violence kills more than 1.6 million people each year. The thatmorethan90percentofallviolence-relateddeathsoccurin impact ofnonfatal violence cannot be quantified,but it is even LMICcountries(DahlbergandKrug2002).Theestimatedrate more pernicious given resultant disabilities and long-term ofviolentdeathinLMICswas32.1per100,000peoplein2000, physical,psychological,economic,and social consequences. comparedwith14.4per100,000inhigh-incomecountries. The direct and indirect costs of violence are enormous. This chapter is based on a public health approach to pre- Violence directly affects health care expenditures worldwide. venting interpersonal violence. A public health approach has Indirectly,violence has a negative effect on national and local three overriding characteristics:it applies scientific methodol- economies—stunting economic development,increasing eco- ogy,emphasizes prevention,and encourages collaboration. increasing law enforcement expenditures (Waters and others ach involves collecting and analyzing data to define the magni- 2004). tude,scope,and characteristics ofthe problem,examining the The U.S.-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention factors that increase or decrease the risk for violence,and iden- identified violence as a leading public health problem in the tifying the factors that can be modified through interventions. mid 1980s and early 1990s (Rosenberg 1985; Rosenberg and Interventions are designed, tested, and evaluated. Efficacious (Resolution WHA49.25). Contributing to the World Health and cost-effectiveness are evaluated. Ongoing monitoring of Dahlberg and Krug (2002)divided violence into the following the database to allow quantitative assessment of successes and categories: clear identification ofremaining needs. • self-directed violence,or violence in which the perpetrator harm caused by disease or violence.Although criminal justice is the victim (for example,suicide) systems have traditionally focused on capturing perpetrators • interpersonal violence,or violence inflicted by another indi- of violence and punishing them for their actions (typically • collective violence,or violence committed by larger groups, prevent violence from occurring and concentrates on identify- such as states,organized political groups,militia groups,and ing ways to keep people from committing acts of violence. terrorist organizations. Interventions may eliminate or reduce the underlying risk fac- tors and shore up protective factors.Prevention strategies are This chapter focuses on interpersonal violence,which dis- conceived and implemented with reference to the interaction proportionately affects low- and middle-income countries ofrisk factors among people at different stages ofthe life cycle (LMICs).1TheWHOreportonviolenceandhealthestimates (Mercy and Hammond 1999;additional sources online). oncontributions from different sectors and disciplines.Public injuries and other harm. Data sources include death certifi- justice. Each sector has a role to play, and collectively their self-reported information from victim surveys and special actions have the potential to reduce violence. studies. Multiple data sources, with their
