Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


Violence committed by juveniles is particularly costly to aggregate total of US$94 billion in annual costs to the U.S. society.Miller’s (2001) analysis ofviolent crimes committed in economy resulting from child abuse,which is equal to 1 percent Pennsylvania in 1993 finds that juvenile violence accounted ofgross domestic product (GDP).The estimate includes direct for24.7 percent of all violent crimes and 46.6 percent of total medical costs and related costs of legal services,policing,and victim costs from violent crime.Cohen (1988) calculates that incarceration, as well as the value of indirect productivity the total cost to society of a youth engaging in a life of crime losses, psychological costs, and future criminality. Using sec- ranges from US$1.9 million to US$2.6 million. ondary sources, Courtney (1999) calculates direct costs of Proximate Risk Factors US$14 billion,including counseling and child welfare services, resulting from child abuse in the United States. Alcohol, drugs, and guns contribute to the costs of interper- The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC sonal violence.According to estimates by the Children’s Safety 2003) cite an estimated 5.3 million victimizations involving Network Economics and Insurance Resource Center (1997), intimate partner violence each year in the United States among the cost of violent crime committed under the influence of women 18 and older, resulting in nearly 2 million injuries. alcohol equaled US$33.3 million in 1995,or 8.3 percent ofthe More than 550,000 ofthose injuries require medical attention. cost of all violent crime in the United States. The National The costs ofintimate partner violence,including medical care, Crime Prevention Council (1999) estimates that the cost ofall annually. US$60 billion to US$100 billion annually in the United States, As a percentage of GDP,estimates of the costs of intimate with violent crime accounting for approximately 10 percent of partner violence are considerably higher in LMICs than in this figure. high-income countries. Morrison and Orlando (1999) calcu- Cook and Ludwig (2000) estimate that the annual costs of late the costs ofdomestic violence against women on the basis gunviolenceintheUnitedStatesareontheorderofUS$100bil- of stratified random samples of women. Using only the lost lion.Miller and Cohen (1997) calculate a significantly higher productive capacity of the women,they extrapolate total costs estimate for the toll of gun-related violence in the United ofUS$1.73 billion in Chile and US$32.7 million in Nicaragua. States: US$155 billion (including psychological costs and the In a subsequent publication,Buvinic and Morrison (1999) cal- valueofqualityoflife).Theyalsocalculatethat,onapercapita culate that the direct medical costs plus lost productivity are basis,the cost
