Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


Nicaragua. States: US$155 billion (including psychological costs and the In a subsequent publication,Buvinic and Morrison (1999) cal- valueofqualityoflife).Theyalsocalculatethat,onapercapita culate that the direct medical costs plus lost productivity are basis,the cost of gun violence in Canada equals one-third of equivalent to 2.0 percent of GDP in Chile and 1.6 percent of the U.S. cost. Peden and van der Spuy’s (1998) study at the Several studies have used the U.S. National Crime direct medical costs averaged R 30,628 (US$10,308) per gun- Victimization Survey,an annual survey based on 100,000 inter- shot victim. 760 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark L. Rosenberg, Alexander Butchart, James Mercy, and others Effects on Public Finances and the individual attributes brought to these contexts. Intervention may therefore attempt to influence aspects or risk Thepublicsector(andthussocietyingeneral)bearsmanyof factors at any or all of the model’s four levels (Dahlberg and the costs of interpersonal violence.Several studies (Klein and Krug 2002;Mercy and Hammond 1999). others1999;Payneandothers1993;additionalsourcesonline) Table 40.4 presents our typology of prevention strategies. findthat56to80percentofU.S.healthcarecostsforstabbing The examples presented are not exhaustive, nor have all the and gun injuries are either directly paid by public financing strategies proven effective. Rather, they illustrate the breadth orarenotpaidatall.Inthelattercase,governmentandsociety of potential solutions and emphasize the need to consider absorb the costs in the form of uncompensated care financ- addressing the problem simultaneously at different stages of ing andoverallhigherpaymentrates.InLMICs,societylikely human development and through different social contexts.In also absorbs the costs of violence through direct public many cases,an intervention might have an effect on multiple expendituresandnegativeeffectsoninvestmentandeconomic forms of violence.At this time,data to prove or disprove the growth. effectiveness ofmost ofthese interventions are insufficient,and in those cases in which sufficient data are available, they are almost always from high-income countries. INTERVENTIONS The evidence base of ways to prevent violence is expanding Strategic Focuses for Prevention rapidly,but huge gaps remain in relation to effective strategies A simple understanding of the approaches illustrated in table for reducing the health burden associated with interpersonal 40.4 is insufficient for developing a comprehensive violence violence.The greatest strides have come in the areas of youth prevention strategy.A public health approach to violence pre- violence and child abuse,and almost all the prevention knowl- vention concentrates on identifying ways to keep people from edge has been developed in high-income countries. Despite committing violent acts.Interventions may eliminate or reduce those limitations, an understanding of the epidemiology and the underlying risk factors and shore up protective factors. etiology of
