Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


in high-income countries. Despite committing violent acts.Interventions may eliminate or reduce those limitations, an understanding of the epidemiology and the underlying risk factors and shore up protective factors. etiology of violence and prevention provides important Interventions are typically classified in terms of three levels of insights into the spectrum of policies and interventions that prevention: primary, secondary, and tertiary (Dahlberg and can be drawn on to prevent violence in LMICs. Krug 2002). Violence Prevention Strategies Primary Prevention. Primary prevention interventions focus The many commonalities among the various forms ofviolence on preventing violence before it occurs.The literature has given in relation to their epidemiology and etiology suggest that rise to several strategic focuses for the primary prevention of common pathways to prevention may be available (Reza, violence that are important considerations in violence preven- Mercy,and Krug 2001).A typology of prevention strategies is tion planning.Some have been successfully implemented at the useful in sorting through the complexities and commonalities community level in LMICs. of this problem to identify the range of strategies that might The cultural context plays an important role in violent be incorporated into effective violence prevention plans. We behavior. Cultural traditions are sometimes used to justify propose a typology of prevention based on two key dimen- such social practices as female genital mutilation and severe sions: the stages of human development and the ecological physical punishment of children (Mercy and others 2003). model mentioned earlier. Conversely, cultural norms can be a source of protection The epidemiology of violence, including its onset, desis- against violence,such as traditions that promote the equality tance,and continuity,is closely related to the stages of human of womenorrespectfortheelderly.Althoughevidence-based development (Williams,Guerra,and Elliott 1997).Increasing approachesforchangingculturaltraditionsasaviolencepre- evidence points to the existence of discrete developmental vention strategy are not yet available, some countries have and Gorman-Smith 1998; U.S. Department of Health and promotioncampaignmakesresidentsawareof theextentand Human Services 2001;additional sources online).Thus,inter- consequences of violence and encourages better parenting vening at early developmental stages may reduce the likelihood through role models and improved communication among that violence is expressed during later developmental stages. family members. Evaluations have found shifts in attitudes The ecological model is also an important dimension ofthe and social norms concerning intimate partner violence and typology,because violence is the product ofmultiple and over- domestic relations. Willingness to change behavior and take lapping levels of influence on behavior.The ecological model actiontostopviolencehasincreasedinurbanandruralareas assumes that violent behavior is influenced by social contexts among
