Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


by offering help to those at risk of preschool enrichment, home visitation, and parenting pro- offending and by encouraging adults to watch for and act on grams have been found to have both short- and long-term warnings ofchild sexual abuse before an offense is committed effects on preventing violence (Farrington 2003; Mercy and . Under such programs, individuals voluntarily others 2002; Utting 2003; additional sources online). Early turn themselves in for treatment and thereby prevent potential intervention can help shape attitudes,knowledge,and behavior future violence. ofchildren at a time when they are more open to positive influ- The outcome ofinjury from interpersonal violence depends ences and can affect their behavior over their lifetime (Mercy not only on its severity,but also on the speed and appropriate- and others 1993). ness of treatment (Committee on Trauma Research 1985). Income inequality is a risk factor universally associated with Establishment oftrauma systems designed to treat and manage interpersonal and collective violence (Butchart and Engstrom injured victims efficiently and effectively is an important factor online).Poverty itself does not appear to be consistently asso- that reductions in criminal assaults resulting in death in the ciated with violence,but the juxtaposition of extreme poverty United States are partly explained by the increased survival of with extreme wealth appears to be a key ingredient in recipes victims. Developments in medical technology and trauma for violence. Economic programs or policies that reduce or services may be reducing the number ofinterpersonal violence minimize the effects of income inequality may be strategic in fatalities (Harris and others 2002).Hospital emergency depart- violence prevention,although the evidence base for such inter- ments may also provide an opportunity to intervene with ventions has not been established. victims who might otherwise seek revenge against their attack- ers or victims who are at greater risk for revictimization Secondary and Tertiary Prevention. Although an emphasis (Muelleman and others 1996). on primary prevention is essential for reducing the health burden associated with violence, secondary prevention pro- grams and services are necessary for addressing the immediate COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS consequences of violent actions and behaviors, and tertiary Studies show that implementing preventive interventions costs programs focus on long-term care.Efforts targeted at victims less than dealing with the outcomes ofviolence,in some cases ofviolence are extremely important for mitigating the physical by several orders ofmagnitude. and psychological consequences of the various forms of violence and abuse and for reducing victims’ risks for future violence
