Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


are extremely important for mitigating the physical by several orders ofmagnitude. and psychological consequences of the various forms of violence and abuse and for reducing victims’ risks for future violence (National Center for Injury Prevention and Examples of Cost-Saving Interventions Control2002). To date,most evaluations of preventive interventions measure Physiciansandotherhealthprofessionalsaregatekeepersin cost and effects in high-income countries.Although cost sav- effortstomonitor,identify,treat,andinterveneincasesofinter- ings may not be comparable in LMICs,effects may be greater. personalviolence.Aspreviouslynoted,morecasesofinterper- sonal violence come to the attention of health care providers Legislation and Shelter for Abused Women. The 1994 thanofpolice.Theroleofhealthcareprovidersinprevention Violence against Women Act in the United States has resulted effortsisneitherwidelyunderstoodnorembraced,andmany in an estimated net benefit of US$16.4 billion, including institutional and educational barriers limit their effectiveness US$14.8 billion in averted victims’ costs (Clark, Biddle, and (Cohen, De Vos, and Newberger 1997). Programs to educate Martin 2002). This wide-ranging legislation introduced pro- healthcareprovidersareunderwayworldwide.Manyhospital grams aimed at deterring crimes against women and providing emergencydepartments,doctors’offices,andclinicsettingsuse assistance to female victims of crimes. Interventions include screening programs to identify victims of intimate partner penalties for repeat offenders,use ofsexual history in criminal violence,childabuse,orelderabuse,althoughtheeffectiveness and civil cases,programs for victims ofchild abuse,safe homes of those interventions in reducing subsequent violence is not for women,confidentiality ofthe abused person’s address,and wellunderstood(HeiseandGarcia-Moreno2002;Runyanand pretrial detention in sex offense cases. Chanley, Chanley, and others2002;Wolf,Daichman,andBennett2002). Campbell’s (2001) analysis shows that providing shelters for Therapeutic approaches have been implemented in many victims of domestic violence results in an estimated cost- parts ofthe world to reduce child abuse.Though some research benefit ratioof18.4 to 6.8. 764 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark L. Rosenberg, Alexander Butchart, James Mercy, and others Parent Training and Home Visitation. Caldwell (1992) esti- violence and the costs versus benefits of prevention efforts is mates that the costs ofchild abuse and neglect in Michigan are urgently needed. US$1 billion a year,including the costs ofcrimes committed by the victims of child abuse later in life and the costs of their incarceration. The study estimates that prevention costs, IMPLEMENTATION OF PREVENTION including a home visitor program for every family and a com- STRATEGIES prehensive parent education program,are just one-nineteenth of the cost of child abuse. Armstrong’s (1983) cost-benefit Promoting violence prevention involves encouraging and analysis of a child abuse prevention program in Yeardon, supporting the development,implementation,and evaluation Pennsylvania,finds net savings of US$647,000 per year and a of programs explicitly designed to stop the perpetration of cost-benefit ratio of1.86. violence at local,regional,and national levels.
