Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


supporting the development,implementation,and evaluation Pennsylvania,finds net savings of US$647,000 per year and a of programs explicitly designed to stop the perpetration of cost-benefit ratio of1.86. violence at local,regional,and national levels. The 2003 World Health Assembly Resolution (WHA56.24) Registering Firearms. Chapdelaine and Maurice (1996) on implementing the recommendations ofthe World Report on quantify the costs and benefits ofa Canadian law that required Violence and Health(Krug and others 2002b;see also Butchart gun owners to register their firearms by January 1, 2001. and others 2004) advocates a five-point strategy. Implementing a universal licensing and registration system cost approximately US$70 million (2001 U.S.dollars),includ- Increasing Capacity for Collecting and Managing Data ing a significant one-time expense, compared with annual lion.When the indirect costs ofgun violence are included,the social service sector data on violence and its consequences is economic benefits of the law are much clearer. Miller (1995) fundamental to building a sustained, high-level policy and estimates the total costs offirearm-related injuries in Canada at intervention programming response in LMICs. Population- US$5.6 billion, including lost productivity and psychological level data are needed to design and evaluate community-level often different subset of violence-related injuries than police statistics and,with criminal justice and social service data,can Youth Intervention. Greenwood and others (1996) compare strengthen abilities to define the problem,identify causes and interventions to reduce youth crime in the United States and risk factors,design appropriate interventions,and monitor the find that providing high school students with incentives to interventions’effectiveness. graduate,whichcostsUS$14,100perprogramparticipant,isthe Information systems play a large role in recent efforts to mostcost-effectiveintervention,resultinginanestimated258 address infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV,allow- seriouscrimespreventedperUS$1millionspent.Parenttrain- ing better identification of high-risk populations and appro- ingpreventsanestimated157seriouscrimesperUS$1million, priate interventions. A similar role is imminent for violence comparedwith72fordelinquentsupervisionprogramsand11 prevention. As previously stated, information systems must forhomevisitsanddaycare.Allthoseinterventions(excluding integrate data from the criminal justice,labor,education,social home visits) are more cost-effective than California’s “three strikes”law,which incarcerates for life those individuals con- housed at multilateral agencies or regional joint initiatives. victedofthreeseriouscrimes. Sharing information regionally allows countries to identify opportunities for collaboration and to share best practices. Need for LMIC Cost-Benefit Data Support for Research Though violence disproportionately affects LMICs,studies of the economic effects of violence in those countries are scarce. Supporting research on the causes,consequences,and preven- Comparisons with high-income countries are complicated by tion of violence has proven effective in mobilizing prevention the tendency to undervalue economic losses related to produc- responses in developing countries. In South Africa, the 1997 cally based on forgone wages
