Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


violence has proven effective in mobilizing prevention the tendency to undervalue economic losses related to produc- responses in developing countries. In South Africa, the 1997 cally based on forgone wages and income.Thus,when the costs research for improved violence prevention and control as a top of violent homicides are calculated, the estimates range from priority,and in 2001,the Medical Research Council established US$15,319 per homicide in South Africa, to US$829,000 in a program to give violence prevention research the same New Zealand,to more than US$2 million in the United States. priority as research into HIV/AIDS,tuberculosis,and malaria Given the existing methodological differences and widespread (Jeenah and others 1997; Medical Research Council of South gaps in the literature, systematic research into the costs of Africa 2004). South Africa also has applied research data in Interpersonal Violence | 765 various prevention contexts, including establishment of a through the system. Services in associated sectors—medical, national violence and injury mortality surveillance system, forensic,social,and legal—should be examined,because inte- passage of firearms legislation, assessment of national and grated efforts can improve access to and value of services that municipal-level burden-of-disease estimates, and design of previously existed in isolation. Training of medical and legal prevention programs (Butchart and others 2001; Groenewald service providers in activities aimed at preventing violence may and others 2003). also affect the success of long-term prevention; however, this The currently limited evidence base and understanding training strategy has not been extensively evaluated. of the causes of all types of violence must be expanded throughplanned,documented,evaluated,and shared research. Developing Action Plans Some developing countries have opportunities to develop and document prevention programs in special settings, such A national plan ofaction for preventing interpersonal violence as for refugees, orphans, nomadic, displaced, and homeless and improving victim support and care is the blueprint that populations. providesasetofcommongoals,asharedtimeframe,astrategy for coordinating activities,and a framework for evaluating the different sectors involved. Such a plan is therefore central to Promoting Primary Prevention organizing national and community-level interventions that An important first step in promoting primary prevention is involve more than one objective and that depend on input systematic documentation of existing prevention programs. from many different sectors.Strong political support from the Records can include information on the types of violence and highest levels ofgovernment is important in aligning the vari- risk factors addressed,target populations served,interventions ous players and ensuring that the plan is implemented and that used, and any monitoring and measurement of the effects.
