Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


important in aligning the vari- risk factors addressed,target populations served,interventions ous players and ensuring that the plan is implemented and that used, and any monitoring and measurement of the effects. associated programs are maintained.Nongovernmental organ- Such information can help make the programs more visible to izations may provide support and continuity in countries policy makers and development partners and can be used to where programs may be interrupted because of unstable, promote increased investment in programs that apply proven changing governments. and promising interventions. Collaboration among national governments and health- WHO has outlined a methodology for systematic documen- related nongovernmental and multilateral organizations can tation (Sethi,Marais,and others 2004,22–33) and has initiated establish the importance of formally addressing violence a project to evaluate the feasibility and utility of such docu- through public health approaches.Though legal and criminal mentation in selected cities and provinces in Brazil, India, justice approaches provide a deterrent, experience in high- consequences ofinterpersonal violence. Strengthening Support Services for Victims A situational analysis of the accessibility and organization of CONCLUSIONS: PROMISES AND PITFALLS emergency, acute, long-term, and rehabilitative services can identify needs and help strengthen care and support services Violence prevention may be seen as a luxury rather than a pub- vention. Maps showing hospitals and clinics with specialized Assembly and codified in the World Report on Violence and systems for treating victims of violence can help these first Healthand reports from the United Nations Crime Prevention responders.Ready access to legal resources empowers victims. Council present frameworks for approaching violence preven- Mock and others (2004) offer guidelines for strengthening tion.The first World Health Assembly resolution was cospon- victim care and support services. sored by a developing country,South Africa,and a developed Claramunt and Cortes’s (2003) assessment in Belize,Costa country,the United States.Both recognized the importance of lished baseline information that could be used to advocate for before evidence ofeffectiveness could be collected.Seven years strengthened medical and legal services for victims of sexual after the resolution,both developing and developed countries violence. Their findings included a lack of adequate medical applauded and adopted the World Report on Violence and 766 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mark L. Rosenberg, Alexander Butchart, James Mercy, and others primary prevention and intervention for victims and empha- Child Welfare62 (1):3–13. Biddle,E.,and D.Hartley.2002.“The Cost of Workplace Homicides in sizes the value of integrating efforts across sectors. However, the model is weakened by a paucity ofsustained interventions
