Chapter
KEYWORDS: violence, prevention, costs, programs, countries, abuse, health, victims, interventions, child, risk, factors, interpersonal, interpersonal violence, services


and empha- Child Welfare62 (1):3–13. Biddle,E.,and D.Hartley.2002.“The Cost of Workplace Homicides in sizes the value of integrating efforts across sectors. However, the model is weakened by a paucity ofsustained interventions Organization’s Sixth World Conference on Injury Prevention and and measured outcomes in LMICs. Control,Montreal,May 12–15. Currently, the best approach may be to take small, incre- Butchart,A., and K. Engstrom. 2002.“Sex- and Age-Specific Effects of mental steps,focusing on relatively discrete and easily imple- Economic Development and Inequality on Homicide Rates in 0 to 24Year Olds:A Cross-Sectional Analysis.”Bulletin ofthe World Health mented interventions that address a prevalent problem.LMICs Organization80:797–805. should build on programs for which some evidence of effec- Butchart,A.,J.Kruger,and R.Lekoba.2000.“Perceptions ofInjury Causes tiveness exists in high-income countries and adopt a “learn as and Solutions in a Johannesburg Township: Implications for you go”approach. Prevention.”Social Science and Medicine50:331–44. Many LMICs face the daunting challenges of the spreading Butchart, A., M. Peden, R. Matzopoulos, S. Burrows, R. Phillips, N.Bhagwandin,and others.2001.“The South African National Non- HIV/AIDS epidemic and ongoing intergroup conflict or war. natural Mortality Surveillance System: Rationale, Pilot Results, and Those problems can destroy the infrastructure of civil society, Evaluation.”South African Medical Journal91 (5):408–17. increase stress and economic hardship,and lead to increases in Butchart, A., A. Phinney, P. Check, and A. Villaveces. 2004. Preventing suicide and interpersonal violence of all kinds—in both sexes Violence: A Guide to Implementing the Recommendations ofthe World Report on Violence and Health.Geneva:Department ofInjuries and andatallages.Inprioritizingviolencepreventionefforts,policy makers and health care professionals may mitigate some ofthe Buvinic M., and A. Morrison. 1999. Violence as an Obstacle to secondary repercussions ofthese deadly factors. Development. 1–8. Washington, DC: Inter-American Development A great deal ofprogress has been made in violence preven- Bank. tion. There is strong reason to believe that the interventions Caldwell,R.A.1992.The Costs ofChild Abuse vs.Child Abuse Prevention: Michigan’s Experience. East Lansing: Michigan Children’s Trust under way and the capacity to implement violence prevention Fund. will make a difference.The lessons learned to date during the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention).2001.“Evaluation ofa public health community’s short experience with violence pre- Child Sexual Abuse Prevention Program: Vermont, 1995–1997.” vention are consistent with the lessons from the community’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report50 (5):77–78,87. much longer experience with the prevention ofinfectious and ———.2003.CostsofIntimatePartnerViolenceagainstWomenintheUnited chronic diseases.Violence can be prevented in LMICs if their States.Atlanta:NationalCenterforInjuryPreventionandControl. governments, their citizens, and the global community start Chanley,S.A.,J.J.Chanley,and H.E.Campbell.2001.“Providing Refuge: The Value ofDomestic Violence Shelter Services.”American Review of now,act wisely,and
