Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


assessment of diet, nervous system, and ophthalmologic status; yearly assessment for complications such as hearing loss, hepatic or renal dysfunction, and hypertension. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Excessive sun exposure and use of metronidazole. Extra vigilance is needed for opioid and sedative use. Use of growth hormone treatment is not recommended in those with CS. Genetic counseling Cockayne syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a CS-related pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffecte d and not a carrier. Once the CS-causing pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing are possible. GeneReview Scope Cockayne Syndrome (CS): Phenotypic Spectrum • CS type I • CS type II • CS type III • Cerebrooculofacioskeletal (COFS) syndrome For synonyms and outdated names see Nomenclature. Diagnosis Formal clinical diagnostic criteria originally proposed for Cockayne syndrome (CS) type I [Nance & Berry 1992] were revised and subsequently expanded [Natale 2011, Laugel 2013]. A diagnostic scoring system has been recently proposed based on both clinical and imaging criteria [Spitz et al 2021]. Cockayne syndrome is characterized by growth failure and multisystemic involvement, with a variable age of as additional clinical manifestations gradually evolve over time. clinical severities and that intermediate phenotypes may arise. • Cockayne syndrome (CS) type I, "classic" CS, in which the major features of the disease become apparent during early childhood • Cockayne syndrome (CS) type II, a more severe form with abnormalities recognized at birth or during the neonatal period with early lethality • Cockayne syndrome (CS) type III, a milder, later-onset form in which major features become apparent during late childhood • Cerebrooculofacioskeletal (COFS) syndrome, a very severe fetal phenotype with arthrogryposis, prenatal growth failure, congenital microcephaly, and congenital cataracts or microphthalmia Cockayne Syndrome 3 Suggestive Findings Cockayne syndrome should be suspected in individuals with the following findings. Major criteria • Postnatal growth failure (height and weight <5th centile by age 2 years) • Progressive microcephaly and neurologic dysfunction manifested as early developmental delay in most individuals, followed by progressive behavioral and intellectual deterioration in all individuals. Brain MRI reveals white matter dysmyelination and cerebral and cerebellar atrophy [Koob et al 2010, Koob et al 2016].
