Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


individuals, followed by progressive behavioral and intellectual deterioration in all individuals. Brain MRI reveals white matter dysmyelination and cerebral and cerebellar atrophy [Koob et al 2010, Koob et al 2016]. Intracranial calcifications (mainly located in the basal ganglia) are seen in some individuals. Note: White matter dysmyelination is usually present at disease onset. Cerebral and cerebellar atrophy appear during the course of the disease and worsen over time. Intracranial calcifications may be absent in some individuals, especially during the early stages, but when present typically become more prominent with time. Minor criteria • Cutaneous photosensitivity • Demyelinating peripheral neuropathy diagnosed by nerve conduction testing • Pigmentary retinopathy and/or cataracts • Sensorineural hearing loss • Dental anomalies including dental caries, enamel hypoplasia, and anomalies of tooth number, size, and shape • A characteristic physical appearance of "cachectic dwarfism" with sunken eyes CS type I (classic) is suspected: • In an older child when both major criteria are present and at least three minor criteria are present; • In an infant or toddler when both major criteria are present, especially if there is increased cutaneous photosensitivity. CS type II (severe) is suspected: • In infants with growth failure at birth and little postnatal increase in height, weight, or head circumference; • When there is little or no postnatal neurologic development; • When congenital cataracts are present. CS type III (mild) is suspected: • In children or teenagers with short stature, mild neurologic impairment, and progressive ataxia; • Especially but not exclusively when there is cutaneous photosensitivity. COFS syndrome is suspected when prenatal growth failure and congenital microcephaly are associated with arthrogryposis and congenital cataracts as well as other structural defects of the eye (microphthalmia, microcornea, iris hypoplasia). Establishing the Diagnosis Clinical diagnosis. The clinical diagnosis of Cockayne syndrome can be established in a proband based on the diagnostic scoring system established by Spitz et al , which helps define the likelihood of CS and provides guidance on appropriate molecular confirmation. 4 GeneReviews ® Molecular diagnosis. The molecular diagnosis of Cockayne syndrome is established in a proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in one of the genes listed in Table 1 identified by molecular genetic testing. Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood
