Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


exome array (when clinically available) may be considered to detect (multi)exon deletions or duplications that cannot be detected by sequence analysis. ordering genomic testing can be found here. Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in Cockayne Syndrome Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 3 Identified by Method Proportion of Cockayne Gene 1, 2 Syndrome Attributed to Gene-targeted deletion/ Pathogenic Variants in Gene Sequence analysis 4 duplication analysis 5 ERCC6 ~65% 90% 6 10% 6 Cockayne Syndrome 5 Table 1. continued from previous page. Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 3 Identified by Method Proportion of Cockayne Gene 1, 2 Syndrome Attributed to Gene-targeted deletion/ Pathogenic Variants in Gene Sequence analysis 4 duplication analysis 5 ERCC8 ~35% 88% 6 12% 6 1. Genes are listed in alphabetic order. 2. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 3. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 4. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 5. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of techniques such as quantitative PCR, long-range PCR, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and a gene-targeted microarray designed to detect single-exon deletions or duplications. Exome and genome sequencing may be able to detect deletions/ duplications using breakpoint detection or read depth; however, sensitivity can be lower than gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis. 6. Laugel et al , Calmels et al , and data derived from the subscription-based professional view of Human Gene Mutation Database [Stenson et al 2020] DNA repair assay. If the diagnosis of Cockayne syndrome is strongly suspected but molecular genetic testing does not identify pathogenic variants in one of the associated genes, an assay of the cellular phenotype can be considered. Assays of DNA repair are performed on skin fibroblasts. The most consistent findings in CS fibroblasts are marked sensitivity to UV radiation and deficient recovery of RNA synthesis following UV damage (i.e., impaired repair of actively transcribed genes, or "transcription-coupled repair") [Nakazawa et al 2010]. Clinical Characteristics Clinical Description Cockayne syndrome is characterized by growth failure, microcephaly, neurodevelopmental delays, cutaneous photosensitivity, sensorial impairment, and dental anomalies [Laugel 2013]. Before the molecular genetics of Cockayne syndrome was understood, it was thought to have a single, discrete phenotype: classic Cockayne syndrome. Importantly, it is
