Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


has been reported [Natale 2011]. CS Type II Children with severe CS have evidence of growth failure at birth, with little or no postnatal neurologic development. Congenital cataracts or other structural anomalies of the eye are present in 30% of individuals. Affected individuals may have some contractures of the spine (kyphosis, scoliosis) and joints in neonatal or early postnatal life. Affected children typically die by age five years [Natale 2011]. CS type II partly overlaps with cerebrooculofacioskeletal (COFS) syndrome. CS Type III DNA sequencing has confirmed the diagnosis of CS type III in some individuals who have clinical features associated with CS but whose growth and/or cognition exceeds the expectations for CS type I [Natale 2011, Baez et al 2013]. Major features only become apparent after age two years. COFS Syndrome COFS syndrome is the most severe subtype of the CS spectrum and can be identified during fetal life. Similar to individuals with CS type II, individuals with COFS syndrome present with severe prenatal growth failure, severe developmental delay / intellectual disability from birth, axial hypotonia, peripheral hypertonia, and neonatal feeding difficulties. COFS syndrome is additionally defined by the presence of arthrogryposis and usually the combination of extreme congenital microcephaly and congenital cataracts [Laugel et al 2008]. COFS syndrome can be recognized during prenatal surveillance and is responsible for cases of spontaneous fetal deaths. Neuropathology In all forms of Cockayne syndrome, a characteristic "tigroid" pattern of demyelination in the subcortical white matter of the brain and multifocal calcium deposition, with relative preservation of neurons and without senile plaques, amyloid, ubiquitin, or tau deposition, has been observed together with arteriosclerosis [Weidenheim et al 2009, Hayashi et al 2012]. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations To date no clear genotype-phenotype correlations for ERCC6 or ERCC8 have been identified. In one study, individuals with pathogenic variants in ERCC8 appeared to have significantly less severe manifestations than ERCC6 at the time of the diagnosis [Spitz et al 2021]. 8 GeneReviews ® For individuals with pathogenic variants in ERCC6, variants upstream of a transposon called PiggyBac transposable element-derived protein 3 in intron 5 of ERCC6 were found to be associated with less severe features than pathogenic variants downstream of that transposon insertion [Damaj-Fourcade et al 2022]. Nomenclature The term "cerebrooculofacioskeletal (COFS) syndrome" and its former synonym, Pena-Shokeir syndrome type II, have been used to refer to a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by congenital neurogenic arthrogryposis (multiple joint contractures),
