Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


AR spasticity, & pigmentosum &/or thinning of skin & hair ERCC5 neurodegenerative features in POLH CS XPA XPC Hutchinson-Gilford LMNA AD progeria syndrome WRN Werner syndrome AR AD Early presence of pigmentary Skin photosensitivity & Primary mitochondrial AR >350 genes 3 retinopathy, brain calcifications , distinctive physical appearance disorders Mat & neurodegeneration in CS XL RAB18 deficiency RAB18 deficiency is not assoc RAB3GAP1 (molecular deficit Microcephaly, microcornea, & w/rapidly progressive RAB3GAP2 underlying both cataracts (RAB18 deficiency AR neurodegeneration & has RAB18 Warburg micro may resemble CS type II / normal DNA nucleotide TBC1D20 syndrome & Martsolf COFS syndrome at birth) excision repair. syndrome) 10 GeneReviews ® Table 4. continued from previous page. Key Feature(s) Overlapping Gene(s) Disorder MOI Distinguishing Features w/CS Clinical presentation is very similar to CS in some persons Normal DNA nucleotide MORC2-related MORC2 AD & can incl microcephaly, excision repair & no skin disorder 4 growth restriction, & photosensitivity neurodevelopmental delays. AD = autosomal dominant; AR = autosomal recessive; COFS = cerebrooculofacioskeletal syndrome; CS = Cockayne syndrome; Mat = maternal; MOI = mode of inheritance; XL = X-linked 1. Most leukodystrophies are not associated with growth restriction, with the exception of the severe or "connatal" form of Pelizaeus- Merzbacher disease, in which children may have short stature and poor weight gain. 2. Genetic testing confirms clinical diagnosis in approximately 60% of affected individuals. Hypomethylation of the imprinted control region 1 (ICR1) at 11p15.5 causes Silver-Russell syndrome (SRS) in 35%-50% of individuals, and maternal uniparental disomy causes SRS in 7%-10% of individuals. Accurate assessment of SRS recurrence requires identification of the causative genetic mechanism in the proband. 3. McCormick et al 4. Mirchi et al , Stafki et al Other disorders and acquired conditions include the following: • Profound growth restriction is seen in Dubowitz syndrome (OMIM 223370) and Hallerman-Str eiff syndrome (OMIM 234100). However, neither disorder is associated with the distinctive physical appearance observed in individuals with CS. The genetic causes of Dubowitz syndrome and Hallerman- Streiff syndrome are unknown. • Calcifications on brain imaging can be associated with congenital infections (e.g., rubella or toxoplasmosis) and disorders of calcium and phosphate metabolism. These conditions are distinguished from CS by the absence of white matter abnormalities and the distinctive physical appearance observed in individuals with CS. • Growth restriction can also be seen in chromosome disorders and endocrine, metabolic, or gastrointestinal disorders, including malnutrition. Management No clinical practice
