Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


Feeding support Poor growth • Gastrostomy tube placement as needed. Note: Avoid rapid ↑ in volume of feeds. Developmental delay / See Developmental Delay / Intellectual Disability Management Issues. Intellectual disability Tremor Consider treatment of tremor (carbidopa-levodopa 1) & spasticity (baclofen) if needed. • PT to prevent joint contractures Spasticity • Home safety assessments to prevent falls • Standard treatment(s) per ophthalmologist Abnormal vision &/or cataracts • Use of sunglasses for lens & retina protection • Hearing aids may be helpful per otolaryngologist. Hearing loss • Cochlear implants may be used. 2 12 GeneReviews ® Table 6. continued from previous page. Manifestation/Concern Treatment Dental caries Aggressive dental care to minimize caries Cutaneous photosensitivity Use of sunscreens & limitation of sun exposure Hypertension Amlodipine, ACE inhibitor Gastroesophageal reflux Proton pump inhibitor PT = physical therapy 1. Neilan et al 2. Van Wyhe et al Developmental Delay / Intellectual Disability Management Issues The following information represents typical management recommendations for individuals with developmental delay / intellectual disability in the United States; standard recommendations may vary from country to country. Ages 0-3 years. Referral to an early intervention program is recommended for access to occupational, physical, specialists. In the US, early intervention is a federally funded program available in all states that provides in- home services to target individual therapy needs. Ages 3-5 years. In the US, developmental preschool through the local public school district is recommended. Before placement, an evaluation is made to determine needed services and therapies and an individualized education plan (IEP) is developed for those who qualify based on established motor, language, social, or cognitive delay. The early intervention program typically assists with this transition. Developmental preschool is center based; for children too medically unstable to attend, home-based services are provided. All ages. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician is recommended to ensure the involvement of appropriate community, state, and educational agencies (US) and to support parents in maximizing quality of life. Some issues to consider: • IEP services: ⚬ An IEP provides specially designed instruction and related services to children who qualify. ⚬ IEP services will be reviewed annually to determine if any changes are needed. ⚬ Special education law requires that children participating in an IEP be in the least restricted environment feasible at school and included in general education as much as possible, when and where appropriate. ⚬ Vision and hearing consultants should be a part of
