Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


the least restricted environment feasible at school and included in general education as much as possible, when and where appropriate. ⚬ Vision and hearing consultants should be a part of the child’s IEP team to support access to academic material. ⚬ PT, OT, and speech services will be provided in the IEP to the extent that the need affects the child's access to academic material. Beyond that, private supportive therapies based on the affected individual's needs may be considered. Specific recommendations regarding type of therapy can be made by a developmental pediatrician. ⚬ As a child enters teen years, a transition plan should be discussed and incorporated in the IEP. For those receiving IEP services, the public school district is required to provide services until age 21. • A 504 plan (Section 504: a US federal statute that prohibits discrimination based on disability) can be considered for those who require accommodations or modifications such as front-of-class seating, assistive technology devices, classroom scribes, extra time between classes, modified assignments, and enlarged text. Cockayne Syndrome 13 • Developmental Disabilities Administration (DDA) enrollment is recommended. DDA is a US public agency that provides services and support to qualified individuals. Eligibility differs by state but is typically determined by diagnosis and/or associated cognitive/adaptive disabilities. • Families with limited income and resources may also qualify for supplemental security income (SSI) for their child with a disability. Motor Dysfunction Gross motor dysfunction • Physical therapy is recommended to maximize mobility and to reduce the risk for later-onset orthopedic complications (e.g., contractures, scoliosis, hip dislocation). • Consider use of durable medical equipment and positioning devices as needed (e.g., wheelchairs, walkers, bath chairs, orthotics, adaptive strollers). • For muscle tone abnormalities including hypertonia or dystonia, consider involving appropriate specialists ® to aid in management of baclofen, tizanidine, Botox , anti-parkinsonian medications, or orthopedic procedures. Fine motor dysfunction. Occupational therapy is recommended for difficulty with fine motor skills that affec t adaptive function such as feeding, grooming, dressing, and writing. Oral motor dysfunction should be reassessed at each visit and clinical feeding evaluations and/or radiographic swallowing studies should be obtained for choking/gagging during feeds, poor weight gain, frequent respiratory illnesses or feeding refusal that is not otherwise explained. Assuming that the individual is safe to eat by mouth, feeding therapy (typically from an occupational or speech therapist) is recommended to help improve coordination or sensory-related feeding issues. Feeds can
