Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


that the individual is safe to eat by mouth, feeding therapy (typically from an occupational or speech therapist) is recommended to help improve coordination or sensory-related feeding issues. Feeds can be thickened or chilled for safety. When feeding dysfunction is severe, an NG-tube or G-tube may be necessary. Communication issues. Consider evaluation for alternative means of communication (e.g., augmentative and alternative communication [AAC]) for individuals who have expressive language difficulties. An AAC evaluation can be completed by a speech language pathologist who has expertise in the area. The evaluation will consider cognitive abilities and sensory impairments to determine the most appropriate form of communication. AAC devices can range from low-tech, such as picture exchange communication, to high-tech, such as voice- rather support optimal speech and language development. Social/Behavioral Concerns Children may qualify for and benefit from interventions used in treatment of autism spectrum disorder, including applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA therapy is targeted to the individual child's behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses and is typically performed one on one with a board-certified behavior analyst. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician may be helpful in guiding parents through appropriate behavior management strategies or providing prescription medications. Surveillance To monitor existing manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 7 are recommended. Yearly assessment for known potential complications (e.g., hypertension, renal or hepatic dysfunction, declining vision and hearing) is appropriate [Laugel 2013, Wilson et al 2015]. 14 GeneReviews ® Table 7. Cockayne Syndrome: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Nutritional status & growth Dietary assessment Every 6 mos or as clinically indicated Neurologic eval of gait, tone, & overall neurologic Neurologic functioning Ophthalmologic assessment (eval for cataracts & Eye Every 6 mos until age 4 yrs, then annually retinopathy) Hearing Hearing assessment Diabetes Blood glucose Liver function Liver enzymes Annually or as clinically indicated Kidney Kidney function; uric acid & proteinuria Cardiovascular Blood pressure Agents/Circumstances to Avoid Excessive sun exposure should be avoided. Use of metronidazole should be avoided in any circumstance (risk of severe hepatitis) [Wilson et al 2015]. Extra vigilance is needed for opioid and sedative use due to exaggerated response to these types of medications [Wilson et al 2016]. Growth hormone (GH) levels in individuals with CS may be elevated or decreased [Park et al 1994, Hamamy et al 2005]. While individuals with CS do not appear to be
