Bookshelf_NBK1342
KEYWORDS: syndrome, cockayne, cockayne syndrome, pathogenic, growth, individuals, type, variants, testing, genetic, table, severe, pathogenic variants, clinical, diagnosis


Growth hormone (GH) levels in individuals with CS may be elevated or decreased [Park et al 1994, Hamamy et al 2005]. While individuals with CS do not appear to be at increased risk for malignancy (an effect which may be due to simultaneous transcription and cell proliferation deficiency), it is theoretically possible that GH treatment could reverse this compensatory effect and promote tumor growth. Therefore, in the absence of safety and efficacy data, GH treatment cannot be recommended in individuals with CS. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Pregnancy Management No individuals with classic or severe CS (types I or II) have been known to reproduce. A successful (but very difficult) pregnancy has been reported in a young woman with mild CS (type III) [Lahiri & Davies 2003]. In pregnant women with CS, the limited size of the pelvis and abdomen is the major obstacle to the growth of the fetus and the major threat to pregnancy outcome. Prevention of premature labor and cesarean section under spinal anesthesia are usually needed [Lahiri & Davies 2003, Rawlinson & Webster 2003]. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. There is currently no therapy that has been proved useful in this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e Cockayne Syndrome 15 following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Cockayne syndrome (CS) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • The parents of an affected child are presumed to be heterozygous for an ERCC6 or ERCC8 pathogenic variant. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of a proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for a CS-related pathogenic variant and to allow
