Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


referral system organization of services Source: Authors. in the occurrence of mass casualties, may be necessary whenever a large number of patients requiring emergency Emergency care present at the same time.It typically entails categoriz- episodes: treatment delays ing patients into three groups:those very unlikely to survive, jeopardize life or even with treatment;those whose conditions are minor and human function who will recover without emergency care; and those with potentially lethal conditions who are likely to survive ifthey Treatable episodes: treatment delays still tolerated well receive timely emergency care.Patients in the last category form the highest priority for emergency care. • Stabilization. A distinction is often made between initial Self-limiting episodes: treatment unnecessary emergency care and stabilization on one hand and definitive medical care on the other.Initial emergency care and stabi- lization are usually considered the domain of mobile EMS; Source: Authors. Figure 68.1 The Emergency Medical Care Pyramid and smaller hospitals); and the emergency departments of any fixed facility. Definitive care is usually considered the domain of the hospital and of larger facilities and implies Definitions the resolution ofthe condition needing treatment.However, The current literature is often inconsistent in the use and inter- the distinction is somewhat arbitrary; a more accurate pretation of terminology.Accordingly,the specific terms used approach is to view care as a continuum.Many of the ele- in this chapter are defined as follows: ments of early care delivered in the course of emergency treatment,whether in the field or in fixed facilities,can be • Emergency care. Emergency medical care is that care deliv- considered definitive (McCord and Chowdhury 2003; ered in the first few hours after the onset of an acute med- McCord and others 2001). ical or obstetric problem or the occurrence of an injury, including care delivered inside a fixed facility. Burden of Disease • Paramedical personnel. Paramedical personnel refers to all persons with medical training who are involved in the care Investing in emergency medical care should become a priority. and transportation of patients in need of emergency med- Emergency medical systems address a diverse set of diseases icalcare.Thelengthandqualityoftrainingvary,fromhighly that span the spectrum ofcommunicable infections,noncom- specialized personnel with capabilities for advanced life sup- municable conditions, obstetrics, and injuries. All of these port to those with simple first-aid training and limited field conditions may present to the EMS in their acute stages (for experience. example,diabetic hypoglycemia,septicemia,premature labor, personnel with some acceptable level of training deliver (for example,
