Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


first-aid training and limited field conditions may present to the EMS in their acute stages (for experience. example,diabetic hypoglycemia,septicemia,premature labor, personnel with some acceptable level of training deliver (for example, myocardial infarction, acute hemorrhage, or absence of a doctor is not a determining factor in this dis- Malaria causes 300 to 500 million acute episodes worldwide tinction.A range of facilities from small,basic units up to annually and results in an estimated 1 million deaths,mostly in tertiary care hospitals provides an increasing level of capa- Sub-Saharan Africa. Effective emergency care can avert these bility for emergency and other care. deaths, as well as those from acute respiratory and diarrheal • Triage. Triage is the screening of patients in the field or in diseases in children and from noncommunicable diseases such the receiving area ofa fixed facility to determine their rela- as diabetes,hypertension,and other cardiovascular diseases.In tive priority for treatment.Triage,which is usually necessary addition to the acute presentation of chronic conditions, the 1262 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Olive C. Kobusingye, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and others lack of access to medical care and lack of sustained effective disability) that occur in low-income countries. The numbers treatment means that subacute episodes and flare-ups may be represent a conservative estimate of the potential burden, life threatening.Early recognition can prevent the emergency because they do not include all the conditions that could ben- precipitated by infectious disease and many other medical con- efit from emergency care and they do not include data from ditions or can limit the effects. high-income countries. More than 500,000 maternal deaths occur each year;95 per- cent of these deaths are in low-income countries where emer- gency care is often lacking. It is estimated that 15 percent of INTERVENTIONS FOR EMERGENCY CARE: all pregnant women experience a potentially life-threatening SYSTEMS, STRUCTURES, AND ORGANIZATION condition and will need emergency care. Prenatal screening methods alone may not be effective in reducing this risk ratio. Emergency care must be appreciated as an entire system with Although identifying risk factors for acute complications is interdependent components. These components include pre- develop a life-threatening condition is not possible (Graham nent is important,but all ofthem must work together to make 1997).The only way to prevent the deaths is by ensuring access a lasting effect on the health ofa population.The organization to emergency obstetric care for all pregnant women. and operation ofthe prehospital
