Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


to this resource. Ghana,it was demonstrated that commercial taxi and minibus The second tier comprises paramedical personnel who use drivers trained in first aid could provide effective prehospital dedicated vehicles and equipment and are usually able to get to care (Mock and others 2002).Lay responders are likely to be patients and take them to hospitals within the shortest possible successful where the burden ofinjuries and other emergencies time. This second tier may involve the performance of is high.Attrition ofboth the responders and the skills is a con- advanced procedures, the administration of intravenous and cern unless they are put to frequent use. both.This care is not always available in low-income countries; ParamedicalPersonnel Inmostmiddle-incomecountriesand few trained personnel and inadequate funding make round- some cities of low-income countries, trained paramedical the-clock coverage impossible. Although providing advanced personnel render prehospital care (Mock and others 1998; life-saving measures in the prehospital environment may be Tannebaumandothers2001).Asforlayresponders,coverage beneficial in some cases,these benefits may be negated ifsuch variesbycountry.InmostofSub-SaharanAfricaandAsia,para- measures divert scarce resources from more basic interventions medical personnel and ambulances transfer patients between that can benefit far larger numbers ofpatients (Hauswald and healthfacilitiesandnotfromthescenesofinjuryorfromhomes Yeoh 1997). In most low- and middle-income countries of (Joshipura and others 2003). In middle-income countries, Africa,Asia,and Latin America,high maternal and child mor- though, they are a major component of existing emergency tality are linked to inadequate emergency care,especially poor medical systems (Arreola-Risa and others 2000; Mock 2002). that resources be integrated,instead ofone system for injuries interval between the recognition of an emergency and the and another for obstetric emergencies. arrivalatthehospital,andsomeevidencesuggeststhattraining theminbasiclife-savingskillsimprovespatientoutcomes(Ali Personnel. Most of the world’s population does not have andothers1997,1998;Arreola-Risaandothers2000). access to formal prehospital care.No personnel are employed Effectiveness has also been demonstrated for well-placed for the sole purpose of dealing with medical emergencies dispatch sites in urban populations, where the vehicles and 1264 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Olive C. Kobusingye, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and others personnel can be optimized.There is no evidence,however,for The recommended ratio ofone unit for 50,000 people sug- the effectiveness of training prehospital care paramedical per- gested by McSwain (1991) results in response times as low as sonnel in advanced life-saving skills (Sethi and others 2003). four to six minutes. The ratio does not distinguish between Shorter prehospital times,in general,are considered an impor- basic life-support and advanced life-support capabilities. tant parameter of the quality of prehospital care.These times Traffic congestion, poor maps,
