Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


does not distinguish between Shorter prehospital times,in general,are considered an impor- basic life-support and advanced life-support capabilities. tant parameter of the quality of prehospital care.These times Traffic congestion, poor maps, and poor road signs may all have the following components: increase this response time in cities with poor infrastructure.In Monterrey, Mexico, one unit per 100,000 people manages an • Notification time is the time elapsed from occurrence of average response time of10 minutes.Hanoi,Vietnam,with one injury or recognition ofsevere illness until the EMS system unit for 3 million people,has an average response time of 30 is notified. minutes (Mock and others 1998). • Response time is the time elapsed from notification until Where paramedical services exist alongside lay responder arrival of an ambulance to the site of the ill or injured services, these two could be managed by the same organiza- person. tional unit. The paramedical staff will be more successful in • Scene time is the time taken by prehospital providers from urban areas,where distances between dispatch sites,commu- arrival at until departure from the scene. nities served,and hospitals are short.Other enabling factors are • Transport time is the time elapsed from leaving the scene good telecommunications;rapid and dedicated transportation; and other emergency services. Notificationtimeisinfluencedbytheavailabilityoftelecom- munications.Responsetimeisinfluencedbythecapabilitiesof Intervention Cost and Effectiveness Training lay responders is adispatchcentertohandleemergencycallsandespeciallybythe an intervention potentially available in low-income countries. geographic distribution of sites of ambulance dispatch. The Projections for costs and effectiveness have been made based greaterinnumberandthemorewidelydistributedthenumber on the following assumptions: ofambulancestationsare,theshortertheresponsetimesare. Geographicdistributionandassociatedresponsetimescanbe • Serving a population of 1 million requires 7,500 trainees. improved in some circumstances by using a tiered or layered Sensitivity analysis ranges from 5,000 to 10,000 trained lay responsesystem.Thissystemrequireshavingarelativelylarger responders. numberofbasicallytrainedandequippedfirstresponderswith • Trained lay responders can be trained in halfa day (St.John widergeographicdistributionandasmallernumberofcentrally Ambulance 1996). located,morehighlytrainedandequippedsecondresponders. • Training would have to be repeated every three years to Thissystemallowsthefirstresponderstorespondmorerapidly, maintain efficacy. withsecondresponderinvolvementonlyifneeded(Arreola-Risa • Annually,2,500laypeoplewouldbetrainedonarollingbasis. andothers1995;Mock,Charles,andJurkovich1999). Accordingly, paramedical personnel should be introduced Using these assumptions (see annex 68.A for technical in large urban areas where they do not function at present and details on costing guidelines) would require the following: should be stationed at dispatch sites with dedicated vehicles, fast communications with the hospitals in the area,and links • 1,250 days oftrainees’time (0.5 days each) valued at salary with other emergency services such as the fire and police level 1 departments. The communities served by the system should • 62.5 trainer days of time, with a
