Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


at salary with other emergency services such as the fire and police level 1 departments. The communities served by the system should • 62.5 trainer days of time, with a ratio of 20 trainees per have a well-known and rapid method of calling the paramed- trainer,valued at wages for salary level 3 ical teams when an emergency arises.Because skills depreciate • one training facility with a classroom (100 square meters) with time, these personnel require refresher courses. Where valued at rent for basic space for 62.5 days paramedical personnel already exist as part of the EMS,their • 2,500 copies of photocopied curricula annually valued at numbers and organization (location, training, deployment, US$1 each. and monitoring) should be enhanced to improve response times and,hence,patient outcomes,especially for cardiac and The costs ofproviding trained paramedics can be estimated obstetric emergencies.Availability of EMS for a given popula- using the following assumptions: tion can be looked at either as number of units on duty or number ofsites ofambulance dispatch.They are usually closely • Trained paramedic responders can be trained in 25 days related, with one or two units per site, but not in systems (St.John Ambulance 1996). where a large number of units are on duty from one central • Serving a population of 1 million requires 7,500 trainees. dispatch station. Sensitivity analysis ranges from 100 to 200. Emergency Medical Services | 1265 • Training would have to be repeated every three years to paramedics can lower mortality in trauma by 9 percent;thus, maintain efficacy. in 4,100 traumas,370 lives can be saved.Dividing the sum of • Annually,50 paramedics would be trained. the costs in table 68.3 by the 370 deaths averted provides a rough estimate ofcosts per death averted.These costs per death As a result,the following would be required: averted are divided by the regional life expectancy at age 20 (LE20),with the assumption that the average age oftrauma is • 25 (cid:2) 50 (cid:1) 1,250 days of paramedic trainee time (salary 20,to give the cost per life year saved.LE 20 is roughly 50 years level1) in every region except Sub-Saharan Africa,where it is only 37 • 125 trainer days, with a ratio of 10 trainees per trainer years. Shortages of equipment and supplies may reduce the valued at salary level 3 effectiveness ofthe prehospital personnel. • one training facility offering a classroom (100 square It is possible to offer more refined “regional”estimates ofthe meters) valued
