Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


the valued at salary level 3 effectiveness ofthe prehospital personnel. • one training facility offering a classroom (100 square It is possible to offer more refined “regional”estimates ofthe meters) valued at basic building values numbers ofdeaths averted by using local estimates ofthe bur- • 50 photocopied curricula annually,valued at US$1 each den of injuries instead of the global estimate of 4,100 injuries • one paramedic kit with stethoscope,gloves,bandages,and per million people. Yet given the uncertainty about regional splint material for each trainee (kits would be renewed by variation in the effectiveness of the intervention based on patient contributions). administrative,infrastructure,and human resource capacity,it would perhaps give a false impression that a firm and universal The trainees would offer volunteer services after training. basis exists to speculate quantitatively on the relative effective- We assume that volunteers are highly motivated individuals ness of the intervention in various regions. As a result, the who consider emergency medical service to their community above estimates, as used in table 68.4, serve to inform global as the most rewarding use of their leisure time . dialogue rather than offer specific empirical numbers. The opportunity cost of their recurrent emergency service is assumed to be zero.Communities or cultures that have a short- Equipment and Supplies. Equipment and supplies should age of individuals with an ethic of volunteer service may have match the knowledge and skills of the personnel available to to devote funds toward maintaining incentives for “volunteer” use them.Even teams with the least resources should have the paramedics to serve. In such cases, this strategy may not be following: cost-effective. Table 68.3 shows the estimated costs ofthe lay first respon- • protective wear,especially gloves and aprons ders and paramedics intervention, drawing on the Disease • a stretcher or the equivalent Control Priorities Project’s standardized input prices by region • pressure dressings (bandages—elastic, if possible—and for low,best,and high estimates. cotton or gauze dressings) • splints—various sizes,made out oflocal materials burden-of-disease estimates,the global incidence of trauma is 410 per 100,000 or 4,100 per million. Husum, Gilbert, and Annex 68.A provides a comprehensive list for better- Wisborg (2003) indicate that first-level responders and trained resourced communities. Intervention cost and effectiveness Table 68.3 Cost of Using Trained Lay First Responders Together with Trained Paramedics (local currency converted to 2001 U.S. dollars using exchange rates) Region Low Best High East Asia and the Pacific 27,539 48,050 75,232 Europe and Central Asia 30,209
