Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


a who need emergency transportation and care. population of30,000 people.Thus,1 million people would In a city setting,a vehicle ambulance can make as many as require 33 ambulance units (1 million/30,000). 20 trips per day.On average this schedule will require salaries • Each ambulance unit requires staffing of a rotation of six for an administrator and two crews,each comprising a driver paramedic-drivers and a seventh paramedic-driver to cover and two paramedics or nurses,as well as expenses for commu- vacation times and sick leaves. nication,supplies,pharmaceuticals,and the costs ofoperating • A supervisor oversees three ambulance units per year. the vehicle.A study of a decision to develop an EMS in Kuala • A garage for the ambulance and communications equip- Lumpur (1.1 million people,243 square kilometers) estimated ment would be 100 square meters but would entail rental of that the purchase and staffing of 48 ambulances at US$53,000 office-style accommodations. each per year would be required,totaling US$2.5 million per • A vehicle to be outfitted as an ambulance can be purchased year (Hauswald and Yeoh 1997). The authors noted that, for as much as an off-road vehicle with a useful life ofnine despite the paucity of ambulances, severely injured or ill years. patients did get to a hospital with only minor delays by using • The cost to modify the vehicle into a basic ambulance is taxis, family transportation, or the police. Ambulances need US$5,000 for a useful life ofnine years. accurate maps,house numbers,and street or road signs,all of • The ambulance will require fuel and maintenance based on which might not be in place in low-income cities.It was esti- usage of20,000 kilometers per year. mated that ambulances were unable to locate patients in 20 percent ofcalls in Kuala Lumpur because ofmapping and sign- Given the preceding assumptions, age problems (Hauswald and Yeoh 1997). A study conducted in Turkey found that ambulance vehicle • The 231-member ambulance staff (33 ambulance units of costs were the leading component of capital costs (Altintas, 7persons each) would be paid at salary level 2. Bilir,and Tuleylioglu 1999).The cost per trip was US$163,and • The 10 administrators would be paid at salary level 2. the cost per patient transported was US$180.50, which the Weignoretheadditionalburdenonthehealthsystemfrom authors thought were beyond the means of the private sector. additionalvisits.Quitepossibly,hospitalcostswillriseasmore In state-run ambulance services in New Delhi,India,the cost patientsnowgettothehospitalwiththehelpofambulances.It per trip was approximately US$40, yet one in three of the is also possible that
