Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


especially those working atahealthcenterstaffedbynondoctorclinicians.However,such atmiddle-level facilities, who respond to different types of a facility will be grossly inadequate for the management of a emergencies. severemultipleinjuryorobstructedlabor.Thetriageprocessin The costs ofthis intervention are not available in the litera- the prehospital subsystem should determine which patients ture and will require an estimation of trainer costs, space, receivetransportationtowhichfacility,insteadofmerelytrans- materials,and refresher courses. portationtothenearestfacility.Precioustimeandlivesmaybe lostwhenpatientsaretakentofacilitieswherethedesireddefin- Equipment and Supplies. A specimen list of resources for itivecareisnotavailable. emergency care required at different levels of facilities is Emergency Medical Services | 1271 provided in annex 68.A.This template is flexible,and countries Documentation and Quality Assurance cancustomizeittosuitlocalconditions,suchasexistingfacility Quality ofcare is critical to the interaction ofthe poor with the levels and prevailing burden of emergency disease conditions. EMS.Lack of funds,lower-paid jobs,social class distinctions, Equipment and supplies at each level should match the knowl- ethnicity, and other affiliations make the already vulnerable edge and skills ofthe personnel available to use them. poor susceptible to receiving poor-quality care.For an EMS to maintain and improve the care of patients, systematic docu- mentation and periodic audits, or other processes to ensure Systems Organization quality of care,need to be incorporated.Quality management Emergency care needs to be planned and implemented care- systems that are simple, are continuous, and allow for rapid fully.The various components that make up the EMS should be changes in the system need to be implemented. linked to ensure that the entire system operates as a unit. A Because of scarcity of resources, expensive machines and coordinator should be responsible for monitoring and coordi- elite specialists should not be advocated for the urban privi- nating all emergency medical care in the community or district legedattheexpenseofthemajorityoftheruralpoor.Themost and should work with a committee to which the other compo- difficult decisions concern balancing funds invested in the nents send representation.A community representative should emergencycarecapacityofsecondaryandprimarycarecenters be a key member ofthis committee. with support for referral and transportation networks to feed Coordination costs are very important and should not be tertiary care centers.These decisions are too variable and too overlooked in the development of a new EMS. Such costs system specific to yield to a uniform policy prescription.Two include the salary ofthe coordinator,an efficient telephone or principlesareadvocatedtoinformthesedifficultdecisions: communication system,a vehicle,fuel,and a budget to organ- ize meetings of stakeholders at least twice a year (Bazzoli, • Collect data on costs,capacities,and outcomes. Harmata,and Chan 1998;Nurok 2001). • Tighten the integration of the emergency care system to improve function and lead to wiser decisions
