Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


a year (Bazzoli, • Collect data on costs,capacities,and outcomes. Harmata,and Chan 1998;Nurok 2001). • Tighten the integration of the emergency care system to improve function and lead to wiser decisions on where to invest. Health Financing for Emergency Care Emergency medical systems in low-income countries must be Legislative Instruments to Ensure Emergency Care pro-poor in their orientation,which requires explicit consider- The issues discussed in the preceding sections supply the ation of how the poor interact with an EMS and how barriers rationale for countries to have specific legislation addressing to acute care for the poor can be overcome.Issues ofaccess to the provision of emergency care. This area requires major an EMS become critical because the lack ofmoney often keeps people from using emergency services.Direct payment ofcosts provide the legal framework for ensuring that all individuals for transportation,medical treatment,and drugs makes lack of who deserve emergency care can receive it,irrespective oftheir money a major barrier to EMS for the poor in every country. personal characteristics or their ability to pay.Having laws that As a result, emergencies frequently cripple individuals and protect trained individuals and laypeople as they provide such families financially in poor communities,often for many years care is also important. in the future. Financial protection for emergency health care is a necessity in low-income countries and has not received adequate atten- IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTROL STRATEGIES: tion.The goal of such protection is to ensure that individuals LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE and families do not spiral down the pathway to abject poverty as a result ofinteraction with the national health system.Such A large proportion oftrauma patients in developing countries financial protection may be achieved by a number ofdifferent do not have access to formal emergency medical services. means, including community financing (Ande and others Boxes68.1 and 68.2 contain examples ofinterventions to pro- 1997; Desmet, Chowdhury, and Islam 1999; Macintyre and vide appropriate emergency care in such countries. Hotchkiss 1999).Community loan funds to cover transporta- tion and other requirements for emergencies, especially for obstetrics,have been explored with mixed results (Essien and THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA others 1997; Shehu, Ikeh, and Kuna 1997). Some experience seems to indicate that these approaches can indeed overcome The research and development priorities for emergency care several ofthe barriers to accessing emergency medical services are challenging to define because emergency care is a neglected and should be explored further. area of research in low-income countries and the needs
