Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, emergency, emergency care, countries, medical, ems, asia, cost, ambulance, services, deaths, costs, prehospital, personnel, trained


barriers to accessing emergency medical services are challenging to define because emergency care is a neglected and should be explored further. area of research in low-income countries and the needs are 1272 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Olive C. Kobusingye, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and others Box 68.1 Improving Trauma Care in the Absence of a Formal Ambulance System Background:The efficacy of a program that builds on the first aid since taking the course. There was considerable existing, although informal, system of prehospital trans- improvement in the provision of the components of portation in Ghana was assessed.In Ghana,the majority first aid in comparison to what was reported before the ofinjured persons are transported to the hospital by some course: type ofcommercial vehicle,such as a taxi or bus. Methods: A total of 335 commercial drivers were Component of first aid Before (percent) After (percent) trainedusingasix-hourbasicfirst-aidcourse.Theefficacy of this course was assessed by comparing the process of Crash scene management 7 35 prehospital trauma care provided before and after the Airway management 2 35 course,as determined by self-reporting from the drivers. Bleeding control 4 42 The course was conducted with moderate amounts of Splint application 1 16 volunteer labor and gifts in kind,such as transportation to Triage 7 21 the course. The actual cost of the course amounted to US$3 per participant. Conclusions: Even in the absence of a formal EMS, Results:Follow-upinterviewswereconductedon71of improvements in the process of prehospital trauma care thedriversameanof10.6monthsafterthecourse.Inthe are possible by building on existing, although informal, interviews, 61 percent indicated that they had provided prehospital transportation. Source:Mock and others 2002. Box 68.2 Training for Emergency Care in India Thetrainingof personnelworkinginemergencymedical Course is an indigenous two-day course developed in services is crucial to the success of efficient delivery of India by the Academy of Traumatology (India) with the care.Evidenceexiststosupportusefulnessoflife-support help of international peers. The curriculum takes into training for emergency caregivers in low- and middle- account local conditions and capabilities. The cost is incomecountries.CoursessuchastheATLSareavailable US$50pertrainee,andthecourseistaughtbylocaltrain- and well established in some high- and middle-income erstoagroupof100traineesatatime.Animalspecimens countries.Inmostlow-incomecountries,suchtrainingis areusedtoteachlife-savingproceduresinsteadof expen- not available, mainly because of prohibitive costs. The sive commercially produced manikins. More than 2,000 three-day ATLS course costs on average US$700 per health professionals have been trained in less than three trainee and is taught by six trainers to a group of 20 years. The course has now become a national training trainees at a time. The National Trauma
