GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


GUT MICROBES 2024, VOL. 16, NO. 1, 2351520 New methods to unveil host-microbe interaction mechanisms along the microbiota-gut-brain-axis Habibullah Moradiana*, Tristan Gabriela*, Mathilde Barraua,b, Xavier Roblina,b, and Stéphane Paula,b,c aCIRI – Centre International de Recherche en Infectiologie, Team GIMAP, Univ Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Saint-Etienne, France; Saint-Etienne, Saint-Etienne, France ABSTRACT ARTICLE HISTORY Links between the gut microbiota and human health have been supported throughout numerous Received 20 October 2023 studies, such as the development of neurological disease disorders. This link is referred to as the Revised 4 April 2024 “microbiota-gut-brain axis” and is the focus of an emerging field of research. Microbial-derived Accepted 1 May 2024 metabolites and gut and neuro-immunological metabolites regulate this axis in health and many KEYWORDS diseases. Indeed, assessing these signals, whether induced by microbial metabolites or neuro- Microbiota-gut-brain; chip; immune mediators, could significantly increase our knowledge of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. model; preclinical; However, this will require the development of appropriate techniques and potential models. microbiota Methods for studying the induced signals originating from the microbiota remain crucial in this field. This review discusses the methods and techniques available for studies of microbiota-gut- brain interactions. We highlight several much-debated elements of these methodologies, includ- ing the widely used in vivo and in vitro models, their implications, and perspectives in the field based on a systematic review of PubMed. Applications of various animal models (zebrafish, mouse, canine, rat, rabbit) to microbiota-gut-brain axis research with practical examples of in vitro methods and innovative approaches to studying gut-brain communications are highlighted. In particular, we extensively discuss the potential of “organ-on-a-chip” devices and their applications in this field. Overall, this review sheds light on the most widely used models and methods, guiding researchers in the rational choice of strategies for studies of microbiota-gut-brain interactions. Introduction brain. The brain can also modulate gut physiology, Exploring the role of gut microbiota in human taking the efferent route of the microbiota-gut- is a prominent field of research. This ecosystem is by stress mediators.2 However, the microbiota-gut- especially considered due to its involvement in gut- brain axis is now considered a potential target for brain crosstalk following discoveries of association interventions in numerous neuropsychological dis- with various diseases. Studies of the microbiota-gut eases and GI inflammatory disorders, such as -brain axis have revealed associations between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable microbiota alterations and several human diseases, bowel syndrome (IBS).3 The microbiota-gut-brain
