GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


and review on PubMed until September 2023 secretary aspects. Many of the diverse experimental according to PRISMA guidelines. The terms designs created are based on the role of the intest- used included “microbiota-gut-brain interac- inal microbiota and its influence in the modulation tions”, “microbiota-gut-brain axis”, “animal of GI pathophysiology and the brain’s interaction models for studying gut-brain axis”, “gnotobio- pathways5; beyond this, it appears the liver-brain tic mouse gut-brain-axis models”, “gut-on axis and maybe other organs associated with the -a-chip model”, “microbiota-gut-brain axis”, microbiota and nerves such as skin or lungs. The “organ-on-a-chip”, “3D culture systems”, “gut mucosal immune system plays a role in micro- microbiome”, and “zebrafish”. The flow-chart biota-gut-brain interactions, and many of the diagram (Figure 1) includes publications based methodologies used are based on neuro-immune on title and abstract reading, techniques, and interactions. We systematically reviewed recent methods that have specifically improved or advances in techniques and models for studying been proposed for studying microbiota-gut- microbiota-gut-brain axis interactions. First, we brain axis interactions. Therefore, we excluded provide an overview of the available in vivo animal techniques that mimicked the intestinal envir- models and present in vitro and ex vivo techniques onment and physiology for other purposes, as used on experimental platforms to study the micro- many publications deal with intestinal models biota-gut-brain axis. Finally, we propose ways to that have been improved but have not yet been Figure 1. PRISMA flowchart, showing literature search. GUT MICROBES 3 used or proposed for use in studies of micro- as emotional behavior, learning, and memory, biota-gut-brain interactions. Forty-three studies responsiveness to stress, social behavior, and aut- are included in this systematic review. ism-like characteristics. Horvath et al. found that Bacteroides ovatus generates metabolites acetic acid, propionic acid isobaric, and isovaleric acid, Overview of animal models which is associated, when inoculated to germ-free or gnotobiotic mice, with the production of GABA, Various animal species have been used as models in detected in fecal samples. This GABA could then be studies of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Figure 2 associated with communication with the host and presents the multiple techniques used to study used by capture for the nervous system materials from animal models. In mammalians, functioning.19 The gold-standard methodology to rodents and, in particular, mice have been widely understand the microbiota of the brain is the usage used as models to first study the role of the micro- biota on physiology.6 However, several
