GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


particular, mice have been widely understand the microbiota of the brain is the usage used as models to first study the role of the micro- biota on physiology.6 However, several other types of germ-free animals. Various species are grown in of animals, including Brandt’s voles,7 tree shrews,8 a sterile condition called axenic. These conditions frogs,9 honeybees,10 wild house sparrows,11 laying guarantee that the inoculation of microbiota from hens,12 pigs,13 rhesus macaques,14 and Japanese the same or other species, in healthy or disease quails,15,16 were also employed in the frameworks conditions, is associated with changes manifested by the model. Gnotobiotic models are animals with of microbiota-gut-brain axis and provided notable known and controlled microbiota, enabling the results for their specific characteristics of modeling study of known bacteria strains. In other words, human disease conditions. The nematode a germ-free model, inoculated with a known Caenorhabditis elegans emerge as a valuable microbiota, is considered a gnotobiotic. Using model for dissecting the molecular basis of micro- biota-gut-brain interactions.17,18 Studies of micro- a germ-free mouse model, Engevik et al. showed that Bifidobacterium dentium mono-associated biota-gut-brain communications in animal models, colonization modified their behavior by modulat- particularly rodents, are based on the effect of the ing 5-hydroxytryptamine-5-HT-receptor expres- microbiota and the signals induced in either a simulated model of a particular disease or phy- sion in the gut and the brain. The authors found siological behaviors of the animals concerned, such that Bifidobacterium dentium colonization partially Figure 2. Figure 1: a schematic representation of in-vitro, ex-vivo, and in-vivo models in studying microbe-host interactions. (a) microbial culture approach for the analysis of microbe-derived metabolites. (d) advantages and characteristics of zebrafish as an animal model in microbe-host interaction studies of the gut-brain axis. Created with BioRender.com. 4 H. MORADIAN ET AL. restored 5-HT-dependent behavior, including intensive mental trouble present behaviors that abnormal anxiolytic changes observed in germ- could be apparated to human schizophrenia. This free mice.20 Other researchers using germ-free suggests that the microbiome could be relevant to mice demonstrated that gut microbiota coloniza- the pathology of this disease.24 For straightforward tion from different rodent species with distinct reading, we choose to present in Table 1 the list of foraging strategies influenced the host diet selec- available animal models, their study designs, and tion behavior.21 Li et al. suggested that Rifaximin, the expected outcomes of the microbiota-gut-brain a non-absorbable antibiotic, can ameliorate depres- interaction pathways studied. sive-like behavior
