GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


models, their study designs, and tion behavior.21 Li et al. suggested that Rifaximin, the expected outcomes of the microbiota-gut-brain a non-absorbable antibiotic, can ameliorate depres- interaction pathways studied. sive-like behavior in rats by regulating the abun- Researchers in the field of neurodegenerative dance of fecal microbial metabolites, such as diseases use the canine model. This is because it SCFAs, and microbial functions by depleting presents parallel features of brain aging. It repre- some bacterial strains.22 Furthermore, using the sents a better translational model because of the gnotobiotic mice model, researchers showed that environment, intestines, and habits closer to early colonization with complex microbiota was humans. Interestingly, in MGBA research, the beneficially effective in rescuing behavioral canine diet is closer to the human diet than the abnormalities observed in germ-free mice.23 Germ- mouse diet and is an adaptive genomic to starch- free mice that have received fecal microbiota trans- rich diet due to domestication. This is an important fer from a patient suffering from schizophrenia and feature to consider when analyzing the effect of diet Table 1. Mammal models used in the study of microbiota-gut-brain interactions. Suggested microbiota-gut-brain Animal model Study design Outcomes interaction pathways Ref. Germ-free (GF) Fresh stool samples were collected from Their results showed that fecal They suggested that these effects 25 male C57BL/6 alcohol use disorder (AUD) patients transplantation from humans to GF (reduction in alcohol craving and mice25 and, using established protocols, mice reduced ethanol acceptance, intake) are linked with multiple transferred to colonize GF mice, intake, and preference, with lower factors, including specific microbial followed by alcohol preference and murine alcohol intake and preference genera, reflecting the importance of drinking experiments and microbiota in post-transplant mice. the microbiota-gut-brain axis. and SCFA analysis. Male ICR mice26 This model of neurodegenerative disease Mice subjected to pretreatment with It was suggested that gut microbial 10 was established by treating mice with neuromide had better cognitive metabolites (neuromide) might affect scopolamine. Passive avoidance tests function. brain health via the endocannabinoid were performed to observe and system. quantify cognitive impairment. Wild type (C57BL/ Mice were housed under a 12 h light-12 Gut microbiota influences on the enteric It was concluded from the results that 12 6), h dark photoperiod with free access to neurons were characterized and shown the microbiota controls gut-extrinsic transgenic (e.g. food and water. They were crossed into to modulate gut-extrinsic sympathetic sympathetic activation through FosGFP), and
