GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


free access to neurons were characterized and shown the microbiota controls gut-extrinsic transgenic (e.g. food and water. They were crossed into to modulate gut-extrinsic sympathetic sympathetic activation through FosGFP), and the animal facility to obtain various neurons. a microbiota-gut-brain circuit. gnotobiotic transgenic and gnotobiotic strains. (GF C57BL/6) mice27 Male Wistar and Rats received phenyl-γ-valerolactone, Colonic metabolites of F3O were detected Based on these results, it was argued 13 Fischer rats a critical microbial metabolite of in the brain tissues in both animal that phenolic compound-rich foods and pigs28 phenolic flavon-3-ols (F3O). Also, rats models after treatment with the may exert neuroprotective effects by received oral supplementation with metabolites mentioned above as influencing the gut microbiota acting lyophilized red grapes, and one group a dietary supplement. These via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. of pigs received a cocoa powder metabolites were, therefore, able to supplement to ensure F3O intake. After permeate into the brain. sacrificing, their brain tissues were collected and checked for F3O metabolites by UHPLC and MS/MS. Male Swiss CD-1 Cognitive impairment models were For example, the relative abundance of It was suggested that changes to the 14 mice29 generated by amyloid β (Aβ) induction, Verrucomicrobia within the microbial gut microbiota might influence the and donepezil was used for memory community was higher in Aβ induction and attenuation of Aβ- recovery, tested with the Maris Water +donepezil-treated mice than with Aβ induced cognitive dysfunction via the Maze (MWM) test. Changes in brain alone. Metabolic pathways of amino microbiota-gut-brain axis. and gut metabolites and fecal acid and sugar were affected by the Aβ microbiota were performed by and donepezil treatments in the brain Metataxonomic and metabolomics and gut, respectively. investigations. GUT MICROBES 5 on the gut microbiome and its impact on the in zebrafish is easy, allowing the performance of brain.30 A study linked intestinal bacteria from genetic manipulations; (ii) zebrafish can be used for live in vivo imaging of host-bacteria interac- microbiota (fewer abundance of Fusobacteria and Actinobacteria) with memory faculties.31 tions to monitor the activities of immune-signaling components among other possibilities, and (iii) Interestingly, studies have shown that aggressive protocols for germ-free experiments are well- behavior is associated with the bacterial genus, established for this species. Moreover, despite sub- which is related to experienced anxiety. It was stantial differences in taxonomic composition, the also shown, as in mice, that chronic stress induces microbiomes of zebrafish and humans have similar anxiety
