GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


is related to experienced anxiety. It was stantial differences in taxonomic composition, the also shown, as in mice, that chronic stress induces microbiomes of zebrafish and humans have similar anxiety related to specific microbiota bacterial abundances of functional pathways.36 A Germ-free composition.32 Probiotic therapeutic studies were zebrafish model was studied using caffeine to trig- ger a neural hyperactivity model. The effect of conducted to address the veterinary treatment of melatonin as a probiotic agent was assayed on aggressivity and anxiousness of dogs and showed neurotransmitter production disorders compared promising beneficial effects.33 Metagenomic stu- to germ-free conditions. Disorders of brain neuro- dies in dogs have shown a correlation between transmitter production (DA, γ-GABA, and 5-HT) aggressive behavior and specific bacterial taxa of caused by caffeine were improved by melatonin the intestinal microbiome and may be a predictive treatment, associated with the restoration of intest- factor of evolution to aggressive behavior.34 These inal microbiota, compared to the maintenance of the axenic condition. This suggests that the healthy features rank dogs as models for MGBA studies, intestinal microbiota, modulated by melatonin, especially in studies concerning diet influence on improves neurotransmitter secretion disorders.35 behavior or neurodegenerative diseases. Lee et al. present zebrafish as an excellent animal The linkage between gut microbiota and beha- model for microbiota-gut-brain axis studies of its vior was tested in Rhesus Macaques (Macaca small body, genomic/physiological similarities to Mulatta). Founded relationships are consistent humans, and its suitability for chemical screening with those in humans. This opens a broad field of in vivo. Zebrafish can mimic various human dis- study to assess the neurobehavioral effects of meth- eases: autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and ods to modulate the gut microbiome in complex Alzheimer’s disease (AD).30 Features of the GI are behavioral features.14 primarily conserved between mammals and zebra- The stress-induced model of piglets by mater- fish, except for acidic stomachs. The cell types in nal separation was used in a study investigating the zebrafish GI play a crucial role in sensing environmental stimulation and transmitting this the effects of alkaline water on diarrhea induced information to other organs, including the brain. by weaning stress. The hypothesis of an intestinal The zebrafish’s enteric nervous system (ENS) con- improvement through the hypothalamic-pituitary sists of enteric neurons, a submucosal/myenteric axis mediated by a modified bacteria ecosystem plexus, associated glia, and muscle layers, together was tested. This study shows the reduction of with neurons capable of
