GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


enteric neurons, a submucosal/myenteric axis mediated by a modified bacteria ecosystem plexus, associated glia, and muscle layers, together was tested. This study shows the reduction of with neurons capable of secreting neurotransmit- cortisol and haptoglobin, according to induction ters similar to those found in mammals. The zebra- of signal at the epithelial level that secondly mod- fish ENS has been shown to regulate intestinal ified the MGBA, conferring diarrhea resistance.35 motility and to mediate connections between the These initiatives demonstrate a possible applica- intestine and the central nervous system (CNS). tion of MGBA research beyond the widely used The zebrafish immune system has also been mice model. shown to be highly similar to that of mammals, Among non-mammalian models, zebrafish with most of the immune cells present in mam- appear to be the widest-used model of microbiota- mals, including macrophages, neutrophils, and gut-brain interaction studies, and features are pre- B and T lymphocytes also identified in zebrafish. sented in Figure 2. The three main appearing ben- The CRISPR/Cas9 system has been validated to efits of zebrafish as a model are: (i) genome-editing achieve gene knockouts effectively in zebrafish 6 H. MORADIAN ET AL. in vivo. Several transgenic zebrafish lines have been these systems need more of the human body’s established for cell tracking in vivo to investigate biological, mechanical, and topographical communication between the gut microbiota and complexity.40 In particular, the neural network the brain. The host response to gut colonization cannot be accurately represented in 2D culture by the microbiota has been reported to be similar in systems. Seo et al. validate a 2D cellular model zebrafish and mammals, making it possible to suggesting that gut microbes might interact with transpose some zebrafish data to humans.37 Based the brain through the endocannabinoid system, on the microbiota-gut-brain axis, Chen et al. exerting a neuroprotective effect via the micro- assessed the effects of isorhynchophylline (a tradi- biota-gut-brain axis. They used a culture system tional Chinese medicine used to treat addiction) on in which PC-12 cells were grown in a 96-well morphine dependence in a zebrafish model of mor- plate. The cells were then treated with neuromide, phine-induced addiction. The authors provided a compound with a structure bioidentical to speci- evidence that the impact of isorhynchophylline on fic commensal bacterial metabolites, which func- morphine addiction is related to gut microbiota.38 tions as an agonist of the endocannabinoids CB1 Such studies could not
