GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


the impact of isorhynchophylline on fic commensal bacterial metabolites, which func- morphine addiction is related to gut microbiota.38 tions as an agonist of the endocannabinoids CB1 Such studies could not only lead to diagnostic/ and GPR119. Cell viability was tested after expo- therapeutic strategies in such addicted conditions sure to reactive oxygen species (ROS) and showed but also support the use of the zebrafish model in a significantly increased cell viability.26 On the studying the microbiota-gut-brain axis further. other hand, in-vitro culture models of intestinal Animal models still have known limitations.30 microbiota, such as the SHIME (Simulator of the First, the animals used may have limited physiolo- Human Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem) model, gical relevance due to interspecies differences.39 have also shown the potential to be applied not Another major problem is the need for an accurate only in the field of gut microbiome research but animal model capable of reproducing human also in the study of microbe-host-interaction. This enteric nervous system (ENS)-microbiome interac- model mimics the entire GI tract and allows inocu- tions faithfully.30 No specific animal model appears lation of the gut microbiome from different targets: optimal for studies of microbiota-gut-brain inter- diseased patients, healthy individuals, and animals actions, particularly regarding the feasibility of (pig, dog).41 transposing outcomes from these models to human pathophysiology. Finally, using animal Organoid culture system models induces more and more ethical concerns Substantial advances have been made in intestinal that are stimulating researchers to turn to in vitro ex vivo culture by developing organoid culture techniques that are more and more relevant in systems. Yassachar et al. developed microbiota-gut-brain axis modeling. a microfabricated 3D organ culture system capable of preserving the average multicellular composi- tion of the mouse intestine. Intact intestinal tissue In vitro approaches from the mouse is connected to the input and out- In vitro techniques use cells from immortalized put of the chamber, coupled with pumps to control lines or growth from explants. These devices enable the flow of the medium within the lumen and in the a high precision of the biological and molecular external medium chamber. This system allows us mechanisms involved in the microbiota-gut-brain to model the interaction between intestinal cells, axis. We detail techniques from the simplest to the the immune system, microbes, and nutrients. They most complex developed. exposed this system to two different microbes and showed that it could reproduce the induction of 2D cellular
