GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


to the the immune system, microbes, and nutrients. They most complex developed. exposed this system to two different microbes and showed that it could reproduce the induction of 2D cellular studies RORg+ Treg cell populations and Th17 by These cell-based study methods have several C. ramosum and segmented filamentous bacteria advantages, including cost-effectiveness, ease of (SFB), respectively. Indeed, they showed that the handling, and robustness across different cell sensory neurons were activated by microbes asso- types. However, one major problem with 2D cul- ciated with RORg+ Treg induction. They con- ture systems in microbiota-gut-brain studies is that cluded that differential engagement of the enteric GUT MICROBES 7 nervous system might be involved in pro- or anti- neurons, and thus, such methods could provide inflammatory responses to microbes.42 Trapecar useful ex vivo experimentations of microbe-host et al. developed a mesofluidic culture system of interactions.45 Chandra et al. have developed gut-liver-brain interactions in the context of a canine GI 3D organoid system model that is not Parkinson’s disease (PD). Their platform is based only applicable to intestinal diseases in dogs and on three microphysiological systems (MPSs) – gut/ humans but will also help to investigate host- immune, liver/immune, and cerebral/immune sys- microbe interactions (Figure 3b).46 Brain organoid tems – linked via the culture medium. They used in vitro systems are also developed from human HC176 colon organoids from non-diseased tissue pluripotent stem cells, with several possible appli- biopsy specimens, and they seeded the system with cations, including studies of neurological human monocyte-derived dendritic cells and phenomena.47 However, the applications of brain macrophages as innate immune system compo- organoids in the field of the microbiota-gut-brain nents of the gut. Liver MPSs were prepared from axis require further investigation. Lack of critical human primary hepatocytes from a single donor, components of in-vivo intestine like microflora, and Kupffer cells were purchased. Coculturing immune system, vascular and nervous systems is neurons, astrocytes, and microglia in 24-well one of the main limitations of 3D organoid models, Transwell inserts established the brain MPSs. The coupled with lack of a lumen, which results in the circulatory system was irrigated with a serum-free diffusion of intestinal secreted metabolites, like culture medium supplemented with circulating mucin, into the culture media. Another limitation CD4+ Treg and T 17 cells. Finally, purified short- of organoid systems growing in a 3D extracellular H chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were added as microbial matrix is their
