GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


limitation CD4+ Treg and T 17 cells. Finally, purified short- of organoid systems growing in a 3D extracellular H chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were added as microbial matrix is their variability in size, shape, morphol- metabolites. This system comprises pneumatic and ogy, and localization from one to another, making mesofluidic plates separated by a polyurethane it difficult to achieve real-time monitoring.48 membrane to form a pumping manifold. The inter- actions between brain MPSs from healthy controls Organ-on-a-chip platforms and MPSs of the gut-liver axis occurring in the Microfluidic platforms combine lab-on-a-chip presence of circulating Treg and T 17 cells had technology with 3D organotypic cultures to recre- H beneficial effects on the phenotype of the brain ate the pathophysiological complexity of the micro- MPSs by increasing the expression of genes asso- biota-gut-brain axis, commonly called organ-on ciated with the maturity of neurons, astrocytes, and -a-chip (OoC) models. OoC models include differ- microglia. They also observed that microbiome- ent culture channel surfaces and fewer media associated SCFAs increased the expression of dis- requirements.30 They are designed to represent ease-associated pathways in PD. In isolation, sam- a single organ or as more complex multiorgan-on ples from the cerebral MPSs were subject to -a-chip platforms. They can provide a very thin metabolite extractions and analysis by reversed- culture chamber (millimetric dimensions), facili- phase ultra-performance liquid chromatography – tating the continuous perfusion of the culture med- tandem mass spectrometry (RP/UPLC-MS/MS).43 ium. They are accessible for imaging and In an ex vivo culture system of duodenal samples quantitative assays, as sufficient cells can be har- from dogs with chronic enteropathies, Sauter et al. vested. OoC devices can also minimize functional investigated the influence of probiotics on mRNA aspects of pathophysiology in the tissues, making it and protein expression levels of cytokines. Their possible to evaluate therapeutic agents and their results showed the beneficial effects of probiotics effects on the tissue concerned. They can also on cytokine expression and had an immune- lower the cost of research while increasing modulating impact on intestinal inflammation by throughput over that achieved with animal models, contributing to the reduction of inflammation.44 thereby decreasing ethical concerns.49 These mod- Ahrends et al. described how they isolated the els can potentially model the microbiota-gut-brain myenteric and submucosal plexus intestinal layer microenvironment accurately, reproducing the from a mouse (C57BL/6) GI tract (Figure 3a). This physiological features observed in vivo.30 layer contains an extensive
