GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


the microbiota-gut-brain myenteric and submucosal plexus intestinal layer microenvironment accurately, reproducing the from a mouse (C57BL/6) GI tract (Figure 3a). This physiological features observed in vivo.30 layer contains an extensive network of enteric Platforms and devices of this type mimic in vivo 8 H. MORADIAN ET AL. Figure 3. A schematic representation of an organ-on-chip model and the fundamental compartments of a gut-on-chip model. (a) ex- vivo intestinal isolation and technical applications to study cellular features of the intestinal tissue. (b) schematic presentation of 3D organoid culture system and technical potential application to understand microbiota-gut-brain interaction from dog intestine. (c) schematic representation of a gut-on-chip model that mimics intestinal microenvironment. (d) a technical approach is used to evaluate in vitro conditions and the effects of metabolites. Created with BioRender.com. GUT MICROBES 9 organ physiology and in vitro function in a microbiota-gut-brain-engineered platform for a controlled environment.39 Figure 3 presents dif- evaluating the impact of intestinal microbiota on ferent schematic compartments of an organ-on- brain functionality using a multiorgan-on-chip. It chip model for studying host-microbe interactions consists of five organ-on-a-chip devices corre- in vitro. OoC models are composed of multilayered sponding to the gut microbiota, gut epithelium, and different compartments receiving cultures of the immune system, the blood-brain barrier, and endothelial cells, epithelial cells, macrophages, and the brain. Each device is connected to the next via dendritic cells.50 Most gut-on-chip models initially a microfluidic pipeline through which the culture incorporate the intestinal microenvironment, medium can flow under positive pressure.49 including gut microbes, epithelial cells, and Sampling and cell perfusion can be performed in immune cells (Figure 3c). OoC is designed in var- each of the compartments. The first device mimics ious sizes and shapes. However, they all contain the gut mucus inoculated with gut microbiota, and hollow channels lined by living cells cultured under the next is seeded with gut epithelial cells. The third fluidic flow, and OoC can be designed as a single device contains host macrophages and lympho- and or multi-organ-on-chip. At the same time, it cytes to represent the immune system, and the can also include multiple micro-physiological sys- fourth consists of two mirror monolayers of tems (MPSs), including the gut, liver, immune, and endothelial cells and astrocytes representing the cerebral MPSs. Gut-on-chip models have different blood-brain barrier (BBB). Finally, the brain on- application areas, including their use in studying a-chip device consists of a 3D hydrogel matrix
