GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


representing the cerebral MPSs. Gut-on-chip models have different blood-brain barrier (BBB). Finally, the brain on- application areas, including their use in studying a-chip device consists of a 3D hydrogel matrix microbe-host interactions.51 Kim et al. described mimicking the brain extracellular matrix, into a biomimetic human-on-a-chip microdevice com- which neurons, microglia, and astrocytes are posed of two microfluidic channels separated by implanted. All the devices except those corre- a porous membrane and coated with an extracel- sponding to the brain have microporous mem- lular matrix (ECM). The intestine structure is branes to support cell adhesion and allow the mimicked by human intestinal epithelial Caco-2 secretome to pass into the lower part of the culture cells, where a fluidic flow recreates the gut micro- chamber without mixing the different media. One environment. Under those conditions, a columnar perspective for improving OoC models is the gen- epithelium develops to recapitulate the intestinal eration of so-called “body-on-chip” platforms inte- villi. In addition, this model allowed the co-culture grating several OoC devices. Fusco et al. proposed of Lactobacillus rhamnosus to be a normal intest- the development of a multiorgan-on-a-chip plat- inal microbe.52 Microbiota-gut-brain axis OoC form for investigating the role of the microbiota- requires microchannels (for perfusion and the gut-brain axis in the context of epilepsy.36 Last but establishment of biological gradients), microcham- not least, we shall highlight here the challenges and bers (for the spatial separation of different cell limitations of OoC models that could be useful for types or tissue formations), extracellular matrix the future improvement of such models. One main components (to ensure accurate representation in challenge is to move to the next level of OoC three dimensions), and electroactive compartments models to demonstrate the equivalence and/or for stimulation and recordings.36 Thanks to micro- superiority of these techniques to animal models. fluidic isolation, sampling the specific supernatant of cell culture is possible and enables targeted - Analytical platforms for metabolomic studies of the omics analysis. Gabriel-Segard et al. designed microbiota-gut-brain axis a microfluidic device and used it to show that Microbial metabolites have several different roles bacterial particles (Lipopolysaccharide) were able in microbiota-gut-brain crosstalk by triggering to generate electrophysiological activity in gluta- immune system activation or influencing the devel- matergic neurons mediated by immune cells opment of neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, (MoDC).53 This promising model could accelerate well-balanced metabolite production by the micro- studying secretory aspects of the microbiota-gut- microbial metabolism may influence
