GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


by immune cells opment of neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, (MoDC).53 This promising model could accelerate well-balanced metabolite production by the micro- studying secretory aspects of the microbiota-gut- microbial metabolism may influence microbiota- brain axis. The MINERVA project consists of gut-brain interactions. For this reason, metabolic 10 H. MORADIAN ET AL. analyses of microbiota are a valuable tool for stu- Gastrointestinal stimulation was achieved in dies of the microbiota-gut-brain axis (Figure 3d). healthy individuals by ingesting an orally non- The most widely used analytical platforms for biodegradable vibrating capsule. The capsule’s metabolomic analyses of the microbiota-gut-brain vibration was detected with a stethoscope, and axis include liquid chromatography coupled with electrophysiological recordings were performed mass spectrometry (LC-MS), which can determine with an EEG system. The pre/post-processing the levels of many organic acids, such as SCFAs, data were then analyzed with Brain Vision bile acids, and their derivatives. Gas chromatogra- Analyzer-2 software. This approach made it possi- phy coupled with mass spectrometry is also ble to identify signatures of gastrointestinal percep- a versatile technique for metabolite determina- tion and differential effects in the brain according tions. The samples and matrices used for metabo- to the strength of stimulation. The authors sug- lomic analysis include stools, urine, plasma, serum, gested that this approach would be helpful for cerebrospinal fluid, intestinal biopsy specimens, investigations of microbiota-gut-brain interactions and brain tissue.1 As microbiota-gut-brain axis in individual humans.55 Overall, according to studies involve multiple soluble molecules, highly many studies, combining the data from the gut varied omic methods are required to identify bio- (microbiota) with the methodologies like EGG/ logical pathways. In an analysis based on EEG,56 noninvasive electric recording system,57 a gnotobiotic animal model, intestinal organoids, and neuroimaging modalities such as MRI bacterial cultures, and stool sample, Horvath et al. (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) have provided performed a targeted liquid chromatography- insights into the understanding of microbiota-gut- tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based brain interactions.58–61 metabolomic analysis to investigate SCFAs, intest- inal and brain neurotransmitters. They showed Discussion that Bifidobacterium dentium, a commensal bacter- ium present in the gut, produces GABA (gamma- Various techniques and models have been used to aminobutyric-acid) and that colonization of the study the microbiota-gut-brain axis by investigat- intestine by this bacterium is associated with higher ing the components of this crosstalk. Animal mod- gut serotonin levels. They also showed that els have been widely used to determine the effects Bifidobacterium ovatus secretes indole-3-acetic of the
