GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


ing the components of this crosstalk. Animal mod- gut serotonin levels. They also showed that els have been widely used to determine the effects Bifidobacterium ovatus secretes indole-3-acetic of the microbiota on the microbiota-gut-brain axis, acid in vitro, thereby increasing the levels of this whereas diverse in vitro models have been used to molecule in the cecum and feces in an animal reproduce various aspects of the pathophysiologi- model. They demonstrated that this bacterium cal microbiota-gut-brain microenvironment. Mice (B. ovatus) affects CNS gene expression, microglial are the most widely used animal model in this maturation, and mouse behavior and can modulate context. Still, other animal models are emerging, immune cells, conferring protection in an animal including the zebrafish, which is considered parti- model of colitis.54 cularly promising for use in studies of the micro- biota-gut-brain axis – germ-free animal Mechanosensory probe, electrophysiological experimentations are still the gold standard for recordings, and neuroimaging studying microbiota-gut-brain interactions.62,63 Mayeli et al. developed a minimally invasive Researchers have suggested the employment of mechanosensory probe to target the perceptions multi-animal species in the future use of animal of the gastrointestinal system and neural responses models in the field,64 as microbiota-gut-brain to gut sensations via the ingestion of a vibrating social behavioral features are not realizable through capsule. The design of their study was inspired by in vitro models. However, it is too early to conclude signal theory, and it combined the mechanosensory that the modeling strategies used in this field can stimulation of gut signals with measurements of address all the questions raised concerning micro- gut sensations, electroencephalogram (EEG) and biota-gut-brain interactions, and we may still have electrogastrogram (EGG) recordings, and the some way to go before a more relevant modeling recording of other peripheral physiological signals. strategy is found. Some of the systems developed to GUT MICROBES 11 date require manufacture in a complicated multi- studies of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, leading step process that is time-consuming and labor- to several significant achievements in regulating intensive. It also remains difficult to determine inflammation by the vagus nerve or transmitting the optimal conditions for the coculture of the stress by the vagus nerve, intensifying by triggering elements of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, particu- inflammatory relapses of the disease. Liu et al. larly in 2D and 3D models, in which various com- investigated correlations between IBD and changes ponents are required. There is also yet to be in
