GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


disease. Liu et al. larly in 2D and 3D models, in which various com- investigated correlations between IBD and changes ponents are required. There is also yet to be in cerebral cortical structures, which can imply the a definitive method for tracing the dynamics of existence of microbiota-gut-brain involvement at in vitro microbiota-gut-brain models.39 Despite the organismal level. The authors suggested that the challenges outlined above, in vitro models are magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) might be con- considered promising based on the evaluations of sidered an additional screening option for IBD several types of platforms. OoC devices are consid- patients and that clinical patients with IBD prior- ered promising tools with many advantages for itize long-term inflammation management, as studies of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Firstly, changes at the organismal level can lead to func- OoC platforms allow cell culture in single cham- tional pathologies.65 Drug addiction is a significant bers connected by chip-based microfluidic chan- public health issue in many countries and drug- nels to promote communication. Secondly, it is dependent individuals may serve as relevant candi- possible to control the microenvironment’s spatial dates for the study of microbiota-gut-brain inter- and temporal features and create more physiologi- actions in this context. The pathways and systems cally relevant complex systems. It also allows set- involved in the pathophysiology of such disorders metabolites), simulating cell growth, proliferation, immune system, all essential factors and elements and differentiation, applying mechanical forces (to of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. By contrast, fewer mimic the physical microenvironment), and mon- studies have been performed, and less extensive itoring the operating parameters (oxygen, glucose data are available concerning the electrochemical concentration, pH). The miniaturization of these properties of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. So, it devices also makes it possible to decrease reagent would be helpful to develop technical strategies volumes. Moreover, electric sensors can be inte- based on the electrochemical properties of micro- grated into these devices, making it possible to biota-gut-brain interactions. Focusing on specific evaluate biological and biophysical parameters, topics or general analysis of techniques and meth- such as transepithelial electrical resistance odologies in this field should strengthen research to (TEER), and through micro-electrodes arrays improve our knowledge about the mechanisms (MEA), the electric activity within a neuron cul- underlying microbiota-gut-brain interactions. ture. Human brain imaging techniques have been Strategically, it is sensible to focus efforts on used to explore possible interactions between the integrating cellular elements of human
