GUT MICROBES
KEYWORDS: models, microbiota-gut-brain, gut, brain, axis, microbiota, model, used, animal, studies, microbiota-gut-brain axis, intestinal, interactions, cells, zebrafish


underlying microbiota-gut-brain interactions. ture. Human brain imaging techniques have been Strategically, it is sensible to focus efforts on used to explore possible interactions between the integrating cellular elements of human origin into functions of the gut and those of the brain in the design of in vitro platforms whenever possible. certain neuropsychiatric disorders and to evaluate Most of the in vitro systems in current use incor- brain activities following the administration of porate the coculture of cells, at least some of which commensal-fermented milk through cognitive originate from animals. Therefore, the results gen- function tests.4 erated by such models may be similar to those Information and data from human studies on expected from animal models, and their interpreta- microbiota-gut-brain interactions still need to be tion concerning humans would need to be revised. made available, highlighting the need for Finally, it would be helpful to compare a wide approaches based, to a more significant extent, on range of studies in different animal models and focusing on human diseases and neurological dis- obtained from other animals regarding the mole- orders as model candidates for studying micro- cular pathways of microbiota-gut-brain interaction biota-gut-brain interactions would be interesting. identified and to determine the variability of these IBD patients have been widely investigated in results. 12 H. MORADIAN ET AL. Conclusions 6. Mayer EA, Nance K, Chen S. The gut – brain axis. Annu Rev Med. 2022;73(1):439–453. doi:- We provide information about some of the recently med-042320-014032 . developed methods and models for microbiota-gut 7. Bo TB, Zhang XY, Wen J, Deng K, Qin XW, Wang DH. -brain studies, highlighting, in particular, the The microbiota–gut–brain interaction in regulating importance of zebrafish as an in vivo animal host metabolic adaptation to cold in male Brandt’s model and organ-on-a-chip systems as in vitro voles (lasiopodomys brandtii). Isme J. 2019;13 (12):3037–3053. doi: . models. Our synthesis highlights the usefulness of 8. Wang J, Li Q, Huang Q, Lv M, Li P, Dai J, Zhou M, Xu J, both strategies in the field, as animal models can- Zhang F, Gao J. et al. Washed microbiota transplanta- not yet be entirely replaced, and in vitro models tion accelerates the recovery of abnormal changes by alone have limitations and cannot perfectly repro- light-induced stress in tree shrews. Front Cell Infect duce in vivo conditions. In the future, it might be Microbiol. 2021;11(June):1–14. doi:. helpful to perform a comparative review on in
