HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Published in final edited form as: Hepatology. 2018 April ; 67(4): 1560–1599. doi:. Update on Prevention, Diagnosis, and Treatment and of Chronic Hepatitis B: AASLD 2018 Hepatitis B Guidance NA Terrault, CA AS Lok, BJ McMahon, KM Chang, JP Hwang, Houston, TX MM Jonas, RS Brown Jr, NH Bzowej, and JB Wong Boston, MA Purpose and Scope of the Guidance This AASLD 2018 Hepatitis B Guidance is intended to complement the AASLD 2016 Practice Guidelines for Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis B (1) and update the previous hepatitis B virus (HBV) guidelines from 2009. The 2018 updated guidance on chronic hepatitis B (CHB) includes (i) updates on treatment since the 2016 HBV guideline (notably the use of tenofovir alafenamide) and guidance on (ii) screening, counseling, and prevention; . AASLD APPROVAL This practice guidance was approved by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases on December 4, 2017. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (iii) specialized virologic and serologic tests; (iv) monitoring of untreated patients; and (v) treatment of hepatitis B in special populations, including persons with viral coinfections, acute hepatitis B, recipients of immunosuppressive therapy, and transplant recipients. The AASLD 2018 Hepatitis B Guidance provides a data-supported approach to screening, the published 2016 AASLD guideline which conducted systematic reviews and used a multidisciplinary panel of experts to rate the quality (level) of the evidence and the strength of each recommendation using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation system in support of guideline recommendations (1–4). In contrast, this guidance document was developed by consensus of an expert panel, without formal systematic review or use of the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation system. The 2018 guidance is based upon the following: (i) formal review and analysis of published literature on the topics; (ii) World Health Organization guidance on prevention, care, and treatment of persons with CHB (5); and (iii) the authors’ experience in acute hepatitis B and CHB. the diagnostic, therapeutic, and preventive aspects of care for patients with CHB. As with of patients and should not replace clinical judgement for a unique patient. This guidance does not seek to dictate a “one size fits all” approach for the management of CHB. Clinical considerations may justify a course of action that differs from this guidance. Interim Data Relevant to the AASLD
