HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


establishes the diagnosis of hepatitis B. Chronic vs acute infection is defined by the presence of HBsAg for at least 6 months. The prevalence of HBsAg varies greatly across countries, with high prevalence of HBsAg-positive persons defined as ≥8%, intermediate as 2% to 7%, and low as <2% (21, 22). In developed countries, the prevalence is higher among those who immigrated from high- or intermediate-prevalence countries and in those with high-risk behaviors (22, 23). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Hepatitis B virus is transmitted by perinatal, percutaneous, and sexual exposure and by close person-to-person contact (presumably by open cuts and sores, especially among children in hyperendemic areas) (24, 25). In most countries where HBV is endemic, perinatal transmission remains the most important cause of chronic infection. Perinatal transmission also occurs in nonendemic countries (including the United States), mostly in children of HBV-infected mothers who do not receive appropriate HBV immunoprophylaxis at birth. The majority of children and adults with CHB in the United States are immigrants, have immigrant parents, or became exposed through other close household contacts (26, 27). HBV can survive outside the body for prolonged periods (28). The risk of developing chronic HBV infection after acute exposure ranges from 90% in newborns of HBeAg- positive mothers to 25% to 30% in infants and children under 5 to less than 5% in adults (29–33). In addition, immunosuppressed persons are more likely to develop chronic HBV infection after acute infection (34). Table 3 displays those at risk for CHB who should be screened for HBV infection and immunized if seronegative (23, 35, 36). HBsAg and antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) should be used for screening (Table 4). Alternatively, antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc) can be utilized for screening as long as those who test positive are further tested for both HBsAg and anti-HBs to differentiate current infection from previous HBV exposure. HBV vaccination does not lead to anti-HBc positivity. Some persons may test positive for anti-HBc but not HBsAg; they may or may not also have anti-HBs, with the prevalence depending on local endemicity or the risk group (37, 38). The finding of isolated anti-HBc (anti-HBc positive but negative for HBsAg and anti-HBs) can occur for a variety of reasons. i. Among intermediate- to high-risk populations, the most common reason is previous exposure to
