HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


anti-HBc (anti-HBc positive but negative for HBsAg and anti-HBs) can occur for a variety of reasons. i. Among intermediate- to high-risk populations, the most common reason is previous exposure to HBV infection; the majority of these persons recovered from acute HBV infection earlier in life and anti-HBs titers have waned to undetectable levels, but some had been chronically infected with HBV for decades before clearing HBsAg. In the former case, the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or cirrhosis due to HBV is minimal. In the latter, these persons are still at risk of developing HCC, with an incidence rate that appears to be similar to those with inactive chronic HBV with undetectable HBV DNA levels (39–41). These individuals usually have low HBV DNA levels (20–200 IU/mL, more commonly if they are anti-HBs negative than if they are anti-HBs positive) and are typically born in regions with high prevalence of HBV infection or have HIV or hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection (37, 42–44). ii. Much less commonly with new, more specific anti-HBc tests, anti-HBc may be a false-positive test result, particularly in persons from low-prevalence areas with no risk factors for HBV infection. Earlier anti-HBc enzyme immunoassay and radioimmunoassay tests were less specific, more frequently yielding false positive results (45). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript iii. Anti-HBc may be the only marker of HBV infection during the window phase of acute hepatitis B; these persons should test positive for anti-HBc immunoglobulin M (37, 38). iv. Lastly, reports exist of HBsAg mutations leading to false-negative HBsAg results (37). Because of the risk for HBV transmission, screening for anti-HBc occurs routinely in blood donors and, if feasible, in organ donors (37). Since the original anti-HBc studies, the specificity of anti-HBc tests has improved to 99.88% in blood donors and 96.85% in non- HBV medical conditions (46, 47). Individuals with HIV infection or those about to undergo HCV or immunosuppressive therapy are at risk for potential reactivation if they have preexisting HBV and should be screened for anti-HBc (37, 48). especially with older, less sensitive assays. For anti-HBc–positive individuals, additional tests to detect prior or current infection include immunoglobulin M anti-HBc, antibody to hepatitis B e antigen (anti-HBe), and HBV DNA with a sensitive assay. Detectable HBV DNA documents infectivity, but a negative HBV DNA result does not rule out low levels
