HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


to hepatitis B e antigen (anti-HBe), and HBV DNA with a sensitive assay. Detectable HBV DNA documents infectivity, but a negative HBV DNA result does not rule out low levels of HBV DNA. Additionally repeat anti-HBc testing can be performed over time, particularly in blood donors in whom subsequent anti-HBc negativity suggests an initial false-positive result (37, 48). Although reports vary depending on the sensitivity and specificity of the anti- HBc test used and HBV prevalence in the study population, the minority of patients have an anamnestic response to HBV vaccination, with the majority having a primary antibody response to hepatitis B vaccination similar to persons without any HBV seromarkers (23, 49). Thus, vaccination could be considered reasonable for all screening indications in Table 3. Anti-HBc–positive HIV-infected individuals should receive HBV vaccination (ideally when CD4 counts exceed 200/μL) because most have primary responses to HBV vaccination, with ~60% to 80% developing anti-HBs levels ≥10 mIU/mL after 3 or 4 vaccinations (50, 51). Thus, limited data suggest that vaccination may be considered (48, 52, 53). When considering the benefit of using an anti-HBc–positive donor organ with possible occult HBV infection, the harm of hepatitis B transmission must be weighed against the clinical condition of the recipient patient. While persons who are positive for anti-HBc but negative for HBsAg are at very low risk of HBV reactivation, the risk can be substantial when chemotherapeutic or immunosuppressive drugs are administered singly or in combination (see Screening, Counseling, and Prevention of Hepatitis B, section 6D). Thus, all persons who are positive for anti-HBc (with or without anti-HBs) should be considered potentially at risk for HBV reactivation in this setting. Guidance Statements on Screening for Hepatitis B Infection 1. Screening should be performed using both HBsAg and anti-HBs. 2. Screening is recommended in all persons born in countries with a HBsAg seroprevalence of ≥2%, US-born persons not vaccinated as infants whose parents were born in regions with high HBV endemicity (≥8%), pregnant Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript women, persons needing immunosuppressive therapy, and the at-risk groups listed in Table 3. 3. Anti-HBs–negative screened persons should be vaccinated. 4. Screening for anti-HBc to determine prior exposure is not routinely recommended but is an important test in patients who have HIV infection, who are about to undergo HCV or anticancer and other immunosuppressive therapies or
