HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


prior exposure is not routinely recommended but is an important test in patients who have HIV infection, who are about to undergo HCV or anticancer and other immunosuppressive therapies or renal dialysis, and in donated blood (or, if feasible, organs) (see Screening, Counseling, and Prevention of Hepatitis B, section 6D). 1B. Counseling Patients With Chronic Hepatitis B, Including Prevention of Transmission to Others Patients with chronic HBV infection should be counseled regarding lifestyle modifications and prevention of transmission as well as the importance of lifelong monitoring. No specific dietary measures have been shown to have any effect on the progression of CHB per se, but metabolic syndrome and fatty liver contribute to liver-related morbidity (54, 55). Ingestion of more than 7 drinks per week for women and more than 14 drinks per week for men are associated with increased risk of cirrhosis and HCC (56, 57). Studies evaluating the risk of lesser amounts of alcohol intake are sparse (58), but the conservative approach is to recommend abstinence or minimal alcohol ingestion (59, 60). Individuals with CHB should be immunized against hepatitis A if not already immune (61). HBsAg-positive persons should be counseled regarding transmission to others (see Table 5). Because of increased risk of acquiring HBV infection, household members and sexual partners should be vaccinated if they test negative for HBV serologic markers. For casual sex partners or steady partners who have not been tested or have not completed the full immunization series, barrier protection methods should be employed. Transmission of HBV from infected health care workers to patients has been shown to occur in rare instances (62). Prevention recommends that those who perform exposure-prone procedures should seek counseling and advice from an expert review panel (63). If serum HBV DNA exceeds 1,000 IU/mL, antiviral therapy is recommended, and performance of exposure-prone procedures is permitted if serum HBV DNA is suppressed to <1,000 IU/mL and maintained below that medical and dental schools to exclude applicants who are HBsAg positive. No special arrangements need to be made for HBV-infected children in the community other than practicing universal precautions in daycare centers, schools, sports clubs, and camps. Guidance Statements on Counseling of Persons Who Are HBsAg Positive 1. HBsAg-positive persons should be counseled regarding prevention of transmission of HBV to others (Table 4). 2. For health care workers and students who are HBsAg positive: Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April
