HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


counseled regarding prevention of transmission of HBV to others (Table 4). 2. For health care workers and students who are HBsAg positive: Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript a. They should not be excluded from training or practice because they have hepatitis B. b. Only HBsAg-positive health care workers and students whose job requires performance of exposure-prone procedures are recommended to seek counseling and advice from an expert review panel at their institution. They should not perform exposure-prone procedures if their serum HBV DNA level exceeds 1,000 IU/mL but may resume these procedures if their HBV DNA level is reduced and maintained below 1,000 IU/mL. 3. No special arrangements are indicated for HBV-infected children in the community other than practicing universal precautions in daycare centers, schools, sports clubs, and camps. 4. Abstinence or only limited use of alcohol is recommended in HBV-infected persons. 5. Optimization of body weight and treatment of metabolic complications, including control of diabetes and dyslipidemia, are recommended to prevent concurrent development of metabolic syndrome and fatty liver. Guidance Statements on Counseling of Persons Who Are HBsAg Negative and anti-HBc Positive (With or Without anti-HBs) 1. Screening for anti-HBc is not routinely recommended except in patients who have HIV infection or who are about to undergo HCV therapy or immunosuppressive treatment. 2. Persons who are anti-HBc positive without HBsAg are not at risk of transmission of HBV, either sexually or to close personal contacts. 3. Persons who are positive only for anti-HBc and who are from an area with low endemicity with no risk factors for HBV should be given the full series of hepatitis B vaccine. 4. Persons who are positive only for anti-HBc and have risk factors for hepatitis B (Table 3) are not recommended for vaccination unless they are HIV positive or immunocompromised. 1C. Counseling of HBsAg-Positive Women in Pregnancy and Postpartum All pregnant women should be screened for HBsAg. Pregnant women with CHB should be encouraged to discuss with their obstetrician and/or pediatrician the prevention of mother-to- child transmission. Hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and HBV vaccine should be administered to their newborn immediately after delivery (64). Antiviral therapy in the third trimester is recommended for pregnant women with serum HBV DNA >200,000 IU/mL (1, 4). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author
