HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


trimester is recommended for pregnant women with serum HBV DNA >200,000 IU/mL (1, 4). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript A proportion of women (about 25%) have hepatitis flares with or without HBeAg seroconversion within the first months after delivery (65). Seroconversion rates of up to 17% have been described. It has been postulated that the rapid decrease in cortisol levels characteristic of the postpartum state is analogous to the steroid withdrawal therapy that has been used to elicit seroconversion. Although the flares are often mild and resolve spontaneously, cases of acute liver failure have been described in the peripartum period (66– 68). Extending third trimester antiviral therapy from 2 to 12 weeks postpartum did not protect against postpartum flares in one study (68), supporting the AASLD guideline recommendation that antiviral therapy given for prevention of mother-to-child transmission be discontinued at the time of delivery or up to 4 weeks postpartum (1). Prior systematic review of any antiviral therapy in the third trimester showed a significant reduction in perinatal transmission of HBV (4) with lamivudine, telbivudine, or TDF, but TDF is the preferred choice owing to its antiviral potency and concerns for resistance with the other antiviral agents. Two recent randomized control trials of TDF vs no antiviral treatment in the third trimester confirmed significant reductions in risk of mother-to-child transmission of hepatitis B with TDF in women with a high level of HBV DNA (69, 70). Elevated maternal creatine kinase levels were more frequent in TDF-treated vs untreated women in one study, though none were assessed as clinically significant (69). Both studies found no difference in the rates of prematurity, congenital malformations, or Apgar scores. Additional data on infant safety (including bone growth) from studies of pregnant women receiving antiretroviral therapy found no increase in adverse events among TDF-exposed vs unexposed infants (71–73). Although a prior study of HIV-infected pregnant mothers found TDF-exposed infants to have 12% lower whole-body bone mineral content than unexposed infants (74), the follow-up study showed no differences at 2 years of age (71). Whether invasive procedures during pregnancy, such as amniocentesis, increase the risk of HBV infection in the infants is unclear. Two studies including 21 and 47 HBsAg mother- infant pairs respectively concluded that the risk of HBV transmission by amniocentesis is low (75). However, more recently, the risk of mother-to-child transmission
