HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


studies including 21 and 47 HBsAg mother- infant pairs respectively concluded that the risk of HBV transmission by amniocentesis is low (75). However, more recently, the risk of mother-to-child transmission of HBV was significantly higher in women with a high HBV DNA level (≥7 log copies/mL) who underwent amniocentesis compared with those who did not (50% vs 4.5%, odds ratio 21.3, 95% confidence interval 2.96 to 153) (75, 76). Therefore, the risk of mother-to-child transmission must be considered when assessing the potential benefit of amniocentesis in highly viremic women. Vaccination against HBV is both safe and efficacious during pregnancy (79). In addition, titers of the passively transferred maternal antibody to newborns wane over time, as would be expected without the addition of active vaccination (80). An accelerated vaccination schedule has been shown to be feasible and efficacious in high-risk pregnant women (81). Chronic HBV infection does not usually affect the outcome of pregnancy unless the mother has cirrhosis or advanced liver disease. However, extra care is necessary to evaluate the Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript mother and to ensure that the infant receives hepatitis B immune globulin and a birth dose of HBV vaccine. Guidance Statements on Counseling of Women in Pregnancy 1. HBV vaccination is safe in pregnancy, and pregnant women who are not immune to or infected with HBV should receive this vaccine series. 2. Women identified as HBsAg positive during pregnancy should be linked to care for additional testing (ALT, HBV DNA, imaging for HCC surveillance if indicated) and determination of need for antiviral therapy. 3. Women who meet standard indications for HBV therapy should be treated. Women without standard indications but who have HBV DNA >200,000 IU/mL in the second trimester should consider treatment to prevent mother- to-child transmission (1). 4. HBV-infected pregnant women who are not on antiviral therapy as well as those who stop antiviral at or early after delivery should be monitored closely for up to 6 months after delivery for hepatitis flares and seroconversion. Long-term follow up should be continued to assess need for future therapy. 5. The potential risk of mother-to-child transmission of HBV with amniocentesis should be included in the risk of harms vs benefits discussion in HBsAg- positive mothers with high level viremia. 6. HBV-infected pregnant women with cirrhosis should be managed in high-risk obstetrical practices and
