HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


in the risk of harms vs benefits discussion in HBsAg- positive mothers with high level viremia. 6. HBV-infected pregnant women with cirrhosis should be managed in high-risk obstetrical practices and treated with TDF to prevent decompensation. 7. Sexual partners of women identified as HBV-infected during pregnancy should be assessed for HBV infection or immunity and receive HBV vaccine if appropriate. 8. Breastfeeding is not prohibited. 1D. Vaccination, Follow-up Testing, and Boosters Recommendations for vaccination are outlined in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices guidelines (35, 82). Follow- workers, infants of HBsAg-positive mothers, sexual partners of persons with CHB, chronic hemodialysis patients, and immunocompromised persons, including those with HIV. Furthermore, annual testing of hemodialysis patients is recommended since immunity wanes rapidly in these individuals who are at a high risk of continued exposure to HBV. Booster doses are not indicated in immunocompetent individuals if the primary vaccination series is completed, as long-term follow-up studies indicated that immune memory persists despite declining anti-HBs levels (83). For individuals undergoing postvaccination serologic testing, especially immunocompromised patients (such as persons on dialysis or with chronic inflammatory conditions, including HIV), a booster injection is advised when the anti-HBs titer falls below 10 mIU/mL. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript For those who are nonresponders to the initial vaccination series, a second series of 0-, 1-, and 6-month vaccination is recommended (84). For those who are immunocompromised, including those with HIV, on dialysis, or with cirrhosis, use of a double dose of vaccine has been shown to increase the percentage of patients achieving protective antibody titers, the level of anti-HBs achieved, and/or the duration of protection (85–87). HBV vaccine with or without HBIG is also recommended for postexposure immunoprophylaxis of unimmunized individuals who have percutaneous, mucosal, or sexual exposure to HBsAg-positive or HBsAg-unknown sources. This includes bites, needlesticks, sexual contacts, and sexual assaults. Immunoprophylaxis should be administered within 24 hours of exposure. Studies are limited on the maximum interval after exposure during which postexposure prophylaxis is effective, but the interval is unlikely to exceed 7 days for percutaneous exposures and 14 days for sexual exposures. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has updated guidelines for vaccination and postexposure prophylaxis for health care workers (HCW) (88). Infants born to women whose HBsAg status is unknown should also receive prompt
