HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


Control and Prevention has updated guidelines for vaccination and postexposure prophylaxis for health care workers (HCW) (88). Infants born to women whose HBsAg status is unknown should also receive prompt initiation of vaccination at birth. Because low-birth-weight infants (<2,000g) may have suboptimal vaccine responses, low-birth-weight infants of HBsAg-positive women should receive HBIG and HBV vaccine within 12 hours of birth followed by the usual 3-dose vaccination schedule, and premature or low-birth-weight infants born to HBsAg-negative women should be vaccinated prior to 1 month of age or at hospital discharge (89). Only monovalent HBV vaccine should be used for preterm or term infants younger than 6 weeks. Guidance Statements for Prevention of Transmission of Hepatitis B From Individuals With Chronic HBV Infection 1. HBV vaccines have an excellent safety record and are given as a 3-dose series at 0, 1, and 6 months (with or without hepatitis A vaccine). An alternate 4- dose schedule given at 0, 7, and 21 to 30 days followed by a dose at 12 months can be used for the combination hepatitis A and B vaccine (Twinrix®) for adults (90). Recently, a 2-dose series given at 0 and 1 months has been approved for adults (HEPLISAV-B®). 2. Sexual and household contacts of HBV-infected persons who are negative for HBsAg and anti-HBs should receive HBV vaccination. 3. Newborns of HBV-infected mothers should receive HBIG and HBV vaccine at delivery and complete the recommended vaccination series. Infants of HBsAg-positive mothers should undergo postvaccination testing at 9 to 15 months of age. chronic hemodialysis patients, and immunocompromised persons (including those with HIV) should be tested for their response to the vaccination 1 to 2 months after the last dose of vaccine. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5. For nonresponders to the initial vaccine series, a repeat 3-dose vaccination series is recommended, with a double dose used for immunocompromised patients, including those with cirrhosis (91). 6. Follow-up testing of vaccine responders is recommended annually for chronic hemodialysis patients. 7. Booster doses are not recommended except for individuals who are immunocompromised. 2. Definitions and Phases of Chronic Hepatitis B Infection The diagnostic criteria for CHB and clinical terms relating to HBV infection are summarized in Table 6. The presence of HBsAg for at least 6 months establishes the chronicity of infection. As HBV is not directly cytopathic, host responses
