HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


to HBV infection are summarized in Table 6. The presence of HBsAg for at least 6 months establishes the chronicity of infection. As HBV is not directly cytopathic, host responses to the virus-infected hepatocytes are believed to mediate liver cell injury and, with long-term chronic liver inflammation and ineffective immune-mediated viral clearance, contribute to the development of cirrhosis and liver cancer (92), (93). Importantly, CHB is a dynamic disease and individuals with CHB can transition through different clinical phases with variable levels of serum ALT activity, HBV DNA, and HBV antigens. The levels of serum ALT and HBV DNA as well as liver fibrosis are important predictors of long-term outcome that inform decisions for treatment initiation as well as treatment response. Therefore, serial testing of ALT and HBV DNA levels are needed to guide treatment decisions (Figure 1). Additionally, staging of liver disease severity using liver biopsy or noninvasive tests such as elastography are important in guiding surveillance and assisting with treatment decisions. The upper limits of normal (ULN) for ALT in healthy adults are reported to be 29 to 33 U/L for males and 19 to 25 U/L for females (94–96). For purposes of guiding management of CHB, an upper limit of normal for ALT of 35 U/L for males and 25 U/L for females is recommended (Figure 1), though differences in repeat testing of the same sample have been described (97, 98). This might prompt clinicians to repeat testing when a single ALT elevation is near the cutoff for treatment. Interpretation of ALT elevations in the context of treatment decisions requires consideration that the ALT elevation may be due to causes other than CHB, such as drug-induced liver injury, alcohol-associated liver disease, or fatty liver. 3. Selected Diagnostic Tests Used in Management of Chronic Hepatitis B 3A. HBV DNA Quantitation Quantification of serum HBV DNA is a crucial component in the evaluation of patients with CHB and in the assessment of the efficacy of antiviral treatment. Most HBV DNA assays used in clinical practice utilize real-time polymerase chain reaction technology with a sensitivity of 5 to 10 IU/mL and a dynamic range up to 7 log IU/mL (99). Some patients with CHB have widely fluctuating HBV DNA levels that may vary from undetectable to >2,000,000 IU/mL (100). Thus, serial monitoring of HBV DNA levels is more important than any single arbitrary cutoff value in prognostication and in determining
