HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


that may vary from undetectable to >2,000,000 IU/mL (100). Thus, serial monitoring of HBV DNA levels is more important than any single arbitrary cutoff value in prognostication and in determining the need for treatment. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Generally, patients with inactive CHB have HBV DNA levels <2,000 IU/mL and those with immune-active CHB have HBV DNA levels >20,000 IU/mL, with levels lower in those with HBeAg-negative CHB than in HBeAg-positive CHB. The 20,000-IU/mL cutoff is an arbitrary value (101), which reflects the detection limit of historical non–polymerase chain reaction assays. However, chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and HCC have been found in patients with lower HBV DNA levels (102), highlighting the importance of interpreting HBV DNA levels in the context of other host factors (including age, duration of infection, ALT elevation, and stage of disease) when making treatment decisions (1). 3B. HBV Genotypes Ten genotypes of HBV have been identified labeled A through J (103, 104). The prevalence of HBV genotypes varies geographically. HBV genotypes A through H have been found in the United States, with genotypes A, B, and C being most prevalent (26). HBV genotypes may play an important role in the progression of HBV-related liver disease as well as response to interferon (IFN) therapy (103, 105). Genotype A (vs B–D) is associated with significantly higher rates of HBeAg and HBsAg loss with IFN therapy (105, 106). Studies from Asia found that HBV genotype B is associated with HBeAg seroconversion at an earlier age, more sustained remission after HBeAg seroconversion, less active hepatic necroinflammation, a slower rate of progression to cirrhosis, and a lower rate of HCC development compared with genotype C (103). Studies from Alaska also show that HBeAg seroconversion occurs on average 2 decades later in persons infected with HBV genotype C than in those infected with HBV genotypes A, B, D, or F (107). In addition, a significantly higher incidence of HCC has been reported in persons infected with genotypes C or F in Alaska compared with the others (108). 3C. Quantitative Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (qHBsAg) The desire to assess covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) inside hepatocytes led to development of reproducible, automated, and standardized (IU/mL) assays (Architect QT assay [Abbott], Elecsys HBsAg III Quant [Roche], Liaison XL [DiaSorin]) to quantify hepatitis B surface antigen (109). Although qHBsAg reflects covalently closed circular
