HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


defined as a 1 log (10-fold) increase in serum HBV DNA from nadir during treatment in a patient who had an initial virologic response. Most antiviral- resistant mutants have decreased replication fitness compared with wild-type HBV. However, compensatory mutations that can restore replication fitness frequently emerge during continued treatment, leading to a progressive increase in serum HBV DNA that may exceed pretreatment levels. Genotypic resistance, measured with commercially available assays, evaluate sequence variations in specific positions in the polymerase. The current diagnostic methods include restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, hybridization, and sequencing (115). Current assays typically require an HBV DNA level >1,000 IU/mL. Guidance Statements on Use of Selected Serologic and Virologic Assays 1. Quantitative HBV DNA testing is essential to guide treatment decisions, including initiation of treatment and evaluation of a patient’s response to antiviral treatment. 2. HBsAg quantitation can be useful in managing patients receiving peg-IFN therapy. HBsAg quantitation is not recommended for the routine testing or follow-up of patients with CHB. 3. HBV genotyping can be useful in patients being considered for peg-IFN therapy, as genotypes A and B are associated with higher rates of HBeAg and/or HBsAg loss than genotype C and D, but it is not otherwise recommended for routine testing or follow-up of patients with CHB. 4. Testing for viral resistance in treatment-naïve patients is not recommended. Resistance testing can be useful in patients with prior treatment experience, those with persistent viremia on NA therapy, or those who experience virologic breakthrough during treatment. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. Follow-up of Patients Not Currently on Antiviral Treatment Patients not meeting criteria for antiviral therapy require regular monitoring to assess the need for future therapy per the AASLD 2016 HBV Guideline (1). 4A. HBeAg-Positive Patients With High Serum HBV DNA but Normal ALT (Immune-Tolerant CHB) These patients should be monitored at 3 to 6 month intervals (Figure 1). More frequent monitoring should be performed when ALT levels become elevated (116–119). Patients with compensated liver disease who remain HBeAg positive with HBV DNA levels greater than 20,000 IU/mL after a 3 to 6 month period of elevated ALT levels greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal (>50 U/L for women and >70 U/L for men) should be considered for antiviral treatment (1). Liver biopsy should be considered in patients with persistent borderline
