HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


can also occur in response to antiviral therapy, being more common with IFN than with NAs. Although progression of liver disease to cirrhosis or hepatic decompensation generally stops when patients lose HBsAg unless other causes of liver injury are present (eg, heavy alcohol consumption or Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript nonalcoholic fatty liver), the risk of HCC persists, particularly if HBsAg loss occurred in patients older than 50 years or in those with cirrhosis or coinfection with HCV or hepatitis D virus (HDV) (128, 130–132). Loss of HBsAg with acquisition of anti-HBs has been termed functional cure. This is distinguished from true cure, in which HBsAg and covalently closed circular DNA are eliminated. Guidance Statements for Monitoring Patients With Chronic HBV Infection Who Are Not Currently on Treatment 1. As CHB is a dynamic disease, persons who are not receiving treatment should be assessed regularly to determine if an indication for treatment has developed. 2. HBeAg-positive patients with persistently normal ALT should be tested for ALT at 3- to 6-month intervals. If ALT levels increase above upper limits of normal, ALT along with HBV DNA should be tested more frequently. HBeAg status should be checked every 6 to 12 months. 3. Patients who are HBeAg positive with HBV DNA levels >20,000 IU/mL and ALT levels less than 2 times the ULN (<50 U/L for females, <70 U/L for males) should undergo testing to evaluate histologic disease severity, especially those >40 years old and who were infected at young age (ie, long duration of infection). • Liver biopsy offers the only means of assessing both fibrosis and inflammation. If the biopsy specimen shows moderate or severe inflammation (A2 or A3) or significant fibrosis (≥F2), treatment is recommended. • Alternative methods to assess fibrosis are elastography (preferred) and liver fibrosis biomarkers (eg, FIB-4 or FibroTest®). If these noninvasive tests indicate significant fibrosis (≥F2), treatment is recommended. 4. Patients who are HBeAg negative with HBV DNA levels >2,000 IU/mL and elevated ALT levels less than 2 times the ULN should undergo testing to evaluate disease severity, especially those who are >40 years old and who were infected at a young age (ie, long duration of infection). • Liver biopsy offers the only means of assessing both fibrosis and inflammation. If the biopsy specimen shows moderate or severe inflammation (A2 or A3)
