HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


(ie, long duration of infection). • Liver biopsy offers the only means of assessing both fibrosis and inflammation. If the biopsy specimen shows moderate or severe inflammation (A2 or A3) or significant fibrosis (≥F2), treatment is recommended. • Alternative methods to assess fibrosis are elastography (preferred) and liver fibrosis markers (eg, FIB-4 or FibroTest®). If these noninvasive tests indicate significant fibrosis (≥F2), treatment is recommended. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5. Patients who are HBeAg negative with normal ALT (≤25 U/L women, ≤35 U/L men) and HBV DNA <2,000 IU/mL should be tested for ALT and HBV DNA every 3 months during the first year to confirm they have inactive CHB. Thereafter their ALT and HBV DNA levels should be tested at 6- to 12-month intervals. If costs are a concern, ALT monitoring alone can be used. When ALT levels increase above the normal limit, ALT along with HBV DNA should be tested more frequently (every 3–6 months). 6. In persons with HBV DNA <2,000 IU/mL but elevated ALT levels, other causes of liver disease should be investigated, including but not limited to HCV or HDV, drug toxicity, nonalcoholic fatty liver, alcohol, or autoimmune liver disease. 7. Persons with inactive CHB should be evaluated for loss of HBsAg annually. 8. In persons who achieve sustained HBsAg seroclearance, routine ALT and HBV DNA monitoring are no longer required. HCC surveillance should continue if the person has cirrhosis, a first-degree family member with HCC, or a long duration of infection (>40 years for males and >50 years for females who have been infected with HBV from a young age). 5. Screening for HCC The AASLD 2018 Practice Guideline on HCC has been published (133). Of the 2 tests prospectively evaluated as screening tools for HCC, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and ultrasonography (US), the sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of US are higher than those of AFP. The guideline for HCC recommends surveillance of persons at high risk of HCC with US every 6 months. There was insufficient evidence for or against the addition of AFP every 6 months to screening algorithms. AFP alone is not recommended except in those circumstances where US is unavailable or cost is an issue. HCC surveillance is considered cost-effective if the annual risk of HCC is ≥0.2% per year (134). Using this principle, all patients with cirrhosis
