HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


is unavailable or cost is an issue. HCC surveillance is considered cost-effective if the annual risk of HCC is ≥0.2% per year (134). Using this principle, all patients with cirrhosis warrant screening. For noncirrhotic patients, age, sex, race, and family history determine when surveillance should begin (134, 135). Other subgroups with a higher risk of HCC include persons with HCV, HDV, or HIV coinfections and those with fatty liver (55, 136–139). At this time, there is insufficient evidence to recommend HCC surveillance in children except in children with cirrhosis or with a first- degree family member with HCC. Guidance Statements for HCC Screening in HBsAg-Positive Persons 1. All HBsAg-positive patients with cirrhosis should be screened with US examination with or without alpha-fetoprotein every 6 months. 2. HBsAg-positive adults at high risk for HCC (including Asian or African American men over 40 years and Asian women over 50 years of age), persons with a first-degree family member with a history of HCC, or persons with Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript HDV should be screened with US examination with or without alpha- fetoprotein every 6 months. 3. There are insufficient data to identify high-risk groups for HCC in children. However, it is reasonable to screen HBsAg-positive children and adolescents with advanced fibrosis (F3) or cirrhosis and those with a first-degree family member with HCC using US examination with or without alpha-fetoprotein every 6 months. 4. For HBsAg-positive persons at high risk for HCC who are living in areas where US is not readily available, screening with AFP every 6 months should be performed. 6. Management of Chronic HBV in Special Populations 6A. Coinfection With HCV As with any patient with CHB, the treatment goals are to reduce risk of progression to cirrhosis and liver-related complications, including HCC. In HBV-HCV coinfected patients, the viral activity responsible for liver disease can be determined by measuring HCV RNA and HBV DNA levels. If HCV RNA is detectable, treatment of HCV should be undertaken (140). If HBV DNA is detectable, treatment is determined by the HBV DNA and ALT levels (Figure 1) (1). Importantly, treatment of one virus may lead to changes in the activity of the other virus, and thus monitoring during and after treatment is necessary to assess for viral activity. In the IFN era, the treatment of choice for patients coinfected
