HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


activity of the other virus, and thus monitoring during and after treatment is necessary to assess for viral activity. In the IFN era, the treatment of choice for patients coinfected with HBV and HCV infections was peg-IFN and ribavirin for 24 to 48 weeks, depending on the HCV genotype. Moderate to high rates of HCV eradication and HBV suppression were reported with this combination (141, 142). However, a rebound in serum HBV DNA after an initial decline and increased HBV replication in patients with undetectable HBV DNA prior to treatment have been reported with peg-IFN and ribavirin (141, 143, 144). Similarly, direct-acting antiviral (DAA) HCV therapy has been reported to increase HBV DNA levels in HBsAg-positive patients (145) and to elevate ALT concurrently with HBV reactivation, leading to liver decompensation (146), though the frequency of liver failure is very low (145, 147). The majority of reported reactivation events (elevated ALT with elevated HBV DNA) occurred between 4 to 12 weeks of DAA treatment (148). In those HBV-HCV coinfected patients with cirrhosis or those meeting recommended criteria for HBV treatment (Figure 1), HBV antiviral therapy should be started concurrently with DAA therapy (140). Entecavir, TDF, or TAF are the preferred antivirals. For HBsAg- negative, anti-HBc-positive patients with chronic HCV infection, monitoring ALT levels is reasonable, with testing for HBsAg and HBV DNA recommended if ALT levels fail to normalize or increase despite declining or undetectable HCV RNA levels. HBV antiviral therapy should be initiated if there is evidence of HBV reactivation (increase in HBV DNA from baseline—see section 6D1). There are no known interactions between HBV antivirals (entecavir, TDF, TAF) and approved HCV DAAs. For triply infected patients with HIV, Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript HBV, and HCV, more opportunities for drug interactions exist, and careful review of antiretroviral therapy before initiation of HCV or HBV therapy is recommended (Screening, Counseling, and Prevention of Hepatitis B, section 6C). Guidance Statements for Treatment of Patients with HBV and HCV Coinfection 1. All HBsAg-positive patients should be tested for HCV infection using the anti-HCV test. 2. HCV treatment is indicated for patients with HCV viremia (113). 3. HBV treatment is determined by HBV DNA and ALT levels as per the AASLD HBV guidelines for monoinfected patients (1). 4. HBsAg-positive patients are at risk of HBV DNA and ALT flares with HCV
