HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


by HBV DNA and ALT levels as per the AASLD HBV guidelines for monoinfected patients (1). 4. HBsAg-positive patients are at risk of HBV DNA and ALT flares with HCV DAA therapy, and monitoring of HBV DNA levels every 4 to 8 weeks during treatment and for 3 months posttreatment is indicated in those who do not meet treatment criteria for monoinfected patients (per AASLD–Infectious Diseases Society of America HCV Guidance). 5. HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc positive patients with HCV are at very low risk of reactivation with HCV DAA therapy. ALT levels should be monitored at baseline, at the end of treatment, and during follow-up, with HBV DNA and HBsAg testing reserved for those whose ALT levels increase or fail to normalize during treatment or posttreatment. 6B. Hepatitis D Infection The AASLD 2016 HBV Guideline recommends testing of HBsAg-positive persons at risk for HDV, including those with HIV infection, persons who inject drugs, men who have sex with men, and immigrants from areas of high HDV endemicity (149, 150) (Table 7) Additionally, HBsAg-positive patients with low or undetectable HBV DNA but high ALT levels should be considered for HDV testing. Given the importance of HDV to the long-term management of the HBsAg-positive patient, if there is any uncertainty regarding the need to test, HDV screening is recommended. The recommended screening test is anti-HDV, and if this test result is positive, it should be followed by HDV RNA testing to diagnose active HDV infection. A high degree of heterogeneity in sensitivity and specificity has been identified across HDV assays (151), and the availability of the first international external quality control for HDV quantification via the World Health Organization has led to improvements in HDV diagnostics. The primary endpoint of treatment is the suppression of HDV replication, which is usually accompanied by normalization of ALT levels and a decrease in necroinflammatory activity on a liver biopsy specimen. For patients with elevated ALT levels, measurement of HBV DNA and HDV RNA will allow determination of the need for NA alone, peg-IFN alone, or combination therapy. The presence of underlying cirrhosis may further modify treatment decisions, as is the case in HBV monotherapy. Because NAs have no efficacy against HDV Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript infection, they are not recommended in patients with suppressed or low HBV replication except patients with cirrhosis. HBV
