HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript infection, they are not recommended in patients with suppressed or low HBV replication except patients with cirrhosis. HBV DNA levels may change over time, including during treatment of HDV infection, and if the HBV DNA levels become elevated, treatment with preferred NAs (entecavir, TDF, TAF) is recommended. Long-term suppression of active HBV infection may be expected to reduce quantitative HBsAg levels, which should have a beneficial effect on HDV coinfection. The only approved treatment of chronic hepatitis D is IFN-α. Peg-IFN is the drug of choice without clear differences in efficacy between peg-IFN alpha-2a (180 μg weekly) or 2b (1.5 μg/kg weekly) ( 152). Treatment success, defined as undetectable HDV RNA 24 weeks after completing treatment, ranges from 23% to 57% (152–154). ALT normalization typically parallels the virologic responses. The combination of NA with peg-IFN does not increase the likelihood of an off-treatment virologic response (153). Late relapses can occur with longer follow-up, leading to very low rates of sustained HDV RNA undetectability. In the multicenter HIDIT-1 study of peg-IFN for 48 weeks with or without adefovir, 40% of patients achieved an undetectable HDV RNA level 24 weeks after completing therapy (153), but at a mean follow-up 4.3 years later, only 12% remained undetectable (155). A complete virologic response, defined as loss of HBsAg plus sustained suppression of HDV RNA, is a more desirable endpoint of therapy, but this occurs rarely with 1 year of treatment. Longer treatment duration may increase HBsAg loss, eg, peg-IFN for up to 5 years resulted in HBsAg loss in 3 of 13 patients (23%) (156). An early virologic response, defined by loss of HDV RNA after 24 weeks of treatment, was associated with a higher likelihood of a sustained off-treatment response, whereas a failure to achieve at least a 2-log copies/mL decline by this same time point was associated with a <5% chance of sustained off-treatment response (157). The benefits of peg-IFN on disease progression and clinical outcomes have been most closely associated with undetectability of HDV RNA during follow-up. Given the poor response to current peg-IFN therapy, new drug therapies are urgently needed for HDV-infected persons. Phase 2 studies of prenylation inhibitors and entry inhibitors offer hope for new treatment options in the future (158, 159). Guidance Statements for Management of Patients With HDV Infection 1. Anti-HDV screening is recommended in
