HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


inhibitors and entry inhibitors offer hope for new treatment options in the future (158, 159). Guidance Statements for Management of Patients With HDV Infection 1. Anti-HDV screening is recommended in HIV-positive persons, persons who inject drugs, men who have sex with men, those at risk for sexually transmitted diseases, and immigrants from areas of high HDV endemicity. Patients with low HBV DNA levels and elevated ALT levels may be considered for HDV screening. If there is any uncertainty regarding the need to test, an initial anti-HDV test is recommended. 2. For those at risk for HDV acquisition, periodic retesting is recommended. 3. Anti-HDV–positive patients should have periodic assessment of HDV RNA and HBV DNA. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. Peg-IFN-α for 12 months is the recommended therapy for those with elevated HDV RNA levels and ALT elevation. 5. If HBV DNA levels are elevated, concurrent therapy with NA using preferred drugs (entecavir, TDF, or TAF) is indicated. 6. Assessment of HDV relapse is warranted if ALT elevation occurs following treatment because of the high rates of relapse. 7. Given the limited efficacy of current therapies, it is reasonable to refer patients to specialized centers that offer access to experimental therapies for HDV. 6C. Coinfection With HIV Lamivudine, emtricitabine, and tenofovir are NAs with activity against both HIV and HBV (160, 161). However, the rate of HBV resistance to lamivudine monotherapy in HBV and HIV coinfected patients reaches 90% at 4 years (162). All patients with HBV and HIV coinfection should receive ARVT that includes 2 drugs with activity against HBV: specifically, tenofovir (TAF or TDF) plus lamivudine or emtricitabine (163). In the setting of confirmed lamivudine resistance in patients already receiving ARVT therapy, adding tenofovir is generally preferred. Tenofovir alafenamide is approved for HIV in combination with emtricitabine with or without other HIV drugs and is preferred to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate because of its improved safety profile (20, 164–166). Because entecavir has been shown to decrease serum HIV RNA levels in lamivudine- experienced and lamivudine-naïve patients and result in the selection of M184V mutation (167), entecavir should only be used in HBV and HIV coinfected patients receiving a fully suppressive antiretroviral regimen (163). Telbivudine and adefovir are not recommended (163) because adefovir has no activity against HIV and telbivudine results in the selection of M204I mutation in
