HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


a fully suppressive antiretroviral regimen (163). Telbivudine and adefovir are not recommended (163) because adefovir has no activity against HIV and telbivudine results in the selection of M204I mutation in the YMDD motif. Hepatitis flares may occur during the first few weeks of treatment from immune reconstitution (168) or when drugs with HBV activity are discontinued, particularly in the absence of HBeAg seroconversion. Thus, when ARVT regimens are altered, drugs that are effective against HBV should not be discontinued without substituting another drug that has activity against HBV. Elevation in ALT can also be due to hepatotoxicity of HIV drugs or HIV-related opportunistic infections (169, 170). HBV treatment should be continued indefinitely with monitoring of virologic response and adverse events. Guidance Statements for Treatment of Patients With HBV and HIV Coinfection 1. All patients with HBV and HIV coinfection should initiate ARVT, regardless of CD4 count. The ARVT regimen should include 2 drugs with activity against HBV. Specifically, the backbone of the ARVT regimen should be TDF or TAF plus lamivudine or emtricitabine. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2. Patients who are already receiving effective ARVT that does not include a drug with antiviral activity against HBV should have treatment changed to include TDF or TAF with emtricitabine or lamivudine. Alternatively, entecavir is reasonable if patients are receiving a fully suppressive ARVT. 3. When ARVT regimens are altered, drugs that are effective against HBV should not be discontinued without substituting another drug that has activity against HBV. 4. TDF-emtricitabine–inclusive regimens require dose adjustment if creatinine clearance is <50 mL/min, and TAF-emtricitabine–inclusive regimens are not recommended in patients with a creatinine clearance of <30 mL/min. 6D. Patients Who Receive Immunosuppressive or Cytotoxic Therapy 6D.1 Definitions for HBV Reactivation and Associated Outcomes—HBV reactivation reflects the loss of HBV immune control in HBsAg-positive, anti-HBc–positive or HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy for a concomitant medical condition. The criteria for HBV reactivation (171–178) include the following: (i) a rise in HBV DNA compared to baseline (or an absolute level of HBV DNA when a baseline is unavailable) and (ii) reverse seroconversion (seroreversion) from HBsAg negative to HBsAg positive for HBsAg-negative and anti-HBc–positive patients. Following HBV reactivation, a hepatitis flare demonstrated by ALT elevation can occur. Many previous studies were retrospective and thus lacked the data to fully describe the incidence of HBV-
