HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


patients. Following HBV reactivation, a hepatitis flare demonstrated by ALT elevation can occur. Many previous studies were retrospective and thus lacked the data to fully describe the incidence of HBV- associated hepatitis, liver failure (manifested by impaired synthetic function, ascites, or encephalopathy), or liver-associated death. However, one systematic review reported liver failure rates among HBsAg-positive, anti-HBc–positive patients receiving anticancer therapy to be 13.9% (pooled estimate: range 8.6%–20.3%) (177). Because of the heterogeneity of definitions for HBV reactivation and its associated outcomes, we recommend using uniform criteria and propose coupling HBV reactivation with a hepatitis flare to define HBV- associated hepatitis. The AASLD-recommended criteria for HBV-associated hepatitis and associated clinical outcomes are as follows: a HBV-Associated Hepatitis (HBV Reactivation Plus Hepatitis Flare) HBV reactivation in HBsAg-positive, anti-HBc–positive patients is reasonably defined as 1 of the following: (i) a ≥2 log (100-fold) increase in HBV DNA compared to the baseline level, (ii) HBV DNA ≥3 log (1,000) IU/mL in a patient with previously undetectable level (since HBV DNA levels fluctuate), or (iii) HBV DNA ≥4 log (10,000) IU/mL if the baseline level is not available. For HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients, the following criteria are reasonable for HBV reactivation: (i) HBV DNA is detectable or (ii) reverse HBsAg seroconversion occurs (reappearance of HBsAg). A hepatitis flare is reasonably defined as an ALT increase to ≥3 times the baseline level and >100 U/L. b Clinical Outcomes of HBV-Associated Hepatitis HBV-associated liver failure is reasonably defined as 1 of the following: (i) impaired synthetic function (total bilirubin >3 mg/dL or international Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript normalized ratio >1.5), (ii) ascites, (iii) encephalopathy, or (iv) death following HBV-associated liver failure due to HBV reactivation. 6D.2 Screening Recommendations in the Setting of Immunosuppressive or Cytotoxic Drugs—Previous studies showed that HBV reactivation from anticancer therapies occurred in 41% to 53% (179) of HBsAg-positive, anti-HBc–positive patients and 8% to 18% (180) of HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients. The rate of HBV reactivation from antirheumatic therapies has been reported to be 12.3% (181) in HBsAg- positive, anti-HBc–positive patients and 1.7% (182) in HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients. As such, both the HBsAg and anti-HBc (total or immunoglobulin G) tests should be used for HBV screening. The role for anti-HBs in screening prior to immunosuppressive therapy has not yet been established. The presence of anti-HBs does not prevent HBV reactivation, but anti-HBs may
