HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


for HBV screening. The role for anti-HBs in screening prior to immunosuppressive therapy has not yet been established. The presence of anti-HBs does not prevent HBV reactivation, but anti-HBs may be useful for detecting prior infection in HBsAg negative, anti-HBc positive patients, and in surveillance as the loss of anti-HBs may be a predictor of HBV reactivation (183–185). In regions of the world where HBV prevalence is moderate to high, universal HBV testing prior to the initiation of immunosuppressive therapy is recommended (186, 187). In the United States, some medical centers have established universal HBV testing procedures that are aligned with the CDC recommendation (23). Among patients with cancer, HBV testing rates based on risk factors have been reported to be low (19% to 55%) (188–190), while the prevalence of HBV risk factors among patients with cancer may be high (191). This supports universal HBV testing as a reasonable option to reduce the risk of missing persons with HBV infection prior to the initiation of anticancer therapies, especially in centers where widespread, systematic, risk-based HBV testing does not occur. 6D.3 Antiviral Prophylaxis vs On-Demand Therapy—Although many immunosuppressive and immune-modulating drugs have been associated with HBV reactivation (192–194), it is difficult to discern the risk caused by specific drugs or drug regimens because of the lack of systemically collected data. HBsAg-positive patients are at high risk of HBV reactivation, especially if their HBV DNA levels are elevated (195, 196), and they should receive anti-HBV prophylaxis prior to the initiation of immunosuppressive or cytotoxic therapy, which is supported by 3 randomized controlled trials of HBsAg- positive, anti-HBc–positive patients receiving anticancer therapy (174, 179, 197). HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients are at lower risk of HBV reactivation than monitoring, they could be initiated on anti-HBV prophylaxis or monitored with the intent of on-demand anti-HBV therapy initiation at the first sign of HBV reactivation. HBsAg- negative, anti-HBc–positive patients with rheumatologic conditions receiving biologic therapies (198–200), inflammatory bowel disease treated with TNF inhibitors (201), and patients with psoriasis treated with biologics or conventional immunosuppressive therapies (202) were successfully monitored without anti-HBV prophylaxis. While HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive lymphoma patients have been reported to have been successfully monitored with close, on-demand antiviral therapy while receiving rituximab (180, 203, 204) or conventional anticancer therapy (204) without adverse liver outcomes, we Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript recommend that HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive
