HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


conventional anticancer therapy (204) without adverse liver outcomes, we Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript recommend that HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients on drugs that target B lymphocytes such as rituximab be given prophylaxis. 6D.4. Preferred Antivirals and Duration of Therapy—Regardless of baseline serum HBV DNA level, prophylactic antiviral therapy should be administered to patients with CHB before (ie, most often in the literature, antivirals were given 7 days prior to) the onset of anticancer therapy or a finite course of immunosuppressive therapy (205). Because of their higher potency and high resistance barrier, prophylactic first-line NAs (eg, entecavir or tenofovir) should be preferred over other NAs, as multiple meta-analyses have demonstrated reduced reactivation, hepatitis, mortality, and anticancer therapy interruption (192, 205– 207). When monitoring at-risk patients without prophylaxis, the preferred antivirals for on- demand treatment remain first-line preferred NAs, although the evidence base is far weaker (192). The most commonly studied and recommended duration of prophylactic antiviral therapy is 6 to 12 months (205) after discontinuation of anticancer therapy or immunosuppression. Reactivation beyond 12 months has been reported, so further monitoring should be considered, particularly for patients who received anti-CD20 antibody therapy (208–210). Much less is known about the optimal duration of prophylaxis in patients receiving chronic immunosuppression, eg, transplantation and biologic therapy (182, 211– 214). Guidance Statements for Patients Undergoing Immunosuppressive and Cytotoxic Therapy 1. HBsAg and anti-HBc (total or immunoglobulin G) testing should be performed in all persons prior to initiation of any immunosuppressive, cytotoxic, or immunomodulatory therapy. 2. HBsAg-positive, anti-HBc–positive patients should initiate anti-HBV prophylaxis before immunosuppressive or cytotoxic therapy. 3. HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive patients could be carefully monitored with ALT, HBV DNA, and HBsAg with the intent for on-demand therapy, except for patients receiving anti-CD20 antibody therapy (eg, rituximab) or undergoing stem cell transplantation, for whom anti-HBV prophylaxis is recommended. 4. When indicated, anti-HBV prophylaxis should be initiated as soon as possible before or, at the latest, simultaneously with the onset of immunosuppressive therapy. Once started, anti-HBV prophylaxis should continue during immunosuppressive therapy and for at least 6 months (or for at least 12 months for patients receiving anti-CD20 therapies) after completion of immunosuppressive therapy. 5. Anti-HBV drugs with a high resistance barrier (entecavir, TDF, or TAF) should be preferred over low-barrier agents. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
