HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


with a high resistance barrier (entecavir, TDF, or TAF) should be preferred over low-barrier agents. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 6. For patients being monitored without prophylaxis, HBV DNA levels should be obtained every 1 to 3 months. Patients should be monitored for up to 12 months after cessation of anti-HBV therapy. 6E. Symptomatic Acute Hepatitis B Infection Antiviral therapy is generally not necessary in patients with symptomatic acute hepatitis B because >95% of immunocompetent adults with acute hepatitis B recover spontaneously. Small case series with or without comparisons to historical untreated controls have reported that lamivudine improves survival in patients with severe infection or acute liver failure (215, 216). In the largest randomized controlled trial of lamivudine vs placebo, 71 patients with acute symptomatic acute hepatitis B were studied, with over half of the patients having severe acute hepatitis B as defined by 2 of the following 3 criteria: hepatic encephalopathy, serum bilirubin >10.0 mg/dL, or international normalized ratio >1.6 (217). Although the group treated with lamivudine had a significantly greater reduction of HBV DNA at week 4, there was no difference in the rate of biochemical improvement for all patients and in the subgroup with severe hepatitis. Nor did the rate of loss of HBsAg differ at month 12: 93.5% with lamivudine vs 96.7% with placebo. Other studies of smaller size were underpowered to assess for benefits (216, 218). Despite the above lack of observed benefit, treating all patients with acute liver failure due to HBV using an NA may be reasonable given its safety and the ultimate need for liver transplantation in many of these patients, for whom lower HBV DNA levels are desirable to reduce the risk of recurrent hepatitis B after transplant. At the 2006 National Institutes of hepatitis B (increase in international normalized ratio and deep jaundice persisting for >4 weeks) be treated (219). Entecavir, TAF, or TDF are preferred antivirals in this setting. IFN- α is contraindicated because of the risks of worsening hepatitis and the frequent adverse effects. Guidance Statements for Treatment of Patients With Acute Symptomatic Hepatitis B 1. Antiviral treatment is indicated for only those patients with acute hepatitis B who have acute liver failure or who have a protracted, severe course, as indicated by total bilirubin >3 mg/dL (or direct bilirubin >1.5 mg/dL), international normalized ratio >
