HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


hepatitis B who have acute liver failure or who have a protracted, severe course, as indicated by total bilirubin >3 mg/dL (or direct bilirubin >1.5 mg/dL), international normalized ratio > 1.5, encephalopathy, or ascites. 2. Entecavir, TDF, or TAF are the preferred antiviral drugs. • Treatment should be continued until HBsAg clearance is confirmed or indefinitely in those who undergo liver transplantation. • Peg-IFN is contraindicated. 3. For those diagnosed with CHB by failing to clear HBsAg after 6 to 12 months, ongoing management should follow the chronic HBV guideline (1). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 6F. Treatment of Patients With Virologic Failure on NA Therapy A major concern with long-term NA treatment is the selection of antiviral resistance mutations. The rate at which resistance variants are selected is related to the pretreatment serum HBV DNA level, rapidity of viral suppression, duration of treatment, prior exposure to NA therapies, and most importantly, the NA’s genetic barrier to drug resistance. Among the preferred NA therapies for CHB, entecavir, TDF, and TAF have very low rates of drug resistance in NA-naïve patients, and tenofovir (TDF or TAF) has very low rates of drug resistance in NA-experienced patients (17, 18, 220, 221). Virologic breakthroughs, defined as a >1 log (10-fold) increase in serum HBV DNA from nadir after initial virologic response, may be related to medication nonadherence, so adherence should be ascertained before testing for genotypic resistance (222). Virologic breakthrough is usually followed by biochemical breakthrough, defined as ALT elevation during treatment in a patient who had achieved an initial biochemical response. Emergence of antiviral resistance mutations can lead to negation of the initial response and in some cases hepatitis flares and hepatic decompensation. Antiviral resistance mutations may also result in cross-resistance with other NAs, thus reducing future treatment options. Resistance to entecavir appears to occur through a 2-hit mechanism, with initial selection of the lamivudine resistance M204V or M204I mutation followed by amino acid substitutions at rtT184, rtS202, or rtM250. In vitro studies showed that the mutations at positions 184, 202, or 250 on their own have a minimal effect on susceptibility to entecavir, but susceptibility to entecavir is decreased by 10- to 250-fold when one of these mutations accompanies a M204V or M204I mutation and by >500-fold when 2 or more of them are present with a M204V or
