HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


by 10- to 250-fold when one of these mutations accompanies a M204V or M204I mutation and by >500-fold when 2 or more of them are present with a M204V or M204I mutation. Thus, although entecavir monotherapy has a low rate of drug resistance in NA-naïve patients (approximately 1% after 5 years of treatment) (223), it has a high rate of resistance in lamivudine-refractory patients (approximately 50% after 5 years of treatment) (223). Use of entecavir at high doses (1 mg vs 0.5 mg daily) reduces the rate of resistance but is inferior to combination therapy of lamivudine plus adefovir or tenofovir monotherapy (224–229). Resistance to tenofovir (at position rtA194T) was reported in 2 patients with HBV and HIV coinfection (230), but this finding has not TDF resistance among 641 NA-naïve patients who received TDF for up to 8 years, and most cases of virologic breakthrough were attributed to nonadherence (221). Similarly, in another study of 280 patients with lamivudine resistance who received TDF alone or in combination with emtricitabine for up to 240 weeks, TDF resistance was not found (231). Although long- term data on risk of resistance with TAF are lacking, no resistance has been reported in To prevent emergence of resistance, NAs with the lowest rate of genotypic resistance should be administered and adherence reinforced in treatment-naïve patients. De novo combination therapy is unnecessary when NAs with a high barrier to resistance (entecavir, TDF, or TAF) are used. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate monotherapy has been shown to be effective in patients with lamivudine-, adefovir-, or entecavir- resistant HBV (231–233) and is the preferred salvage therapy, particularly in patients in whom the history of prior NA therapy is unclear (Table 8). Entecavir may be used in patients with adefovir or tenofovir-resistant Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript HBV, though confirmed cases of tenofovir resistance are notably extremely rare (Table 8). Entecavir should not be used in patients with lamivudine or telbivudine resistance, as the risk of subsequent entecavir resistance is high. In vitro studies showed that susceptibility of adefovir-resistant HBV with a single N236T, A181V/T mutation to TDF is minimally changed compared with wild-type HBV, but susceptibility is lower when both mutations are present. Clinically, most studies have found that TDF is effective in suppressing adefovir- resistant HBV without any additional benefit from emtricitabine (231–233). Guidance Statements for Management
