HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


when both mutations are present. Clinically, most studies have found that TDF is effective in suppressing adefovir- resistant HBV without any additional benefit from emtricitabine (231–233). Guidance Statements for Management of Persons With Persistent Low-Level Viremia on NA Therapy (See Updated Recommendations on the Treatment of Patients with Chronic Hepatitis B, Section 6B) 6G. Decompensated Cirrhosis Patients with decompensated cirrhosis should be referred for consideration of liver transplantation. Concurrently, antiviral therapy should be started. Antiviral therapy has been shown to improve outcomes in decompensated cirrhosis, especially with early treatment initiation (234). Both improved liver function and increased survival have been reported in recent meta-analyses (2, 234, 235). Transplant-free survival has been shown to exceed 80% in patients who have been treated (2, 235, 236), with 1 study removing 34% of treated patients from the liver transplantation waiting list (234). Survival depended on antiviral response and was significantly better in responders (234). Indefinite therapy is recommended in those with decompensated cirrhosis (1). Despite successful treatment with antivirals, this group remains at high risk for HCC and should continue long-term HCC surveillance (237–239). Peg-IFN is contraindicated in this patient group because of safety concerns (240). Entecavir or TDF are recommended as preferred first-line agents in patients with decompensated cirrhosis (1). Both have been shown to be effective and well tolerated (241–247). Tenofovir alafenamide has not been studied in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, but use of TAF would be reasonable in patients when TDF adverse effects are a concern and entecavir is not an option. Among 112 patients with decompensated cirrhosis randomized to TDF, TDF with emtricitabine, or entecavir, the proportion with HBV DNA <69 IU/mL and normal ALT was similar at 48 weeks in all 3 groups (248). In a prospective study of 70 entecavir-treated patients with decompensated cirrhosis, the 1-year transplant-free survival was 87.1%, with improved Model for End-Stage Liver Disease and Child-Turcotte-Pugh scores (236). In a prospective study of 96 patients, TDF treatment for 24 months significantly improved hepatic function and reversed decompensation (233), and in a prospective study of 57 patients with decompensated cirrhosis treated with TDF for 12 months, 49% improved their Child-Turcotte-Pugh score by 2 points (249). In this study, confirmed 0.5-mg/dL increases in creatinine occurred in 7% of decompensated patients and 2.5% of compensated patients. In another retrospective study that included 52 patients with decompensated cirrhosis, TDF was shown to have similar renal safety to that
