HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


7% of decompensated patients and 2.5% of compensated patients. In another retrospective study that included 52 patients with decompensated cirrhosis, TDF was shown to have similar renal safety to that of ETV over a 2-year period of time (250). Despite an overall high safety profile, lactic acidosis remains a rare but serious side effect with use of any NA and is likely a higher risk in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. In a Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript single-center series, 5 of 16 patients with decompensated cirrhosis and Model for End-Stage Liver Disease scores ≥20 developed lactic acidosis (251). One case was fatal, and the other cases resolved after discontinuing antiviral therapy. No patient with a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score below 18 developed lactic acidosis in this study. For this reason, close monitoring of patients with decompensated cirrhosis receiving antiviral therapy is advised regardless of Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score. Guidance Statements for Patients With Decompensated Cirrhosis (See Updated Recommendations on the Treatment of Patients With Chronic Hepatitis B, Section 7B) 6H. Liver Transplant Recipients The prevention of HBV reinfection by using antiviral therapy pretransplant and continuing antiviral therapy with or without HBIG posttransplant has reduced the HBV reinfection rate to less than 10% (252). Antiviral therapy should be started in all patients with decompensated cirrhosis and detectable serum HBV DNA. Entecavir, TDF, and TAF are preferred antivirals because of their high potency and low rate of drug resistance. Although TAF is not FDA-approved for use in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, it is a reasonable option for patients needing tenofovir therapy (eg, patients who are lamivudine resistant) who have or are at risk for bone or renal diseases that might be complicated by the use of TDF. Therapy should be continued posttransplant indefinitely, regardless of HBeAg or HBV DNA status. While many transplant centers use HBIG in addition to NAs during the early posttransplant period, transplant centers vary in the dose and duration of HBIG beyond the immediate posttransplant period. In patients at low risk for recurrence, either no HBIG or HBIG for only 5 to 7 days combined with NAs long-term has been highly effective (253, 254). In 42 consecutive HBsAg-positive patients with HBV DNA levels <100 IU/mL at the time of transplant, prophylaxis using HBIG (5,000 IU daily) in the anhepatic phase and for
