HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


(253, 254). In 42 consecutive HBsAg-positive patients with HBV DNA levels <100 IU/mL at the time of transplant, prophylaxis using HBIG (5,000 IU daily) in the anhepatic phase and for 5 days postoperatively in conjunction with long-term NA therapy prevented HBV recurrence in 97% at 3 years, with the only treatment failure being a patient with recurrent HCC (HBsAg detectable but HBV DNA undetectable) (210). The Hong Kong group has shown that HBIG- free prophylaxis using entecavir alone can prevent HBV recurrence (defined by HBsAg positivity) in the majority of patients. In 265 recipients treated with entecavir monotherapy post–liver transplant, 85%, 88%, 87%, and 92% remained HBsAg negative after 1, 3, 5, and 8 years of follow-up, respectively, and 100% maintained undetectable HBV DNA (255). Thus, 5 to 7 days of HBIG or no HBIG can be used in combination with long-term NAs as prophylaxis, but it is important to use NAs with a high barrier to resistance with long-term use. Patients with HIV and HDV coinfection or those with questionable medication adherence warrant combination HBIG and NA therapy for prophylaxis (Table 9) because of the limited rescue therapies available if HBV recurs. Persistence of circulating HBsAg even in low concentrations may increase the risk of HDV infection. Hepatitis B virus and HIV coinfected patients frequently have intermittent low-level HBV DNA on NA therapy post– Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript liver transplant (256), suggesting an important role for HBIG to minimize virological breakthrough. For patients maintained on HBIG, subcutaneous and intramuscular routes achieve comparable success in preventing HBV recurrence and offer a more convenient mode of HBIG administration (257, 258). For HBsAg-negative liver transplant recipients who receive a HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc– positive graft, the reported risk of HBV transmission is as high as 75% but varies with the HBV immune status of the recipient. Risk is lower for recipients who are anti-HBs-positive and highest in those without anti-HBc or anti-HBs (259). Antiviral therapy has been shown to be effective in preventing infection and should be started as soon as possible postsurgery. Hepatitis B immune globulin is not required for prophylaxis (260). Though lamivudine has been used widely because of the lower rate of replication risk (260), use of antivirals such as entecavir, TDF, or TAF would be predicted to have the lowest risk for resistance with long- term use.
