HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


the lower rate of replication risk (260), use of antivirals such as entecavir, TDF, or TAF would be predicted to have the lowest risk for resistance with long- term use. Tenofovir alafenamide or entecavir are preferred in patients who are at higher risk of renal disease (261). Guidance Statements for Treatment of Liver Transplant Recipients With Hepatitis B 1. All HBsAg-positive patients undergoing liver transplantation should receive prophylactic therapy with NAs with or without HBIG posttransplantation regardless of HBeAg status or HBV DNA level pretransplant. • HBIG monotherapy should not be used. • Entecavir, TDF, and TAF are preferred antiviral drugs because of their low rate of resistance with long-term use. 2. An individualized approach to use of HBIG is recommended (Table 9). HBIG for 5 to 7 days or no HBIG is reasonable in low-risk patients. Combination antiviral therapy and HBIG may be the best strategy for those at highest risk of progressive disease posttransplantation, such as HDV and HIV coinfected patients. Nonadherent patients may benefit from combination prophylaxis with HBIG plus antivirals. 3. All HBsAg-negative patients who receive HBsAg-negative but anti-HBc– positive grafts should receive long-term antiviral therapy to prevent viral reactivation. Although lamivudine has been used successfully in this scenario, entecavir, TDF, and TAF are preferred choices. 4. Prophylactic therapy should be lifelong. 6I. Nonliver Solid Organ Transplant Recipients All patients evaluated for nonliver solid organ transplantation should be tested for HBsAg, anti-HBc, and anti-HBs. Patients who are HBsAg-positive should have ALT and HBV DNA measurements and undergo staging with biopsy or elastography to determine whether advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis is present. Though previously felt to be a contraindication, in the current era of antiviral therapies, patients with compensated cirrhosis without portal Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript hypertension may be considered for nonhepatic solid organ transplantation, with the largest clinical experience in kidney transplantation. Patients with decompensated cirrhosis and those with compensated cirrhosis and portal hypertension should be considered for combined liver and kidney, heart, and/or lung transplantation. Compared with non–HBV-infected recipients, untreated HBsAg-positive nonliver transplant recipients have a higher mortality rate, with liver-related complications as a major cause of death (262, 263). Antiviral therapy, however, can mitigate\this mortality risk (262, 264, 265). To effectively prevent reactivation, therapy should begin prior to or at the time of surgery, regardless of ALT and HBV DNA status,
