HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


however, can mitigate\this mortality risk (262, 264, 265). To effectively prevent reactivation, therapy should begin prior to or at the time of surgery, regardless of ALT and HBV DNA status, since these parameters prior to transplantation have only a limited ability to predict HBV reactivation after transplantation. Entecavir, TDF, and TAF are preferred antivirals because of the low rate of resistance with long-term use. The subset of patients who are anti-HBc positive and HBsAg negative are at low risk of reactivation posttransplantation, although the risk likely varies with the potency of induction and subsequent immunosuppression. While there is insufficient evidence to recommend long-term antiviral therapy, a limited duration of prophylaxis for 6 to 12 months and during periods of intensified immunosuppression may be a reasonable strategy. When prophylaxis is stopped, these patients should be monitored using ALT levels every 3 months followed by HBV DNA levels if ALT rises. HBsAg-negative nonliver transplant recipients (kidneys, lungs, heart) who receive an organ from an HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive donor have a very low risk of HBV acquisition (259, 266, 267). In a systematic review of studies that included 1385 kidney recipients with organs from donors that were HBsAg-negative but anti-HBc positive, 0.3% became HBsAg positive and 2.3% became anti-HBc positive (267). The presence of anti-HBc and/or anti- HBs in the recipients is associated with protection against HBV seroconversion (268). However, to reduce this small risk of HBV infection further, antiviral therapy should be administered to prevent de novo HBV infection (269). While the optimal duration of prophylactic therapy in these nonliver transplant recipients has not been determined, a limited duration (such as 6 to 12 months) may be sufficient. Vaccination of the recipients is recommended in those with levels of anti-HBs <10 mIU/mL. Guidance Statements for Management of Hepatitis B in Nonliver Solid Organ Transplant Recipients 1. All transplant recipients of extrahepatic organs should be evaluated for HBV infection and immunity with HBsAg, anti-HBc, and anti-HBs. Patients without anti-HBs should receive hepatitis B vaccination pretransplant. 2. All HBsAg-positive organ transplant recipients should receive lifelong antiviral therapy to prevent or treat reactivation of HBV after transplantation. 3. Tenofovir (TAF, TDF) and entecavir are preferred antiviral drugs because of the low rate of resistance with long-term use. 4. HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive nonliver recipients should be monitored for reactivation without prophylactic therapy. Alternatively, antiviral therapy Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
