HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


use. 4. HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive nonliver recipients should be monitored for reactivation without prophylactic therapy. Alternatively, antiviral therapy Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript for the first 6 to 12 months, the period of maximal immunosuppression, may be considered. 5. HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc–positive nonliver recipients who received anti- HBc–positive grafts should be monitored for HBV infection without prophylactic therapy. 6. Any untreated nonliver recipient undergoing monitoring for reactivation should have ALT and HBV DNA measurements every 3 months for the first year posttransplant and after receipt of T cell–depleting therapies, such as antithymocyte globulin. Updated Recommendations on the Treatment of Patients With Chronic Hepatitis B The 2016 HBV treatment guideline recommendations and technical remarks are reproduced here, with the new content presented in italics within the Guidance boxes. Note that rigorous systematic reviews were used to inform the quality of the evidence and the strength (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) of each 2016 Guideline recommendation, but the new Guidance content used a comprehensive review of the literature, including studies published after the release of the Guideline and expert opinion. Treatment of Persons With Immune-Active Disease 1A. The AASLD recommends antiviral therapy for adults with immune-active CHB (HBeAg negative or HBeAg positive) to decrease the risk of liver-related complications—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Moderate Strength of Recommendation: Strong 1B. The AASLD recommends peg-IFN, entecavir, or tenofovir (TDF) as preferred initial therapy for adults with immune-active CHB—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Low Strength of Recommendation: Strong Guidance: TAF is also a preferred initial therapy for adults with immune-active CHB. Consider TAF or entecavir in patients with or at risk for renal dysfunction or bone disease. TAF is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance <15 mL/min or those on dialysis. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Technical Remarks 1. Immune-active CHB is defined by an elevation of ALT ≥2 the ULN or evidence of significant histologic disease plus elevated HBV DNA above 2,000 IU/mL (HBeAg negative) or above 20,000 IU/mL (HBeAg positive). 2. Guidance: The upper limits of normal for ALT in healthy adults is reported to be 29 to 33 U/L for males and 19 to 25 U/L for females. An upper limit of normal for ALT of 35 U/L for males and 25 U/L for females is recommended
