HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


33 U/L for males and 19 to 25 U/L for females. An upper limit of normal for ALT of 35 U/L for males and 25 U/L for females is recommended to guide management decisions. 3. There is insufficient evidence for or against use of ALT criterion other than ALT ≥2 the ULN. The decision to treat patients with ALT above the upper limits of normal but <2 the ULN requires consideration of the severity of liver disease (defined by biopsy or noninvasive testing). Therapy is recommended for persons with immune-active CHB and cirrhosis if HBV DNA is >2,000 IU/mL, regardless of ALT level. 4. Additional factors included in the decision to treat persons with immune-active CHB but ALT <2 the ULN and HBV DNA below thresholds (≤2,000 IU/mL if HBeAg negative or ≤20,000 IU/mL if HBeAg positive) are as follows: • Age: older age (>40 years) is associated with a higher likelihood of significant histologic disease. • Family history of cirrhosis or HCC. • Previous treatment history. – Serologic and virologic benefits of peg-IFN occur after treatment discontinuation (delayed). – Prior NA exposure is a risk for drug resistance. • Presence of extrahepatic manifestations: indication for treatment independent of liver disease severity. • Presence of cirrhosis. 5. The level of HBV DNA should be compatible with immune-active disease and the cutoffs recommended should be viewed as a sufficient but not absolute requirement for treatment. 6. Head-to-head comparisons of antiviral therapies fail to show superiority of one therapy over another in achieving risk reduction in liver-related complications. However, in recommending peg-IFN, tenofovir, and entecavir as preferred therapies, the most important factor considered was the lack resistance with long- term use. Patient-specific factors that need to be considered in choosing between peg-IFN, entecavir, and tenofovir include the following: • Desire for finite therapy (see below). Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript • Anticipated tolerability of treatment side effects. • Comorbidities: peg-IFN is contraindicated in persons with autoimmune disease, uncontrolled psychiatric disease, cytopenia, severe cardiac disease, uncontrolled seizures, and decompensated cirrhosis. • Previous history of lamivudine resistance (entecavir is not preferred in this setting). • Family planning: finite therapy with peg-FN prepregnancy or use of an oral antiviral agent that is safe in pregnancy (preferably TDF) is best. • HBV genotype: A and B genotypes are more likely to achieve HBeAg and
