HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


or use of an oral antiviral agent that is safe in pregnancy (preferably TDF) is best. • HBV genotype: A and B genotypes are more likely to achieve HBeAg and HBsAg loss with peg-IFN than non-A or non-B genotypes. • Medication costs. 7. Peg-IFN is preferred over nonpegylated forms for simplicity. 8. For patients treated with peg-IFN, 48 weeks’ duration is used in most studies and is preferred. This treatment duration yields HBeAg seroconversion rates of 20% to 31% and sustained off-treatment HBV DNA suppression of <2,000 IU/mL in 65% of persons who achieve HBeAg to anti-HBe seroconversion. The combination of peg-IFN and NAs has not yielded higher rates of off-treatment serological or virological responses and is not recommended. 9. Duration of therapy for NA-based therapy is variable and influenced by HBeAg status, duration of HBV DNA suppression, and presence of cirrhosis and/or decompensation. All NAs except TAF require dose adjustment in persons with creatinine clearance <50 mL/min. 10. Evaluation for cirrhosis using noninvasive methods or a liver biopsy is useful to guide treatment decisions, including duration of therapy. 11. Treatment with antivirals does not eliminate the risk of HCC, and surveillance for HCC should continue in persons who are at risk. Treatment of Immune-Tolerant Adults With Chronic Hepatitis B 2A. The AASLD recommends against antiviral therapy for adults with immune- tolerant CHB—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Moderate Strength of Recommendation: Strong Technical Remarks: 1. Guidance: Immune-tolerant status should be defined by ALT levels, utilizing 35 U/L for men and 25 U/L for women as ULN rather than local laboratory ULN. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2B. The AASLD suggests that ALT levels be tested at least every 6 months for adults with immune tolerant CHB to monitor for potential transition to immune-active or immune-inactive CHB—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional 2C. The AASLD suggests antiviral therapy in the select group of adults >40 years of age with normal ALT and elevated HBV DNA (1,000,000 IU/mL) and liver biopsy specimen showing significant necroinflammation or fibrosis— Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remark 1. Moderate-to-severe necroinflammation or fibrosis on a liver biopsy specimen is a reason to consider initiation of antiviral therapy if other causes of liver disease are excluded. Treatment of HBeAg-Positive, Immune-Active Persons With Chronic Hepatitis
