HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


on a liver biopsy specimen is a reason to consider initiation of antiviral therapy if other causes of liver disease are excluded. Treatment of HBeAg-Positive, Immune-Active Persons With Chronic Hepatitis Who Seroconvert to Anti-HBe on NA Therapy 3A. The AASLD suggests that HBeAg-positive adults without cirrhosis but with CHB who seroconvert to anti-HBe on therapy discontinue NAs after a period of treatment consolidation—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. The period of consolidation therapy generally involves treatment of persistently normal ALT levels and undetectable serum HBV DNA levels for at least 12 months. 2. It is not currently known whether a longer duration of consolidation would further reduce rates of virological relapse. Thus, an alternative approach is to treat until HBsAg loss. 3. Decisions regarding treatment duration and length of consolidation before treatment discontinuation require careful consideration of risks and benefits for decompensation, liver cancer, and death; (ii) burden of continued antiviral therapy, financial concerns associated with medication costs and long-term monitoring, adherence, and potential for drug resistance with treatment interruptions; and (iii) patient and provider preferences. These considerations apply for both HBeAg-positive adults without and with cirrhosis who seroconvert to anti-HBe on therapy. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 4. Persons who stop antiviral therapy should be monitored every 3 months for at decompensation. 3B. The AASLD suggests indefinite antiviral therapy for HBeAg-positive adults with cirrhosis with CHB who seroconvert to anti-HBe on NA therapy, there is a strong competing rationale for treatment discontinuation—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. Persons with cirrhosis who stop antiviral therapy should be monitored closely (eg, monthly for the first 6 months, then every 3 months) for recurrent viremia, 2. Treatment discontinuation may be considered in persons who have demonstrated loss of HBsAg. However, there is currently insufficient evidence to definitively guide treatment decisions for such persons. Duration of Treatment in Persons With HBeAg-Negative, Immune-Active CHB 4. The AASLD suggests indefinite antiviral therapy for adults with HBeAg- negative, immune-active CHB unless there is a compelling rationale for treatment discontinuation—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. A decision to discontinue therapy for HBeAg-negative adults without cirrhosis including the following: (i) risk for virological relapse, hepatic decompensation, liver cancer, and death; (ii) burden of
