HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


Technical Remarks 1. A decision to discontinue therapy for HBeAg-negative adults without cirrhosis including the following: (i) risk for virological relapse, hepatic decompensation, liver cancer, and death; (ii) burden of continued antiviral therapy, financial concerns associated with medication costs and long-term monitoring, adherence, and potential for drug resistance with treatment interruptions; and (iii) patient and provider preferences. 2. Treatment discontinuation in persons with cirrhosis is not recommended owing to the potential for decompensation and death, although data are limited. 3. Treatment discontinuation may be considered in persons who have demonstrated loss of HBsAg. However, there is currently insufficient evidence to definitively guide treatment decisions for such persons. 4. Persons who stop antiviral therapy should be monitored every 3 months for at Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 5. Antiviral therapy is not recommended for persons without cirrhosis who are HBeAg negative with normal ALT activity and low-level viremia (<2,000 U/mL; “inactive chronic hepatitis B”). Renal and Bone Disease in Persons on NA Therapy Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low (Bone); Low (Renal) Strength of Recommendation: Conditional 5. The AASLD suggest no preference between entecavir or tenofovir (TDF) regarding potential long-term risks of renal and bone complications— Guidance: TAF is associated with lower rates of bone and renal abnormalities than TDF. Technical Remarks hypophosphatemia, or bone mineral density between HBV-infected persons treated with tenofovir (TDF) or entecavir. However, renal events, such as acute renal failure or hypophosphatemia, have been reported in TDF-treated persons. 2. In persons on TDF, renal safety monitoring with serum creatinine, phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein should be assessed before treatment initiation and periodically thereafter (eg, at least annually and more frequently if the patient is at high risk for renal dysfunction or has a preexisting renal dysfunction). 3. In the absence of other risk factors for osteoporosis or osteomalacia, there is insufficient evidence for or against monitoring of bone mineral density in HBV- infected persons on TDF. 4. Guidance: In cases of suspected TDF-associated renal dysfunction and/or bone disease, TDF should be discontinued and substituted with TAF or entecavir, with consideration for any previously known drug resistance. 5. Dosage of NAs should be adjusted based on renal function and creatinine clearance, as recommended by manufacturers. Management of Persons With Persistent Low-Level Viremia on NA Therapy 6A. The AASLD suggests that persons with persistent low-level
