HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


based on renal function and creatinine clearance, as recommended by manufacturers. Management of Persons With Persistent Low-Level Viremia on NA Therapy 6A. The AASLD suggests that persons with persistent low-level viremia (<2,000 IU/mL) on entecavir or tenofovir monotherapy continue monotherapy, regardless of ALT—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Guidance: Persons on TAF with persistent low-level viremia (<2,000 IU/mL) should continue monotherapy, regardless of ALT. 6B. The AASLD suggests 1 of 2 strategies in persons with virological breakthrough on entecavir or tenofovir monotherapy: either switch to another antiviral monotherapy with a high barrier to resistance or add a second antiviral drug that lacks cross-resistance (Table 8)—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. Counseling patients about medication adherence is important, especially in those with persistent viremia on antiviral therapy. 2. Persistent viremia has traditionally been defined as detectable HBV DNA after 48 weeks of treatment. This time point was defined by outcomes of virological response in clinical trials and reflects an era of antiviral therapy with drugs of lower antiviral potency and higher rates of resistance. Guidance: With the current preferred therapies of entecavir, TDF, and TAF, persistent viremia is defined as a plateau in the decline of HBV DNA and/or failure to achieve an undetectable HBV DNA level after 96 weeks of therapy. There is insufficient comparative evidence to advocate for adding a second drug or switching to another drug in lieu of continuing monotherapy. Resistance testing in this setting may not be technically possible if the viral level is low. Medical providers should ensure patient adherence to therapy. 3. Viral breakthrough is defined by an increase in HBV DNA by >1 log compared to nadir or an HBV DNA level of 100 IU/mL or higher in persons on NA therapy with a previously undetectable level (<10 IU/mL). Confirmatory testing should be obtained before making a therapy change. Resistance testing may assist with decisions regarding subsequent therapy. A confirmed virological breakthrough constitutes a rationale for switching to another antiviral monotherapy with a high genetic barrier to resistance or adding a second antiviral with a complementary resistance profile (Table 8). Guidance: a. For patients on entecavir with virological breakthrough, change to or add TDF or TAF. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019
