HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


with a complementary resistance profile (Table 8). Guidance: a. For patients on entecavir with virological breakthrough, change to or add TDF or TAF. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript b. For patients on TDF or TAF with virological breakthrough, changing to or adding entecavir is preferred, depending upon prior NA experience. There is insufficient long-term comparative evidence to advocate one approach over another. Based upon virological principles, the risk of viral resistance is predicted to be lower with combination antiviral therapy compared with monotherapy. Comparative evidence with follow-up to 5 years suggests monotherapy achieves rates of HBV DNA suppression comparable to those of combination therapy when antivirals such as tenofovir are used (231, 232). 4. Although the optimal frequency of HBV DNA monitoring has not been fully evaluated, monitoring of HBV DNA levels every 3 months until HBV DNA is undetectable and then every 3 to 6 months thereafter allows for detection of persistent viremia and virological breakthrough. 5. For persons on treatment with NAs other than tenofovir or entecavir, viral breakthrough warrants a switch to another antiviral monotherapy with a high genetic barrier to resistance or the addition of a second antiviral with a complementary resistance profile (Table 8). Guidance a. For patients on the nonpreferred antivirals lamivudine or telbivudine who develop virologic breakthrough, change to or add TAF or TDF. b. For patients on the nonpreferred antiviral adefovir who develop virologic breakthrough, change to or add entecavir, TAF, TDF. Management of Adults With Cirrhosis and Low-Level Viremia 7A. The AASLD suggests that adults with compensated cirrhosis and low level viremia (<2,000 IU/mL) be treated with antiviral therapy to reduce the risk of decompensation, regardless of ALT level—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. Tenofovir and entecavir are preferred because of their potency and minimal risk of resistance, decompensation, and serious side effects. Antivirals with a low genetic barrier to resistance are not recommended because the emergence of resistance can lead to decompensation. Guidance: TAF should be considered an additional preferred antiviral drug. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 2. Peg-IFN is not contraindicated in persons with compensated cirrhosis, but NAs are safer. 3. If treatment is not offered to persons with compensated cirrhosis and low levels of viremia, they
