HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


Peg-IFN is not contraindicated in persons with compensated cirrhosis, but NAs are safer. 3. If treatment is not offered to persons with compensated cirrhosis and low levels of viremia, they must be closely monitored (every 3–6 months) for a rise in HBV DNA and/or clinical decompensation. Treatment should be initiated if either occurs. 4. The ALT level in these persons is typically normal or less than 2 times the ULN. Higher ALT levels (>2 times the ULN) warrant consideration of other causes for ALT elevation and, if none are found, they are a stronger indication for antiviral therapy. 5. Current evidence does not provide an optimal length of treatment. If therapy were discontinued, close monitoring (at least every 3 months for at least 1 year) would allow for early detection of viral rebound that could lead to decompensation. 6. Persons with compensated cirrhosis and high HBV DNA level (>2,000 U/mL) are treated per recommendations for HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative immune-active CHB (recommendation 1A and 1B). 7. Treatment with antivirals does not eliminate the risk of HCC and surveillance for HCC should continue. 7B. The AASLD recommends that HBsAg-positive adults with decompensated cirrhosis be treated with antiviral therapy indefinitely regardless of HBV DNA level, HBeAg status, or ALT level to decrease risk of worsening liver-related complications—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Moderate Strength of Recommendation: Strong Technical Remarks 1. Entecavir and tenofovir (TDF) are recommended drugs. Guidance: TAF has not been studied in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, thus limiting recommendations to use TAF in these patients. However, TAF or entecavir should be considered in patients with decompensated cirrhosis who have renal dysfunction and/or bone disease. 2. Peg-IFN is contraindicated in patients with decompensated cirrhosis because of safety concerns. 3. Concurrent consideration for liver transplantation is indicated in eligible persons. 4. Patients should be monitored closely for the development of adverse effects of antiviral therapy, such as renal insufficiency and lactic acidosis. 5. Treatment with antivirals does not eliminate the risk of HCC and surveillance for HCC should continue. Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Management of Chronic Hepatitis B in Pregnancy 8A. The AASLD suggests antiviral therapy to reduce the risk of perinatal transmission of HBV in HBsAg-positive pregnant women with an HBV DNA level >200,000 IU/mL—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. The infants of
