HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


perinatal transmission of HBV in HBsAg-positive pregnant women with an HBV DNA level >200,000 IU/mL—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Low Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. The infants of all HBsAg-positive women should receive immunoprophylaxis (HBV vaccination with or without hepatitis B immunoglobulin, per World Heath Organization and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommendations). 2. The only antivirals studied in pregnant women are lamivudine, telbivudine, and TDF. Of these 3 options, TDF is preferred to minimize the risk of emergence of viral resistance during treatment. Interim studies show high efficacy of TDF in preventing mother-to-child transmission. Guidance: TAF has not been studied in pregnant women and no data have been reported to the antiretroviral registry regarding the safety of TAF in pregnancy. Thus, there are insufficient data to recommend use of TAF in pregnancy. 3. Antiviral therapy was started at 28 to 32 weeks of gestation in most of the studies. 4. Antiviral therapy was discontinued at birth to 3 months postpartum in most of the studies. With discontinuation of treatment, women should be monitored for ALT flares every 3 months for 6 months. 5. There are limited data on the level of HBV DNA for which antiviral therapy is routinely recommended. The level of >200,000 IU/mL is a conservative recommendation. 6. For pregnant women with immune-active hepatitis, treatment should be based on recommendations for nonpregnant women. 7. Breastfeeding is not contraindicated. These antivirals are minimally excreted in breast milk and are unlikely to cause significant toxicity. The unknown risk of low-level exposure to the infant should be discussed with mothers. 8. There are insufficient long-term safety data in infants born to mothers who took antiviral agents during pregnancy and while breastfeeding. 9. C-section is not indicated owing to insufficient data to support its benefit. 8B. The AASLD recommends against the use of antiviral therapy to reduce the risk of perinatal transmission of HBV in HBsAg-positive pregnant women with an HBV DNA level ≤200,000 IU/mL—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Low Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Strength of Recommendation: Strong Treatment of CHB in Children 9A. The AASLD suggests antiviral therapy in HBeAg-positive children (ages 2 to <18 years) with both elevated ALT and measurable HBV DNA levels, with the goal of achieving sustained HBeAg seroconversion—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Moderate Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks
