HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


<18 years) with both elevated ALT and measurable HBV DNA levels, with the goal of achieving sustained HBeAg seroconversion—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Moderate Strength of Recommendation: Conditional Technical Remarks 1. Most studies required ALT elevation (>1.3 times the ULN) for at least 6 months with HBV DNA elevations for inclusion. Given that HBV DNA levels are typically very high during childhood (>106 IU/mL), there is no basis for a recommendation for a lower limit value with respect to treatment. However, if a level <104 IU/mL is observed, therapy might be deferred until other causes of liver disease and spontaneous HBeAg seroconversion are excluded. Guidance: The upper limits of normal for ALT in healthy children are not firmly established and appear to vary not only by sex but age, pubertal stage, and BMI (270). Reports suggest cutoff values from 22 to 31 U/L for girls and 25 to 38 U/L for boys after infancy (271–273), although not all studies carefully excluded overweight children. For CHB purposes and for consistency with recommendations in adults, an upper limit of normal for ALT of 35 U/L for males and 25 U/L for females is suggested to guide management decisions. 2. IFN-α-2b is approved for children 1 year of age and older, whereas lamivudine and entecavir are approved for children 2 years of age and older. Peg-IFN-α-2a (180 mcg/1.73 m2 body surface area to maximum 180 mcg once weekly) is not approved for children with CHB but is approved for treatment of chronic hepatitis C for children 5 years of age or older. Providers may consider using this drug for children with chronic HBV. 3. Treatment with entecavir is associated with a lower risk of viral resistance compared with lamivudine. 4. TDF is approved for children 12 years of age and older. Guidance: TAF has not been studied in children. Thus, there are insufficient data to recommend use of TAF in children 12 years of age and older. 5. Duration of treatment with IFN-α-2b is 24 weeks. 6. The duration of treatment with oral antivirals that has been studied is 1 to 4 years. It may be prudent to use HBeAg seroconversion as a therapeutic endpoint Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript when oral antivirals are used and continue treatment for an additional 12 months of consolidation, as recommended in adults. It is
