HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: hbv, patients, author, author manuscript, manuscript, therapy, treatment, dna, hbv dna, manuscript author, hepatitis, antiviral, alt, hbsag, risk


01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript when oral antivirals are used and continue treatment for an additional 12 months of consolidation, as recommended in adults. It is currently unknown whether a longer duration of consolidation would reduce rates of virological relapse. 7. Children who stop antiviral therapy should be monitored every 3 months for at 9B. The AASLD recommends against the use of antiviral therapy in HBeAg- positive children (ages 2 to <18 years) with persistently normal ALT, regardless of HBV DNA level—Quality and Certainty of Evidence: Very Low Strength of Recommendation: Strong Technical Remarks 1. Normal ALT in children has not been clearly defined. Guidance: An upper limit of normal for ALT of 35 U/L for males and 25 U/L for females is suggested to guide management decisions. 2. Although some studies of IFN included children with normal ALT values, studies of oral antiviral agents did not include children with normal ALT values. Acknowledgments This Practice Guidance was developed under the direction of the AASLD Practice Guidelines Committee, which approved the scope of the guidance and provided the peer review. Members of the Committee include Tram T. Tran, FUNDING The funding for the development of this Practice Guidance was provided by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. Abbreviations AFP alpha-fetoprotein ALT alanine transaminase anti-HBc antibody to hepatitis B core antigen anti-HBe antibody to hepatitis B e antigen anti-HBs antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen ARVT antiretroviral therapy CHB chronic hepatitis B Hepatology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 April 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript DAA direct-acting antiviral HBeAg hepatitis B e antigen HBIG hepatitis B immune globulin HBsAg hepatitis B surface antigen HBV hepatitis B virus HCC hepatocellular carcinoma HCV hepatitis C virus HDV hepatitis D virus HIV human immunodeficiency virus IFN interferon IFN-α interferon-alfa NA nucleos(t)ide analogue peg-IFN peginterferon peg-IFN-α pegylated interferon-alfa qHBsAg quantitative hepatitis B surface antigen TAF tenofovir alafenamide TDF tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ULN upper limits of normal US ultrasonography
