CANCER
KEYWORDS: adendo, tumour, cells, adlacz, endostatin, mice, control, molecule, different, antitumour, angiostatic, gene, respectively, effects, tumours


Oregon, USA) and were cultured responsivenessofdifferentcompounds couldbeexpectedto accordingtothesupplier’sinstructions.ThehumanHCCcell be similar when tested in different tumour entities. Taking line Huh7 and murine colon cancer cells were cultured in thisintoaccount,furthercomparativestudiesarewarranted DMEMsupplementedwith10%FBS. to evaluate the role of angiostatic proteins in different tumourmodels. Inourstudy,twogastrointestinaltumourentities,hepato- cellular carcinoma (HCC) and colorectal carcinoma (CRC), ................................................................ wereincluded.Theyrepresentalogicalaimforanangiostatic antitumour approach because they frequently show strong Abbreviations: CRC,colorectalcarcinoma;HCC,hepatocellular hypervascularisation.13–15 Recently, ex vivo gene transfer for carcinoma;LLC,Lewislungcarcinoma;VEGF,vascularendothelial angiostatinwasshowntobeeffectiveinamurinemodelfor growthfactor;DMEM,Dulbecco’smodifiedEaglemedium;FBS,fetal bovineserum;HUVE,humanumbilicalveinendothelial;RT-PCR,reverse HCC.16 To determine whether the antitumour effects of transcription-polymerasechainreaction;CM,culturemedium;BrdU, different angiostatic compounds vary in different experi- bromodeoxyuridine;pfu,plaqueformingunits;MOI,multiplicityof mental tumour models, we investigated the effects of infection www.gutjnl.com 562 Schmitz, Wang,Barajas,etal Construction of recombinant adenoviruses encoding Migration assay angiostatin-like molecule and endostatin Inserts (8mm pores; Costar, Madrid, Spain) for 24 well Murineendostatinwasgeneratedbyareversetranscription- cultureplateswerecoatedwith100mg/mlofrattailcollagen polymerasechainreaction(RT-PCR)techniqueusingmouse type I (Becton Dickinson, Bedford, Massachusetts, USA). liver RNA as template. Primers used for signal peptide of HUVEcellswithapassagenumberof4–6(25000cells/50ml) endostatin were 59-GGATCCACCTCCAGGACCACAGGA-39 were seeded into the upper chamber. The lower chamber and 59-GATATCATTCCCATCAGCGCTGGCAG-39. Primers was filled with Medium 200 containing 1% bovine serum used for endostatin were 59-GATATCCATACTCATCAGGA albumin. HUVE cells were preincubated with CM at 37˚C CTTTCA-39 and 59-GGATCCAGAGGCCTATTTGGAGAAT-39 for 30minutes before adding vascular endothelial growth (underlined sequences indicate restriction enzyme sites for factor (VEGF) at a final concentration of 5ng/ml to the EcoRI and HamHI). PCR fragments for endostatin and lower chamber. These chambers were incubated for six endostatin signal peptide were cloned into cloning vector hours to allow cells to migrate through the collagen coated pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California, USA) to pore membranes. Non-migrated cells were thoroughly generate pCR2.1/S and pCR2.1/E. They were confirmed by scraped off the upper surface membrane with cotton DNA sequencing. Endostatin signal peptide was released by swabs. The membrane was stained with Diff-Quick (Dade EcoRI/EcoRV from pCR2.1/S and closed into EcoRI/EcoRV Behring, Du¨dingen, Switzerland). Five to eight represen- sites of pCR2.1/E to generate pCR2.1/endo. The fused tative fields in each well were counted at 1006magnifica- endostatin sequence was released by BamHI from pCR2.1/ tion to determine the number of migrated cells. Migration endo and ligated into the BamHI site of pSQ1 resulting in wasexpressedaspercentageofmaximalmigration(defined pSQ1/endo. Angiostatin-like molecule K1-3 was generated as migration with VEGF stimulation without addition of as described previously.29Briefly,humanplasminogencDNA CM). plasmid was used as template and the K1-3 sequence was cloned into the cloning vector pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen) to Tube formation assay formpCR2.1/K1-3. K1-3 fragment was released by BamHI/ The 24 well plate was coated with 320ml Matrigel. HUVE XhoI
