CANCER
KEYWORDS: adendo, tumour, cells, adlacz, endostatin, mice, control, molecule, different, antitumour, angiostatic, gene, respectively, effects, tumours


containing growth human (HT-29) CRC tumours reached approximately supplement were added. Cell culture was continued for 50mm3 in volume, tumour bearing mice were treated with 42hours and then cells were labelled with bromodeoxy- intratumoral injection of AdK1-3, Adendo, or the control uridine (BrdU) for a further six hours. The BrdU assay vector AdlacZ at a dose of 56109 or 1010 pfu per animal, was performed according to the manufacturer’s protocol respectively. Tumour growth was monitored by caliper (BrdU proliferation assay; Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, measurement. Tumour volume was calculated from the Germany). formula:V=length6width260.52. www.gutjnl.com Assessment of microvessel density A 1 2 3 4 Paraffin sections of tumours that received therapy with 98kDa adenoviralvectorswereimmunestainedwithrabbitanti-von Willebrand factor (factor VIII-related antigen; Dako, Glostrun, Denmark) and followed by sequential incubation ofthesectionswithLSAB2system(Dako).Enzymaticactivity was developed using DAB (Dako) as chromogenic substrate andfollowedbycounterstainingwithMayerhaematoxylin. 38kDa Statistical analysis Tumour data are given as mean (SEM) tumour volume. Differences between tumour volumes in different experi- mentalgroupswereanalysedforstatisticalsignificancebya non-parametric two tailed test (Mann-Whitney test) for unpaired samples; in the case of histology sections, differ- encesbetweengroupswerecalculatedbytheStudent’sttest for unpaired samples. A p value of ,0.05 was considered 600 significant. RESULTS Construction of adenoviruses containing angiostatin- 200 like molecule and endostatin (AdK1-3 and Adendo) Recombinant adenoviral vectors coding for angiostatin-like molecule and endostatin were constructed. The cDNA 0 10 100 500 sequence was confirmed by sequencing, and transgene Multiplicityofinfection expression was shown in A549 cells infected with different multiplicitiesofinfection(MOIs)ofAdK1-3andAdendoby RT-PCR. The predicted PCR products were detected in the AdK1-3andAdendogroupswhereasnobandwasamplified incellsinfectedwiththecontrolvectorAdlacZ.Expressionof the housekeeping gene, b-actin, was similar in all samples (results not shown). In order to demonstrate whether transgene products can be secreted into the supernatant of A549 cells infected with AdK1-3 and Adendo, supernatant frominfectedcellswascollectedfordetectionofangiostatin- likemoleculebywesternblotanddetectionofendostatinby ELISA. Figure 1A shows that angiostatin was detected at a molecularweightof38kDaonlyinsupernatantfromAdK1-3 infected cells and not in supernatant from control vector AdlacZ infected cells. We also found that secretion of endostatin into the cell supernatant of Adendo infected A549 cells was dose dependent, with the highest level of approximately 900ng/ml at an MOI of 500 (fig 1B). These data demonstrate that infection with AdK1-3 and Adendo induces corresponding protein expression and secretion in infectedtumourcells. To demonstrate in vivo production of endostatin by adenoviral vectors, Balb/c mice that received Adendo or compared with the AdlacZ control (fig 2B). While addition control vector AdlacZ at a dose of 1010 pfu per animal or ofCMtoAdlacZinfectedA549cellsdidnotaffecttheability saline intravenously were sacrificed seven days later and of
