Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


Key points • Chronic prostatitis can cause pain and urinary symptoms, and usually occurs without positive bacterial cultures from prostatic secretions (known as chronic abacterial prostatitis or chronic pelvic pain syndrome, CP/CPPS). Bacterial infection can result from urinary tract instrumentation, but the cause and natural history of CP/CPPS are unknown. • Chronic bacterial prostatitis has identifiable virulent micro-organisms in prostatic secretions. Oral antimicrobial drugs are likely to be beneficial, although studies comparing them with placebo or no treatment have not been found. Clinical success rates from oral antimicrobials have reached about 70–90% at 6 months in studies comparing different regimens. Trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) and quinolones are most commonly used and seem the most beneficial. Alpha-blockers may reduce symptoms and reduce recurrence of chronic prostatitis if added to antimicrobial treatment. Men's health .................................................. © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2008. All rights reserved. .................... 1 .................... Clinical Evidence 2008;05:1802 Chronic prostatitis We don't know whether local injections of antimicrobial drugs,NSAIDs,transurethral resection, or radical prostatectomy improve symptoms compared with no treatment. • Effective treatment regimens for CP/CPPS remain to be defined, and strategies are based on symptomatic control and anxiety relief. Alpha-blockers may improve quality of life and symptoms compared with no treatment. Oral antimicrobial drugs have not been shown to improve symptoms. We don't know whether 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors,NSAIDs,pentosan polysulfate,allopurinol,transurethral microwave thermotherapy,prostatic massage,Sitz baths,biofeedback,mepartricin, or quercetin reduce symptoms in men with CP/CPPS. DEFINITION Chronic bacterial prostatitis is characterised by a positive culture of expressed prostatic secretions. It may cause symptoms such as suprapubic, lower back, or perineal pain, with or without mild ur- gency and increased frequency of urination, and dysuria, and may be associated with recurrent UTI. However, it may also be asymptomatic between acute episodes/exacerbations. Chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS), is characterised by pelvic or perineal pain in the absence of pathogenic bacteria in expressed prostatic secretions. It is often associated with irritative and obstructive voiding symptoms including urgency, frequency, hesitancy, and poor interrupted flow. Symptoms can also include: pain in the suprapubic region, lower back, penis, testes, or scrotum; and painful ejaculation. CP/CPPS may be inflammatory (white cells present in prostatic secretions) or non-inflammatory (white cells absent in prostatic secretions). A classification system for the prostatitis syndromes has been developed by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). INCIDENCE/ One community-based study in the USA (cohort of 2115 men aged 40–79 years) estimated that PREVALENCE 9% of men have
