Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


AIMS OF To relieve symptoms and eliminate infection where present, with minimum adverse effects. INTERVENTION OUTCOMES Symptom improvement (symptom scores, bother scores); quality of life; urodynamics; rates of bacteriological cure (clearance of previously documented organisms from prostatic secretions); adverse effects of treatment. METHODS BMJ Clinical Evidence search August 2007.The following databases were used to identify studies for this systematic review: Medline 1966 to August 2007, Embase 1980 to August 2007, and The © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2008. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 2 Men's health Chronic prostatitis Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials 2007, Issue 3. Additional searches were carried out using these websites: NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD) — for Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) and searched for retractions of studies included in the review. Abstracts of the studies retrieved from the initial search were assessed by an information specialist. Selected studies were then sent to the author for additional assessment, using pre-determined criteria to identify relevant studies. Study design criteria for inclusion in this review were: published systematic reviews and RCTs in any language. RCTs had to be at least single-blinded where possible to blind, and contain 20 or more individuals, of whom more than 80% were followed up.There was no minimum length of follow- up required to include studies.We excluded all studies described as “open”, “open label”, or not blinded unless blinding was impossible. In addition, we use a regular surveillance protocol to capture harms alerts from organisations such as the FDA and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), which are added to the reviews as required.We have performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of evidence for interventions included in this review (see table, p 15). QUESTION What are the effects of treatments for chronic bacterial prostatitis? OPTION ORAL ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS FOR CHRONIC BACTERIAL PROSTATITIS ............. Symptom improvement Oral antimicrobial drugs compared with each other Lomefloxacin or levofloxacin are as effective as ciprofloxacin at improvement without need for additional antimicrobial drugs) at 6 months (moderate-quality evidence). Cure rates Oral antimicrobial drugs compared with each other Lomefloxacin or levofloxacin are as effective as ciprofloxacin at increasing bacteriological cure rates at 6 months, and prulifloxacin and levofloxacin are equally effective at increasing microbiological eradication rates at 6 months in men with chronic bacterial prostatitis (moderate-quality evidence). Note We found no direct information about
