Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


Symptom improvement Locally injected antimicrobial drugs compared with each other Anal submucosal injection of amikacin may be more effective at 3 months than intramuscular injection of amikacin at improving symptoms (measured by NIH-CPSI score) in men with chronic bacterial prostatitis whose prostatic secretions are sensitive to amikacin (low-quality evidence). Cure rate Locally injected antimicrobial drugs compared with each other Anal submucosal injection of amikacin may be more effective at 3 months than intramuscular injection of amikacin at improving cure rate (measured by negative bacterial culture) in men with chronic bacterial prostatitis whose prostatic secretions are sensitive to amikacin (low-quality evidence). Note We found no direct evidence about whether locally injected antimicrobial drugs are better than no active treatment or no antimicrobial drugs in men with chronic bacterial prostatitis. For GRADE evaluation of interventions for chronic prostatitis, see table, p 15. Benefits: Local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus placebo or no antimicrobial drugs: We found no systematic review or RCTs comparing local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus placebo or no treatment. Local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus each other: We found one small RCT (50 men with prostatic secretions sensitive to amikacin), which compared anal submucosal injection of amikacin 400 mg daily for 10 days versus intramuscular amikacin 400 mg daily for 10 days. It found that anal submucosal injection of amikacin significantly im- proved NIH-CPSI score (9.0 with submucosal injection v 22.5 with intramuscular injection; P less than 0.05), and significantly increased bacteriological cure rates (negative bacterial culture: 28/30 [93%] with submucosal injection v 7/20 [35%] with intramuscular injection; P less than 0.05) at 3 months compared with intramuscular amikacin. Harms: Local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus placebo or no antimicrobial drugs: We found no RCTs. Local injection of antimicrobial drugs versus each other: The RCT comparing anal submucosal versus intramuscular amikacin found no obvious adverse effects, other than the passage of slightly blood-stained faeces in 3/30 (10%) men after the first anal submucosal injection. Infection is a theoretical risk of this invasive procedure. Comment: One small cohort study (24 men with refractory chronic bacterial prostatitis) found that eradication of infection was eventually achieved, after an unstated period, in 15 men, with gentamicin 160 mg plus cefazolin 3 g injected directly into the prostate through the perineum. Clinical guide: There is limited evidence that local injection of antimicrobial drugs improves bacterial eradication rates compared with oral antimicrobial drugs, and treatments
