Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


for chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome? OPTION ALPHA-BLOCKERS FOR CHRONIC ABACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME.................................................................. Symptom improvement Compared with placebo Alpha-blockers may be more effective at improving symptoms (measured by NIH-CPSI scores, International Prostate Symptom Score [IPSS], and pain) at 6 weeks to 1 year in men with chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) (very low-quality evidence). Quality of life Compared with placeboTerazosin seems to be more effective at 14 weeks at improving quality of life in men with CP/CPPS (moderate quality evidence). For GRADE evaluation of interventions for chronic prostatitis, see table, p 15. © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2008. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 6 Men's health Chronic prostatitis Benefits: Alpha-blockers versus placebo: We found two systematic reviews, and one additional and one subsequent RCT. The first systematic review (search date 1999, 2 RCTs, 50 men) identified one RCT (20 people) comparing alfuzosin 2.5 mg three times daily versus placebo. It found that alfuzosin significantly improved maximal flow time from baseline compared with placebo (15.4–20.3 mL/second with al- fuzosin v 13.9–15.6 mL/second with placebo; P = 0.01). It found no significant difference in other outcomes (insufficient information was presented to assess comparative effects on symptom scores).The second RCT identified by the review (30 people) found that an alpha-blocker (phe- noxybenzamine 10 mg twice daily) significantly improved pain after prostatic massage at 6 weeks compared with placebo (P less than 0.05).The second systematic review (search date not re- ported, 6 RCTs, 386 men) compared alpha-blockers versus placebo.The review searched from [NIH-CPSI] was first available for use. Meta-analysis of the data was unable to be performed owing to differences in data reporting and outcome interpretation, despite all studies having used the NIH-CPSI to monitor response.Two RCTs were published as abstracts and are therefore not re- ported here.The review concluded that there was insufficient evidence to fully support alpha- blocker use for CP/CPPS.The first included RCT (70 men) compared three treatments for 6 months with follow-up for a further 6 months: alfuzosin 5 mg twice daily, standard treatment (hot Sitz baths plus anti-inflammatory drugs), and placebo (see comment below). However, only 40 men were randomly allocated to alfuzosin and placebo; 30 men who did not wish to be entered into the randomisation received standard treatment.The RCT found that alfuzosin improved symptoms and reduced pain after 6 months of treatment compared with placebo (change in total NIH-CPSI score from baseline: –9.9
