Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


plasma oestrogen levels. Clinical guide: Mepartricin remains an experimental drug, but some physicians believe that it should be considered as a second-line treatment if alpha-blockers fail to provide symptomatic relief. OPTION NSAIDS FOR CHRONIC ABACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME.. We found no direct information about NSAIDs in the treatment of men with chronic abacterial prostatitis/chron- ic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS). For GRADE evaluation of interventions for chronic prostatitis, see table, p 15. Benefits: We found no systematic review or RCTs on the effects of NSAIDs currently used in clinical practice in men with CP/CPPS (see comment below). Harms: We found no RCTs. Comment: We found one RCT of sufficient quality comparing rofecoxib (a COX-2 inhibitor) versus placebo in Clinical guide: The use of NSAIDs for CP/CPPS has been investigated, and early results show moderate efficacy. here. OPTION PENTOSAN POLYSULFATE..................................................... Symptom improvement Compared with placeboWe don't know whether pentosan polysulfate is more effective at improving symptom scores in men with chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) (very low-quality evidence). Quality of life Compared with placebo Pentosan polysulfate seems more effective at improving quality of life (measured by NIH- CPSI life quality domain score) in men with CP/CPPS (moderate quality evidence). For GRADE evaluation of interventions for chronic prostatitis, see table, p 15. Benefits: We found one systematic review (search date 1999, 1 RCT, 30 men) and one subsequent RCT. The RCT included in the review compared pentosan polysulfate sodium 200 mg twice ment (7/10 [70%] with pentosan polysulfate v 5/14 [36%] with placebo; RR 2.00, 95% CI 0.87 to 4.40) or in local symptom scores (proportion of people reporting improvement in symptom score: 5/10 [50%] with pentosan polysulfate v 6/14 [43%] with placebo; RR 1.2, 95% CI 0.5 to 2.8) at 3 months. Six people were excluded from the analysis for non-compliance or because they had bacterial prostatitis (analysis was not by intention to treat).The RCT may have been too small to detect important clinical differences between groups.“Physician-rated improvement” is not an ob- jective measurement.There was no significant difference between pentosan polysulfate and placebo in other, more objective and standardised, outcomes.The subsequent RCT (100 men) utilised a larger dose of pentosan polysulfate (300 mg three times daily) and measured outcomes after 16 weeks of treatment. The RCT found a trend toward improved National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) scores in all domains with pentosan polysul- fate compared with
