Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


men with improvement of a subjective global assessment by more than 50% over a mean of 21 months compared with sham treatment (7/10 [70%] with transurethral microwave thermotherapy v 1/10 [10%] with sham treatment; P value not reported). The review found no good evidence on the effects of thermotherapy on cure or recurrence rate. Harms: Four men complained of transient (resolved in 3 weeks) adverse reactions, including haematuria (2 men), urinary tract infection, impotence, urinary retention, urinary incontinence, and premature ejaculation (each occurring in 1 man). However, the RCT did not report on whether the men with adverse effects were treated with active treatment or sham treatment. Comment: Transurethral microwave thermotherapy caused persistent elevation of leucocytes in the prostatic fluid, which could indicate tissue damage. OPTION ORAL ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS FOR CHRONIC ABACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME....................................................... Symptom improvement Oral antimicrobial drugs compared with placebo or no ciprofloxacin Oral ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin may be no more effective after 6 weeks at improving symptoms (measured by NIH-CPSI score) in men with chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) and a mean symptom duration of 6.2 to 6.5 years (low quality evidence). For GRADE evaluation of interventions for chronic prostatitis, see table, p 15. Benefits: We found two RCTs. The first RCT (196 men, factorial design) compared ciprofloxacin, tamsulosin (an alpha-blocker), combination therapy (ciprofloxacin plus tamsulosin), and placebo for the treatment of CP/CPPS. All treatment groups showed moderate improvement in National but none of the improvements reached significance compared with control (longitudinal regression analysis: ciprofloxacin v no ciprofloxacin; P = 0.15; tamsulosin v no tamsulosin; P greater than 0.2). The second RCT (80 men) compared levofloxacin (45 men) versus placebo (35 men). It found no significant difference in improvement in NIH-CPSI score between levofloxacin and placebo after 6 weeks of treatment (mean score improvement, measured on scale from 0 to 43: 5.4 with lev- ofloxacin v 2.9 with placebo; P = 0.2). However, the treatment group may have been too small to draw reliable conclusions from this study. Harms: The first RCT found no significant difference in the incidence of adverse effects (mostly gastroin- testinal disturbances) between groups. The second RCT reported a 20% (9/45) incidence of mild drug-related effects with levofloxacin, which was not significantly higher than with placebo (20% with levofloxacin v 17% with placebo; P value not reported). One person with levofloxacin complained of tendinitis without tendon rupture. Comment: The
