Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


was not significantly higher than with placebo (20% with levofloxacin v 17% with placebo; P value not reported). One person with levofloxacin complained of tendinitis without tendon rupture. Comment: The men included in the two RCTs had a mean symptom duration of 6.2 and 6.5 years. It is unclear whether the duration of symptoms before treatment affects treatment response, or whether response rates would have been different in treatment-naïve men. OPTION PROSTATIC MASSAGE......................................................... Symptom improvement Prostatic massage plus antimicrobial drugs compared with antimicrobial drugs alone Prostatic massage plus antimi- crobial drugs and antimicrobial drugs alone are equally effective at 4 months at improving symptoms (measured by NIH-CPSI score) in men with chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) (moderate- quality evidence). Note We found no direct information about whether prostatic massage is better than no active treatment in men with CP/CPPS. For GRADE evaluation of interventions for chronic prostatitis, see table, p 15. Benefits: We found no RCTs comparing prostatic massage with placebo.We found one RCT (81 men) comparing prostatic massage (3 times a week for 4 weeks) in combination with antimicrobial drugs versus antimicrobial drugs alone in men with CP/CPPS. The RCT found no significant differences in final National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) scores between the two groups at 4 months' follow-up (mean NIH-CPSI score ± standard deviation: 11.3 ± 8.2 with prostatic massage plus antimicrobial drugs v 12.4 ± 7.1 with antimicrobial drugs alone; P greater than 0.05). © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2008. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 12 Men's health Chronic prostatitis Harms: The RCT gave no information on adverse effects of prostatic massage. Comment: None. GLOSSARY BiofeedbackTraining that helps people to consciously change the vital functions of the body, such as heart rate, which are normally controlled unconsciously. NIH classification system Category I:acute bacterial prostatitis is an acute infection of the prostate. Category II: chronic bacterial prostatitis is a recurrent infection of the prostate. Category III:chronic non-bacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS), where there is no demonstrable infection. Subgroups of this class are: (A) inflam- matory CPPS (leucocytes seen in semen, prostatic fluid, or urine after prostatic massage); and (B) non-inflammatory CPPS (no leucocytes seen). Category IV:asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis, no subjective symptoms but leuco- cytes found in prostate/prostatic secretions during work up for other disorders (e.g. on prostate biopsy for prostate cancer). National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) Includes nine items
