Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: chronic, men, prostatitis, placebo, treatment, rct, drugs, antimicrobial, compared, antimicrobial drugs, cpps, pain, bacterial, review, symptoms


leuco- cytes found in prostate/prostatic secretions during work up for other disorders (e.g. on prostate biopsy for prostate cancer). National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) Includes nine items across three domains: pain (4 items; 0–21), urinary symptoms (2 items; 0–10), and quality of life impact (3 items; 0–12). In all domains, higher scores indicate worse outcomes. Prostatic massage Digital pressure applied to the prostate through the rectum. Sitz bath A warm water bath taken in the sitting position.The water covers only the hips and buttocks. Low-quality evidence Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. Meares–StameyThe Meares–Stamey test involves collection of four sequential urine samples.Two are taken before prostatic massage; the first from the initial 10 ml and the second from the mid-stream urine. After prostatic massage, the expressed prostatic secretions are collected, as is the initial 10 ml of urine passed after massage.When bacteria and/or inflammatory cells are significantly higher in the two samples after prostatic massage, the pathology is con- sidered to be specific to the prostate. Moderate-quality evidence Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. Very low-quality evidence Any estimate of effect is very uncertain. SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES Alpha blockers for chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome One systematic review and one RCT added which enhanced the existing benefits and harms data; categorisation unchanged (Likely to be beneficial). Oral antimicrobial drugs for chronic bacterial prostatitis: One new RCT added, benefits and harms data enhanced. Categorisation unchanged (Likely to be beneficial).
