Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


used to set health priorities in two ways. One approach is to use a cutoff level of cost- effectiveness beyond which interventions are no longer used. This cutoff can vary from place to place depending on the Cost-Effectiveness local preferences for health spending. The World Bank has The specific measure of cost-benefit analysis adopted in this described health interventions that cost less than US$100 per volume is cost-effectiveness. Effectiveness is measured in year oflife saved as highly cost-effective for poor countries,but natural units (deaths averted and years of life saved) and in this benchmark is arbitrary,as chapter 15 makes clear by not- disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), a composite measure ing the interaction with income,budget levels,and the disease that combines years lived with disability and years lost to pre- burden (Jamison and others 1993). mature death in a single metric (see chapter 15for an explana- An alternative approach to using cost-effectiveness data to tion of how DALYs are calculated). Nevertheless, dollars per set intervention priorities is to interpret the cost-effectiveness DALY averted can at best be only one consideration in the allo- ratio as the “price”ofequivalent units ofhealth using different cation ofresources to different diseases and interventions.This interventions (box 2.2 explains this approach). Reinterpreted 36 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Jeffrey Chow, andSonbolA. Shahid-Salles ssenevitceffe-tsoC Current coverage hgiH woL Cost-effective Neglected interventions opportunities used widely Interventions for Interventions to which scaling up scale back is inefficient Low High Source: Authors. Figure 2.1 Efficiency of Interventions Box 2.2 A Framework for Using Cost-Effectiveness Information to Set Health Priorities A frequent, often justified, criticism of cost-effectiveness socioeconomic status of target populations (including the analyses is that they address only one of many criteria extent to which they can obtain treatment from their own Epidemiological, medical, political, ethical, and cultural theprogram effectively.After the tradeoffs have been made factors often also play important roles in the decision to and can be represented by an indifference curve (see the vention;however,determining how one might weigh cost- is useful in determining how much of the policy makers’ effectiveness ratios alongside these other considerations fixed budget should be allocated to each intervention— when setting priorities for spending is difficult.Musgrove that is,at what coverage of one problem should they start (1999) shows how to take some of these connections devoting resources to the other? The indifference curve effectiveness is an adequate criterion by itself. One
