Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


efficiently. Other even within a single geographical region, depending on local audiences include aid agencies, international development lending institutions,nongovernmental organizations,and pri- and a host ofother factors.Greater efficiency in how countries vate health care providers. spend their health care resources can have a tremendous effect on the health oftheir populations.Box 2.3 discusses gains from improved priority setting found in the lifesaving study by Priority Setting in the Private Sector Harvard University (Tengs 1997;Tengs and others 1995). The use ofthe efficiency criterion in priority setting should not be limited to public resources.A large proportion ofhealth care in developing countries is paid for out of pocket,and greater METHODOLOGY clarity on interventions that are efficient from an economic perspective is no less urgent when the payer is private: ineffi- This chapter compares the cost-effectiveness of interventions cient private spending on health care in developing countries is that cover a broad spectrum of health conditions prevalent in wasteful as well.Much ofthis inefficiency may be attributed to developing countries.All results are presented in U.S. dollars significant differences in knowledge—termed information discounted to the year 2001 using a 3 percent annual discount 38 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Jeffrey Chow, andSonbolA. Shahid-Salles Box 2.3 The Harvard Lifesaving Study showed potential gains of life years saved by choosing savedanother636,000lifeyearshadfundsbeenredirected interventions on the basis of their cost-effectiveness.The from less to more cost-effective interventions. Following study’s authors assessed more than 500 types oflifesaving anassessmentofvaryingfactorsregardinginterventions— interventions,defined as any behavioral or technological thosethataffectthemostpeopleandarethemosteffective, strategy that reduces the probability of premature death leastcost,andmostcost-effective—thestudyreportsthat among a specified target population.The study focused on ifthegoalistosavethemostlifeyears,cost-effectivenessis 185 interventions and the extent to which each interven- ausefulapproachthatwillresultinthemostefficientallo- tion was currently being implemented,without taking its cationofresources.Thestudyindicatesthatchoosingthe cost-effectiveness into account. most cost-effective interventions could double the life The authors estimated that the selected 185 interven- yearssaved. tionswouldcostUS$21.4billionperyearandwouldsave Sources: Tengs 1997;Tengs and others 1995. rate.Chapter 15 summarizes the general guidelines governing effectiveness for some conditions, but data to estimate such the analysis leading to the results reported for all LMICs. differences are lacking. Caveats Regional Variations The findings in this chapter are subject to a number ofcaveats. Wherepossibleandappropriate,interventioncost-effectiveness First, despite efforts to ensure the consistency of cost- ratios and other information have been disaggregated by World effectiveness numbers across chapters,the approaches taken in Bank region. In discussing the estimates, this chapter focuses arriving at these numbers vary significantly. Although some on differences in the costs of
