Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


effectiveness numbers across chapters,the approaches taken in Bank region. In discussing the estimates, this chapter focuses arriving at these numbers vary significantly. Although some on differences in the costs of interventions rather than on chapters rely on cost-effectiveness numbers drawn from the differences in their effectiveness in specific regional settings, literature, other chapters have analyzed these numbers afresh although both contribute to differences in cost-effectiveness using the standardized resource costs described elsewhere. estimates across regions.Cost-effectiveness estimates also differ Table 2.1 contains definitions of indicators used to assess the among regions because of variations in underlying mortality, age structure, disease prevalence, and efficiency with which Table 2.1 Quality of Cost-Effectiveness Evidence for interventions are implemented. The analyses take all but the Interventions last ofthese considerations into account. Interregional cost differences are attributable to differences Level Source of cost-effectiveness evidence in the local costs ofgoods and services that are not easily trad- 1 Literature review of one cost-effectiveness study in one country able.For components that are tradable,such as patented drugs 2 Literature review of several cost-effectiveness studies for multiple and specialized medical equipment typically imported from countries industrial nations,the analyses assume uniform international 3 Literature review of several cost-effectiveness studies for a single costs for all LMICs, usually adjusted for local transportation intervention in a single region and distribution costs. By using a single composite set of 4 Original economic analysis by authors following the volume editors’ resource costs for each region,the analyses mask intraregional guidelines in one country time or hospitals,but this methodology is appropriate because guidelinesin one region results are presented only at the level of the region.4 Source:Authors. Interventions may differ in cost-effectiveness because they are Note: Standard region-specific age structures and underlying mortality rates wereused to calcu- targeted more appropriately to some age groups rather than late DALYs. Nontradable inputs were converted into U.S. dollars at the market exchange rate. The costs of tradable inputs were assumed to be internationally consistent, as were the costs associ- others,and important gender differences may also exist in cost- ated with surgical treatments. Intervention Cost-Effectiveness: Overview of Main Messages | 39 quality of evidence on which the cost-effectiveness estimates high prevalence.Figure2.2 reflects sets ofinterventions dealing are based.The tables in annex 2.B and annex 2.Cindicate the with high-burden diseases,and figure 2.3deals with relatively quality ofevidence associated with each intervention. low-burden diseases. Second, almost without exception, the cost-effectiveness Withineachfigure,interventionclustersaredisplayedinthe numbers do not vary with
