Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


annex 2.Cindicate the with high-burden diseases,and figure 2.3deals with relatively quality ofevidence associated with each intervention. low-burden diseases. Second, almost without exception, the cost-effectiveness Withineachfigure,interventionclustersaredisplayedinthe numbers do not vary with the scale at which the intervention order of increasing cost-effectiveness.Additional information is undertaken, and this is probably not the case in reality onthesetting,objective,andtargetpopulationofeachinterven- (Birch and Donaldson 1987; Johns and Torres 2005). Some tionclusterforwhichcost-effectivenesshasbeencalculatedis interventions,such as vaccination programs,have large setup provided in annex 2.B. The tables in annex 2.B also provide costs but marginal costs of extending coverage that decline at informationonthequalityof theevidenceonwhichthedata least initially. Other interventions, such as educational cam- presented are based. Furthermore, the annex tables present paigns for condom use,may be easy to target to urban popula- information on potentially avertable deaths and DALYs if the tions,but the marginal costs of expanding such interventions coverage of these interventions were expanded by a further to relatively inaccessible populations increase with coverage. 20percentagepointsoftherelevantpopulation(scalingupfrom Therefore,many ofthe cost-effectiveness ratios presented here 62percentmeansreaching82percent,not74percent,oftheper- are useful only for modest increments in coverage,and separate tinent population). Care should be taken not to confuse this analyses may have to be conducted to determine their applica- informationwiththecurrentburdenoftheunderlyingdisease, bility to program start-ups and larger-scale intervention on which basis interventions were divided into high-burden changes. andlow-burdendiseases(figures2.2and2.3,respectively).5For Third, the cost-effectiveness numbers presented apply to example, a cost-effective treatment for CVD has only limited countries whose institutional and technical capacity in relation scopeforincreasedscaleofinterventionincountrieswithalow and clearly a more ambitious analysis would also cover what highlycost-effectiveintervention,itdeservesattentionbecause countries could do better. This issue is discussed in detail in ofitssizablepotentialforloweringthediseaseburden. chapters 3 and 70. The tables in annex 2.C summarize information on inter- Finally, the estimates are based on the best available data, vention clusters for which cost-effectiveness was evaluated with which in many cases are somewhat weak.Statistically derived a metric other than DALYs.For these interventions too,details confidence bounds for the cost-effectiveness estimates are not of setting,objective,target population,and quality of the evi- provided,and in most cases,uncertainty analysis has not been dence have been provided. Given the difficulty in comparing carried out. Readers are encouraged to pay attention to the these intervention clusters with those evaluated using DALYs, order ofmagnitude ofeach estimate rather than to the specific they are excluded from figures 2.2–2.5. number presented. Observations about specific interventions follow.Ranges of cost-effectiveness estimates shown reflect geographical varia- tions across regions. ASSESSING THE EVIDENCE ON THE Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS The treatment ofall
