Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


tivelyhighandwherenewantigensaddressdiseasesofsignifi- and injecting drug users (US$1 to US$74 per DALY averted); cant burden, particularly pneumococcal vaccines. Curative and social marketing,promotion,and distribution ofcondoms interventions—including case management of acute respira- (US$19 to US$205 per DALY averted). Programs to improve toryinfections,malaria,anddiarrhea—holdpromiseforlower- blood and needle safety, while highly cost-effective (US$4 to ing the 6 million preventable deaths each year in this age US$51 per DALY averted),are limited in terms ofthe burden of group. disease they can avert. Prevention of mother-to-child transmission using a single dose of nevirapine in generalized epidemic settings (US$6 to Neonatal Mortality. An estimated 4 million deaths occur dur- US$12perDALYaverted)standsoutforitscombinationofwell- ing the first 28 days of life, accounting for 38 percent of all documented high cost-effectiveness and significant avertable deathsofchildrenunderfive.Causesincludeinfections(36per- infections and deaths. Treatment of sexually transmitted cent, including neonatal sepsis, pneumonia, diarrhea, and infectionstolowertheriskofHIVtransmission,althoughless tetanus),preterm birth (27 percent),and asphyxia (23 percent). wellproven,alsoappearstobehighlycost-effective(US$16to Intensive care is not required to save most of these babies. US$105perDALYaverted). Developed countries and some low-income countries—for instance,Sri Lanka—have achieved neonatal mortality rates of Treatment. For care of people living with HIV/AIDS, 15 per 1,000 without intensive care,which is less than a third of treatment of most infectious opportunistic infections is cost- current neonatal mortality rates in Sub-Saharan Africa. Intervention Cost-Effectiveness: Overview of Main Messages | 43 Adding a set ofcommunity-based interventions—including than US$1,600 in Eastern Europe.Cost-effectiveness ratios are promoting healthy behaviors, such as breastfeeding, and less than US$20 per DALY averted in all regions other than providing extra care of moderately small babies at home Europe and Central Asia.The cost-effectiveness of the tetanus through cleanliness,warmth,and exclusive breastfeeding,plus toxoid vaccine also varies widely by region from under US$400 community-based management of acute respiratory infec- per death averted and under US$14 per DALY averted in Sub- likely to be highly effective.The cost ofa year oflife saved using death averted and more than US$15,000 per DALY averted in this approach could be as low as US$100 to US$257 in India Europe and Central Asia. (US$221 to US$568 per DALY averted) and US$100 to US$270 Adding additional antigens to national programs has been in Sub-Saharan Africa (US$183 to US$493 per DALY averted). successfully accomplished in many countries. Expanding the Use of these approaches is feasible now in most countries. vaccination schedule to include a second opportunity for Adding a clinical package that includes essential newborn care measles through either routine or campaign-based approaches (warmth,cleanliness,and immediate breastfeeding); neonatal costs between US$23
