Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


oral antimicrobials and acetaminophen (US$24 to triesthatformerlyhadahighincidenceof thalassemias. US$424 per DALY averted) is more cost-effective than a similar treatment administered at home by a health care worker Ongoing Challenges: Malaria and Other (US$139 to US$733 per DALY averted).Treating severe pneu- Tropical Diseases inantly found in the tropics,interventions to control—and in Diarrheal Disease. Among interventions against diarrheal some cases even eliminate—these diseases rank among the disease during the first year of life, breastfeeding promotion most cost-effective ofall available options. programs (US$527 to US$2,001 per DALY averted), measles immunization (US$257 to US$4,565 per DALY averted), and Malaria. In countries where malaria is prevalent,both preven- oral rehydration therapy (US$132 to US$2,570 per DALY tion and effective treatment of this disease are highly cost- averted) are relatively cost-effective compared with rotavirus effective and can result in large health gains.Prevention tools immunizations (US$1,402 to US$8,357 per DALY averted) and include insecticide-treated bednets (US$5 to US$17 per DALY cholera immunizations (US$1,658 to US$8,274 per DALY averted) and indoor residual spraying whereDDT,malathion, averted). The cost-effectiveness of oral rehydration therapy deltamethrin, or lambda-cyhalothrin is applied to surfaces is extremely sensitive to the cost of the package. The cost- inside homes as a spray or deposit for prolonged action (US$9 effectiveness of this intervention can be as low as US$132 per to US$24 per DALY averted for Sub-Saharan Africa). DALY averted for an assumed cost per child of US$0.70. An Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria during preg- important reason for the relatively unfavorable cost- nancy using sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine is a highly cost- effectiveness ratios for diarrheal disease is that significant effective intervention (US$13 to US$24 per DALY averted) to reductions in mortality from this condition have already been decrease neonatal mortality and reduce severe maternal ane- achieved and further gains are likely to be more expensive. mia. Changing first-line treatment for malaria from chloro- Further improvements in water and sanitation (US$1,118 to quine,a drug that is ineffective in many parts of the world,to US$14,901 per DALY averted from diarrheal disease) are artemisinin-based combinations offers the advantage of faster generally less cost-effective in regions where access to these cures and potential reductions in transmission, with cost- amenities is adequate and other interventions against diarrheal effectiveness ratios of less than US$150 per DALY averted. disease exist.However,in areas with little access to water and Changing to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine may be slightly more sanitation facilities, improving access can be highly cost- cost-effective initially because of
