Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


dengue (US$587 to US$1,440 per DALY averted) low.However,fortificationofsalt,sugar,andcerealinthecase are relatively cost-effective compared with environmental of iron deficiency and fortification of water and salt in the vector control (more than US$2,000 per DALY averted). case of iodine deficiency is less expensive than distributing Leishmaniasis treatment is also extremely cost-effective supplements for mild deficiency, though pregnant women (US$315 per death averted and US$9 per DALY averted),as is and severely anemic or iodine-deficient people may still treating African trypanosomiasis patients in the second stage of require supplementation. Overall cost-effectiveness is US$66 the disease using melarsoprol or eflornithine (US$10 to US$20 to US$70 per DALY averted for iron fortification programs per DALY averted). and US$34 to US$36 per DALY averted for iodine fortifica- tion programs. Helminthic Infections. Helminthic infections,although not a major contributor to deaths in tropical regions,have a signifi- Cancer Prevention and Treatment school-based treatment ofsoil-transmitted helminths (Ascaris, (CBE) is estimated to be cost-effective at US$552 per life year Trichuris, and hookworm) using albendazole costs US$2 to saved for biennial screening ofwomen from age 40 to 60.This US$9 per DALY averted. Although the cost of treating efficacy ofCBE is related to the large percentage oftumors with schistosomiasis with praziquantel is significantly greater a poor prognosis observed in developing countries.In this set- (US$336 to US$692 per DALY averted), a combination of ting, CBE is estimated to be more cost-effective than mam- albendazole and praziquantel is extremely cost-effective (US$8 mography:mammograms every two years result in 10 percent to US$19 per DALY averted). more life years saved than annual CBE, but the cost is more than 100 percent greater.As with any screening program,cost- effectiveness is greater with higher underlying prevalence of Maternal and Neonatal Health disease. Given the hugely disproportionate burden of maternal and In general, cancer prevention, when feasible, is far more neonatal deaths in LMICs, identifying affordable, easy-to- cost-effective than treatment. The cost-effectiveness of initial implement interventions to prevent these deaths is a priority. treatment is between US$1,300 and US$6,200 per year of life Evidence from South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa suggests savedforthemoretreatablecancersof thecervix,breast,oral that improved primary-level coverage with a package ofinter- cavity, colon, and rectum and between US$53,000 and ventions is extremely cost-effective (US$3,337 to US$6,129 per US$163,000peryearof lifesavedforthelesstreatablecancers death averted and US$92 to US$148 per DALY averted). of the liver, lung, stomach, and esophagus. Postmastectomy Improvements in the quality of prenatal and delivery care are radiation might be more cost-effective in developing
