Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


to US$148 per DALY averted). of the liver, lung, stomach, and esophagus. Postmastectomy Improvements in the quality of prenatal and delivery care are radiation might be more cost-effective in developing coun- of similar cost-effectiveness (US$2,729 to US$5,107 per tries, where the cost of radiation treatment can be relatively death averted and US$82 to US$142 per DALY averted). An low compared to developed countries. Palliative care for ter- important finding is that improving the quality of care and minally ill cancer patients can be a challenge in resource- expanding coverage are ofcomparable cost-effectiveness. constrained settings, where opioid drugs, a cost-effective option,maybeinshortsupply.Studiesfromdevelopedcoun- Improving Nutrition tries indicate that more advanced treatments to relieve pain The direct and indirect effects of undernutrition and and side effects of chemotherapy may be cost-effective under micronutrient deficiencies account for a significant propor- certainconditions. 46 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Jeffrey Chow, andSonbolA. Shahid-Salles Mental and Neurological Disorders more cost-effective than when combined with psychosocial treatment. Psychosocial treatment without drug treatment Mental disorders are a heterogeneous group ofconditions with was of comparable cost-effectiveness (US$338 to US$927 per considerable variation in both the cost ofthe interventions and DALYaverted). the burden reduction associated with such interventions. The use of tricyclic antidepressants was more cost-effective Interventions to treat depression,bipolar disorder,and schizo- than benzodiazepines,which are still commonly prescribed for phrenia rank among the least cost-effective of interventions anxiety disorders and produce dependence in many patients. considered in this volume.However,the potentially significant benefits to family members and to society as a whole are not interventions that addressed all four sets of disorders is captured by the DALY methodology and should be balanced between US$1,429 and US$2,902 per DALY averted,depending against the relatively high cost of improving health of people on the region. with these disorders.For many disorders,drug treatment has been shown to be effective, especially when combined with Parkinson’s Disease and Epilepsy. Ayurvedic treatment, a psychosocial treatment that includes cognitive-behavioral form of traditional medicineused in India, is relatively cost- approaches to managing symptoms and improving adherence effective in treating Parkinson’s disease (US$750 per DALY to medications,group therapy,and family interventions. averted). Less cost-effective interventions include a combina- tion oflevodopa and carbidopa (US$1,500 per DALY averted), Schizophrenia and Bipolar Disorder. Drug treatment which are used to treat the debilitating symptoms and delay the accompanied by psychosocial treatment delivered through a progress ofthe disease,and deep-brain stimulation (US$31,000 community-based service was found
