Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


(US$1,229 to US$2,459 per such replacement is done during manufacture at a relatively DALY averted).Finally,the treatment of panic disorder using low cost rather than through changes in individual behavior,a tricyclic antidepressants (US$305 to US$619 per DALY cost-effectiveness ratio of US$25 to US$73 per DALY averted averted)andSSRIs(US$567toUS$865perDALYaverted)was can be attained.Replacing saturated fat with monounsaturated Intervention Cost-Effectiveness: Overview of Main Messages | 47 fat in manufactured foods accompanied by a public education the combination of aspirin and a beta-blocker is highly cost- campaign is relatively expensive in the base case (US$1,865 to effective (US$386 to US$545 per DALY averted).In all regions, US$4,012 per DALY averted), although the cost per DALY treating congestive heart failure using enalapril and the beta- averted is highly sensitive to both the relative risk reduction in blocker metoprolol is also highly cost-effective (approximately CVD events as well as the cost per individual.Reducing salt in US$200 per DALY averted). manufactured foods through a combination oflegislation and Acute Management and Secondary Prevention of Stroke. education campaigns is also relatively expensive in the base The cost of treating acute ischemic stroke using aspirin is case (US$1,325 to US$3,056 per DALY averted),but could be US$150 per DALY averted.Relatively cost-ineffective interven- much more cost-effective in high-density populations with a tions involve the use of a tissue plasminogen activator high salt intake. Little evidence is available on the cost- (US$1,300 per DALY averted) and anticoagulants such as effectiveness of programs to encourage exercise and other heparin or warfarin (US$2,700 per DALY averted).Aspirin is behavior changes by individuals. the lowest-cost option for secondary prevention of stroke (US$3.80 per single percentage point decrease in the risk of a Personal Interventions. Prevention strategies targeted at indi- second stroke within two years or US$70 per DALY averted). viduals at high risk for CVD—measured as a combination of The combination of the antiplatelet medication dipyridamole nonoptimal blood pressure and cholesterol, lifestyle, and and aspirin is equally cost-effective (US$93 per DALY averted). genetic risk factors—can be effective, especially when imple- In contrast,carotid endarterectomyis expensive for secondary mented in tandem with population-based measures.A previ- prevention (US$1,500 per DALY averted). ous cardiovascular event is a reliable predictor of a second event. The cost-effectiveness of primary prevention of CVD Strategies for Injury Prevention may vary greatly depending on the underlying risk factors,the age ofthe patient,and the cost ofmedications. Increasing economic development and use of motor vehicles Single-pill combinations of blood pressure–lowering med- has
