Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


cost Developing Countries(Jamison and others 1993) that personal between US$2,000 and US$5,000 per life saved (US$70 to interventions are not necessarily less cost-effective than US$176 per DALY averted) with improved baseline quality,low population-based interventions. Population-based interven- disease prevalence, or both. Educational interventions to tions are cost-effective when effectively targeted to populations improve the quality of diarrhea treatment can be extremely in which disease prevalence (or the potential prevalence and cost-effective (less than US$18 per DALY averted) depending subsequent mortality if the interventions are not imple- on these two factors. mented) is high. For example, primary prevention of acute myocardial infarction using aspirin is not nearly as cost- effective as secondary prevention in patients who have already Regional Analyses for South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa suffered a stroke or myocardial infarction, because this latter South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa,cost-effectiveness informa- being at higher risk than the general population. Similarly, tion for interventions related to high-burden health conditions malaria prevention programs will be highly cost-effective in is presented for these two regions.In South Asia (figure 2.4), areas where malaria is a serious problem but less so in countries CVD-related interventions,including tobacco taxes,treatment where the burden of this disease is less and people are better of acute myocardial infarction with aspirin and beta-blockers, served by treatment with an effective antimalarial. and increasing coverage of the EPI program,rank among the most cost-effective interventions.Treatment oflatent TB,coro- DISCUSSION nary artery bypass graft for ischemic heart disease,treatment of depression,and cholera immunization to prevent diarrheal dis- Since the publication of the previous edition of this book,the ease rank among the least cost-effective.Vitamin A deficiency, epidemiological and demographic profiles ofmany LMICs and relatively lower burden ofDALYs on this region,but a number icantly. This edition has the benefit of hindsight in looking ofhighly cost-effective interventions to deal with each ofthese back at the variety and affordability ofinterventions that were conditions could be scaled up. evaluated in the previous edition,both to see how the optimal In Sub-Saharan Africa (figure 2.5),HIV/AIDS and malaria mix of strategies may have changed in the intervening period rank among the highest-burden conditions. Of the 16 most and to ascertain trends. 50 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Jeffrey Chow, andSonbolA. Shahid-Salles Intervention Cost-Effectiveness: Overview of Main Messages | 51 tfarg ssapyb yretra yranoroc :esaesid traeh cimehcsI rekcolb-ateb dna niripsa htiw ,rotavitca negonimsalp eussit htiw tnemeganam etuca :noitcrafni laidracoyM tnemtaert dizainosi :)tnetal ,cimedne(
