Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


2006. b. Avertable DALYs per 20% increase in treatment coverage in a hypothetical sample population of one million people. c. Only evaluated for Sub-Saharan Africa. Intervention Cost-Effectiveness: Overview of Main Messages | 57 capacity and infrastructure may play a key role in determin- internationally agreed-upon development goals such as the ing the adoption of interventions. The current evidence on Millennium Development Goals.These objectives are comple- thecost-effectivenessof servicelevelssuchasdistrictorrefer- mentary. ral hospitals is weak. Even though part of the problem lies The lack of reliable data on costs and effectiveness is an withthedifficultyofvaluingthehealthbenefitsthesefacilities important obstacle to efficient priority setting.Despite the rel- the broader questions of why some cost-effective interven- Furthermore,not enough is known about the costs,extent of tions are used while others are not is a subject for future coverage,and institutional capacity requirements of interven- inquiry. tions in developing countries.The messages presented in this Even though much ofthe technology to significantly reduce chapter represent the best available information about the tions are available for some diseases.Shaping research priorities interventions. The challenge that lies ahead is for these mes- in a manner that is responsive to the treatment needs of the sages to move beyond the academic realm:ultimately,it is the millions of HIV/AIDS patients and of people suffering from extent to which policy makers make the commitment to act on mental disorders across the range ofLMICs is a challenge. them that will save lives. Setting intervention priorities efficiently can make a dollar go farther in improving health and can substantively increase available resources.Moreover,without demonstrably improved ACKNOWLEDGMENTS partners are unlikely to be persuaded to dig deeper into their We are grateful to the many authors and the nine editors of Improving efficiency should not, however, detract from the tial inputs to this chapter. Pamela Maslen provided valuable importance of increasing resources that are available for assistance in compiling annex tables.Any remaining errors are implementing these interventions and of meeting broader ours alone. 58 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Ramanan Laxminarayan, Jeffrey Chow, andSonbolA. Shahid-Salles ANNEX 2.A: INTERVENTION CATEGORIES AND Palliationaims at reducing pain and suffering from a condi- PERTINENT POLICY INSTRUMENTS tion for which no cure or means of rehabilitation is currently available.It may range from the use ofaspirin for headaches to The term interventionis used to denote actions taken by or for the use ofopiates to control terminal cancer pain. individuals to reduce the risk, duration, or severity of an
