Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


to The term interventionis used to denote actions taken by or for the use ofopiates to control terminal cancer pain. individuals to reduce the risk, duration, or severity of an Policy instruments are activities that governments or other courage, or undertake interventions. Stopping smoking, for to expand the potential interventions could undertake.The fol- example, is an intervention that an individual can take to lowing are five major instruments ofpolicy: reduce his or her risk ofa range ofdiseases,and taxing tobacco products is a potential instrument of government policy to • Information, education, and communication seek to encourage this intervention. Interventions are divided into improve the knowledge ofindividuals and service providers those that are population based and those that are personal as about the consequences oftheir choices. follows: • Taxes and subsidies on commodities, services, and pollu- tants seek to effect appropriate behavioral responses. • Population-based primary prevention is directed toward • Regulation and legislation seek to limit the availability of entire populations or population subgroups. These inter- certain commodities, to curtail certain practices, and to ventions fall into three broad categories:personal behavior define the rules governing the financing and provision of oriented medical interventions (for example, immuniza- • Direct expenditures seek to provide or to finance the provi- tion,mass chemoprophylaxis,and screening and referral). sion of selected interventions (such as immunizations); to • Personal interventions are directed toward individuals and provide infrastructure (for instance, medical schools) that can be provided at home; at clinics (community, private, facilitates the provision of a range of interventions; or to work-based, or school-based); at district hospitals; or at alter infrastructure so as to influence behavior (for example, referral hospitals. by installing speed bumps). • Research and development, either undertaken directly or encouraged through subsidies, are central to the goal of Primary prevention aims at reducing the level of one or expanding the range ofinterventions available and reducing more identified risk factors to reduce the probability ofthe ini- their costs. tial occurrence ofa disease (for instance,providing medication for established hypertension to prevent stroke or myocardial Source:This annex was prepared by Thomas Gaziano,Dean infarction). Jamison,and Sonbol Shahid-Salles. Cureofa condition aims at removing the cause and restor- ing function to what it was before. Acute management consists of time-limited interventions ANNEX 2.B: SUMMARY OF INTERVENTIONS that decrease the severity of acute events or the level of established risk factors to minimize their long-term effect (for Table 2.B.1 summarizes personal
