Chapter
KEYWORDS: dna, htiw, rep, interventions, averted, daly, eht, cost-effectiveness, daly averted, rof, tnemtaert, noitneverp, acirfa, cinilc, latipsoh


for the and may lead to the development of new methods that may be more Year 2001.”In Global Burden of Disease and Risk Factors, ed. A. D. cost-effective (see chapter 66 on referral hospitals for a more in-depth Lopez,C.D.Mathers,M.Ezzati,D.T.Jamison,and C.J.L.Murray.New discussion). York:Oxford University Press. 6.Some interventions with high potential to reduce the burden ofdis- Murray,C.J.L.,D.B.Evans,A.Acharya,and R.M.P.M.Baltussen.2000. ease may have been excluded due to the way their cost-effectiveness ratios “Development ofWHO Guidelines on Generalized Cost-Effectiveness were calculated.For example,nutrition-related interventions are excluded Analysis.”Health Economics9:235–51. from the table because those evaluated in the volume address either vita- Murray,C.J.L.,K.Styblo,and A.Rouillon.1993.“Tuberculosis.”In Disease min A deficiency or iodine deficiency both ofwhich are associated with Control Priorities in Developing Countries, ed. D. T. Jamison, W. H. low avertable burden.Also,only the burden children age 0 to 4 was con- Mosley,A.R.Measham,and J.L.Bobadilla,233–59.New York:Oxford sidered, further lowering the avertable burden. Another example is of University Press. theintegrated management ofinfant and childhood illness,which is eval- 7. The second and third observations speak more generally to the Criteria Related?”Health Policy47 (3):207–23. depth discussion).In relation to both HIV/AIDS and noncommunicable Lives.”NCPA Policy Report 204,National Center for Policy Analysis, diseases,the responsiveness of the medical research system to threats to Dallas,TX. populations in developed countries has the potential to bring great bene- Tengs,T.O.,M.E.Adams,J.S.Pliskin,D.G.Safran,J.E.Siegel,M.C. fits to people living in LMICs. Weinstein, and J. G. Graham. 1995. “Five Hundred Life Saving Interventions and Their Cost-Effectiveness.” Risk Analysis 15 (3): 369–90.
