Percutaneous laser revascularisation for refractory angina pectoris
KEYWORDS: patients, reported, angina, plr, rcts, follow-up, patients treated, treated, patients reported, procedure, difference, plr-treated, plr-treated patients, rct, month


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on percutaneous laser revascularisation (PLR) for refractory angina pectoris shows no efficacy and suggests that the procedure may pose unacceptable safety risks. Therefore, this procedure should not be used. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications and current treatments 2.1.1 Angina pectoris is chest discomfort, often described as pressure or pain, typically occurring on exertion. It is caused by inadequate delivery of oxygen to the heart muscle, usually because of coronary artery disease. Refractory angina is a severe angina form that cannot be controlled by normal medical or surgical treatment. 2.1.2 Angina treatment depends on symptoms, medical history and angiography findings. Treatments include anti-anginal medication and revascularisation interventions (percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery). For patients with refractory angina, these treatments have either failed or are not clinically suitable. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Percutaneous laser revascularisation for refractory angina pectoris is carried out with the patient under local anaesthesia. A catheter is inserted through the femoral artery, and advanced to the heart under fluoroscopic guidance. Ischaemic areas are selected for treatment using echocardiography or myocardial perfusion scan and coronary angiography. A laser device is then used to create a number of channels in the myocardium. 2.2.2 A number of different types of laser can be used for this procedure. 2.3 Efficacy Sections 2.3 and 2.4 describe efficacy and safety outcomes which were available in the published literature and which the Committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more detailed information on the evidence, see the systematic review. 2.3.1 A meta-analysis of six randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving 1040 patients reported no difference in mortality at 12-month follow-up between PLR-treated patients and medically managed patients (three RCTs), spinal cord stimulation (one RCT) or sham therapy (two RCTs) (pooled odds ratio [OR] 0.74; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.32 to 1.7). 2.3.2 An RCT of 298 patients reported no difference in mean myocardial perfusion test score (using single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT] imaging; scoring system not described) between patients treated with high-dose PLR (defined as 20–25 laser pulses), low-dose PLR (defined as 10–15 laser pulses) or sham therapy (17.7 points, 19.3 points and 17.3 points, respectively at 6-month follow-up [p = 0.35]). 2.3.3 An RCT of 221 patients comparing PLR with medical management reported no difference in mean left ventricular ejection fraction between PLR-treated patients (median 51%) and medically managed patients
