Tricuspid Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: tricuspid, valve, regurgitation, severe, tricuspid regurgitation, heart, right, atrial, patients, replacement, murmur, repair, usually, symptoms, annuloplasty


(Tricuspid Insufficiency; Tricuspid Incompetence) Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is insufficiency of the tricuspid valve causing backflow of blood from the right ventricle to the right atrium during systole. The most common cause is dilation of the right ventricle. Symptoms and signs are usually absent, but severe TR can cause neck pulsations, a holosystolic murmur, and right ventricular–induced heart failure or atrial fibrillation. Diagnosis is by physical examination and echocardiography. TR usually benign; however, it is increasingly implicated as a risk factor for heart failure. Selected symptomatic patients require annuloplasty or valve repair or replacement. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) Etiology of Tricuspid Regurgitation Tricuspid regurgitation may be: Primary Secondary (> 80% of cases) (1) Primary tricuspid regurgitation is less common. It can be due to: Blunt chest trauma Carcinoid syndrome Congenital defects (eg, cleft tricuspid valve, endocardial cushion defects) Ebstein anomaly (downward displacement of a congenitally malformed tricuspid cusp into the right ventricle [RV]) Idiopathic myxomatous degeneration Marfan syndrome Medications (eg, ergotamine, fenfluramine, phentermine) Rheumatic fever Valvular abnormalities caused by infective endocarditis Secondary tricuspid regurgitation is due to leaflet tethering, which is the result of reduced leaflet coaptation caused by annular dilation (typical of right atrial dilation [atrial secondary] caused by chronic atrial fibrillation) and/or papillary muscle displacement (most commonly as a result of left heart disease (ventricular secondary) causing pulmonary hypertension and leading to RV dilation or geometric distortion). Iatrogenic causes include pacemaker leads that cross the tricuspid valve and valve damage sustained during RV endomyocardial biopsy or other right heart catheterizations (pacemaker lead associated secondary) (see table Mechanisms of Tricuspid Regurgitation). Long-standing severe TR may lead to RV dysfunction–induced heart failure and atrial fibrillation. Mechanisms of Tricuspid Regurgitation Right Typical Ventricular Size, Potential Type Mechanism Systolic Treatment* Function Primary Usually Valvular Abnormal leaflets Initially normal replacement Secondary Tricuspid valve Atrial Dilated annulus Initially normal annuloplasty Edge-to-edge repair Tethered Dilated and (under Ventricular (restricted) leaflets impaired development) or replacement Lead interferes Lead extraction and Pacemaker lead with valve function Variable tricuspid valve associated or damages leaflets replacement * Patient selection based upon patient characteristics is critical, and individualization of therapy is necessary. Symptoms and Signs of Tricuspid Regurgitation Tricuspid regurgitation usually causes no symptoms, but some patients experience neck pulsations due to elevated jugular pressures. Symptoms of severe TR include peripheral edema, fatigue, abdominal bloating, ascites, and anorexia. Patients may also develop symptoms of atrial fibrillation or atrial
