Tricuspid Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: tricuspid, valve, regurgitation, severe, tricuspid regurgitation, heart, right, atrial, patients, replacement, murmur, repair, usually, symptoms, annuloplasty


color Doppler (≥ 50% of right atrial area) Systolic flow reversal in the hepatic veins (specific for severe TR) Vena contracta width > 7 mm The vena contracta is the narrowest diameter of the fluid stream downstream of an abnormal valve orifice; it is slightly smaller than the anatomic valve orifice. When TR is moderate or severe, the peak regurgitant velocity will underestimate pulmonary pressure. Two-dimensional echocardiography detects the structural abnormalities present in primary TR. Assessing RV systolic function is challenging; in adults, RV dysfunction is suggested on echocardiography by tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) < 16 mm or tricuspid annular systolic velocity < 10 cm/second. Cardiac MRI is the preferred method for evaluating RV size and function. An ECG and chest radiograph are often performed. ECG is usually normal but may show tall peaked P waves caused by right atrial enlargement, a tall R or QR wave in V1 characteristic of RV hypertrophy, or atrial fibrillation. Chest radiograph is usually normal but, in advanced cases with RV hypertrophy or RV dysfunction– induced HF, may show an enlarged superior vena cava, an enlarged right atrial or RV silhouette (behind the upper sternum in the lateral projection), or pleural effusion. Laboratory testing is not needed, but if performed, may show hepatic dysfunction in patients with severe TR. Cardiac catheterization is indicated for accurate measurement of pulmonary pressure when TR is severe and to evaluate coronary anatomy when surgery is planned. Catheterization findings include a prominent right atrial c-v pressure wave during ventricular systole. Phonocardiographic Characteristics of Heart Murmurs Treatment of Tricuspid Regurgitation Treatment of cause Sometimes annuloplasty or valve repair or replacement Very mild tricuspid regurgitation is a normal finding and requires no action. Medical treatment of causes (eg, heart failure, endocarditis) is indicated. Medical therapy with loop diuretics can relieve congestion. Aldosterone antagonists may be of additive benefit as they counter secondary hyperaldosteronism due to hepatic congestion. Treating the etiology is important in secondary TR, potentially including antiarrhythmics, heart failure medications, and pulmonary hypertension therapy. Timing of intervention for tricuspid regurgitation depends on the patient's symptoms and RV function (1). Patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation should undergo operation as soon as symptoms are present despite medical treatment or when there is moderate, progressive RV enlargement or dysfunction. Severe LV dysfunction or severe pulmonary hypertension may make the surgical risk prohibitive. During surgery for left-sided heart lesions, patients with moderate
