Tricuspid Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: tricuspid, valve, regurgitation, severe, tricuspid regurgitation, heart, right, atrial, patients, replacement, murmur, repair, usually, symptoms, annuloplasty


there is moderate, progressive RV enlargement or dysfunction. Severe LV dysfunction or severe pulmonary hypertension may make the surgical risk prohibitive. During surgery for left-sided heart lesions, patients with moderate or mild TR with dilated annulus > 40 mm can undergo tricuspid annuloplasty, slowing progression to severe TR. However, tricuspid annuloplasty increases risk of the need for permanent pacing five-fold (2). Surgical options include: Annuloplasty Valve repair Valve replacement Annuloplasty, in which the tricuspid valve annulus is sutured to a prosthetic ring or a tailored reduction in annulus circumferential size is performed, is indicated when TR is due to annular dilation. Valve repair or replacement is indicated when TR is due to primary valve abnormalities or when annuloplasty is not technically feasible. (See table Mechanisms of Tricuspid Regurgitation.) Tricuspid valve repair is generally preferred to replacement. Specialized techniques, such as a cone reconstruction, which is performed in patients with Ebstein anomaly, are used in congenital heart disease. Tricuspid valve replacement may be indicated when TR is due to carcinoid syndrome or Ebstein anomaly. A bioprosthetic valve is used to reduce the risk of thromboembolism associated with the low pressures of the right heart; in the right heart, unlike the left heart, bioprosthetic tricuspid valves can last > 10 years (3, 4). A bioprosthetic valve requires temporary anticoagulation (see also Anticoagulation for patients with a prosthetic cardiac valve or native valve diseases). Progress is being made toward a percutaneous valve repair procedure. Early studies have shown improvement in the degree of regurgitation and in right-sided hemodynamics (5). Development of a percutaneous repair procedure will allow lower risk repair much earlier in the natural history of severe TR (6). Prognosis for Tricuspid Regurgitation Severe tricuspid regurgitation ultimately has a poor prognosis, even if it is initially well-tolerated for years. Less severe TR also affects prognosis, though no study has conclusively shown that early intervention reduces mortality. As with left-sided valvular regurgitation, the volume-overloaded ventricle eventually decompensates irreversibly. However, in contrast to left-sided valvular regurgitation, there is no robust way to discern when the RV is starting to decompensate. Given this, patients are commonly referred late for surgery. In the context of the significant risks of surgery, the overall outcome is poor. Key Points Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) usually occurs in a normal valve affected by right ventricular dilation; less often there is an intrinsic valve disorder (eg, due to infective endocarditis, carcinoid syndrome,
