NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2013 May ; 108(5): 656–677. doi:. AMERICAN COLLEGE OF GASTROENTEROLOGY CLINICAL GUIDELINE: DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF CELIAC DISEASE Alberto Rubio-Tapia, MD1, Ivor D Hill, MD2, Ciarán P Kelly, MD3, Audrey H Calderwood, MD4, and Joseph A Murray, MD1 Carolina Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts Massachusetts Abstract This guideline presents recommendations for the diagnosis and management of patients with celiac disease. Celiac disease is an immune-based reaction to dietary gluten (storage protein for wheat, barley and rye) that primarily affects the small intestine in those with a genetic predisposition and resolves with exclusion of gluten from the diet. There has been a substantial increase in the prevalence of celiac disease over the last 50 years and an increase in the rate of diagnosis in the last 10 years. Celiac disease can present with many symptoms, including typical gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g. diarrhea, steatorrhea, weight loss, bloating, flatulence, abdominal pain) and also non-gastrointestinal abnormalities (e.g. abnormal liver function tests, iron deficiency anemia, bone disease, skin disorders, and many other protean manifestations). Indeed, many individuals with celiac disease may have no symptoms at all. Celiac disease is usually detected by serologic testing of celiac-specific antibodies. The diagnosis is confirmed by duodenal mucosal biopsies. Both serology and biopsy should be performed on a gluten-containing diet. The treatment for celiac disease is primarily a gluten-free diet (GFD), which requires significant patient education, motivation, and follow-up. Non-responsive celiac disease occurs frequently, particularly in those diagnosed in adulthood. Persistent or recurring symptoms should lead to a review of the patient’s original diagnosis to exclude alternative diagnoses, a review of the GFD to ensure there is no obvious gluten contamination, and serologic testing to confirm adherence with st 507-255-5713. Fax: 507-255-5713. . Specific author contributions: All authors were involved in writing the manuscript and providing critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. Potential competing interests: Dr. Rubio-Tapia has nothing to declare. Dr. Hill serves on the editorial boards of Journal of Pediatrics and Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition. Dr. Kelly acts or has acted as a scientific and medical advisor to Alba, Alvine and ImmunosanT and has received research funding support on celiac disease from Alba and Shire. Dr. Calderwood has nothing to declare. Dr. Murray has received grant support from Alba
