NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


Alvine and ImmunosanT and has received research funding support on celiac disease from Alba and Shire. Dr. Calderwood has nothing to declare. Dr. Murray has received grant support from Alba Therapeutics (>$50,000), served on the Advisory Board of Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (<$10,000), and served as consultant to Ironwood, Inc. (<$10,000), Flamentera (<$10,000), Actogenix (<$10,000), Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals (<$10,000), Vysera Biomedical (<$10,000), 2G Pharma, Inc. (<$10,000), ImmunosanT, Inc (<$10,000), and Shire US Inc (<$10,000). NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript the GFD. In addition, evaluation for disorders associated with celiac disease that could cause persistent symptoms, such as microscopic colitis, pancreatic exocrine dysfunction, and complications of celiac disease, such as enteropathy-associated lymphoma or refractory celiac are not yet approved for use in practice. Given the incomplete response of many patients to a GFD free diet as well as the difficulty of adherence to the GFD over the long term, development of new effective therapies for symptom control and reversal of inflammation and organ damage are needed. The prevalence of celiac disease is increasing worldwide and many patients with celiac disease remain undiagnosed, highlighting the need for improved strategies in the future for the optimal detection of patients. INTRODUCTION patients with celiac disease, including an approach to the evaluation of non-responsive celiac disease. While it is primarily directed at the care of adult patients, variations pertinent to the pediatric population have been included. Each section will provide specific recommendations based on the current literature and a summary of the evidence supporting those recommendations. The GRADE system was used to evaluate the quality of supporting evidence.1 (Table 1) A “strong” recommendation was made when the benefits clearly outweigh the negatives and the result of no action. “Conditional” was used when some uncertainty remained about the balance of benefit/ potential harm. The quality of the evidence was graded from high to low. “High” quality evidence indicates that further research is unlikely to change the authors’ confidence in the estimate of effect. “Moderate” quality evidence indicates that further research would be likely to have an impact on the confidence of the estimate, whereas “Low” quality evidence indicates that further study would likely have an important impact on the confidence in the estimate of the effect and would likely change the estimate. WHEN TO TEST FOR CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. Patients with symptoms, signs, or laboratory evidence suggestive of malabsorption, such as chronic
