NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


of the effect and would likely change the estimate. WHEN TO TEST FOR CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. Patients with symptoms, signs, or laboratory evidence suggestive of malabsorption, such as chronic diarrhea with weight loss, steatorrhea, postprandial abdominal pain and bloating, should be tested for CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. Patients with symptoms, signs, or laboratory evidence for which CD is a treatable cause should be considered for testing for CD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. Patients with a first degree family member who has a confirmed diagnosis of CD should be tested if they show possible signs or symptoms or laboratory evidence of CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 4. Consider testing of asymptomatic relatives with a first degree family member who has a confirmed diagnosis of CD (Conditional recommendation, high level of evidence) 5. Celiac disease should be sought among the explanations for elevated serum aminotransferase levels when no other etiology is found, (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 6. Patients with type I diabetes mellitus should be tested for CD if there are any digestive symptoms, or signs, or laboratory evidence suggestive of celiac disease. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—Celiac disease is one of the most common causes of chronic malabsorption.2 This results from injury to the small intestine with loss of absorptive surface area, reduction of digestive enzymes, and consequential impaired absorption of micronutrients such as fat-soluble vitamins, iron and potentially B and folic acid. 3 In addition, the inflammation exacerbates symptoms of malabsorption by causing net secretion of fluid that can result in diarrhea. The failure of absorption of adequate calories leads to weight loss, and the malabsorption results in abdominal pain and bloating.3 These are common symptoms associated with CD.4, 5 Celiac disease remains under-diagnosed in the US.6 CD may present in many ways.7 Currently, active case-finding (serologic testing for CD in patients with symptoms or conditions closely associated with CD) is the favored strategy to increase detection of CD.8 Active case-finding may increase detection of CD among patients with symptoms attending a primary care office, although this strategy is insufficient to detect most patients with CD.7 There is no consensus regarding which symptoms, laboratory abnormalities, and/or associated diseases require evaluation for CD. The frequency
