NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


symptoms that may not have been previously Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript explained.20 Others may have symptoms that they did not consider abnormal until after they initiated a gluten-free diet (GFD) and these symptom resolve.21 Asymptomatic patients detected by screening do not experience new symptoms after onset of a GFD.22 The majority of patients with CD identified on the basis of screening reported dietary adherence and improvements in quality of life on the GFD.20 A small proportion of patients, however, report increased health-related anxiety after diagnosis. 23 Overall satisfaction with the diagnosis was high (93%).20 Abnormal liver blood tests, in particular elevations of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and prevalence of clinically significant liver disease is low.24 In CD, hypertransaminasemia is often a subclinical finding that is gluten dependent.25 Patients with unexplained elevation of liver enzymes should be assessed for CD. 26 There is reasonable data to show that gluten- dependent hypertransaminasemia will normalize in most patients (>95%) on a GFD.27 Rarely, CD can be associated with severe liver disease.28, 29 There is evidence that CD is substantially more common in patients with type I diabetes mellitus (DM) than in the general Caucasian population. The estimates vary between 3% and 10%.30–32 In children, it has been suggested that yearly or every-other-year screening for CD be undertaken utilizing serology. Patients with type I DM who are undergoing upper endoscopy should undergo duodenal biopsies to rule out CD if they have never been tested previously. After gastrointestinal symptoms, the second most common manifestation of CD in patients with type I DM is diminished or impaired bone mineralization. There is some evidence suggesting that there is added disease burden to patients already struggling with the management of type I DM. In addition, there is good evidence that gastrointestinal symptoms present at diagnosis will respond to a GFD with overall improvement in quality of life related to GI symptoms. The impact of the treatment of CD on the management of type I DM is mixed. 33 Some data suggest an increase in absorption, leading to the need for increased insulin doses. Other data suggests improvement of DM controlled by reduction of hypoglycemic events, especially postprandial. Testing for CD in asymptomatic patients with type I DM is controversial. No significant adverse outcomes were identified in children with type 1 DM identified by
