NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


hypoglycemic events, especially postprandial. Testing for CD in asymptomatic patients with type I DM is controversial. No significant adverse outcomes were identified in children with type 1 DM identified by screening who delay therapy with a GFD for up to 2 years.34 However, it is necessary to look at the potential long term impact of CD in type I DM as well. 35 A large study from Sweden showed an increased risk of diabetic retinopathy in patients with coexistent type I DM and CD. 36 Patients with undiagnosed CD and type 1 DM had a higher prevalence of retinopathy (58% v. 25%) and nephropathy (42% vs. 4%).37 Treatment with a GFD for 1 year was safe in patients with coexistent type I DM and CD.37 The effect (if any) of a GFD on DM-related complications requires further investigation. Parents of children with Type 1 DM or the children of parents with type 1 DM are at increased risk of CD, estimated to be ~4%. 38, 39, 40 Because many patients with unrecognized CD may actually have symptoms that improve on a gluten free diet, informing such parents of the risk of CD is suggested. Also, a family history of either CD or type 1 DM indicates an increased risk of CD in the patient and CD should be considered. There is no data to support a recommendation about when to stop screening for CD in children with type 1 DM but screening is not necessary in the absence of HLA DQ2 and DQ8. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript DIAGNOSIS OF CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase antibody is the preferred single test for detection of CD in individuals over the age of 2 years. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. When there exists a high probability of CD the possibility of IgA deficiency is considered, total IgA should be measured. An alternative approach is to include both IgA and IgG based testing, such as IgG deamidated gliadin peptides [DGP], in these high probability patients. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. In patients in whom low IgA or selective IgA deficiency is identified, IgG-based testing (IgG deamidated gliadin peptides [DGP] and IgG tissue transglutaminase [TTG]) should be performed. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 4. If the suspicion of CD is high, intestinal
