NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


IgG-based testing (IgG deamidated gliadin peptides [DGP] and IgG tissue transglutaminase [TTG]) should be performed. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 4. If the suspicion of CD is high, intestinal biopsy should be pursued even if serologies are negative. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 5. All diagnostic serologic testing should be done with patients on a gluten-containing diet. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 6. Antibodies directed against native gliadin are not recommended for the primary detection of CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 7. Combining several tests for CD in lieu of TTG IgA alone may marginally increase sensitivity for CD but reduces specificity therefore are not recommended in low risk populations. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 8. When screening children younger than 2 years of age for CD, the IgA TTG test should be combined with deamidated gliadin peptide (IgA and IgG). (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—The use of TTG-IgA testing and its accuracy in the primary care setting and referral cohorts has been extensively studied.9 The sensitivity of the TTG-IgA for untreated CD is about 95%. 41 The specificity is also 95% or greater. The higher the titer of the test, there is greater likelihood of a true positive result. 9 The test is most commonly based on an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test and less commonly on radioimmunoassay.42 There are recognized differences in test performance between the various commercially available test kits, but overall there is consistency in the sensitivity and specificity of the test.42–44 In the past, several antibody tests have been developed to detect CD. 45 Antibodies may be directed against native or altered cereal derived peptides. Anti-gliadin antibodies (AGA) have been used for decades and are reasonably accurate when there is a high pretest prevalence of CD.46 However, it was with the advent of auto-antibodies, first directed against reticulin and then endomysium antibodies (EMA) and finally TTG antibodies that the truly celiac specific testing was developed.47 The identification of TTG immunoglobulin (Ig) A antibody as the target antigen for IgA EMA antibodies was a major advance.48 This antigen was initially produced by extraction from the liver or purification from human red cells and most recently, by recombinant protein production. Tissue transglutaminase based assays have brought accurate serology for CD into the reach of most doctors and hospitals. The College of American Pathology laboratory proficiency survey has included
