NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


protein production. Tissue transglutaminase based assays have brought accurate serology for CD into the reach of most doctors and hospitals. The College of American Pathology laboratory proficiency survey has included TTG antibody testing for several years and most laboratories in the US that provide TTG testing participate. Other similar systems are in place outside the US. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript IgA deficiency is more common in CD than in the general population. It affects anywhere between 1 in 400 to 1 in 800 members of the general population, but in 2–3% of patients with CD and 1% of those getting tested for CD.49, 50 In patients in whom there is a high pre- test prevalence of CD, the measurement of IgA levels should be considered, especially if IgA-based celiac serology test is negative. One approach is to measure total IgA at the beginning of testing to determine whether IgA levels are sufficient and, if not, to incorporate IgG based testing into the serology testing cascade. Deamidated gliadin peptides IgG and/or TTG IgG would then be the preferred test in this circumstance.51, 52 EMA IgG is not widely available. It has been suggested that IgA deficiency should be considered if the TTG-IgA levels are undetectable.53, 54 However not all assays can detect this with any accuracy or the result is merely reported as negative. While there is limited data on the sensitivity of each of these tests for CD in an IgA deficient person this may be about 80%–90% individually and higher if tests are combined. If the suspicion for CD is high, intestinal biopsy should be pursued even when serologies are negative. Finding IgA deficiency should prompt evaluation for other diseases that may cause villous atrophy such as giardiasis, small-bowel bacterial overgrowth, or common variable immunodeficiency.55 The antibodies directed against gliadin or its deamidated products as well as the self-antigen TTG are dependent on the ingestion of gluten. The reduction or cessation of dietary gluten leads to a decrease in the levels of all these celiac-associated antibodies to normal concentrations. While little is known about the precise dynamics of the reduction, a weakly positive individual may become negative within weeks of strict adherence to GFD. 56 After 6–12 months of adhering to a GFD, 80% of subjects will test negative by serology.57 By 5
