NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


individual may become negative within weeks of strict adherence to GFD. 56 After 6–12 months of adhering to a GFD, 80% of subjects will test negative by serology.57 By 5 years, more than 90% of those adhering to the GFD will have negative serologies. 58 Whilst antibodies directed against native gliadin (anti-gliadin antibodies (AGA)) have been in use for several decades, there is a wide variability in their diagnostic accuracy.43 Both IgA and IgG AGA antibodies have sensitivities and specificities inferior to those of the TTG-IgA and DGP-IgA assays57 and should no longer be included in the routine testing strategy for CD. No one test for CD has a perfect sensitivity or specificity. Thus, individual tests may be combined in commercially available panels. This strategy may increase the sensitivity if any positive test is regarded as an overall positive result; however, the increased sensitivity comes at the expense of a reduction of specificity. 59 Unless all patients who test positive in the panel undergo histological confirmation of CD, this practice may lead to incorrect and over diagnosis followed by unnecessary treatment with GFD. Conversely, if the threshold is set that all tests within the panel must be positive for a “positive” panel test, then the specificity and hence positive predictive value (PPV) for CD will be increased, but at the expense of sensitivity.9 One diagnostic approach is shown in Figure 1. There is some evidence that both TTG and EMA are less sensitive in young children (less than 2 years of age).60, 61 In this age group the sensitivity of AGA and DGP antibodies is higher than both the TTG and EMA. 61–63 In general, AGA have a low sensitivity and specificity and are not recommended as a screening test for CD. 64, 65 Although DGP tests perform less well than TTG and EMA tests, they are superior to the AGA. 66 For this reason it is preferable to combine the TTG with DGP tests when screening young children. CONFIRMATORY TESTING IN CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. The confirmation of a diagnosis of CD should be based on a combination of findings from the medical history, physical examination, serology, and upper Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript endoscopy with histological analysis of multiple biopsies of the duodenum. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. Upper endoscopy with
