NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript endoscopy with histological analysis of multiple biopsies of the duodenum. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. Upper endoscopy with small bowel biopsy is a critical component of the diagnostic evaluation for persons with suspected CD and is recommended to confirm the diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 3. Multiple biopsies of the duodenum (one or two biopsies of the bulb and at least 4 biopsies of the distal duodenum) are recommended to confirm the diagnosis CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 4. Lymphocytic infiltration of the intestinal epithelium in the absence of villous atrophy is not specific for CD and other causes should also be considered. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—Gastrointestinal symptoms alone cannot accurately differentiate CD from other common gastrointestinal disorders (e.g., 20–50% of patients with CD fulfilled Rome criteria for irritable bowel syndrome).4, 67 A meta-analysis showed a pooled prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome-type symptoms of 38% (95% confidence interval, 27%–50%) in patients with CD.68 Improvement of gastrointestinal symptoms or clinical exacerbation after re-introduction of gluten have very low PPV for CD (36% and 28%, respectively) and should not be used for diagnosis in the absence of other supportive evidence.69 Moreover, ingestion of gluten can cause gastrointestinal symptoms including abdominal pain and bloating in the absence of CD.70 A GFD improved gastrointestinal symptoms in about 60% of patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome, especially those with HLA-DQ2.71 A positive CD specific serology (TTG, DGP, and EMA) in patients with villous atrophy confirms the diagnosis of CD.43 TTG-IgA may be negative in 5%–16% of patients with biopsy-confirmed CD tested when following a gluten-containing diet.41, 57 IgA EMA negative CD has been described in patients with normal IgA.72 Thus, a negative CD specific serology in patients with villous atrophy does not completely exclude the diagnosis of CD though it does make it much less likely. Other causes of villous atrophy are summarized in Table 3 Histological response to GFD in patients with villous atrophy strongly supports a diagnosis CD. HLA typing and histological response may help to rule out or confirm the diagnosis of CD in patients with sero-negative CD.73, 74 Small intestinal biopsy has been central to the confirmation of the diagnosis of CD since the late 50’s. 75 Traditionally, the diagnosis of CD required 3 intestinal biopsies: a biopsy on a
