NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


meet on unselected populations. In the absence of standardization of TTG assays, use of a predefined threshold to select a population to avoid intestinal biopsy may not be the optimal strategy.88 Prospective data to validate ESPGHAN recommendation in children or adults are lacking. Histological abnormalities associated with CD can be patchy. 89–93 Multiple biopsies of duodenum should be performed if the diagnosis of CD is considered. Among 132,352 patients without known CD who underwent duodenal biopsy in the United States, the probability of a new diagnosis of CD was significantly increased when ≥4 specimens were submitted (1.8% vs. 0.7%, p<0.0001).94 Unfortunately, 4 or more biopsies were taken in only 39% of patients undergoing biopsy for evaluation of malabsorption/suspicion of CD.94 The rate of duodenal biopsy was significantly lower among black, older (70 years and older), and male patients.95 In children and adults with positive CD specific serologies, adding biopsies of the duodenal bulb increases the diagnostic yield because 9%–13% had villous atrophy exclusively in the bulb.96–98 A targeted duodenal bulb biopsy from either the 9- or 12-o’clock position in addition to biopsies of the distal duodenum have a sensitivity of 96% for the diagnosis of CD.99 Care must be taken when interpreting duodenal bulb biopsies to allow for the normal surface architectural changes that overlie Brunner’s glands and the acute inflammatory changes of peptic duodenitis. Expert opinion suggests that only a single biopsy specimen should be obtained with each pass of the biopsy forceps,5 however, there is no evidence that supports that recommendation. We recommend multiple biopsies of the duodenum including one or two biopsies of the bulb (either 9- or 12-o’clock position) and at least 4 biopsies of post-bulbar duodenum. There is insufficient data to guide practice in patients who have not yet been tested serologically o in whom the pre-test prevalence is much lower. The added yield of duodenal bulb biopsies is likely to be small in such circumstances. Lymphocytic infiltration (≥25 intraepithelial lymphocytes per 100 epithelial cells) also known as lymphocytic duodenosis is common in the general population (prevalence of 5.4%).100 Most patients with lymphocytic duodenosis do not belong to the spectrum of CD and other causes should be sought including work-up to rule out CD.101, 102 The frequency of diarrhea and weight loss was similar among patients with lymphocytic duodenosis and those with CD.102 Anemia, skin disorders, positive TTG, and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2 were
