NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


The frequency of diarrhea and weight loss was similar among patients with lymphocytic duodenosis and those with CD.102 Anemia, skin disorders, positive TTG, and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2 were more frequent among patients with CD. 102 Other disorders have been associated with lymphocytic duodenosis including Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection, medications (e.g., non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), small-bowel bacterial overgrowth, and systemic autoimmune disorders.103 Persistent intraepithelial lymphocytosis was observed in 56% patients with treated CD despite evidence of normal villous architecture, the only factor associated with this finding was oat consumption.104 Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Among 56 children without a prior diagnosis of CD and lymphocytic duodenosis evaluated at a referral center, CD was diagnosed in only 9% of these cases.105 GFD may be beneficial in children and adults with either lymphocytic duodenosis or Marsh II lesions and positive EMA. 106, 107 ROLE OF ANCILLARY TESTING IN CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1 Human leukocyte antigen DQ2/DQ8 testing should not be used routinely in the initial diagnosis of CD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2 Human leukocyte antigen DQ2/DQ8 genotyping testing should be used to effectively rule out the disease in selected clinical situations. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Examples of such clinical situations include but are not limited to: a. Equivocal small bowel histological finding (Marsh I–II) in seronegative patients b. Evaluation of patients on a GFD in whom no testing for CD was done before GFD c. Patients with discrepant celiac specific serology and histology d. Patients with suspicion of refractory CD where the original diagnosis of celiac remains in question e. Patients with Down’s syndrome 3 Capsule endoscopy should not be used for initial diagnosis except when positive celiac specific serology who are unwilling or unable to undergo upper endoscopy with biopsy. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 4 Capsule endoscopy should be considered for the evaluation of small bowel mucosa in patients with complicated CD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 5 Intestinal permeability tests, D-xylose, and small bowel follow-through are neither specific nor sensitive and are not recommended for CD diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 7 Stool studies or salivary tests are neither validated nor recommended for use in the diagnosis of CD. (Strong recommendation, weak level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—The most important genetic risk factor for
