NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


of CD and non-celiac gluten sensitivity is important for advising patients regarding the importance of ongoing disease monitoring, the required duration and strictness of adherence to the gluten free diet, and for counseling and testing of family members. DIAGNOSIS AMONG PATIENTS ON A GLUTEN FREE DIET Recommendations 1. While standard diagnostic tests (specific serology and intestinal biopsy) have a high positive predictive value for CD, they should not be relied upon to exclude CD in patients already adhering to a GFD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. Human leukocyte antigen DQ2/DQ8 genotyping should be used to try to exclude celiac disease prior to embarking on a formal gluten challenge. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 3. CD should be differentiated from non-celiac gluten sensitivity in order to identify risk for nutritional deficiency states, complications of CD, risk for CD and associated disorders in family members and to influence the degree and duration of adherence to the GFD. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 4. Formal gluten challenge should be considered, where necessary, to diagnose or exclude CD in patients already adhering to a GFD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 5. Despite the disadvantages of neither confirming nor excluding a diagnosis of CD, some patients will opt to continue on a strictly GFD without undergoing formal gluten challenge; such patients should be managed in a similar fashion to those with known CD. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—The specific serologic and histologic features of CD do not normalize immediately upon the initiation of a gluten free diet.8, 43, 149, 150 If the duration of GFD has been brief (less than one month), serology and histology are often still abnormal and can be used to diagnose CD in patients already on GFD. Conversely, given that the degree of serologic and histologic abnormality varies substantially in untreated CD, some patients will quickly revert to normal on a gluten free diet. Hence, normal serologic and histologic findings on a gluten free diet cannot be used to exclude CD definitively.8, 43, 149, 150 As discussed above, the required genotypes, encoding HLA-DQ2 or DQ8, are not influenced by diet and can be used to evaluate the likelihood of CD in patients either on a normal or on a gluten free diet.8,
