NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


manage patients with a moderate to high suspicion for (unproven) CD in a similar fashion to those with known CD. However, this approach will of necessity include unnecessary monitoring, therapy and expense. Therefore the patient should be aware of the ongoing availability of definitive testing should they so desire. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript MANAGEMENT OF CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. People with CD should adhere to a gluten free diet for life. A gluten free diet entails strict avoidance of all products containing the proteins from wheat, barley and rye. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. While pure oats appear to be safely tolerated by the majority of people with CD, oats should be introduced into the diet with caution and patients should be monitored closely for evidence of adverse reaction. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. People with CD should be referred to a registered dietitian who is knowledgeable about CD in order to receive a thorough nutritional assessment and education on the gluten free diet. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 4. People with newly diagnosed CD should undergo testing and treatment for micronutrient deficiencies. Deficiencies to be considered for testing should include, but not be limited to, iron, folic acid, vitamin D, and vitamin B12. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—A gluten free diet is the only effective treatment for CD as there are currently no medications that can reliably and safely prevent the mucosal damage caused by exposure to gluten. The principle sources of dietary gluten are wheat, barley and rye. While the term “gluten free” implies complete elimination of all sources of gluten, in reality this is not possible due to contamination of foods with trace amounts of gluten. Hence the term “gluten free” indicates a diet that contains gluten at such a low level as to be considered harmless. The exact level below which gluten is harmless is not known but a recent review suggests less than 10 mg per day is unlikely to cause damage in most patients. 156. The current international Codex Alimentarius defines gluten free foods as having less than 20 ppm of gluten. A GFD will result in resolution of symptoms and repair of the intestinal damage over time in most people with CD. Failure to adhere to the GFD
