NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


ppm of gluten. A GFD will result in resolution of symptoms and repair of the intestinal damage over time in most people with CD. Failure to adhere to the GFD carries risk for adverse health consequences and increased mortality. There is an increased risk for malignancies (e.g., small bowel adenocarcinoma, cancer of esophagus, B-cell and T-cell Non-Hodgkin lymphomas), and in particular intestinal T-cell lymphomas, in people with CD.157 Evidence suggests the risk for increased mortality and malignancies is reduced in those who adhere to the diet.158–160 There is evidence that a GFD improves nutritional parameters in symptomatic adults and children with CD. This includes increases in body weight, body mass index and bone mineralization.161–163 Untreated CD is associated with an increased prevalence of low bone mineral density and risk for fractures. Treatment of CD with a GFD improves bone mineral density in both adults and children. 45, 164–176 Women with CD have an increased risk of infertility, spontaneous abortions, preterm deliveries and delivery of low birth weight infants. Treatment of women with CD with GFD reduces these risks to that of the general population. 177–181 Consumption of oats improves the nutrient content of the diets of people on a GFD by increasing the intake of fiber, vitamin B, magnesium and iron.182 While in the past there has been concern that oats can cause intestinal mucosal damage in people with CD, recent evidence suggests oats that are pure and uncontaminated by other gluten containing grains can be safely ingested by most people with CD provided they are taken in limited Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript quantities.183–190 However there is still need for caution when introducing oats into the diet of people with CD as there is a high likelihood that commercial oats may be contaminated with gluten from other grains. 191, 192 There is also evidence that a small number of people with CD may be intolerant to pure oats and can develop an immunological response to oat avenins. Based on in vitro studies this may in part be related to a variation in toxicity of oat cultivars.193, 194 Commercial oats should only be introduced into the diet of people with CD provided the oats are guaranteed to be pure and uncontaminated by other gluten containing grains. Even if confirmed to be pure, if oats are
