NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


the diet of people with CD provided the oats are guaranteed to be pure and uncontaminated by other gluten containing grains. Even if confirmed to be pure, if oats are introduced into the diet of people with CD there should be careful follow up to monitor for signs of both clinical and serological relapse. Following a GFD can be cumbersome and strict avoidance of gluten is difficult because there are many hidden sources of gluten in commercial food products. There is evidence that compliance with the GFD is improved in those who are more knowledgeable about CD and the diet. 195–197 Most physicians do not have the knowledge about the diet to adequately counsel patients. Registered dietitians are trained to evaluate patients for potential current and future dietary nutrient deficiencies and advise and educate them on how to maintain a strict GFD with provision of healthy alternatives to gluten. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics has published evidence based guidelines for treatment of CD and it is recommended these are followed (available at topic.cfm?cat=3677). In addition to providing initial counseling and education, once the relationship with a dietitian is established the patient can be monitored for compliance with the diet and undergo repeated assessments for potential dietary nutrient deficiencies, inadequate fiber intake, and excess weight gain each of which may be associated with adherence to the GFD. There is some evidence that people with untreated CD are more frequently deficient in a number of micronutrients compared to those without CD. Micronutrient deficiencies identified include iron, 198–203, folic acid,198, 204 and Vitamin B12 and B6.205–207 Low bone mineral density in people with untreated CD is believed to be partly due to vitamin D deficiency. Other deficiencies described in CD include copper, zinc, and carnitine. 199, 208, 209 Some deficiencies may persist even after a prolonged period on a gluten free diet.210, 211 In addition to testing for micronutrient deficiencies, dietary review by a registered dietitian, both at the time of initial diagnosis and after starting a GFD, is helpful for identifying potential nutrient deficiencies. MONITORING OF CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. People with CD should be monitored regularly for residual or new symptoms, adherence to GFD, and assessment for complications. In children, special attention to assure normal growth and development is recommended.. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. Periodic medical follow-up should be performed by a health care practitioner with knowledge
