NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


special attention to assure normal growth and development is recommended.. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 2. Periodic medical follow-up should be performed by a health care practitioner with knowledge of CD. Consultation with a dietitian should be offered if gluten contamination is suspected. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. Monitoring of adherence to GFD should be based on a combination of history and serology (IgA TTG or IgA [or IgG] deamidated gliadin peptide antibodies). (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 4. Upper endoscopy with intestinal biopsies is recommended for monitoring in cases with lack of clinical response or relapse of symptoms despite a GFD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 5. Monitoring of people with CD should include verification of normalization of laboratory abnormalities detected during initial laboratory investigation. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—There is universal agreement on the necessity of long-term monitoring of patients with CD.212 The number of patients with CD who receive follow-up is unknown. In the United States, follow-up appears to be suboptimal in practice.213 A systematic review supports the role of strict adherence to the GFD to control symptoms, improve quality of life, and decrease the risk of complications.214 Normal growth and development are achievable on a GFD and should be goals for monitoring children with CD.215 Control of symptoms (if present), facilitation of adherence to GFD, and avoidance or early detection of complications should be the general goals of monitoring after diagnosis of CD (Figure 3). It is not clear who should perform follow-up of patients with CD and at what frequency. In a for follow-up was a dietitian with a doctor available if needed.216 In a population-based cohort of 122 patients from the Midwest in the United States, there were 314 follow-up visits over a period of 5 years. Of these visits, 175 (56%) were conducted with primary care providers and 122 (39%) with gastroenterologists. 213 A nationwide study from Finland showed that medical follow-up by primary care providers was effective (average adherence rate was 88%).217 Annual follow-up with serology (TTG IgA) was associated with increasing rate of seroconversion of the TTG antibody (99%) among 2245 patients who underwent systematic follow-up.58 Until more evidence is available, annual follow-up seems reasonable. There is extensive evidence to support the
