NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


of seroconversion of the TTG antibody (99%) among 2245 patients who underwent systematic follow-up.58 Until more evidence is available, annual follow-up seems reasonable. There is extensive evidence to support the central role of consultation with a dietitian in patients with NR CD or if gluten contamination is suspected.218, 219 There is no evidence to suggest that medical follow-up by a dietitian and a doctor together is better (or worse) in terms of outcome than follow-up done by either provider alone. There are several methods to assess adherence to GFD: visits with the doctor and/or dietitian, serology, biopsy of intestine, and structured surveys. The gold standard for monitoring adherence to GFD is consultation with a skilled dietitian.220 All serologic markers associated with celiac autoimmunity are gluten-dependent. A decrease from baseline values is expected within months of strict adherence to the GFD.221, 222 A gluten challenge produces increasing values of antibodies.222 Lack of declining values and/or persistently positive serology one year after starting a GFD strongly suggest gluten contamination.219 Persistently positive serology was seen in only 1% of patients who underwent annual follow-up during a 5 year period.58 Serology is not accurate to detect lesser degrees of gluten contamination. Seroconversion after GFD does not necessarily imply healing of the intestine.73, 223, 224 The only accurate method available to verify intestinal healing is biopsy. Structured short surveys have been explored as an alternative to dietitian consultation for quick assessment of adherence to the diet.225–227 More studies are needed to examine the role of survey instruments for assessment of adherence in practice. Patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms despite GFD require additional work-up to investigate the presence of disorders commonly associated with NRCD (see “Evaluation of nonresponsive celiac disease” for details).228 Observational experience from referral centers support the role of upper endoscopy with intestinal biopsies for evaluation of Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NRCD.218, 219, 229 Intestinal biopsies are the only way to document healing of the intestine. In adults, the intestine will often fail to heal despite negative serology and absence of symptoms.73, 224, 230 This lack of healing may increase the risk of lymphoma, bone disease and ultimately the development of refractory CD.73, 231 A large Swedish study demonstrated no risk of lymphoma (HR = 0.97; 95% CI = 0.44 to 2.14) among patients with normal histology
