NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


may not be universal. Low serum vitamin B12 was present in about 12% of patients with CD, correction should be expected with adequate replacement and GFD.205 NON-RESPONSIVE OR REFRACTORY CELIAC DISEASE Recommendations 1. Patients with non-responsive celiac disease should be evaluated carefully to identify and treat the specific etiology in each patient. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. Early steps in the evaluation should include measurement of celiac serologies and a thorough review of the patient’s diet by a dietician who is experienced in CD management. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 3. Differentiation should be made between Type I and Type II refractory CD as this is important for management and prognosis. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) refractory CD. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 5. Patients with RCD should be monitored closely and receive aggressive nutritional support including parenteral nutrition whenever indicated. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) Summary of Evidence—Non-responsive celiac disease may be defined as persistent symptoms, signs or laboratory abnormalities typical of CD despite 6 to 12 months of dietary gluten avoidance.218, 219, 242, 243 NRCD is common affecting from 7% to 30% of patients treated with a gluten free diet for CD.218, 219, 242 There are many distinct etiologies including inadvertent gluten ingestion (the most common cause), other food intolerances (including lactose and fructose intolerance), small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, microscopic colitis, pancreatic insufficiency, irritable bowel syndrome and refractory CD.218, 219, 242–247 Thus, careful evaluation is needed to identify and treat the specific source in any given patient.218, 219, 242, 243 The first step in evaluation is to re-confirm the initial diagnosis of CD by review of small intestinal histology and serology obtained at the time of diagnosis.(Figure 4) If the diagnosis of CD is not correct then response to a GFD is not to be expected and alternative diagnoses and treatments must be considered.248 In those with confirmed CD the ingestion of gluten, either purposeful or inadvertent, is the most common causes of NRCD being identified in 35% to 50% of cases.218, 219 Thus, a careful evaluation of the patient’s diet by a dietician who is experienced in CD management is the next important assessment. This evaluation should also seek other food intolerances, for example to lactose or fructose. Celiac serologies are
