NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


Type I RCD. Traditional medical treatment in severe cases consists of systemic steroid Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript therapy with prednisone or a similar agent. In patients with an incomplete response to steroid treatment or who recur when the steroid dose is reduced, immunosuppressive agents such as azathioprine can be used. Recent reports indicate that budesonide or small intestinal release mesalamine may be effective and carry the potential advantage of causing fewer side-effects.255–257 The general approach to management of Type II RCD is the same as for Type I RCD.115, 244–246 However, symptoms and signs of disease are more severe in Type II RCD and are less likely to respond to therapy. Malnutrition in Type II RCD may be profound and require parenteral nutritional support. In one study, the 5 year survival of patients with Type II RCD was 44% compared to 93% for Type I RCD.244 Causes of death included lymphoma, malnutrition and sepsis. There are no published randomized, controlled trials of therapy for Type II RCD and there are no treatments of proven efficacy. Agents that are used for treatment include systemic corticosteroids, enteric-coated budesonide, azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, cyclosporine, anti-TNF antibodies or cladribine.6, 115, 116, 244, 252, 255, 258–261 Transformation to enteropathy-associated T cell lymphoma (EATCL) is a prominent risk and may require treatment by surgery, chemotherapy or bone marrow transplantation. 262, 263 In some patients EATCL may run a prolonged, non-aggressive course but the overall prognosis remains poor. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 1. Patients with symptoms, signs, or laboratory evidence suggestive of malabsorption, such as chronic diarrhea with weight loss, steatorrhea, postprandial abdominal pain and bloating, should be tested for CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 2. Patients with symptoms, signs, or laboratory evidence for which CD is a treatable cause should be considered for testing for CD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 3. Patients with a first degree family member who has a confirmed diagnosis of CD should be tested if they show possible signs or symptoms or laboratory evidence of CD. 4. Consider testing of asymptomatic relatives with a first degree family member who has a confirmed diagnosis of CD (Conditional recommendation, high level of evidence) 5. Celiac disease should be sought among the explanations for elevated serum aminotransferase levels when no other etiology is found, (Strong recommendation,
