NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


of CD (Conditional recommendation, high level of evidence) 5. Celiac disease should be sought among the explanations for elevated serum aminotransferase levels when no other etiology is found, (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 6. Patients with type I diabetes mellitus should be tested for CD if there are any digestive symptoms, or signs, or laboratory evidence suggestive of celiac disease. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 7. IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase antibody is the preferred single test for detection of CD in individuals over the age of 2 years. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 8. When there exists a high probability of CD the possibility of IgA deficiency is considered, total IgA should be measured. An alternative approach is to include both IgA and IgG based testing, such as IgG deamidated gliadin peptides [DGP], in Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript these high probability patients. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 9. In patients in whom low IgA or selective IgA deficiency is identified, IgG-based testing (IgG deamidated gliadin peptides [DGP] and IgG tissue transglutaminase [TTG]) should be performed. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 10. If the suspicion of CD is high, intestinal biopsy should be pursued even if serologies are negative. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 11. All diagnostic serologic testing should be done with patients on a gluten-containing diet. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 12. Antibodies directed against native gliadin are not recommended for the primary detection of CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 13. Combining several tests for CD in lieu of TTG IgA alone may marginally increase sensitivity for CD but reduces specificity therefore are not recommended in low risk populations. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 14. When screening children younger than 2 years of age for CD, the IgA TTG test should be combined with deamidated gliadin peptide (IgA and IgG). (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 15. The confirmation of a diagnosis of CD should be based on a combination of findings from the medical history, physical examination, serology, and upper endoscopy with histological analysis of multiple biopsies of the duodenum. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 16. Upper endoscopy with small bowel biopsy is a critical component of the diagnostic evaluation for persons with suspected CD and is recommended to confirm the diagnosis.
