NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


level of evidence) 16. Upper endoscopy with small bowel biopsy is a critical component of the diagnostic evaluation for persons with suspected CD and is recommended to confirm the diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 17. Multiple biopsies of the duodenum (one or two biopsies of the bulb and at least 4 biopsies of the distal duodenum) are recommended to confirm the diagnosis CD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 18. Lymphocytic infiltration of the intestinal epithelium in the absence of villous atrophy is not specific for CD and other causes should also be considered. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 19. Human leukocyte antigen DQ2/DQ8 testing should not be used routinely in the initial diagnosis of CD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 20. Human leukocyte antigen DQ2/DQ8 genotyping testing should be used to effectively rule out the disease in selected clinical situations. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Examples of such clinical situations include but are not limited to: a. Equivocal small bowel histological finding (Marsh I–II) in seronegative patients b. Evaluation of patients on a GFD in whom no testing for CD was done before GFD c. Patients with discrepant celiac specific serology and histology d. Patients with suspicion of refractory CD where the original diagnosis of celiac remains in question e. Patients with Down’s syndrome Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 21. Capsule endoscopy should not be used for initial diagnosis except when positive celiac specific serology who are unwilling or unable to undergo upper endoscopy with biopsy. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 22. Capsule endoscopy should be considered for the evaluation of small bowel mucosa in patients with complicated CD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 23. Intestinal permeability tests, D-xylose, and small bowel follow-through are neither specific nor sensitive and are not recommended for CD diagnosis. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 24. Stool studies or salivary tests are neither validated nor recommended for use in the diagnosis of CD. (Strong recommendation, weak level of evidence) 25. Symptoms or symptom response to a GFD alone should not be used to diagnosis CD as these do not differentiate CD for from non-celiac gluten sensitivity. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 26. A diagnosis of non-celiac gluten sensitivity should be considered only after CD has been excluded with appropriate testing.
