NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


for from non-celiac gluten sensitivity. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 26. A diagnosis of non-celiac gluten sensitivity should be considered only after CD has been excluded with appropriate testing. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 27. While standard diagnostic tests (specific serology and intestinal biopsy) have a high positive predictive value for CD, they should not be relied upon to exclude CD in patients already adhering to a GFD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 28. Human leukocyte antigen DQ2/DQ8 genotyping should be used to try to exclude celiac disease prior to embarking on a formal gluten challenge. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 29. CD should be differentiated from non-celiac gluten sensitivity in order to identify risk for nutritional deficiency states, complications of CD, risk for CD and associated disorders in family members and to influence the degree and duration of adherence to the GFD. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 30. Formal gluten challenge should be considered, where necessary, to diagnose or exclude CD in patients already adhering to a GFD. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 31. Despite the disadvantages of neither confirming nor excluding a diagnosis of CD, some patients will opt to continue on a strictly GFD without undergoing formal gluten challenge; such patients should be managed in a similar fashion to those with known CD. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 32. People with CD should adhere to a gluten free diet for life. A gluten free diet entails strict avoidance of all products containing the proteins from wheat, barley and rye. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 33. While pure oats appear to be safely tolerated by the majority of people with CD, oats should be introduced into the diet with caution and patients should be monitored closely for evidence of adverse reaction. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 34. People with CD should be referred to a registered dietitian who is knowledgeable about CD in order to receive a thorough nutritional assessment and education on the gluten free diet. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript 35. People with newly diagnosed CD should undergo testing and treatment for micronutrient deficiencies. Deficiencies to be considered for testing should include, but not be limited to, iron, folic acid, vitamin D, and vitamin B12. (Conditional
