NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, evidence, recommendation, level, manuscript, author, level evidence, author manuscript, gluten, gfd, strong, strong recommendation, diagnosis, nih-pa, nih-pa author


should undergo testing and treatment for micronutrient deficiencies. Deficiencies to be considered for testing should include, but not be limited to, iron, folic acid, vitamin D, and vitamin B12. (Conditional recommendation, low level of evidence) 36. People with CD should be monitored regularly for residual or new symptoms, adherence to GFD, and assessment for complications. In children, special attention to assure normal growth and development is recommended.. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 37. Periodic medical follow-up should be performed by a health care practitioner with knowledge of CD. Consultation with a dietitian should be offered if gluten contamination is suspected. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 38. Monitoring of adherence to GFD should be based on a combination of history and serology (IgA TTG or IgA [or IgG] deamidated gliadin peptide antibodies). (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 39. Upper endoscopy with intestinal biopsies is recommended for monitoring in cases with lack of clinical response or relapse of symptoms despite a GFD. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 40. Monitoring of people with CD should include verification of normalization of laboratory abnormalities detected during initial laboratory investigation. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 41. Patients with non-responsive celiac disease should be evaluated carefully to identify and treat the specific etiology in each patient. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 42. Early steps in the evaluation should include measurement of celiac serologies and a thorough review of the patient’s diet by a dietician who is experienced in CD management. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) 43. Differentiation should be made between Type I and Type II refractory CD as this is important for management and prognosis. (Strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence) refractory CD. (Conditional recommendation, moderate level of evidence) 45. Patients with RCD should be monitored closely and receive aggressive nutritional support including parenteral nutrition whenever indicated. (Strong recommendation, high level of evidence) Acknowledgments Abbreviations AGA anti-gliadin antibodies CD celiac disease DGP deamidated gliadin peptides EMA endomysium antibody Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 May 01. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript ESPGHAN European Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition GFD gluten-free diet HLA human leukocyte antigen Ig immunoglobulin NRCD non-responsive celiac disease NPV negative predictive value PPV positive predictive value RCD refractory celiac disease TTG tissue transglutaminase
