HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Published in final edited form as: Gastroenterology. 2020 April ; 158(5): 1450–1461. doi:. American Gastroenterological Association Institute Clinical Guideline on the Management of Moderate to Severe Ulcerative Colitis Joseph D. Feuerstein, MD1, Kim L. Isaacs, MD2, Yecheskel Schneider, MD3, Shazia Gastroenterological Association Institute Clinical Guidelines Committee 1Division of Gastroenterology and Center for Inflammatory Bowel Diseases, Beth Israel Philadelphia, PA Healthcare System, Cleveland, Ohio INTRODUCTION This document presents the official recommendations of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) on the management of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (UC). The guideline was developed by the AGA Institute’s Clinical Guidelines Committee and approved by the AGA Governing Board. It is accompanied by a technical review that provides a detailed synthesis of the evidence from which these recommendations were formulated.1 Development of this guideline and the accompanying technical review was fully funded by the AGA Institute without additional outside funding. Members of the guideline panel and technical review panel were selected by the AGA Governing Board in consultation with the Clinical Guidelines Committee with careful consideration of all Institute of Medicine recommendations for clinical guideline development. Joseph Feuerstein was the guideline panel chair and Siddharth Singh was the methodologist and co- chair of the guideline panel. A patient representative was also included in the development and review process and had no recommended changes. The guideline and accompanying 4930 Del Ray Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. , Telephone: (301) 941-2618. Anticipated update: 3 years from publication (2023) Guideline Panel: Joseph Feuerstein (Chair), Siddharth Singh (Co-chair, GRADE Methodologist), Kim Isaacs (Member), Yecheskel GRADE Methodologist) Technical Review Panel: Jessica Allegretti (Content expert), Jonathan Terdiman (Content expert), Siddharth Singh (GRADE Methodologist), Shazia Mehmood Siddique (Trainee GRADE Methodologist) Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript technical review underwent independent peer review, and a 30-day open public comment period; all comments were collated by the AGA staff, and were reviewed and carefully considered by the guideline panel and technical review teams, respectively. Changes were incorporated in revised documents, and where changes were not accepted, a thoughtful trials (VARSITY, UNIFI) were published and a critical safety update on tofacitinib was issued by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). At the recommendation of the Clinical incorporate this new evidence as presented here. In accordance with the Clinical Guidelines Guideline Committee meeting for new information. The next update for these
