HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


if a drug (excluding corticosteroids and cyclosporine) is started for and is effective for induction of remission or response, it will be continued for maintenance of remission. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript This guideline addresses the medical management of adult outpatients with moderate to severe UC as well as the medical management of adult hospitalized patients with ASUC. The guideline focuses on immunomodulators, biologics, and small molecules for induction and maintenance of remission (for moderate to severe UC) and decreasing the risk of separate recommendations for induction and maintenance of remission. The drugs are listed in order of FDA approval unless specifically mentioned. The first seven questions are focused on the medical management of adult outpatients with moderate to severe UC; the subsequent four questions are focused on adult patients hospitalized with ASUC, focusing on initial management, and rescue therapy in cases of corticosteroid-refractory disease. We acknowledge challenges in defining moderate disease activity and severity, with variable the AGA guideline on the management of mild to moderate UC.9 This guideline does not address surgical management of moderate to severe UC or ASUC. Therapeutic drug monitoring to guide the use of biologic therapy has been addressed in separate AGA guidelines.10 The guideline is intended for the use of gastroenterology providers, primary care providers, surgeons, patients and policymakers. For this guideline, critical outcomes for decision-making for adults with moderate to severe UC were induction and maintenance of remission, and for hospitalized adults with ASUC was short-term colectomy risk (within 3 months of hospitalization), and are reported in the evidence profiles. Important outcomes of interest were induction and maintenance of endoscopic remission, maintenance of corticosteroid-free remission, serious adverse events (including serious infections and malignancy), and treatment tolerability (drug discontinuation due to adverse events). These were considered in evidence synthesis especially if inadequate or conflicting data was observed for critical outcomes. Safety considerations with these medications have been synthesized in the accompanying technical review. In the recommendations presented in this guideline, estimates of effects of different medications are presented as the risk for failure to induce or maintain remission, i.e., a relative risk (RR) or odds ratio (OR) <1 suggests that the drug under consideration is more effective than the comparison drug or placebo for induction or maintenance of remission. This guideline was developed using a process described elsewhere.11 Briefly, the AGA
