HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


1.72–4.94). Likewise, all active interventions were superior to placebo for maintenance of remission (infliximab: RR, 2.25; 95% CI, 1.67–3.05; adalimumab: RR, 2.28; 95% CI, 1.52–3.42; golimumab RR, 1.88; 95% CI, 1.32–2.68; vedolizumab RR, 2.31; 95% CI, 1.63–3.28; tofactinib 5mg twice daily RR, 3.09; 95% CI, 1.99–4.79; ustekinumab RR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.33–2.49). All medications were well-tolerated with low rates of serious adverse events in both trials of induction and maintenance therapy, not significantly different from placebo. Importantly, the recommended induction dose of tofacitinib is 10mg twice daily for 8 weeks; in select cases with modest response to initial 8 week therapy, high dose tofacitinib may considered for total 16 weeks. For long-term maintenance, tofacitinib 5mg twice daily is recommended for most patients; a higher dose may be considered in patients who lose response at 5mg twice daily dose after careful of risks and benefits of the medication. At higher doses, an unexpected increase in risk of pulmonary embolism and all-cause mortality has been observed. The overall quality of evidence for this recommendation was moderate for both induction and maintenance of remission. While majority of the studies were registration trials sponsored by industry, there was no important bias, inconsistency or indirectness. The evidence was rated down for imprecision due to the lower number of events (< 200) for all comparisons, failing to achieve the optimal information size. 2a. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis who are naïve to biologic agents, the AGA suggests using infliximab or vedolizumab rather than adalimumab, for induction of remission. (Conditional recommendation, moderate quality evidence) Comment: Patients, particularly those with less severe disease, who place higher value on the convenience of self- administered subcutaneous injection, and a lower value on the relative efficacy of medications, may reasonably chose adalimumab as an alternative. 2b. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis who are naïve to biologic agents, the AGA Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript knowledge gap) Comment: Updated FDA recommendations ([DATE]) on indications for use of tofacitinib in ulcerative colitis recommends its use only after failure of, or intolerance to TNFα antagonists. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC naïve to biologic agents, the guideline panel suggests using infliximab or vedolizumab, rather than adalimumab for induction of remission. Based on updated FDA document on approved indication for tofacitinib use only in patients after failure of, or
