HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


suggests using infliximab or vedolizumab, rather than adalimumab for induction of remission. Based on updated FDA document on approved indication for tofacitinib use only in patients after failure of, or intolerance to TNFα antagonists, the guideline panel recommends that any use of tofacitinib in biologic-naïve patients with UC be closely vedolizumab are intravenous medications that require infusions, which may be inconvenient to some patients. For these patients, particularly those with less severe disease, who value the convenience of self-administered injection therapy, adalimumab may be a reasonable alternative option as first-line biologic therapy. In the head-to-head trials comparing vedolizumab vs. adalimumab in patients with vedolizumab-treated patients vs. adalimumab-treated patients (34.2% vs. 24.3%; RR, 1.41; 95% CI, 1.10–1.81) amongst biologic-naïve patients. For all other comparisons, evidence on comparative efficacy was derived from a network meta-analysis. Network meta-analysis can help assess comparative efficacy of several interventions and synthesize evidence across a network of RCTs, especially if there is weak (or absent) direct evidence.14 Such indirect comparisons of competing interventions, adjusted by a common control, such as placebo, can partially take account of prognostic characteristics of patients in different trials. The analysis included 15 RCTs with a total of 3747 biologic-naïve patients with moderate-severe UC, treated with infliximab (4 trials, 667 patients), adalimumab (4 trials, 1046 patients), golimumab (2 trials, 586 patients), vedolizumab (3 trials, 630 patients), tofacitinib (2 trials, 520 patients) and ustekinumab (1 trial, 298 patients) were included (see technical review). For this body of evidence for induction therapy, trial design, participant characteristics, interventions, comparators and outcomes for trials of infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, vedolizumab and ustekinumab were deemed reasonably similar to facilitate indirect comparison. In contrast, trials of tofacitinib were deemed dissimilar since they used a strict rectal bleeding score of zero for outcome assessment (in contrast to other trials which allowed rectal bleeding score of 0 or 1 in outcome assessment). See the technical review and technical review tables 3–5 for full details regarding this analysis. On network meta- analysis, there was moderate confidence in estimates demonstrating the superiority of infliximab over adalimumab (OR, 2.10; 95% CI, 1.16–3.79) (evidence rated down for optimized to suggested drug concentrations; it is possible that the efficacy of infliximab, adalimumab and golimumab may be comparable in patients who achieve adequate drug concentrations given their similar mechanism of action. 2c. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis who have previously been exposed to infliximab, particularly those
