HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


in patients who achieve adequate drug concentrations given their similar mechanism of action. 2c. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis who have previously been exposed to infliximab, particularly those with primary non-response, the AGA suggests using ustekinumab or tofacitinib, rather than vedolizumab or adalimumab for induction of remission. (Conditional recommendation, low quality evidence) Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Comment: Patients, particularly those with less severe disease, who place higher value on the potential safety of medications, and a lower value on the relative efficacy of medications, may reasonably chose vedolizumab as an alternative. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC who have previously been exposed to infliximab, especially those with primary non-response, the guideline panel suggests using ustekinumab or tofacitinib rather than vedolizumab or adalimumab for induction of remission. In the VARSITY trial, ~21% patients had received prior treatment with a TNFα antagonist other than adalimumab. In these patients, there was no significant differences in rates of was deemed to be low quality (rated down for very serious imprecision). A separate network meta-analysis was also performed comparing trials of different agents in patients with moderate-severe UC, who had previously been exposed to TNFα antagonists. The network meta-analysis included 7 RCTs with 1580 patients with prior exposure to TNFα antagonists. Infliximab and golimumab were excluded, since the published studies only included biologic-naïve patients (see technical review Table 5). Of note, all these comparisons were rated down for intransitivity. Prior treatment exposure and response is an important effect modifier. Study level estimates did not report what proportion of patients had exposure to more than one TNFα antagonist and whether patients had exposure to multiple different classes of biologics. There was low confidence in estimates supporting higher efficacy of tofacitinib and ustekinumab over adalimumab (tofacitinib vs. adalimumab: OR, 11.05; 95% CI, 1.79–68.41; ustekinumab vs. adalimumab: OR, 10.71; 95% CI, 2.01–57.20), and over vedolizumab (tofacitinib vs. vedolizumab: OR, 6.18; 95% CI, 1.00–38.00); ustekinumab vs. with prior exposure to TNFα antagonists. The guideline panel was explicit in stating these conditional recommendations apply only for patients with prior exposure to infliximab. Given prior evidence supporting superiority of infliximab over adalimumab or golimumab in biologic-naive patients with moderate-severe UC and lack of direct evidence in adalimumab- or golimumab-exposed patients, benefit of switching to vedolizumab, ustekinumab or tofacitinib over infliximab, in patients with prior exposure to
