HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


patients with moderate-severe UC and lack of direct evidence in adalimumab- or golimumab-exposed patients, benefit of switching to vedolizumab, ustekinumab or tofacitinib over infliximab, in patients with prior exposure to adalimumab or golimumab, is uncertain. As noted in AGA’s therapeutic drug monitoring guidelines, switching out of class may be reasonable in case of lack of response despite achieving adequate drug concentration.10 Data for maintenance of remission could not be reliably synthesized using network meta- analysis due to significant differences in clinical trial designs – trials of infliximab and adalimumab were treat-straight through trials, whereas maintenance trials of golimumab, vedolizumab, tofacitinib and ustekinumab re-randomized responders to induction therapy – and lack of stratification of data by prior biologic exposure. However, as with standard continued for maintenance of remission as well. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3a. In adult outpatients with active moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests against using thiopurine monotherapy for INDUCTION of remission. (Conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) 3b. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis in remission, the AGA suggests using thiopurine monotherapy, rather than no treatment, for MAINTENANCE of remission. (Conditional recommendation low quality of evidence) The panel suggests against using thiopurine monotherapy for induction of remission in adult outpatients with active moderate-severe UC. However, in patients who have achieved remission (typically induced with corticosteroids), the panel suggests using thiopurine monotherapy rather than no treatment for maintenance of remission. There were three trials comparing thiopurines vs. placebo and two trials comparing thiopurines vs. 5-aminosalycilates (5-ASA) for inducing corticosteroid free remission.16–20 In four out of five trials, patients were considered corticosteroid-dependent, unable to taper different disease activity indices were used in these studies, outcome of corticosteroid-free remission was assessed at variable intervals from 4 weeks to 52 weeks, and in patients with active disease started simultaneously on thiopurines and corticosteroids, it was unclear whether remission was induced by corticosteroids or thiopurines. Although thiopurines were associated with a higher rate of corticosteroid-free clinical remission compared to placebo or 5-ASA (RR, 1.25; 95% CI, 1.01–1.56), the overall quality of evidence was deemed very low due to serious risk of bias, imprecision, and indirectness (outcome definition and assessment). Based on the slow onset of action of thiopurines, they are unlikely to be effective as monotherapy for induction of remission in patients with active disease, in the absence
