HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


assessment). Based on the slow onset of action of thiopurines, they are unlikely to be effective as monotherapy for induction of remission in patients with active disease, in the absence of corticosteroids. Hence, based on uncertainty of evidence, the guideline panel opted to suggest against the use of thiopurines for induction of clinical remission in patients with active moderate-severe UC. For maintenance of remission, four trials comparing thiopurines vs. placebo and three trials comparing thiopurines vs. 5-ASA were included.17, 18, 20–24 Maintenance of remission was defined as prevention of relapse following corticosteroid-induced remission (5 trials) or as the ability to maintain a corticosteroid-free remission in patients on long-standing thiopurine therapy (2 trials), evaluated between 6–18 months. On meta-analysis, thiopurines were more effective than placebo or 5-ASA for prevention of disease relapse (RR, 0.61; 95% CI, 0.49– 0.77) among patients with inactive UC (in remission). Quality of evidence was rated as low due to risk of bias and imprecision. 3c. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests against using methotrexate monotherapy, for induction or maintenance of remission. (Conditional recommendation, low quality evidence) The guideline panel suggests against the use of methotrexate monotherapy for induction or maintenance of remission for adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Two trials compared methotrexate vs. placebo and one trial compared methotrexate vs. 5- ASA for induction of remission.25, 26 In the pivotal METEOR trial, all patients were on 10– 40mg/day of corticosteroids with or without active disease.25 The primary outcome was corticosteroid-free remission between weeks 12–30. On meta-analysis, there was no significant difference in rates of inducing remission with methotrexate compared to placebo (RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.89–1.94). The quality of evidence was rated as very low due to very serious indirectness (different dosing regimens and modes of administration, variable by corticosteroids or methotrexate), and serious imprecision. For maintenance of remission, two trials compared methotrexate vs. placebo and one compared methotrexate vs. 5-ASA. 18, 25, 26 Similar to induction, there was no difference between methotrexate and placebo/5- ASA for maintenance of remission (RR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.79–1.29). The quality of evidence was rated as very low due to serious indirectness, and very serious imprecision. 4a. In adult outpatients with active moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests using biologic monotherapy (TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab, ustekinumab) rather than thiopurine monotherapy
