HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


to serious indirectness, and very serious imprecision. 4a. In adult outpatients with active moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests using biologic monotherapy (TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab, ustekinumab) rather than thiopurine monotherapy for INDUCTION of remission. (Conditional recommendation, low quality evidence) 4b. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis in remission, the AGA makes no recommendation in favor of, or against, using biologic monotherapy (TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab), rather than thiopurine monotherapy for MAINTENANCE of remission. (No recommendation, knowledge gap) The panel conditionally suggests use of biologic monotherapy rather than thiopurine for induction of remission. The panel makes no recommendation in favor of or against using biologic monotherapy over thiopurine monotherapy for maintenance of remission. vs. azathioprine vs. combination therapy of infliximab with azathioprine,27 as well as indirect evidence based on trials comparing individual medications with placebo. While UC- SUCCESS was designed as an induction and maintenance trial to evaluate the comparative efficacy of monotherapy vs. combination therapy in biologic-naïve adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC (similar to SONIC for Crohn’s disease), the trial was discontinued prematurely by the sponsor before intended enrollment and without completion of the maintenance phase.27 In this trial, there was no difference between infliximab monotherapy and azathioprine monotherapy for achieving corticosteroid-free remission at week 16 (RR, 0.96; 95% CI, 0.53–1.72), albeit based on very low quality evidence. Infliximab monotherapy was superior to thiopurine monotherapy for achieving endoscopic remission, an important outcome. In addition, based on prior evidence synthesis from PICOs 1 and 3 and corresponding recommendations, AGA recommends using biologic agents (TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab) over placebo (moderate quality evidence), whereas it suggests against using thiopurine monotherapy, for induction of remission (very low quality evidence) in adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC. Since UC-SUCCESS was terminated prematurely,27 no head-to-head trials informed comparative efficacy of biologic monotherapy vs. thiopurines for maintenance of remission. As in PICOs 1 and 3, both strategies have been recommended for maintenance of remission, over no treatment. Recognizing lack of evidence, the panel makes no recommendation in Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript favor of or against biologic monotherapy rather than thiopurine monotherapy, for profile of different agents and costs and convenience of therapy may be used to inform choice of agents. 5a. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests combining TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab with thiopurines or methotrexate,
