HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


therapy may be used to inform choice of agents. 5a. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests combining TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab with thiopurines or methotrexate, rather than biologic monotherapy. (Conditional recommendation, low quality evidence) Comment: Patients, particularly those with less severe disease, who place higher value on lower risk of adverse events with biologic monotherapy, and lower value on the relative efficacy of combination therapy, may reasonably chose biologic monotherapy. 5b. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests combining TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab with thiopurines or methotrexate, rather than thiopurine monotherapy. (Conditional recommendation, low quality evidence) The guideline panel suggests combining TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab with thiopurines or methotrexate over biologic monotherapy, or thiopurine monotherapy, in adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC. However, in patients particularly those with less severe disease who place higher value on safety and tolerability of pharmacotherapy may reasonably chose biologic monotherapy. Combination therapy of infliximab with thiopurine compared to infliximab monotherapy was evaluated in UC-SUCCESS, a single three-arm double blind double dummy RCT in biologic-naïve patients with.27 As noted above, this trial was terminated prematurely before planned enrollment and prior to completion of maintenance trial. Patients were randomized to infliximab monotherapy, azathioprine monotherapy, or combined infliximab and azathioprine therapy.27 Combination therapy was more effective for inducing a corticosteroid-free remission at week 16 compared to infliximab monotherapy (RR, 1.78; 95% CI, 1.08–1.94). No trials compared combination therapy of other TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab with immunomodulators vs. biologic monotherapy. Since adding immunomodulators to biologic agents improves pharmacokinetics of the biologic agent (increasing trough concentration and decreasing immunogenicity), the guideline panel extrapolated this indirect evidence favoring combination therapy of thiopurines and infliximab to other TNFα antagonists, vedolizumab or ustekinumab, particularly in patients with unfavorable pharmacokinetics (more severe disease, higher inflammatory burden, low albumin, higher body mass index), even though the immunogenicity of newer biologic agents may be lower than infliximab.28 Evidence supporting the use of combination therapy vs. immunomodulator monotherapy is also based on UC-SUCCESS.27 In this trial, combination of infliximab and thiopurines was superior to thiopurine monotherapy for achieving corticosteroid-free remission at week 16 (RR, 1.70; 95% CI, 1.04–2.78). No clinical trial comparing combination therapy with monotherapy for maintenance of remission was identified. Very low quality evidence from a retrospective French study of 82 patients in remission on combination therapy, suggested that continuing combination infliximab and azathioprine
