HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


for maintenance of remission was identified. Very low quality evidence from a retrospective French study of 82 patients in remission on combination therapy, suggested that continuing combination infliximab and azathioprine was superior to de-escalating to infliximab monotherapy. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Overall, quality of evidence for infliximab-based combination therapy vs. infliximab monotherapy and vs. thiopurine monotherapy for induction of remission was rated as moderate quality (rated down for imprecision). No trials comparing combination therapy of non-infliximab TNFα antagonists (adalimumab, golimumab), vedolizumab or ustekinumab with thiopurines (or methotrexate) vs. biologic monotherapy were identified. Extrapolating from evidence supporting the use of combination of therapy with infliximab, acknowledging lower risk of immunogenicity with newer biologic agents, evidence of other agents was rated as low quality, due to indirectness. Quality of evidence for maintenance of remission was rated as very low due to the observational evidence and serious imprecision. 6. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests early use of biologic agents with or without immunomodulator therapy, rather than gradual step up after failure of 5-aminosalicylates. (Conditional recommendation, very low quality evidence) Comment: Patients, particularly those with less severe disease, who place higher value on the safety of 5-ASA therapy, and lower value on the efficacy of biologic agents, may reasonably choose gradual step therapy with 5-ASA therapy. The guideline panel suggests early use of biologics with or without immunomodulator therapy, or tofacitinib rather than gradual step up therapy after failure of 5-aminosalysilates (5-ASA), in patients with moderate-severe disease activity at high risk of colectomy. However, in patients with less severe disease who place higher value on the safety profile of 5-ASA therapy and lower value on the overall efficacy of biologics may choose to start with 5-ASA therapy. There were no studies identified that compared a strategy of upfront biologic-based therapy or tofacitinib vs. gradual step-up therapy (introducing biologic-based therapy or tofacitinib only after failure of 5-ASA), or that compared biologic-based therapy vs. 5-ASA-based therapy, in patients with moderate-severe UC at high risk of colectomy. Three studies compared thiopurines vs. 5-ASA, in corticosteroid-exposed patients with UC.18, 21, 24 On meta-analysis, thiopurines achieved higher rates of corticosteroid-free remission than 5- ASA. Indirectly extrapolating the data from PICO questions 3 and 4, suggests that biologic- based therapy will likely be more effective than 5-ASA-based therapy. Importantly, 5-ASAs have not
