HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


than 5- ASA. Indirectly extrapolating the data from PICO questions 3 and 4, suggests that biologic- based therapy will likely be more effective than 5-ASA-based therapy. Importantly, 5-ASAs have not been specifically studied in patients with moderate-severe disease activity, and their use is limited to patients with mild-moderate disease activity. Delaying effective treatment to induce remission in patients with moderate-severe UC at high risk of colectomy may be harmful due to ongoing untreated active disease, increasing risk of UC-related complications, hospitalization, colectomy and overall inferior quality of life. The overall quality of evidence supporting this recommendation was rated as very low due to serious indirectness and imprecision. 7. In adult outpatients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis who have achieved remission with biologic agents and/or immunomodulators, or tofacitinib, the AGA suggests against continuing 5-aminosalicylates for induction and maintenance of remission. (Conditional recommendation, very low quality evidence) Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The guideline panel suggests against continuation of 5-ASA in adult outpatients with moderate-severe UC for induction and maintenance of remission, who have previously failed 5-ASA and have been escalated to a biologic agent and/or immunomodulators or tofacitinib. randomized to either continuation of azathioprine with olsalazine or de-escalation to azathioprine alone. In two years of follow up, there were no differences in risk of relapse between the two groups (RR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.77–1.34). There were no studies of systematic withdrawal of 5-ASA in biologic- or tofacitinib-treated patients with moderate-severe UC. Indirect evidence from sub-group analysis of RCTs comparing rates of induction and maintenance of remission in patients who were vs. were not concomitantly on 5-ASA at trial entry was used. On meta-analysis, there was no differences in rates of inducing or maintaining clinical remission in TNFα antagonist- or tofacitinib-treated patients who were vs. were not on concomitant 5-ASA at trial entry (Induction: RR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.74–1.18l maintenance: RR, 0.92; 95% CI, 0.78–1.09). Of note, these trials did not assess effect of systematic withdrawal of 5-ASAs in biologic- or tofacitinib-treated patients. Overall quality of evidence was rated as low due to imprecision and indirectness of evidence. This recommendation did not factor in whether continuing 5-ASAs may or may not have a chemoprotective benefit against colorectal cancer in patients with UC. While studies have variably shown an association between 5-ASA use and lower risk of colorectal cancer in patients with
