HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


have a chemoprotective benefit against colorectal cancer in patients with UC. While studies have variably shown an association between 5-ASA use and lower risk of colorectal cancer in patients with UC,29, 30 recent data suggests that chronically active disease is a risk factor for colon cancer and that sustained remission is protective regardless of the type of therapy used.31 MANAGEMENT OF HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS WITH ACUTE SEVERE ULCERATIVE COLITIS 8. In hospitalized adult patients with acute severe ulcerative colitis, the AGA suggests using intravenous methylprednisolone dose equivalent of 40 to 60mg/d rather than higher dose intravenous corticosteroids. (Conditional recommendation, very low quality evidence) The guideline panel suggests using intravenous corticosteroids at doses equivalent to 40– 60mg/day of methylprednisolone rather than higher doses of intravenous corticosteroids to decrease risk of colectomy in hospitalized adults with ASUC. Intravenous corticosteroids are the mainstay of management of hospitalized adults with ASUC. There were no head-to-head trials comparing different doses of corticosteroids in hospitalized patients with ASUC. In a systematic review evaluating the risk factors for colectomy in patients with ASUC, Turner and colleagues observed that mean methylprednisolone dose was 68mg/day (range 40–100mg) in hospitalized patients with ASUC; on meta-regression after controlling for baseline disease severity, there was no correlation between corticosteroid dose and risk of colectomy (R2<0.01).32 In included trials, different intravenous corticosteroid regimens (different formulations, given once daily vs. multiple times daily vs. as continuous infusion) were used, and none was superior to Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript others. Based on models estimating risk and risk factors for colectomy in patients with ASUC, corticosteroid trials of 3–5 days are suggested; continued use of corticosteroids beyond 7 days has not been shown to be effective in non-responding patients.32, 33 Overall quality of evidence was rated as very low due to observational nature of evidence and indirectness in approach to comparing efficacy. 9. In hospitalized adult patients with acute severe ulcerative colitis without infections, the AGA suggests against adjunctive antibiotics. (conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence) The guideline panel suggests against the routine use of adjunctive antibiotics for the treatment of ASUC in patients without gastrointestinal or extra-intestinal infections. Four RCTs comparing antibiotics vs. no antibiotics/placebo for the treatment of ASUC were identified.34–37 Different antibiotics were used, with durations ranging from 5–10 days. On meta-analysis, the addition of antibiotics was not superior to
