HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


respectively, in patients randomized to infliximab (p=0.97). Importantly, in these trials, randomized treatment was offered for 12–14 weeks, after which treatment decisions were deferred to treating physicians. After the initial randomization period, 1- and 5-year cumulative use of infliximab in cyclosporine-treated patients was 45.7% and 57.1%, respectively; in contrast, only 4 infliximab-treated patients switched to cyclosporine.41, 42 Overall quality of evidence supporting the use of infliximab or cyclosporine over placebo for ASUC refractory to intravenous corticosteroids was rated as moderate quality (imprecision) or low quality (very serious imprecision), respectively. Evidence supporting the comparability of infliximab and cyclosporine decreasing risk of short-term colectomy in hospitalized patients with corticosteroid-refractory ASUC was rated as low quality (open- label trials with high risk of bias, and imprecision). 11. In hospitalized adult patients with acute severe ulcerative colitis, refractory to intravenous corticosteroids, being treated with infliximab, the AGA makes no recommendation on routine use of intensive vs. standard infliximab dosing. (No recommendation, knowledge gap) The guideline panel makes no recommendation regarding routine use of intensive vs. standard infliximab dosing in adult patients hospitalized with ASUC refractory to intravenous corticosteroids. There were no RCTs comparing different dosing regimens in patients hospitalized with ASUC. Five observational studies compared outcomes in patients hospitalized with ASUC refractory to intravenous corticosteroids, being treated with different infliximab regimens. 43–46 Intensive dosing regimens included either shortened interval between the infliximab dosing (<2 weeks, dose stacking) and/or induction with higher dose infliximab (10mg/kg) either upfront or at time of dose stacking, without a standard protocol. On meta-analysis of these observational studies, there was no significant difference in the short-term risk of colectomy intensive vs. standard infliximab dosing regimens (RR 1.61; 95% CI, 0.74–3.52). In two studies, upfront induction with higher dose infliximab (10mg/kg) was superior to dose stacking with standard doses (5mg/kg), with lower risk of colectomy (RR, 0.24; 95% CI, 0.08–0.68). Overall, quality of evidence was rated as very low quality due to serious risk of bias, inconsistency and imprecision. Biologically, patients with corticosteroid-refractory ASUC have a high inflammatory burden that may result in accelerated consumption and fecal wasting of infliximab resulting in low serum concentrations and immunogenicity.47 Additionally, given that the drug is albumin bound and many of these patients are malnourished in the setting of ASUC, the systemic drug concentration of biologics may be lower. Hence, it is plausible that intensive regimens may be more effective than standard induction with
