HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


malnourished in the setting of ASUC, the systemic drug concentration of biologics may be lower. Hence, it is plausible that intensive regimens may be more effective than standard induction with infliximab. However, this entire body of observational evidence is confounded by disease severity, wherein patients at intrinsically higher risk of colectomy, or those who have inadequate response to standard induction dose, are treated with more intensive regimens. As a result, given the lack of robust evidence in this setting to guide therapy, this remains a knowledge gap in need of further research to better guide therapy for the ideal induction regimens for infliximab in hospitalized patients with ASUC refractory to intravenous corticosteroids. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript SUMMARY These practice recommendations for the management of moderate-to-severe UC were developed using the GRADE framework and in adherence to the standards established by this guideline is to promote high quality, high value evidence-based care for patients with moderate-to-severe UC. Current evidence supports use of infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, vedolizumab, and tofacitinib for the induction and maintenance of remission in moderate-severe UC. Thiopurine monotherapy should not be used for induction of remission but may be considered for maintenance of remission; in contrast, methotrexate monotherapy, orally or subcutaneously, should not be used for induction or maintenance of remission. Network meta-analysis suggests that infliximab and vedolizumab may be preferred first-line therapy in biologic-naïve patients, rather than standard-dose adalimumab or golimumab, with limited evidence to inform appropriate positioning of tofacitinib. In patients with prior exposure to infliximab, particularly those with primary non-response to induction therapy, vedolizumab or tofacitinib may be preferred over adalimumab or golimumab. Combination therapy of a biologic agent with an immunomodulator is more effective than monotherapy with either agent, though patients, particularly those with less severe disease and those averse to side effects from medications, may opt for monotherapy. In patients with moderate-severe disease activity, at high risk of colectomy, biologic agents with or without an immunomodulator, or tofacitinib, should be used early rather than gradual step up therapy after failure of 5-aminosalicylates. Patients in remission with biologic agents and/or immunomodulators or tofacitinib after prior failure of 5-ASA, may discontinue 5- aminosalicylates. Among hospitalized patients with ASUC, after excluding alternative etiologies, intravenous methylprednisolone doses of 40–60mg/day or equivalent are mainstay of therapy. Routine use of adjunctive antibiotics in patients without infections is
