HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, remission, author, author manuscript, manuscript, evidence, infliximab, therapy, guideline, induction, monotherapy, maintenance, quality, manuscript author, trials


Among hospitalized patients with ASUC, after excluding alternative etiologies, intravenous methylprednisolone doses of 40–60mg/day or equivalent are mainstay of therapy. Routine use of adjunctive antibiotics in patients without infections is not recommended. Patients who are refractory to 3–5 days trial of intravenous corticosteroids, who prefer ongoing medical management, may be treated with either infliximab or cyclosporine. In patients being treated with infliximab, no recommendation can be made regarding routine use of intensive vs. standard infliximab dosing. AREAS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH The guideline panel identified multiple knowledge gaps and areas for future research in patients with moderate-severe UC. With the increasing number of different drug classes available to treat UC, there is a clear need for identifying biomarkers predictive of response to individual therapies, to facilitate optimal positioning of therapies; in addition, head-to- head trials will directly inform comparative efficacy, and strengthen quality of evidence derived from network meta-analyses. Besides efficacy, safety is an important consideration with different therapies, and different treatment strategies offer distinct risk-benefit profiles. A comprehensive personalization of therapy based on key treatment attributes (efficacy, safety, speed of onset of action, co-interventions, convenience) is warranted to optimally Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 April 22. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript inform shared-decision making. There is limited evidence regarding the utility and duration of combination therapy of biologics and immunomodulators in patients with UC, particularly with newer agents with lower immunogenicity and with better optimization of biologic agents through therapeutic drug monitoring. Treatment targets with UC are in evolution. It is unclear how well targeting an integrated clinical and biomarker remission compares to endoscopic remission, and whether there may be incremental benefit to treating to a target of histologic remission. Finally, there is considerable paucity of evidence on optimally using existing therapies and novel treatment options for hospitalized patients with ASUC who are refractory to intravenous corticosteroids. The management of these patients, at very high-risk of colectomy in the short-term, also need to be prioritized. Acknowledgements Singh; Siddharth Singh; Stuart Spechler; Grace Su; Aaron P. Thrift; Jennifer M. Weiss; and Adam V. Weizman. This document presents the official recommendations of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) on the management of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. The guideline was developed by the AGA’s Clinical Practice Guideline Committee and approved by the AGA Governing Board. Development of this guideline and its accompanying technical review was fully funded by
