Broad complex tachycardia—Part II - PMC
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, ventricular, ventricular tachycardia, origin, complex, broad, supraventricular, block, qrs, broad complex, branch, complex tachycardia, bundle, conduction, atrial


origin In the presence of aberrant conduction or ventricular pre-excitation, any supraventricular tachycardia may present as a broad complex tachycardia and mimic ventricular tachycardia. Atrial tachycardia with aberrant conduction Aberrant conduction is defined as conduction through the atrioventricular node with delay or block, resulting in a broader QRS complex. Aberrant conduction usually manifests as left or right bundle branch block, both of which have characteristic features. The bundle branch block may predate the tachycardia, or it may be a rate related functional block, occurring when atrial impulses arrive too rapidly for a bundle branch to conduct normally. When atrial fibrillation occurs with aberrant 4/14 conduction and a rapid ventricular response, a totally irregular broad complex tachycardia is produced. The Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is discussed in more detail in an earlier article, on junctional tachycardias Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome Broad complex tachycardias may also occur in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, either as an antidromic atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia or in association with atrial flutter or fibrillation. Antidromic atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia In this relatively uncommon tachycardia the impulse is conducted from the atria to the ventricles via the accessory pathway. The resulting tachycardia has broad, bizarre QRS complexes. Atrial fibrillation In patients without an accessory pathway the atrioventricular node protects the ventricles from the rapid atrial activity that occurs during atrial fibrillation. In the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome the atrial impulses are conducted down the accessory pathway, which may allow rapid conduction and consequently very fast ventricular rates. Drugs that block the atrioventricular node—such as digoxin, verapamil, and adenosine —should be avoided as they can produce an extremely rapid ventricular response The impulses conducted via the accessory pathway produce broad QRS complexes. Occasionally an impulse will be conducted via the atrioventricular node and produce a normal QRS complex or a fusion beat. The result is a completely irregular and often rapid broad complex tachycardia with a fairly constant QRS pattern, except for occasional normal complexes and fusion beats. Differentiating between ventricular and supraventricular origin 5/14 Clinical presentation Age is a useful factor in determining the origin of a broad complex tachycardia: a tachycardia in patients aged over 35 years is more likely to be ventricular in origin. A history that includes ischaemic heart disease or congestive cardiac failure is 90% predictive of ventricular tachycardia. Danger of misdiagnosis The safest option is to regard a broad complex tachycardia of uncertain origin as ventricular tachycardia unless good evidence suggests a supraventricular
