Broad complex tachycardia—Part II - PMC
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, ventricular, ventricular tachycardia, origin, complex, broad, supraventricular, block, qrs, broad complex, branch, complex tachycardia, bundle, conduction, atrial


90% predictive of ventricular tachycardia. Danger of misdiagnosis The safest option is to regard a broad complex tachycardia of uncertain origin as ventricular tachycardia unless good evidence suggests a supraventricular origin If a ventricular tachycardia is wrongly treated as supraventricular tachycardia, the consequences may be extremely serious Giving verapamil to a patient with ventricular tachycardia may result in hypotension, acceleration of the tachycardia, and death The symptoms associated with broad complex tachycardia depend on the haemodynamic consequences of the arrhythmia—that is, they relate to the heart rate and the underlying cardiac reserve rather than to the origin of the arrhythmia. It is wrong to assume that a patient with ventricular tachycardia will inevitably be in a state of collapse; some patients look well but present with dizziness, palpitations, syncope, chest pain, or heart failure. In contrast, a supraventricular tachycardia may cause collapse in a patient with underlying poor ventricular function. Clinical evidence of atrioventricular dissociation—that is, “cannon” waves in the jugular venous pulse or variable intensity of the first heart sound—indicates a diagnosis of a ventricular tachycardia The absence of these findings, however, does not exclude the diagnosis. Electrocardiographic differences Direct evidence of independent P wave activity is highly suggestive of ventricular tachycardia, as is the presence of fusion beats or captured beats. The duration of QRS complexes is also a key differentiating feature: those of >0.14 s generally indicate a ventricular origin. Concordance throughout the chest leads also indicates ventricular tachycardia. 6/14 In ventricular tachycardia the rhythm is regular or almost regular; if the rhythm is obviously irregular the most likely diagnosis is atrial fibrillation with either aberrant conduction or pre-excitation A previous electrocardiogram may give valuable information. Evidence of a myocardial infarction increases the likelihood of ventricular tachycardia, and if the mean frontal plane axis changes during the tachycardia (especially if the change is >40° to the left or right) this points to a ventricular origin. Adenosine can also be used to block conduction temporarily through the atrioventricular node to ascertain the origin of a broad complex tachycardia, but failure to stop the tachycardia does not necessarily indicate a ventricular origin Ventricular tachycardia and supraventricular tachycardia with bundle branch block may produce similar electrocardiograms. If a previous electrocardiogram shows a bundle branch block pattern during sinus rhythm that is similar to or identical with that during the tachycardia, the origin of the tachycardia is likely to be supraventricular.
