HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Published in final edited form as: Gastroenterology. 2022 September ; 163(3): 764–774.e1. doi:. AGA Clinical Practice Update: Diagnosis and Management of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) in Lean Individuals: Expert Review Boston, MA; 2Fatty Liver Program, Karsh Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA; Haven, CT Abstract Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is well-recognized as a leading etiology for chronic liver disease, affecting over 25% of the U.S. and global population. Up to one in four individuals with NAFLD have nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality due to complications of liver cirrhosis, hepatic decompensation, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Although NAFLD is observed predominantly in persons with obesity and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus, an estimated 7–20% of individuals with NAFLD have lean body habitus. Limited guidance is available to clinicians on appropriate clinical evaluation in lean individuals with NAFLD, such as for inherited/genetic disorders, lipodystrophy, drug- induced NAFLD, and inflammatory disorders. Emerging data now provide more robust evidence to define the epidemiology, natural history, prognosis, and mortality of lean individuals with NAFLD. Multiple studies reveal that NAFLD among lean individuals is associated with increased Practice Update provides Best Practice Advice to assist clinicians in evidence-based approaches to the diagnosis, staging, and management of NAFLD in lean individuals. Street 7th Floor, Boston MA, 02118, , Tel: (617) 638-8392, Fax: (617) 638-6529. *Equal contribution Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. Conflicts of Interest: MTL is on the advisory board for Novo Nordisk and receives research grant support from Echosens Corporation and Gilead Sciences. MN has been on the advisory board/consultant for 89BIO, Altimmune, Gilead, cohBar, Cytodyn, Intercept, Pfizer, Novo Nordisk, Blade, EchoSens, Fractyl, Madrgial, NorthSea, Prespecturm, Terns, Siemens and Roche diagnostic; MN has received research support from Allergan, BMS, Gilead, Galmed, Galectin, Genfit, Conatus, Enanta, Madrigal, Novartis, Pfizer, Shire, Viking and Zydus; MN is a shareholder or
