HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


Siemens and Roche diagnostic; MN has received research support from Allergan, BMS, Gilead, Galmed, Galectin, Genfit, Conatus, Enanta, Madrigal, Novartis, Pfizer, Shire, Viking and Zydus; MN is a shareholder or has stocks in Anaetos, Chrownwell, Ciema, Rivus Pharma and Viking. JKL has received research contracts (to Yale Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Methods—This expert review was commissioned and approved by the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute Clinical Practice Updates Committee and the AGA Governing Board to provide timely guidance on a topic of high clinical importance to the AGA membership and underwent internal peer review by the Clinical Practice Updates Committee and external peer review through standard procedures of Gastroenterology. Best Practice Advice Statements—Best Practice Advice #1: Lean NAFLD should be diagnosed in individuals with NAFLD and a BMI < 25 kg/m2 (non-Asian race) or a BMI <23 kg/m2 (Asian race). Best Practice Advice #2: Lean individuals with NAFLD should routinely be evaluated for comorbid conditions, such as type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. Best Practice Advice #3: Lean individuals with NAFLD should be risk stratified for hepatic fibrosis to identify those with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis. Best Practice Advice #4: Lean individuals in the general population should not undergo routine screening for NAFLD; however, screening should be considered for individuals over the age of 40 with type 2 Diabetes. Best Practice Advice #5: NAFLD should be considered in lean individuals with metabolic diseases (such as type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, and hypertension), elevated liver biochemical tests, or incidentally noted hepatic steatosis. Best Practice Advice #6: Clinicians should routinely query patients regarding alcohol consumption patterns in all patients with lean NAFLD. Best Practice Advice #7: In patients with lean NAFLD, other causes of liver disease should be ruled out, including other causes of fatty liver, such as HIV, lipodystrophy, LAL-D, familial hypobetalipoproteinemia, and medication-induced hepatic steatosis (methotrexate, amiodarone, tamoxifen, and steroids). Best Practice Advice #8: Current evidence is inadequate to support routine testing for genetic variants in patients with lean NAFLD. Best Practice Advice #9: Liver biopsy, as the reference standard, should be considered if there is uncertainty regarding contributing causes of liver injury and/or the stage of liver fibrosis. Best Practice Advice #10: Serum indices (NAFLD fibrosis score and FIB-4) and imaging techniques (transient elastography and MRI elastography) may be used as alternatives to liver biopsy for fibrosis staging and patient follow-up. These tests can be performed
