HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


score and FIB-4) and imaging techniques (transient elastography and MRI elastography) may be used as alternatives to liver biopsy for fibrosis staging and patient follow-up. These tests can be performed at the time of diagnosis and repeated at intervals of 6 months to 2 years, depending on fibrosis stage and the patient’s response to intervention. Best Practice Advice #11: If noninvasive tests (e.g., FIB-4 and NFS) are indeterminate, a second noninvasive test, (e.g., transient elastography or MR elastography) should be performed to confirm the stage and prognosis of NAFLD. Best Practice Advice #12: In lean patients with NAFLD, lifestyle intervention, including exercise, diet modification, and avoidance of fructose and sugar-sweetened drinks, to target a modest weight loss of 3–5% is suggested. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Best Practice Advice #13: Administration of vitamin E may be considered in lean persons with biopsy-confirmed NASH but without type 2 diabetes or cirrhosis. Pioglitazone 30 mg po mg daily may be considered in lean persons with biopsy-confirmed NASH with or without type 2 diabetes but without cirrhosis. Best Practice Advice #14: The therapeutic role of glucagon peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors in the management of lean NAFLD is not fully defined and requires further investigation. Best Practice Advice #15: Hepatocellular carcinoma surveillance with abdominal ultrasound with or without serum AFP twice per year is suggested in patients with lean NAFLD and clinical markers compatible with liver cirrhosis. Introduction Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is well-recognized as a leading etiology for States (U.S.) and global population.1 Up to one in four patients with NAFLD may have non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality due to complications of liver cirrhosis, hepatic decompensation, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).1 In the context of rising incidence and prevalence of NAFLD in tandem with obesity and the metabolic syndrome, NAFLD-associated cirrhosis and HCC now represent a leading indication for liver transplantation in the U.S.2, 3 Although NAFLD is observed predominantly in persons with obesity and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), an estimated 7–20% of individuals with NAFLD have lean body habitus.1, 4–7 Although similar NASH pathogenesis may be observed in lean patients with NAFLD, rates of disease progression, associated conditions, and the diagnostic and management approach differs for lean vs non-lean patients with NAFLD. There is a major unmet need
