HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


lean patients with NAFLD, rates of disease progression, associated conditions, and the diagnostic and management approach differs for lean vs non-lean patients with NAFLD. There is a major unmet need to provide clear guidance to clinicians regarding the evaluation and management of NAFLD among lean patients. This review is designed to provide best practice advice on several key clinical issues pertaining to the diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment of NAFLD in lean individuals. We developed 15 Best Practice Advice statements to address key issues with high clinical relevance. Best Practice Advice #1: Lean NAFLD should be diagnosed in individuals with NAFLD and a BMI < 25 kg/m2 (non-Asian race) or a BMI <23 kg/m2 (Asian race). Lean NAFLD is generally defined by the presence of NAFLD in an individual who does not have an overweight or obese body mass index (BMI). For adults, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO) define a normal range BMI to be between 18.5 – 24.9 kg/m2, whereas a BMI of 25 – 29.9 kg/m2 is considered overweight and a BMI of 30 – 34.9 kg/m2 is grade 1 obesity.8 The WHO recommends a lower BMI cut-off for overweight and obesity (BMI of 23 – 27.5 kg/m2 to define overweight and BMI > 27.5 kg/m2 for obesity) for those of Asian ancestry, recognizing that different populations may experience metabolic risk at a lower BMI.8, 9 Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript We suggest using the term ‘lean NAFLD’ when discussing NAFLD in the setting of a normal range BMI, while considering race-based cut-offs. Although the terms ‘non-obese’ NAFLD and ‘lean’ NAFLD are sometimes used interchangeably, this review will focus on lean patients as defined by normal BMI. Recent findings from the Global NAFLD/NASH Registry revealed that approximately 6.8% of patients with confirmed NASH have lean body habitus and, relative to overweight/obese patients, this cohort appeared to be older, more often Asian, and had fewer components of the metabolic syndrome, while retaining similar risk for advanced liver fibrosis.10 Data from NHANES III epidemiology survey revealed that 10.8% of lean individuals had evidence of NAFLD, and were characterized as more likely to be older and more frequently men.11 Best Practice Advice #2: Lean individuals with NAFLD should routinely be evaluated for comorbid conditions, such as T2DM, dyslipidemia, and hypertension.
