HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


lean NAFLD had lower stages of fibrosis at baseline, but a higher risk for developing severe liver disease compared to non-lean patients Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with NAFLD.15 These findings highlight that individuals with lean NAFLD are at risk for progressive liver disease, independent of weight gain, and should not be classified as having a benign NAFLD phenotype. All patients with lean NAFLD should undergo risk stratification with non-invasive tests (NITs) to identify those at highest risk for progression (see BPA #10). Best Practice Advice #4 Lean individuals in the general population should not undergo routine screening for NAFLD; however, screening should be considered for individuals over the age of 40 with T2DM. If approximately 10–20% of individuals with NAFLD are lean, this translates to 8–10 million adults in the US with lean NAFLD.20 There is a lack of consensus on who should be screened for NAFLD, regardless of BMI. The European Association for the Study of Liver (EASL) and the European Diabetes and Obesity societies recommend screening for NAFLD in all patients with obesity or metabolic syndrome.21 The American Diabetes Association recommends evaluation for NASH and hepatic fibrosis in persons with T2DM and elevated liver biochemical tests or fatty liver on ultrasound.22 The American Association for the Study of Liver Disease (AASLD) does not endorse NAFLD screening,23 and cites limited cost-effectiveness for screening for NAFLD in patients with T2DM.24 However, emerging data suggest that screening and risk stratification pathways are cost-effective when applied to those with T2DM.25–27 This led to the recent adoption for screening in high risk individuals by the AGA28. Since the prevalence of NAFLD among lean individuals is relatively low, general screening for NAFLD among lean individuals is not advised. However, screening for NAFLD and subsequent risk stratification for advanced fibrosis should be performed in lean persons with T2DM. Best Practice Advice #5: NAFLD should be considered in lean individuals with metabolic diseases (such as T2DM, dyslipidemia, and hypertension), elevated liver biochemical tests, or incidentally noted hepatic steatosis. In individuals with multiple cardiometabolic disease risk factors, elevations in liver biochemical tests, or incidentally noted hepatic steatosis, NAFLD should be considered in the differential diagnosis across the BMI range.29 We suggest that the initial diagnostic approach should be the same for lean or non-lean individuals with suspected NAFLD. In the case of elevated liver
