HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


diagnosis across the BMI range.29 We suggest that the initial diagnostic approach should be the same for lean or non-lean individuals with suspected NAFLD. In the case of elevated liver biochemical tests, patients should undergo standard evaluation including for drug induced liver injury and chronic liver diseases.30 Best Practice Advice #6: Clinicians should routinely query patients regarding alcohol consumption patterns in all patients with lean NAFLD. When distinguishing between NAFLD and alcohol-related liver disease, many consider an average alcohol consumption over 14 drinks/week for women or 21 drinks/week for men to be consistent with alcohol-related liver disease rather than NAFLD.23 However, alcohol use below this threshold likely contributes to liver fat. In a recent cohort study of participants who consumed alcohol within thresholds consistent with NAFLD, higher average weekly alcohol use associated with a higher prevalence of computed tomography- defined NAFLD.31 Moreover, alcohol use patterns, including the number of drinking days per week, the maximum number of drinks consumed in 24 hours, and binge drinking Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript providers query patients on alcohol use and alcohol consumption patterns when considering possible contributions of alcohol to hepatic steatosis. Additionally, under-reported alcohol use likely contributes to the misdiagnosis of NAFLD in lean individuals. Sensitive biomarkers of alcohol use including urine ethyl glucuronide (detection within 3–5 days) and blood phosphatidylethanol (detection within 1–2 weeks) can be considered to exclude alcohol overuse. Best Practice Advice #7. In patients with lean NAFLD, other causes of liver disease should be ruled out, including other causes of fatty liver, such as HIV, lipodystrophy, LAL-D, familial hypobetalipoproteinemia, and medication-induced hepatic steatosis.. Causes of primary or secondary steatosis in lean persons should be considered. The causes of “lean NAFLD” include those related to diet (e.g., high fructose or high fat intake); changes in fat distribution of the body (e.g., visceral obesity); changes in body composition (e.g., lipodystrophy in HIV and non-HIV persons); medications (methotrexate, amiodarone, tamoxifen, and corticosteroids); and rare congenital abnormalities, such as lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D), familial hypobetalipoprotein B, and abetalipoproteinaemia.32, 33 Other conditions that should be considered are viruses (e.g., hepatitis C genotype 3), nutritional and gastrointestinal tract related factors (e.g., total parental nutrition), endocrine disorders (e.g., hypothyroidism), and toxin exposures (e.g. vinyl chloride) (Table 1).33 We suggest a step-wise approach to ruling out alternative diagnoses for lean individuals with suspected
