HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


total parental nutrition), endocrine disorders (e.g., hypothyroidism), and toxin exposures (e.g. vinyl chloride) (Table 1).33 We suggest a step-wise approach to ruling out alternative diagnoses for lean individuals with suspected NAFLD, particularly if cardiometabolic risk factors are absent and should be guided by clinical context as outlined in Table 2. Best Practice Advice #8. Current evidence is inadequate to support routine testing for genetic variants in patients with lean NAFLD. NAFLD pathophysiology is complex and is likely the result of interactions between many factors, including the interplay between genetic variants and environmental factors. In up to 75% of cases,34 variable hepatic fat accumulation has been found related to inherited factors. Genetic variants in PNPLA3 I148M, TM6SF2 E167K, MBOAT7, GCKR, HSD17B13 are the most common variants related to NAFLD and its severity.35 These variants, especially the PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 variants,36,37 ,38 have been associated with the severity of steatosis, steatohepatitis, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and mortality.39 On the other hand, HSD17B13 has been linked to robust protection against liver inflammation, cirrhosis, HCC, and even to mortality.40, 41 Measurement of polygenic risk scores has evolved as a potential method to balance the genetic variants and achieve higher accuracy in correlating the disease and its severity. The risk scores are a weighted sum of disease-risk alleles that a person carries.34 ,42 ,43, 44 The polygenic or genetic risk given the paucity of data on genetic variants in lean NAFLD, routine genotyping in lean NAFLD patients is not advised.45–48 Additional studies are needed to inform an evidence- based approach to the selection of patients for genetic testing, appropriate assays, test Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Best Practice Advice #9. Liver biopsy, as the reference standard, should be considered if there is uncertainty regarding contributing causes of liver injury and/or the stage of liver fibrosis. Liver biopsy is considered the reference standard for identifying NASH and staging hepatic fibrosis.23, 49 However, liver biopsy is invasive, and is associated with sampling errors and both intra-observer and inter-observer variability.23 Despite its drawbacks, liver biopsy is the definitive method for diagnosing NAFLD/NASH, especially in the lean NAFLD population, and to exclude alternative etiologies (see Table 1). Liver biopsy should therefore be considered in lean patients with NAFLD if other causes cannot be excluded through routine testing. Additionally, liver biopsy, along with other
