HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


etiologies (see Table 1). Liver biopsy should therefore be considered in lean patients with NAFLD if other causes cannot be excluded through routine testing. Additionally, liver biopsy, along with other specific tests (see Table 2) may be helpful in the considerations of more rare causes of lean NAFLD. As a standard practice, a tissue sample of 2-cm length or greater is preferred to allow an accurate reading.50 The Brunt criteria and Kleiner score can be used to assess those patients who have NASH to provide categorical assessment of disease activity and fibrosis .51, 52 Best Practice Advice #10. Serum indices (NAFLD fibrosis score and FIB-4) and imaging techniques (transient elastography and MRI elastography) may be used as alternatives to liver biopsy for fibrosis staging and patient follow-up. These tests can be performed at the time of diagnosis and repeated at intervals of 6 months to 2 years, depending on fibrosis stage and the patient’s response to intervention. Given the limitations of liver biopsy, numerous noninvasive tests (NITs) have been developed and have shown accuracy in the assessment of NAFLD-related fibrosis in lean individuals (Supplementary Table).53 NITs can be categorized into: 1) those that use Fibrosis-4 score (FIB-4) and NAFLD Fibrosis score (NFS); 2) imaging tools that quantify liver stiffness, the most frequently used method being transient elastography (TE), but two-dimensional shear wave elastography (2D-SWE) and magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) are also used; and 3) blood-based biomarkers of liver fibrosis, such as the enhanced liver fibrosis (ELF) test.53–59 Since fibrosis is the histologic feature most associated with poor outcomes, many NITs are focused on identifying NAFLD-related fibrosis and/or fibrotic NASH. Few studies have specifically evaluated NITs in lean individuals with NAFLD. In a multi-center study of 709 participants with NAFLD of whom 11% were lean, the AUROC curves for identifying advanced fibrosis were generally higher for most NITs among lean compared to obese participants.60 In a study in patients with lean NAFLD, FIB-4 and NFS performed similarly in lean and obese patients, which is important as BMI is a part of the NFS calculation.60 Importantly, NITs had high negative predictive values, which demonstrates the usefulness at ruling out advanced fibrosis. Finally, this study has also shown that vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE or TE) has similar performance in lean and obese patients. MRE, with two-dimensional magnetic resonance elastography (2D-MRE), has been accurate in assessing fibrosis in patients with NAFLD61. Although studies with
