HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


or TE) has similar performance in lean and obese patients. MRE, with two-dimensional magnetic resonance elastography (2D-MRE), has been accurate in assessing fibrosis in patients with NAFLD61. Although studies with MRE in lean NAFLD have not been conducted, MRE is thought to be less affected by BMI or body habitus.61 MRE should be considered, when available, as a confirmatory test for fibrosis assessment (Fig 1). The ELF test consists of measurements of N-terminal propeptide of type III Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript procollagen, hyaluronic acid, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1. ELF has been used to assess hepatic fibrosis in addition to predicting liver outcomes. A systematic review and meta-analysis showed that an ELF low cut-off value of 7.7 has a sensitivity of 0.93 (95% CI 0.82–0.98) for excluding fibrosis and ELF at a high cutoff at 9.80 had a high specificity of 0.86 (95% CI 0.77–0.92) for diagnosing fibrosis56. ELF has not been tested in patients with lean NAFLD, and further studies are needed. We conclude that ELF may be used as a confirmatory prognostic test in patients with lean NAFLD until further data are available. We have proposed an algorithm for assessing and staging lean NAFLD patients. (Fig 1). Longitudinal NIT assessment of fibrosis should be considered every 6 months to 1 year in patients who have ≥F2 and every 1–2 years in those who have F0 or F1 fibrosis. Best Practice Advice #11. The results of some noninvasive tests (e.g., FIB-4 and NFS) may fall within the indeterminate zone. In this circumstance, a second noninvasive test, (e.g., transient elastography or MR elastography), if available, should be performed to confirm the stage and prognosis of the NAFLD. Sequential testing, with two serologic tests or a serologic test combined with an imaging test, is likely to minimize the frequency of indeterminate cases and improve diagnostic accuracy. A study from primary care clinics in England assessed sequential testing of FIB-4 followed by TE among patients with T2DM.62 That strategy led to a nearly 7-fold increased diagnostic rate for identifying advanced fibrosis, and the data were supported by a meta-analysis that assessed > 5700 patients in whom sequential testing with FIB-4 and TE improved the sensitivity and specificity to rule in or rule out advanced fibrosis.63 Data from the UK demonstrated that a FIB4+ELF care pathway reduced the referral of
