HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


FIB-4 and TE improved the sensitivity and specificity to rule in or rule out advanced fibrosis.63 Data from the UK demonstrated that a FIB4+ELF care pathway reduced the referral of patients with mild disease.64 Limited data specific to lean patients with NAFLD are available. However, sequential testing with serum tests and elastography may increase the accuracy of NITs in fibrosis staging in this population (Fig 1). Finally, given that patients with NASH and ≥F2 fibrosis are the targeted population for focused on combining biomarkers to identify NASH and ≥F2 fibrosis or “at risk NASH” more accurately. The MRE Elastography Fibrosis-4 (MEFIB-4) scores combine MRE with FIB-4 in diagnosing ≥F2 fibrosis with high accuracy and excellent PPV65. The FibroScan- AST (FAST) score combines the steatosis values measured via controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) on TE, LSM on TE, and AST values to diagnose at risk NASH, with an AUROC between 0.8 and 0.85.66 The MRI-AST (MAST) score combines the steatosis values measured via MRI proton density fat fraction (PDFF), LSM on MRE, and AST to diagnose patients with at risk NASH; MAST had an AUROC of 0.93 in the derivation cohort and an AUROC of 0.86 in the validation cohort.67 Finally, NIS-4 is a blood-based biomarker panel that consists of miR-34a-5p, alpha-2 macroglobulin, YKL-40, and glycated hemoglobin.68 The NIS-4 test assesses at risk NASH68 and it had an AUROC of 0.80 (95% CI 0.73–0.85) in the discovery cohort. These tests have not been evaluated in lean NAFLD, but they may be used in identifying patients with at risk NASH (Fig 1). The advantage of these tests is that they measure steatohepatitis combined with fibrosis, thus examining the entire spectrum of the disease pathobiology. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Best Practice Advice #12. In lean patients with NAFLD, lifestyle intervention, including exercise, diet modification, and avoidance of fructose and sugar-sweetened drinks, to target a modest weight loss of 3–5% is suggested. Lifestyle modification and medical weight loss through hypocaloric diet and exercise is recommended advised as a first-line intervention for treatment of NAFLD. However, specific guidance on how best to operationalize recommendations in obese and lean on host and liver disease factors. Current 2017 guidelines of the AASLD address the role of lifestyle modification as follows: “Weight loss generally reduces hepatic steatosis, achieved either by hypocaloric diet alone or in conjunction
