HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


factors. Current 2017 guidelines of the AASLD address the role of lifestyle modification as follows: “Weight loss generally reduces hepatic steatosis, achieved either by hypocaloric diet alone or in conjunction with increased physical activity.23 In a large longitudinal study which included over 2000 lean adults with NAFLD, weight reduction over a median follow-up of 3 years was associated with NAFLD resolution in a dose dependent manner.69 A randomized controlled trial from Asia investigated the effects of a 12 month lifestyle intervention on weight reduction and MR-spectroscopy liver fat fraction in non-obese and obese patients.70, 71 As expected, more patients in the intervention group had improvement in MR-liver fat, regardless of their obesity-status. Interestingly, almost half of non-obese individuals achieved NAFLD remission with 3–5% weight loss, while the same was reached in obese individuals with 7–10% weight loss. After up to 6 years of follow-up, non-obese patients in the lifestyle intervention group were more likely to maintain weight loss and ALT normalization compared to the reference group. Other studies have shown that physical activity, aerobic and anerobic exercise were associated with reduction in liver fat and other metabolic benefits independent of weight loss.72–74 Finally, high fructose consumption is a well-known risk factor for NAFLD/NASH, especially in children and adolescents. In a study of young nonobese individuals without metabolic risk factors, the single independent factor for the detection of NAFLD was higher juice and soft drink intake contributing up to a four-fold increase risk of NAFLD compared with individuals consuming less sugar-sweetened beverages.75 Therefore, limiting fructose intake is suggested in particular in younger lean patients with NAFLD. Based on these data, we recommend modest weight loss of 3–5% in lean persons with NAFLD as it has been found to be beneficial. Although, the type of diet in lean NAFLD should be studied further, patients may benefit from limiting fructose and sugar-sweetened beverages. Exercise, increasing physical activity, and decreasing visceral fat are beneficial as well. Best Practice Advice #13. Administration of vitamin E may be considered in lean persons with biopsy-confirmed NASH but without T2DM or cirrhosis. Pioglitazone 30 mg po mg daily may be considered in lean persons with biopsy-confirmed NASH without cirrhosis. The current drug development efforts are predominantly focused on patients with NASH who are overweight and obese; indeed, many trials exclude lean patients. Therefore, evidence on effective pharmacotherapy in lean patients with NASH remains inadequate. Treatment options for individuals
