HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: nafld, lean, patients, liver, manuscript, author, author manuscript, fibrosis, individuals, practice, lean nafld, best, practice advice, nash, advice


patients with NASH who are overweight and obese; indeed, many trials exclude lean patients. Therefore, evidence on effective pharmacotherapy in lean patients with NASH remains inadequate. Treatment options for individuals with NASH include vitamin E (limited to patients without T2DM) or pioglitazone, both endorsed as first-line treatment options by the AASLD and EASL.23 The Pioglitazone vs Vitamin E vs Placebo for Treatment of Non-Diabetic Patients Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 September 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (PIVENS) trial that compared pioglitazone, vitamin E, and placebo in patients with NASH but without T2DM reported improvement in liver biochemistry, inflammation, and fibrosis in the vitamin E and pioglitazone treatment arms.76 Subsequent studies have confirmed the role of pioglitazone in improving NASH histology in persons with or without T2DM.77, 78 Vitamin E, at its recommended dose of 800 IU daily, has shown potent antioxidant properties and improved histology in NASH patients.79, 80 However, some concerns have been raised about its potential increase in all-cause mortality, haemorrhagic shock, and prostate cancer.79, 80 Pioglitazone has been associated with adverse reactions, including weight gain, peripheral edema, heart failure and fractures; therefore the use of PPAR-γ agonists requires individualized assessment in patients with NASH.79, 80 The use of either vitamin E or pioglitazone should be restricted to patients with biopsy- confirmed NASH. Best Practice Advice #14. The therapeutic role of glucagon peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors in the management of lean NAFLD is not fully defined and requires further investigation. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists and sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are promising agents for the treatment of NASH.81–83 84, 85 Ongoing trials with GLP-1 receptor agonists in NASH patients are mostly enriched with overweight and obese patients. Until further data are available, the use of GLP-1 receptor agonists or SGLT2 inhibitors is premature for the treatment of lean NASH but may be considered in the management of comorbid metabolic conditions such as T2DM. Best Practice Advice #15: Hepatocellular carcinoma surveillance with abdominal ultrasound with or without serum AFP twice per year is suggested in patients with lean NAFLD and clinical markers compatible with liver cirrhosis. Cirrhosis, whether secondary to NAFLD or other causes, is a well-established risk factor for incident hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).86, 87 The AASLD guidelines, along with most experts, recommend considering screening for HCC in all patients with cirrhosis.88 functional
