A Systems-Based Approach to Safety in Pituitary Surgery
KEYWORDS: pituitary, surgery, surgical, pituitary surgery, pubmed, table, safety, intraoperative, patient, tumor, complications, postoperative, team, risk, clinical


ABSTRACT Background. Perioperative management of patients with pituitary tumors is challenging, because it involves complex anatomical, physiological, and pathological considerations that require meticulous attention and seamless teamwork across all stages of care. Objective. This review aims to explore a comprehensive, safety-oriented approach to pituitary surgery by integrating technical precision with system-level safeguards. Scope and Methods. We present a narrative review of the perioperative continuum of pituitary surgery, with an emphasis on structured safety strategies and teamwork models. Key Findings and Clinical Implications. Patient safety must be the foundation of every phase of care. Incorporating frameworks such as the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist, Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) pathways, Reason’s Swiss-cheese model, Non-Technical Skills for Surgeons (NOTSS), Resilience Engineering, and Surgical Coaching, creates defensive layers that reduce risk. Conclusion. This integrated, team-based application of perioperative frameworks has the potential to reduce complications and move pituitary surgery closer to a model of zero harm. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Pituitary adenomas represent 10–15% of intracranial tumors and exhibit a range of clinical characteristics depending on factors such as size, growth pattern, hormone secretion, and histopathology ( 1 ). In recent years, substantial progress has been made in the management of pituitary adenomas; however, surgical intervention remains the cornerstone of treatment in most cases ( 2 ). The main objectives of surgery are to relieve compression of the optic chiasm caused by the tumor, and, in cases of functioning adenomas, normalize hormone levels to resolve related endocrine syndromes ( 3 ). Furthermore, surgery provides histological material for accurate diagnosis, which is essential for tumor subtyping and guiding subsequent therapy ( 4 , 5 ). Pharmacological options play a critical role in reducing tumor size, controlling hormone hypersecretion, and offering non-invasive alternatives or adjuncts to surgery ( 6 ). The decision to proceed with surgery depends on multiple factors, including tumor size, location, and invasiveness, as well as the patient’s age, comorbidities, and functional status. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT), play crucial roles in surgical planning and offer insights into tumor characteristics and surrounding anatomical structures. The surgeon’s expertise and experience are also critical considerations ( 7 , 8 ), and it is advisable that patients be treated in Pituitary Tumor Centers of Excellence (PTCOE ) ( 7 ). The transsphenoidal approach is the most commonly used
