Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


second half of the 20th century, adjusted life years (59.1 million) . Despite this although considerable controversy remains over how much we information,thetobaccoepidemiccontinues,withatleast1mil- owe to the effect ofscientific medicine and how much to con- lion more deaths attributable to tobacco in 2000 than in 1990, tinued improvements in our environment . mainly in developing countries. This balance between the potential of the basic biological The application ofepidemiological approaches to the study sciences and simpler public health measures for affecting the of large populations over a long period has provided further health ofour societies in both industrial and developing coun- invaluable information about environmental factors and dis- tries remains controversial and is one ofthe major issues to be ease. One of the most thorough—involving the follow-up of faced by those who plan the development of health care ser- more than 50,000 males in Framingham, Massachusetts— vices for the future. showed unequivocally that a number of factors seem to be linked with the likelihood ofdeveloping heart disease(Castelli and Anderson 1986). Such work led to the concept of risk SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND MEDICINE factors,among them smoking,diet (especially the intake ofani- IN THE 20TH CENTURY mal fats),blood cholesterol levels,obesity,lack ofexercise,and elevated blood pressure. The appreciation by epidemiologists Although rapid gains in life expectancy followed social change that focusing attention on interventions against low risk factors that involve large numbers of people,as opposed to focusing ences was slow during the first halfofthe 20th century,possi- onthe small number ofpeople at high risk,was an important bly because ofthe debilitating effect oftwo major world wars. advance.Later,it led to the definition of how important envi- The position changed dramatically after World War II,a time ronmental agents may interact with one another—the that many still believe was the period ofmajor achievement in increased risk of death from tuberculosis in smokers in India, the biomedical sciences for improving the health of society. for example. This section outlines some ofthese developments and the effect Asubstantialamountofworkhasgoneintoidentifyingrisk they have had on medical practice in both industrial and devel- factors for other diseases, such as hypertension, obesity and oping countries. More extensive treatments of this topic are its accompaniments, and other forms of cancer. Risk factors available in several monographs (Cooter and Pickstone 2000; definedinthisway,andfromsimilaranalysesofthepathological Porter 1997;Weatherall 1995). 120 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Brian Greenwood, Heng Leng Chee, and others roleofenvironmentalagentssuchasunsafewater,poorsanita- updating results have made it possible to provide
