Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


Porter 1997;Weatherall 1995). 120 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Brian Greenwood, Heng Leng Chee, and others roleofenvironmentalagentssuchasunsafewater,poorsanita- updating results have made it possible to provide broad-scale tionandhygiene,pollution,andothers,formthebasisof The analyses combining the results of many different trials. WorldHealthReport2002(WHO2002c),whichsetsoutapro- Although meta-analysis has its problems—notably the lack of gramforcontrollingdiseasegloballybyreducing10conditions: publication ofnegative trial data—and although many poten- underweight status; unsafe sex; high blood pressure; tobacco tial sources ofbias exist in the reporting ofclinical trials,these consumption; alcohol consumption; unsafe water, sanitation, difficulties are gradually being addressed (Egger,Davey-Smith, and hygiene; iron deficiency; indoor smoke from solid fuels; and Altman 2001). highcholesterol;andobesity.Theseconditionsarecalculatedto More recent developments in this field come under the gen- accountformorethanone-thirdofalldeathsworldwide. eral heading of evidence-based medicine (EBM) (Sackett and The epidemiological approach has its limitations,however. others 1996).Although it is self-evident that the medical pro- Where risk factors seem likely to be heterogeneous or of only fession should base its work on the best available evidence,the limited importance, even studies involving large populations rise of EBM as a way of thinking has been a valuable addition continue to give equivocal or contradictory results. to the development of good clinical practice over the years. Furthermore,a major lack of understanding,on the part not It covers certain skills that are not always self-evident, just of the general public but also of those who administer including finding and appraising evidence and, particularly, pretation of risk.The confusing messages have led to a certain practice. Its principles are equally germane to industrial and amount ofpublic cynicism about risk factors,thus diminishing developing countries, and the skills required, particularly the effect ofinformation about those risk factors that have been numerical,will have tobecome part ofthe education ofphysi- established on a solid basis.Why so many people in both indus- cians of the future.To this end,the EBM Toolbox was estab- trial and developing countries ignore risk factors that are based lished (Web site: on solid data is still not clear; much remains to be learned evidence for best practice obtained from large clinical trials about social, cultural, psychological, and ethnic differences may not always apply to particular patients;obtaining a balance with respect to education about important risk factors for dis- between better EBM and the kind ofindividualized patient care ofrisk factors in the developing countries . challenge for medical education. A more recent development in the field of clinical epidemiology—one that may have major implications for PartialControlofInfectiousDisease. Thecontrolofcommu- developing countries—stems from the
