Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


the developing countries . challenge for medical education. A more recent development in the field of clinical epidemiology—one that may have major implications for PartialControlofInfectiousDisease. Thecontrolofcommu- developing countries—stems from the work of Barker (2001) nicablediseasehasbeenthemajoradvanceofthe20thcentury and his colleagues, who obtained evidence suggesting that inscientificmedicine.Itreflectsthecombinationofimproved death rates from cardiovascular disease fell progressively with environmentalconditionsandpublichealthtogetherwiththe increasing birthweight, head circumference, and other meas- development of immunization, antimicrobial chemotherapy, ures of increased development at birth. Further work has and the increasing ability to identify new pathogenic organ- suggested that the development ofobesity and type 2 diabetes, isms. Currently, live or killed viral or bacterial vaccines—or which constitute part of the metabolic syndrome, is also thosebasedonbacterialpolysaccharidesorbacterialtoxoids— associated with low birthweight. The notion that early fetal arelicensedforthecontrolof29commoncommunicabledis- development may have important consequences for disease in easesworldwide.Thehighlightofthefieldwastheeradication larly for developing countries,may be far reaching. Organization(WHO)istheglobaleradicationofpoliomyelitis. The other major development that arose from the applica- In1998,thediseasewasendemicinmorethan125countries. tion of statistics to medical research was the development of After a resurgence in 2002,when the number of cases rose to the randomized controlled trial.The principles ofnumerically 1,918, the numbers dropped again in 2003 to 748; by March based experimental design were set out in the 1920s by the 2004,only32caseshadbeenconfirmed(Roberts2004). geneticist Ronald Fisher and applied with increasing success The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI),launched after World War II, starting with the work of Hill, Doll, and in 1974,which has been taken up by many countries with slight Cochrane (see Chalmers 1993; Doll 1985).Variations on this modification, includes Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) and theme have become central to every aspect ofclinical research oral polio vaccine at birth;diphtheria,tetanus,and pertussis at involving the assessment ofdifferent forms oftreatment.More 6,10,and 14 weeks;measles;and,where relevant,yellow fever recently, this approach has been extended to provide broad- at 9 months.Hepatitis B is added at different times in different research.Increasing the numbers of patients involved in trials rated into the national programs of 90 countries,but an esti- and applying meta-analysis and electronic technology for mated 70 percent ofthe world’s hepatitis B carriers still live in Science and Technology for Disease Control: Past, Present, and Future | 121 countries without programs . Indeed, among developing countries by the use of single antimicrobial agents 12million childhood deaths analyzed in 1998,almost 4 million when combinations would have been less likely to produce available . hampered by the rapid movement of populations and by war, The development of sulfonamides and penicillin in the famine,and similar social disruptions
