Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


have been less likely to produce available . hampered by the rapid movement of populations and by war, The development of sulfonamides and penicillin in the famine,and similar social disruptions in developing countries. period preceding World War II was followed by a remarkable In short, the war against communicable disease is far from period of progress in the discovery of antimicrobial agents over. effective against bacteria, fungi, viruses, protozoa, and helminths.Overall,knowledge ofthe pharmacological mode of Pathogenesis, Control, and Management of Non- action of these agents is best established for antibacterial and communicable Disease. The second half of the 20th century antiviral drugs.Antibacterial agents may affect cell wall or pro- also yielded major advances in understanding pathophysiology tein synthesis, nucleic acid formation, or critical metabolic and in managing many common noncommunicable diseases. pathways.Because viruses live and replicate in host cells,antivi- This phase of development of the medical sciences has been ral chemotherapy has presented a much greater challenge. characterized by a remarkable increase in the acquisition of However,particularly with the challenge posed by HIV/AIDS, knowledge about the biochemical and physiological basis of a wide range of antiviral agents has been developed, most of disease, information that, combined with some remarkable which are nucleoside analogues,nucleoside or nonnucleoside developments in the pharmaceutical industry,has led to a situ- reverse-transcriptase inhibitors, or protease inhibitors. ation in which few noncommunicable diseases exist for which Essentially, those agents interfere with critical self-copying or there is no treatment and many,although not curable,can be assembly functions of viruses or retroviruses. Knowledge of controlled over long periods oftime. the modes of action of antifungal and antiparasitic agents is Many of these advances have stemmed from medical increasing as well. research rather than improved environmental conditions. In Resistance to antimicrobial agents has been recognized since 1980, Beeson published an analysis of the changes that the introduction of effective antibiotics; within a few years, occurred in the management of important diseases between penicillin-resistant strains of Staphylococcus aureus became the years 1927 and 1975,based on a comparison ofmethods for widespread and penicillin-susceptible strains are now very treating these conditions in the 1st and 14th editions ofa lead- uncommon (Finch and Williams 1999).At least in part caused ing American medical textbook.He found that of 181 condi- by the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in medical practice, tions for which little effective prevention or treatment had animal husbandry, and agriculture, multiple-antibiotic- existed in 1927,at least 50
