Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


of resistance, a phenomenon exacerbated in some of the relieve obstruction of the coronary arteries. Coronary bypass 122 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Brian Greenwood, Heng Leng Chee, and others surgery and, later, balloon angioplasty became major tools. suchastheH2-receptorantagonistsandawiderangeofdrugs Progress also occurred in treatment ofabnormalities ofcardiac directed at bronchospasm.There have been some surprises— rhythm, both pharmacologically and by the implantation of thediscoverythatpepticulcerationisalmostcertainlycaused artificial pacemakers. More recently, the development of by a bacterial agent has transformed the management of this microelectronic circuits has made it possible to construct disease,dramaticallyreducingthefrequencyof surgicalinter- implantable pacemakers.Following the success of renal trans- vention. Neurology has benefited greatly from modern diag- plantation, cardiac transplantation and, later, heart and lung nostic tools, while psychiatry, though little has been learned transplantation also became feasible. about the cause of the major psychoses, has also benefited Much of this work has been backed up by large-scale con- enormouslyfromthedevelopmentof drugsforthecontrolof the early use ofclot-dissolving drugs together with aspirin had the emergence of cognitive-behavior therapy and dynamic a major effect on reducing the likelihood of recurrences after psychotherapy. an episode of myocardial infarction (figure 5.1). The large The second half of the 20th century has witnessed major number of trials and observational studies of the effects of progress in the diagnosis and management ofcancer (reviewed coronary bypass surgery and dilatation ofthe coronary arteries by Souhami and others 2001).Again,this progress has followed with balloons have given somewhat mixed results, although from more sophisticated diagnostic technology combined with overall little doubt exists that,at least in some forms of coro- improvements in radiotherapy and the development ofpower- nary artery disease,surgery is able to reduce pain from angina ful anticancer drugs. This approach has led to remarkable and probably prolong life. Similar positive results have been improvements in the outlook for particular cancers,including obtained in trials that set out to evaluate the effect ofthe con- childhood leukemia, some forms of lymphoma, testicular trol ofhypertension (Warrell and others 2003). tumors, and—more recently—tumors of the breast. Progress Themanagementofotherchronicdiseases,notablythoseof in managing other cancers has been slower and reflects the the gastrointestinal tract, lung, and blood has followed along results of more accurate staging and assessment of the extent similar lines. Advances in the understanding of their patho- and spread of the tumor;the management of many common physiology, combined with advances in analysis at the struc- cancers still remains unsatisfactory, however. Similarly, tural and biochemical levels,
