Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


Africa. themselves. Scientific medicine in the 20th century has pro- Although much of the improvement can be ascribed to vided highly effective technology for partially correcting the scientific medicine—particularly the control of many infec- toward understanding the biological basis ofthe aging process. increasingly important part in this epidemiological transition. care have received little attention from the international public Although surveys of the health of adults in the developing health community;these problems are not restricted to indus- world carried out in the 1980s suggested that many people trial countries but are becoming increasingly important in between the ages of20 and 50 were still suffering mainly from middle-income and, to a lesser extent, some low-income diseases ofpoverty,many countries have now gone through an countries. epidemiological transition such that the global pattern of dis- Although dire poverty is self-evident as one of the major disease,depression,and the results ofaccidents replacing com- emphatically not confined to those populations.For example, increasingly caught between the two worlds of malnutrition morbidity and mortality exists between different social classes and infectious disease on the one hand and the diseases of . Clearly this phenomenon is not related to the industrial countries, particularly cardiac disease, obesity, and accessibility ofcare,and more detailed analyses indicate that it diabetes, on the other. The increasing epidemic of tobacco- cannot be ascribed wholly to different exposure to risk factors. related diseases in developing countries exacerbates this prob- Undoubtedly social strain,isolation,mild depression,and lack lem. The global epidemic of obesity and type 2 diabetes is a of social support play a role. However, the reasons for these prime example of this problem . An estimated important discrepancies,which occur in every industrial coun- 150 million people are affected with diabetes worldwide,and try,remain unclear. that number is expected to double by 2025. Furthermore, Economic Consequences of High-Technology Medicine diabetes is associated with greatly increased risk of cardiovas- cular disease and hypertension;in some developing countries The current high-technology medical practice based on mod- the rate ofstroke is already four to five times that in industrial ern scientific medicine must steadily increase health expendi- countries. These frightening figures raise the questions tures.Regardless ofthe mechanisms for the provision ofhealth whether, when developing countries have gone through the care, its spiraling costs caused by ever more sophisticated epidemiological transition,they may face the same pattern of technology and the ability to control most chronic illnesses, diseases that are affecting industrial countries and whether combined
