Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


risk factors. In addition, a great deal more work is diseases these factors have not been identified.In short,scien- required on mechanisms for assessing overall performance of major gap in the understanding ofthe pathogenesis ofdisease The third priority must be to focus research on the impor- between the action ofenvironmental risk factors and the basic tant diseases that the biomedical sciences have yet to control, disease processes that follow from exposure to them and that including common communicable diseases such as malaria, produce the now well-defined deranged physiology that char- AIDS,and tuberculosis;cardiovascular disease;many forms of acterizes them. cancer; all varieties of diabetes; musculoskeletal disease; the Theseproblemsarereflected,atleastinsomecountries,by major psychoses; and the dementias. Of equal importance is increasing public disillusion with conventional medical prac- gaining a better understanding ofboth the biology and patho- ticethatisrootedinthebelief thatif modernmedicinecould physiology ofaging,together with trying to define its social and control infectious diseases, then it would be equally effective cultural aspects. When this improvement did not happen—and when a mood for research differ widely in industrial and developing coun- of increasing frustration about what medicine could achieve tries.Industrial countries need more research into the mecha- haddeveloped—anaturalmoveoccurredtowardtryingtofind nisms of congenital malformation and the better control and analternativeanswertotheseproblems.Hence,manycountries treatment of monogenic disease and behavioral disorders of haveseenamajormigrationtowardcomplementarymedicine. childhood. In developing countries, both child and maternal science and technology for medical care in the future has to be cation and the control ofcommunicable disease and nutrition. examined. In many developing countries, some of the common mono- genic diseases,notably the hemoglobin disorders,also require urgent attention. IN THE FUTURE two main heads: first, apply knowledge that we already have more effectively; second, apply a multidisciplinary attack on Before considering the remarkable potential ofrecent develop- diseases about which we have little or no understanding.These ments in basic biological research for improvements in health issues are developed further in chapter 4. care,we must define priorities for their application. New Technologies Priorities for Biomedical Research in the Future The sections that follow briefly outline some examples of the In the setting ofpriorities for biomedical research in the future, new technologies that should help achieve these aims. the central objective is to restore the balance of research between industrial and developing countries so that a far Genomics, Proteomics, and Cell Biology. Without question greater proportion is directed at the needs of the latter.In the the fields of molecular and cell biology were the major devel- 1990s, it
