Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


to infective agents. eases, has been fraught with difficulties, but these are slowly Recently,the mosquito genome was sequenced,leading to the being overcome and this approach seems likely to be successful notion that it may be possible to genetically engineer disease for at least some genetic diseases in the future. vectors to make them unable to transmit particular organisms From the global perspective, one of the most exciting .A great deal is also being learned about genetic prospects for the medical applications ofDNA technology is in resistance to particular infections in human beings (Weatherall the field of communicable disease. Remarkable progress has and Clegg 2002), information that will become increasingly been made in sequencing the genomes ofbacteria,viruses,and important when potential vaccines go to trial in populations other infective agents,and it will not be long before the genome with a high frequency ofgenetically resistant individuals. sequence of most of the major infectious agents is available. The other extremely important application of DNA tech- Information obtained in this way should provide opportunities nology for the control of communicable disease—one of par- for the development ofnew forms ofchemotherapy (Joët and ticular importance to developing countries—is its increasing others 2003) and will be a major aid to vaccine development place in diagnostics.Rapid diagnostic methods are being devel- (Letvin, Bloom, and Hoffman 2001). In the latter case, DNA oped that are based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technology will be combined with studies ofthe basic immune technique to identify pathogen sequences in blood or tissues. mechanisms involved in individual infections in an attempt to These approaches are being further refined for identifying Science and Technology for Disease Control: Past, Present, and Future | 127 Box 5.1 Chronic Myeloid Leukemia: The Path from Basic Science to the Clinic 1960 An abnormal chromosome,named the Philadelphia results in a high remission rate in patients with CML and chromosome,was found in the white cells ofmost patients other tumors. with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Amajoradvanceintheunderstandingof themecha- 1973 By the use of specific dyes to label chromosomes, nisms of malignant transformation followed the discov- notably quinocrine fluorescence and Giemsa staining, erythatmanyformsofcancerresultfromtheacquisition the Philadelphia chromosome was found to be the result of mutations in cellular oncogenes—that is, normal of a translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22: housekeeping genes of cells that are involved in a variety t(9:22)(q34:q11). of regulatory functions. In some cases, we may be born 1983 It was found that
