Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


chromosomes 9 and 22: housekeeping genes of cells that are involved in a variety t(9:22)(q34:q11). of regulatory functions. In some cases, we may be born 1983 It was found that the translocation that causes the with a mutation of this kind, but the vast majority of Philadelphia chromosome juxtaposes the c-abl oncogene cancers seem to be attributable to acquired mutations fromchromosome9withabreakpointcluster(bcr)region involving one or more oncogenes. The discovery of a on chromosome 22, resulting in an abnormal bcr/abl drugthatwasabletointerferespecificallywiththeactiv- gene.Theproductofthisgene,anabnormaltyrosinekinase, ityof theproductof anabnormaloncogenewasamajor has increased tyrosine kinase activity compared with the advance in oncology, offering the hope that future productofthenormalc-ablgene,amajorfactincausingthe research will make it possible to tailor-make agents uncontrolledwhitecellproliferationcharacteristicofCML. directedatabnormaloncogeneactivityforthetreatment 1996 A selective inhibitor ofthe abnormal tyrosine kinase of cancer. produced by the bcr/ablgene product was developed that Source: Bartram and others 1983; Druker and others 1996; Klein and others 1982; Nowell and Hungerford 1960; Rowley 1973. organisms that exhibit drug resistance and also for subtyping another, respond to environmental signals, regulate how many classes of bacteria and viruses.Although much remains and when they will divide, and control the other intricate to be learned about the cost-effectiveness of these approaches processes ofcell biology (box 5.1). compared with more conventional diagnostic procedures, • Second are tumor suppressor genes;loss offunction by muta- some promising results have already been obtained, particu- tion may lead to a neoplastic phenotype. larly for identification oforganisms that are difficult to grow or in cases that require a very early diagnosis (Harris and Tanner In the rare familial cancers,individuals are born with one 2000). This type of technology is being widely applied for defective gene of this type, but in the vast majority of cases, the identification of new organisms and is gaining a place cancer seems to result from the acquisition during a person’s in monitoring vaccine trials (Felger and others 2003). The lifetimeofone or more mutations ofoncogenes.For example, remarkable speed with which a new corona virus and its differ- in the case of the common colon cancers, perhaps up to six ent subtypes were identified as the causative agent ofSARS and different mutations are required to produce a metastasizing the way this information could be applied to tracing the puta- tumor. The likelihood of the occurrence of these mutations tive origins ofthe infection are an example ofthe power ofthis is increased by the action of environmental or endogenous technology (Ruan and others 2003). carcinogens. Genomics is
