Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


reproductive cloning,this field has raised a many surgical procedures from an open to an endoscopic number of controversies. Major ethical issues have also been route.These procedures are now used routinely for gall bladder raised because,to learn more about the regulation ofdifferen- surgery,treatment of adhesions,removal of fibroids,nephrec- tiation of cells of this type, a great deal of work needs to be tomy, and many minor pediatric urological procedures. The carried out on human embryonic stem cells. recent announcement of successful hip replacement surgery If some of the formidable technical problems of this field using an endoscopic approach offers an outstanding example can be overcome and,even more important,ifsociety is able to of its future potential. Although progress has been slower, a come to terms with the ethical issues involved,this field holds number of promising approaches exist for the use of these considerable promise for correction of a number of different techniques in cardiac surgery and for their augmentation by 130 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | David Weatherall, Brian Greenwood, Heng Leng Chee, and others the introduction of robotics into surgical practice.Transplant The increasing application of functional imaging,together surgery will also become more efficient by advances in the with a better understanding of biochemical function in the development of selective immune tolerance (Niklason and brain,islikelytoleadtomajoradvancesinourunderstanding Langer 2001). of many neuropsychiatric disorders and, hence, provide op- These trends, and those in many other branches of medi- portunities for their better management. Early experience cine, will be greatly augmented by advances in biomedical withfetallyderiveddopaminergicneuronstotreatparkinson- imaging (Tempany and McNeil 2001). Major progress has ism has already proved to be successful in some patients and already been made in the development ofnoninvasive diagnos- has raised the possibility that genetically manipulated stem tic methods by the use ofMRI,computer tomography,positron cell treatment for this and other chronic neurological disor- imaging tomography, and improved ultrasonography. Image- ders may become a reality. Promising methods are being guided therapy and related noninvasive treatment methods are developedforlimitingbraindamageafterstroke,andthereis also showing considerable promise. increasing optimism in the field of neuronal repair based on the identification of brain-derived neuronotrophic growth Among the future developments in molecular and cell biology, immunological approaches is aiding progress toward an a better understanding ofthe mechanisms ofhuman develop- understanding of common demyelinating diseases—notably ment and the evolution of functions of the nervous system multiplesclerosis. offer some of the most exciting, if distant, prospects Strong evidence exists for a
