Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


understanding of common demyelinating diseases—notably ment and the evolution of functions of the nervous system multiplesclerosis. offer some of the most exciting, if distant, prospects Strong evidence exists for a major genetic component to the (Goldenberg and Jobe 2001).In the long term,this field may common psychotic illnesses—notably bipolar depression and well have important implications for reproductive health and schizophrenia.Total genome searches should identify some of birth outcomes. The role of a better understanding of the the genes involved.Although progress has been slow,there are monogenic causes of congenital malformation and mental reasonable expectations for success.Ifsome ofthese genes can retardation was mentioned earlier in this chapter. Already be identified,they should provide targets for completely new thoughts are turning to the possibility ofthe isolation and clin- approaches to the management of these diseases by the phar- ical use offactors that promote plasticity ofbrain development, maceutical industry.Recent successes in discovering the genes and specific modulators oflung and gut development are pre- involved in such critical functions as speech indicate the dicted to start to play an increasing role in obstetric practice.A extraordinary potential of this field.Similarly,lessons learned better understanding of the mechanisms leading to vasocon- from the identification ofthe several genes involved in familial striction and vascular damage as a cause of preeclampsia has forms ofearly-onset Alzheimer’s disease have provided invalu- the potential for reducing its frequency and thus for allowing able information about some ofthe pathophysiological mech- better management of this common condition. Similarly, an anisms involved,work that is having a major effect on studies increasing appreciation of the different genetic and metabolic directed at the pathophysiology and management ofthe much pathways that are involved in spontaneous preterm births commoner forms of the disease that occur with increasing should lead to effective prevention and treatment, targeting frequency in aged populations. specific components of these pathways and leading to reduc- tion in the frequency of premature births. An increasing Nutrition and Genetically Modified Crops. By 2030, the knowledge of the mode of action of different growth factors world’spopulationislikelytoincreasebyapproximately2.5bil- and promoters ofgut function will enhance growth and devel- lion people,with much of this projected growth occurring in opment ofpreterm infants. developing countries. As a consequence, food requirements are expected to double by 2025. However, the annual rate of Neuropsychiatry. Particularlybecausedepressionandrelated increase in cereal production has declined;the present yield is psychiatric conditions are predicted to be a major cause of ill well below the rate ofpopulation
