Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


annual rate of Neuropsychiatry. Particularlybecausedepressionandrelated increase in cereal production has declined;the present yield is psychiatric conditions are predicted to be a major cause of ill well below the rate ofpopulation increase.About 40 percent of health by 2020 and because of the increasing problem of potential productivity in parts of Africa and Asia and about dementia in the elderly, neuropsychiatry will be of increas- 20 percent in the industrial world are estimated to be lost to ing importance in the future (Cowan and Kandel 2001). pathogens. Developmentsinthebasicbiomedicalscienceswillplayamajor Given these considerations,the genetic modification (GM) roleinthebetterdiagnosisandmanagementofthesedisorders. of plants has considerable potential for improving the world’s leadtoincreasingcooperationbetweenneurologyandpsychia- main aims of GM plant technologies are to enhance the try,especiallyforthetreatmentofillnessessuchasmentalretar- nutritional value of crop species and to confer resistance to dationandcognitivedisordersassociatedwithAlzheimer’sand pathogens. GM technology has already recorded several suc- Parkinson’sdiseasesthatoverlapthetwodisciplines. cesses in both these objectives. Science and Technology for Disease Control: Past, Present, and Future | 131 Controversy surrounds the relative effectiveness of GM development. These problems are particularly relevant to the crops as compared with those produced by conventional health problems ofthe developing countries. means,particularly with respect to economic issues offarming One ofthe main barriers to progress in these fields is the rel- in the developing world.Concerns are also expressed about the ative isolation ofthe social sciences and health care economics safety ofGM crops,and a great deal more research is required from the mainstreams ofmedical research and practice.Better in this field.The results ofbiosafety trials in Europe raise some integration ofthese fields will be a major challenge for univer- issues about the effects ofGM on biodiversity . sities and national and international health care agencies. Plant genetics also has more direct potential for the control of disease in humans. By genetically modifying plants, Integration of the Medical Sciences: Organizational researchers hope it will be possible to produce molecules toxic Priorities for the Future to disease-carrying insects and to produce edible vaccines that are cheaper than conventional vaccines and that can be grown From these briefexamples ofthe likely direction ofbiomedical or freeze dried and shipped anywhere in the world.A promis- research in the future,some tentative conclusions can be drawn ing example is the production of hepatitis B surface antigen about its effects on the pattern ofglobal health care. in transgenic plants for oral immunization.Work is also well The control of communicable disease will remain the top advanced for the production ofother vaccines by this approach priority.Although this
