Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


care. in transgenic plants for oral immunization.Work is also well The control of communicable disease will remain the top advanced for the production ofother vaccines by this approach priority.Although this goal can be achieved in part by improv- . ing nutrition and sanitation and applying related public health measures in developing countries, the search for vaccines Economics. As well as the mainstream biomedical sciences, priority. However, although optimism that new vaccines will a major input from the social and behavioral sciences and particularly in the case of biologically complex diseases like health economics.These issues are discussed in more detail in malaria. It is vital that a balance be struck between the basic chapter 4. biomedical science approach and the continued application of The World Health Report 2002 emphasizes methods to control these diseases by more conventional and the major gaps in public perception ofwhat is meant by health well-tried methods. and,in particular,risk factors,in both industrial and develop- For the bulk of common noncommunicable diseases, the ing countries. Epidemiological studies have indicated that situation is even less clear.Although much more humane,cost- morbidity and mortality may be delayed among populations effective, and clinically effective approaches to their manage- that are socially integrated. Increasing evidence of this kind ment seem certain to be developed,mainly by high-technology underlines the importance ofpsychosocial factors in the devel- and expensive procedures, the position regarding prevention sciences. 2002 , clearly should be followed. However, a grips with the problems of the organization and delivery of demiological,and genomic sciences to develop pilot studies to health care.Learning more about how to build effective health define whether focusing these programs on high-risk subsets of delivery strategies for developing countries is vital. Similarly, populations will be both cost-effective and more efficient.For the continuous reorganization of the U.K. NHS, based on those many chronic diseases for which no risk factors have been short-term political motivation and rarely on carefully defined, strategies of the same type should be established to designed pilot studies,is a good example ofthe requirement for define potential environmental factors that may be involved. research into the optimal approaches to the provision ofhealth Although surprises may arise along the way,such as the discov- care in industrial countries. Indeed, across the entire field of ery ofthe infective basis for peptic ulceration,the multilayered an urgent requirement exists for research into both methodol- bined with the ill-understood effects ofaging,suggests that no ogy and,in particular,development
