Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


biomedical sciences be directed at both the cause and the Biology Network is a good example. prevention of noncommunicable diseases, and that work in It is important that work start now to apply the advances the fields of public health and epidemiology continues to be stemming from the basic biological sciences for the health of directed toward better use ofwhat is known already about their the developing world.This beginning will form a platform for prevention and management in a more cost-effective and the integration of future advances into health care programs efficient manner. for these countries. However, because of uncertainties of the medical care must not be neglected,and a balance should be New Technologies and Developing Countries struck between research in this area and research in the emerg- The role ofgenomics and related high-technology research and ing biomedical sciences. practice in developing countries is discussed in detail in Genomics and World Health 2002 . The central Economic Issues for Future Medical Research question addressed by the report was, given the current eco- applications ofgenomic and related technology to their health usedinthemostcost-effectivewayinbothindustrialanddevel- care programs? The report concluded that it is not too early, oping countries. Currently, research is carried out in both and subsequent discussion has suggested that this decision privateandpublicsectors(table5.2).Workintheprivatesector was right. Where DNA technology has already proven cost- is based mainly in the pharmaceutical industry and, increas- effective, it should be introduced as soon as possible ingly,inthemanylargebiotechnologycompaniesthatevolved . Important examples include the common rapidlyfollowingthegenomicrevolution.Inthepublicsector, inherited disorders ofhemoglobin (see chapter 34) and,in par- themajorsitesofresearchareuniversities,governmentresearch ticular,the use ofDNA diagnostics for communicable disease. The advantage ofthis approach is that it offers a technical base on which further applications can be built as they become Table 5.2 Estimated Global Health Research and available.It also provides the impetus to develop the training Development Funding for 1998 required,to initiate discussions on the many ethical issues that Type of funding Total (US$ billions) Percentage work ofthis type may involve,and to establish the appropriate regulatory bodies. The way this type of program should be Public funding: high-income and 34.5 47 transition countries organized—through North-South collaboration, local net- Private funding: pharmaceutical 30.5 42 working, and related structures, monitored by WHO—was industry clearly defined in the report. Private not-for-profit funding 6.0 8 For the full benefits of genomics to be made available to Public funding: low- and middle- 2.5 3 developing countries—and for these advances not to widen income
