Chapter
KEYWORDS: countries, research, disease, developing, ofthe, major, health, medical, development, developing countries, diseases, control, technology, care, industrial


funding 6.0 8 For the full benefits of genomics to be made available to Public funding: low- and middle- 2.5 3 developing countries—and for these advances not to widen income countries the gap in health care provision between North and South— Total 73.5 100 the most pressing and potentially exciting developments fromthe new technologies ofscience and medicine will have to Source: WHO 2002b. Science and Technology for Disease Control: Past, Present, and Future | 133 freestanding—that are funded through a variety of philan- numerically,affect a relatively small proportion of the world’s thropic sources. The input of philanthropic sources varies population.If the enormous potential of modern biomedical WellcomeTrustprovidesaportionof fundingforclinicaland between North and South, this situation must be corrected. basicbiomedicalresearchthatapproachesthatof thegovern- The governments of industrial countries may be able to ment,andintheUnitedStates,theHowardHughesorganiza- encourage a more global view ofresearch activity on the part of tionalsoplaysamajor,thoughproportionallylessimportant, their pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries by various role in supporting medical research. Similarly, the Bill & tax advantages and other mutually beneficial approaches. MelindaGatesFoundationandotherlargeinternationalphilan- Progress in this direction seems likely to be slow,however.For thropic foundations are contributing a significant amount of this reason,moving quickly toward a virtual global network for funding for medical research. In developing countries, such research that would bring together the research agencies ofthe researchfundingasisavailablecomesfromgovernmentsources. North and South holds many attractions.Although those ofthe Forexample,ThailandandMalaysiaspendUS$15.7millionand North that rely on government and charitable funding may US$6.9millioneachyear,representing0.9percentand0.6per- find it equally difficult to convince their governments that centoftheirhealthbudgets,respectively(WHO2002b). more oftheir budget should be spent on work in the develop- As examined in the report of the WHO Commission on ing world,they vitally need to move in this direction,possibly cussion is taking place about how to mobilize skills and this highly effective approach to developing North-South resources of the industrial countries for the benefit of the partnerships. tional effort should be organized or, even more important, research in the future and to ensure that it takes on a much funded is still far from clear.A number of models have been more global view of its objectives,a complete change in atti- independent, streamlined secretariat analogous to the Global look on the part of those who educate doctors and medical Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. Recently, a scientists. The introduction of considerable sums of research number oflarge donations have been given—either by govern- monies into the international scene by governments or philan- ments or by philanthropic bodies—to tackle some ofthe major
