Glut, 1987. 28, 1283-1290
KEYWORDS: epec, hours, culture, brush, border, control, damage, brush border, tissue, coli, activities, fig, pfec, escherichia, bacteria


Glut, 1987. 28, 1283-1290 Organ culture ofrabbit ileum model for the as a investigation of the mechanism ofintestinal damage by enteropathogenic Escherichia coli R M BATT, C A IIART, L McLEAN, AND J R SAUNDERS Froml theDepartnents of Veterinary Pathology, Medical Microbiology andMicrobiology, UniversityoJ Liverpool, Liverpool SUMMARY Organ culture ofrabbit ileum has been established as a model for the investigation of themechanismofintestinaldamagebyenteropathogenicEscherichiacoli(EPEC). Loopsofrabbit ileum were filled in vivo with saline, non-enteropathogenic P-fimbriate Ecoli (PFEC), or EPEC. After45 minutes the loops were washed, then mucosal biopsies were taken andcultured forup to 48 hours. The earliest changes discernable by electron microscopy were observed at 18 hours postinfection, at which time EPEC were closely adherent tothe surface ofenterocytes atthe base of microvilli, some ofwhich were elongated. By 24 hours postinfection there were large areas of brush border effacement with pedestal formation around the EPEC. Nosuch damage wasseen in biopsiesfromthecontrolloops (saline, PFEC), andintracellularultrastructure extremelywell was preserved in all preparations for up to 48 hours. While there were no differences at eight hours, biochemical analyses at 24 hours postinfection showed a marked increase in the release of brush border enzymes intotheculturemediumfrom EPEC-infected explantscomparedtoexplantsfrom the control loops. These findings provide morphological and biochemical evidence for damage to the microvillus membrane by EPEC, andvalidate organ culture ofrabbit ileum as a modelforthe investigation ofEPEC-pathogenicity. Escherichiacolicancauseclinicaldiseaseinmanand border effacement. Similar findings in subsequent animals by at least three different mechanisms.' The studies ofchildren infected with EPEC (0125, 0119, modes of action of enterotoxigenic and enteroinva- (01)57have indicated that brush border damage is sive E coli in the pathogenesis of diarrhoea are also relevant to the development of EPEC-induced relatively well understood, and specific in vitro pro- diarrhoeainman. cedureshavebeendevelopedfortheinvestigation of These changes have been reported not onlyin the theseorganisms.' Morerecently, athirdmechanism small intestinal mucosa of rabbits,4'" but also in which involves destruction of microvilli by entero- naturallyandexperimentallyinfectedcalves," andin pathogenic Ecoli(EPEC) hasbeen described,7 but gnotobioticpigs,2allofwhichhavebeenproposedas thegene products responsible and the mechanismof models for EPEC-induced damage to the small damage areunknown. intestine. Astherearepracticalconstraintsintheuse Enteropathogenic Ecoli were recognised initially ofexperimental animals, however, organ culture of as belonging to specific 0-serogroups that were rabbitileumhasbeenvalidatedasanassaysystemfor associatedwithoutbreaksofdiarrhoeainmanearlier the investigation ofthe molecularbiologyofEPEC- thiscentury.9Thediseasemechanismwasunknown, pathogenicity. however, until ultrastructural damage to the brush border was reported in rabbits infected with EPEC Methods (015).) Bacteria were closely adherent tothe entero- cyte surface with pedestal formation and brush BACTERIA The strain of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli Addrcss for corrcspondence: Dr R M Batt.
