Glut, 1987. 28, 1283-1290
KEYWORDS: epec, hours, culture, brush, border, control, damage, brush border, tissue, coli, activities, fig, pfec, escherichia, bacteria


*p<O0OJ.Numberof t hours):control(8, 7,8), PFimb(7, 7, 7), EPEC(8, 7,8). observations(at4,8,24hours):control(8, 7,8), PFimb(7, 7, 7), EPEC(8, 7,8). 1288 Batt, Hart, McLeatn, a(t1dSaunders differences in total alkaline phosphatase activity in (maltase) and atminopeptidaise N in the EPECgroup the tissue and culture medium comparing the three increasedbetween eight and24hourstomeanvalues groupsduringa24 hourculture period. Bycontrast, that were significantly higher than those in the other total activities of zinc-resistant a-glucosidase twogroups. Figure 4 shows that in explants from saline and non-enteropathogenic PFEC loops, tissue activities of alkaline phosphatase approximately paralleled total alkaline phosphatase activities during the culture period (Fig. 3). In these two control groups, tissue activities increased during the initial eight hoursandthendeclinedrelativelyslowlytoactivities at 24 hours which remained above those at the beginning of the culture period. In contrast, tissue alkaline phosphatase in the EPEC group dropped between eight and 24 hours to a mean alctivity below thatatthe beginningofthecultureperiod. Similarly, while tissue activities ofzinc-resistant c-glucosidase 0 andaminopeptidaseNinthetwocontrolgroups(Fig. II 4) paralleled total enzyme activities in tissue and E medium (Fig. 3) this was not the case for the EPEC group. Tissue activities in the EPECgroup dropped markedly between eight and 24 hours (Fig. 4) while .0 total activities increased (Fig. 3). These findings are reflectedinthetissuetototalenzymeactivitiesshown 01 in Fig. 2, and areconsistentwith anenhanced lossof these brush border enzymes from EPEC explants intothemedium. .IIin) Assay of bacterial suspensions indicated that enzyme activitiesofbacterial origindid not interfere with the interpretation of any of these biochemical data. Discussion 175- Aminopeptidase N This investigation has shown that organ culture of rabbit ilealexplantscan provide asuitable model for 150- *L the investigation of EPEC-induced damage to the 125- small intestine. Ultrastructural studies identified the specificbrush borderabnormalities which character- isethisinfection, whilebiochemical studiesprovided 75- mControl o clear supportive evidence for damage to the micro- villusmembrane. 50- P Fimb m In order to exclude potential non-specific conse- EPEC L 25- quencesofbacterial infection ofexplanttissue itwas essential to include adequate controls in this model 0 1 . *- 8I, 1 I 2. I 1 * 6 4I 20 24 system. Thiswasachieved bytheexamination ofthe Time (hours) effects of a non-enteropathogenic P-fimbriate Escherichia coli (PFEC), a bacterium which could Fig.4 Tisslueactiivitiesof'brusibordere,lz sitesi ileaIl explantsdiuringculture. Data(mean ± SEM)represent adheretothemucosalsurfacebutwhichdidnothave enzymeactivities(mUlingtissuieDNA)intissueexpressedas the capability to disrupt enterocyte brush borders. percentageOfactivitiesintissueatthebegiinningofculture. The lack of ultrastructural damage to the brush Control=salinecontrol;PFimb=non-enteropathogenic border by PFEC, in addition to the similarities P-fimbriateEcoli;EPEC=enteropathogenicEcoli. Reslults comparing the biochemical results in the PFEC and ofstatisticalanalysesareindi atedbY:EPECvcoiltrol saline control groups, emphasised the specificity
