Glut, 1987. 28, 1283-1290
KEYWORDS: epec, hours, culture, brush, border, control, damage, brush border, tissue, coli, activities, fig, pfec, escherichia, bacteria


to the brush Control=salinecontrol;PFimb=non-enteropathogenic border by PFEC, in addition to the similarities P-fimbriateEcoli;EPEC=enteropathogenicEcoli. Reslults comparing the biochemical results in the PFEC and ofstatisticalanalysesareindi atedbY:EPECvcoiltrol saline control groups, emphasised the specificity of tp<O005;EPECvPFimh b p<0)05.5 *p<0O0I. Numzberof thechangeswithEPEC. Incubation in ilealloopswas observations(at4,8,24hours):control(8, 7,8), PFimtib usedasaninitialstepinthisstudytoensureadhesion (7, 7, 7), EPEC(8, 7,8). EnteropathogenicEscherichiacoli 1289 of bacteria to brush borders before organ culture; synthesis could have been masked by increased however, we have achieved comparable results in degradation, at present there is no indication of an subsequent studies in which bacteria have been alterationintherateofsynthesisofalkalinephospha- addeddirectlytotheculture medium. tasebyenterocytesduringinfectionwithEPEC.This The experiments in this study indicate that there contrasts with data for zinc-resistant a-glucosidase may be a considerable delay between infection with and aminopeptidase N, which at 24 hours showed EPEC and the overt manifestation of brush border significantlyhighertotalactivitiesoftheseenzymesin damage. Thebiochemical studies,whichcanprovide the EPECcomparedwiththeothertwogroups. This a relatively sensitive assessment of mucosal injury, couldbeindicativeofanenhancedrateofsynthesisof wereunabletodetectanyabnormalities beforeeight these proteins which might occur in response to hours of culture, whereas at 24 hours there was increased lossofthese enzymesfrom the microvillus definite biochemical evidence for brush border membrane. Enhanced synthesis could explain the damage. Similarly, the earliest ultrastructural relativelymodestdecreasesintissue activitiesofzinc changes, comprising elongation of microvilli and resistant a-glucosidase and aminopeptidase N attachment of bacteria at their base, were docu- observed at 24hours, despite increased lossofthese mented at 18 hours and were relatively minor com- brush border enzymes from EPECexplants into the pared with the changes at 24 hours. There were medium. The subcellular localisation of these conspicuous areas of brush border effacement at 24 enzyme activities in tissue afterculture hasnot been hours, and the luminal surface of the damaged determined; however, the morphological damage to plasma membrane appeared to be moulded to form the brush border at 24 hours suggests that the pedestals around individual EPEC. These changes proportion oftissue enzyme activity that isin transit have been described in EPEC infection of man," tothemicrovillusmembranemayberelativelyhigher rabbits,4"' and pigs,'2 and are considered to be in the EPEC than in the control groups. These important and characteristic features ofthe disease. biochemical findings emphasise that the changes in At present, however, it is not certain whether an theEPECexplantsmayberelativelyearlycompared apparent delay in the development of mucosal with those seen in clinical disease where tissue damageafterinfection isrelatedtotimeforbacterial activities of brush border enzymes can be severely synthesis of factor(s) responsible for pathogenicity, reduced.' timeforconsequential tissuedamage, ortobacterial Thisinvestigation hasprovidedmorphologicaland concentration and hence time fororganism multipli- biochemical evidence for damage
