VA ECMO for postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock in adults
KEYWORDS: ecmo, people, procedure, pcs, evidence, committee, used, outcomes, surgery, nice, support, safety, cardiogenic, professionals, healthcare


some of these people would survive if VA ECMO were used, and some people may benefit more than others. But there is a lack of good quality evidence. VA ECMO is only suitable for a small number of people and is only available in a few hospitals. So, it would be difficult to do randomised controlled trials that include people with PCS. But other forms of data collection are possible. So, this procedure can be used in the NHS during the evidence generation period. 2 Information about the procedure 2.1 Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) can be used to manage postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock immediately after heart surgery, or to help separation from cardiopulmonary bypass. 2.2 In venoarterial ECMO, blood is taken from the venous system (usually from the femoral vein or the right atrium) and pumped through an oxygenator, where oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged. It is then returned to the arterial system, usually through the femoral or axillary artery or ascending aorta. People are usually given a continuous infusion of an anticoagulant, usually heparin, to prevent blood clotting in the extracorporeal system. For people with poor kidney function, a haemofiltration unit may be added to the circuit. 3 Committee discussion The condition 3.1 Postcardiotomy refers to the period immediately after open-heart surgery. Postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock (PCS) is a rare but life-threatening situation that happens when the efficiency of the heart as a pump is impaired and it is unable to meet the body's needs. This means a person may be unable to be separated from cardiopulmonary bypass after open-heart surgery. Persistent cardiogenic shock cannot be managed with medicines alone. Current practice 3.2 Treatment for PCS involves pharmacological treatments, including diuretics and inotropic agents, and mechanical circulatory support, including intra-aortic balloon pumps. Without using mechanical circulatory support, PCS has a very high risk of death, with mortality reported as high as 76%. Unmet need 3.3 VA ECMO is used to provide cardiac and respiratory support for people with PCS. Unlike a heart–lung (cardiopulmonary) bypass machine, it tends to be used for days to weeks after surgery rather than for hours during surgery, allowing the heart time to recover. ECMO provides circulatory support and allows time for other treatments to promote recovery, or may be a bridge to a long-term mechanical solution or transplant. It aims to improve patient outcomes. The evidence 3.4 NICE did a rapid review of the published
