Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


ABSTRACT Dysbetalipoproteinemia is an underrecognized and underdiagnosed genetic lipid disorder characterized by pathogenic variants in the APOE gene, which encodes apolipoprotein (apo) E. It leads to the abnormal accumulation of triglyceride-rich remnant lipoproteins, elevated levels of both cholesterol and triglycerides, and an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Typically, patients with autosomal recessive form of dysbetalipoproteinemia are homozygous for the ε2 allele, which is associated with decreased binding of apo E to the LDL receptor and/or heparan sulfate proteoglycans, resulting in impaired remnant clearance. However, only a minority of apo ε2 homozygotes become hyperlipidemic, often due to metabolic conditions that either increase lipoprotein production or decrease remnant clearance. Rarer variants in the APOE gene are linked to autosomal dominant dysbetalipoproteinemia. Palmar xanthoma is considered a characteristic feature of dysbetalipoproteinemia, although it is observed in fewer than half of affected individuals. Both total cholesterol and triglyceride levels are typically elevated and may be of similar magnitude. A low apo B level relative to a high total cholesterol level or a discrepancy between calculated LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) and direct LDL-C levels can raise suspicion of this condition. There is no simple diagnostic test for dysbetalipoproteinemia, and diagnosis traditionally requires the detection of β-VLDL (remnant lipoproteins) and pathogenic variants in the APOE gene, both of which are not routinely available in clinical laboratories. Several algorithms using various lipid and apo B parameters have been proposed for screening and selecting candidates for genetic testing. Recent data suggest that the phenotype of dysbetalipoproteinemia is heterogeneous. The term multifactorial remnant cholesterol disease has been proposed to describe a milder form of dysbetalipoproteinemia in individuals without the apo ε2/ε2 genotype, differentiating them from the more severe form associated with apo ε2/ε2 genotype. Patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia are at an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases, particularly coronary artery disease and peripheral arterial disease. However, they generally respond well to lifestyle modifications and conventional lipid-lowering therapies, including statins and fibrates. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Dysbetalipoproteinemia has been recognized since the 1950s and several names have been used in the literature, including xanthoma tuberosum, familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, broad beta disease, type III hyperlipoproteinemia, and remnant removal disease. Originally described by Gofman and colleagues, affected patients developed tuberous xanthoma of the extensor tendons and palmar xanthoma of the skin creases ( 1 ). An abnormal lipoprotein profile determined by analytical ultracentrifugation
