Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


Gofman and colleagues, affected patients developed tuberous xanthoma of the extensor tendons and palmar xanthoma of the skin creases ( 1 ). An abnormal lipoprotein profile determined by analytical ultracentrifugation showed an increase in lipoproteins corresponding to small very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL). Using a combination of ultracentrifugation and paper electrophoresis, these cholesterol-enriched lipoprotein fractions displayed abnormal flotation and β electrophoretic mobility, instead of the normal pre-β mobility ( 2 ), and were referred to as floating beta lipoproteins or β-VLDL ( 3 , 4 ). The term “dysbetalipoproteinemia” was used to describe the presence of these β-VLDL in the circulation although the amount may not be high enough to cause elevated lipid levels. Overt hyperlipidemia observed in certain patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia was identified as being identical to type III hyperlipidemia, as classified by Fredrickson et al. in 1967 ( 4 ). The term “broad beta disease” represented the peculiar migration pattern of these abnormal β-VLDL on paper electrophoresis ( 4 ). These β-VLDL were shown to be remnants of apolipoprotein (apo) B-containing lipoproteins of both hepatic and intestinal origin ( 5 ), which accumulated in the plasma due to defective clearance ( 6 ). Havel and Kane later demonstrated that subjects with type III hyperlipidemia exhibited elevated levels of apo E, originally referred to as arginine-rich protein ( 7 ). Using isoelectric focusing, Utermann et al. found that apo E3 was absent in these subjects ( 8 ) and homozygosity for the pathogenic variant of apo E, referred to as apo E2 as opposed to the normal apo E3, was later found to be the underlying genetic defect ( 9 , 10 ). The complete amino acid sequences of different isoforms of apo E were determined by Mahley et al., which helped define the molecular abnormality of apo E in the pathogenesis of dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 11 ). Apo E was subsequently shown to be a major ligand for the LDL receptor and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), establishing apo E as the main apolipoprotein responsible for the uptake of remnant particles into hepatocytes ( 12 ). Defective binding of apo E to the receptors and impaired hepatic uptake could therefore explain the accumulation of remnant lipoproteins in these patients ( 13 ), although other environmental factors could modulate the expression of the abnormal lipid profile. It is important to note that different terminology is often used in
