Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


mg/dL or 1.5 mmol/L ( 24 ). Collectively, the overall prevalence of dysbetalipoproteinemia, based on gold standard criteria and genetic testing, is estimated to be around 0.1–0.8%. Interestingly, this estimate is comparable to that of familial hypercholesterolemia ( 25 ). GENETICS Dysbetalipoproteinemia is caused by a genetic defect in the APOE gene, which encodes apo E. Apo E is a polymorphic glycoprotein found in various lipoprotein particles, including chylomicrons, chylomicron remnants, VLDL, VLDL remnants, and HDL. The main function of apo E is to mediate the interaction between apo E-containing lipoproteins and lipoprotein receptors. The N-terminal domain of apo E is involved in the interaction with the LDL receptor, the LDL receptor-related protein (LRP), and HSPGs, whereas the C-terminal domain is responsible for lipid binding. Amino acid residues 154-168 in the N-terminus contained several critical basic amino acids (i.e., arginine and lysine) that interact with acidic amino acid residues of the lipoprotein receptors and HSPGs. The APOE gene is in the apolipoprotein gene cluster on the long arm of chromosome 19. It has 4 exons and 3 introns. Apo E is primarily synthesized in the liver, but other tissues can also produce apo E, including the brain, spleen, lung, kidneys, adrenals, ovaries, macrophages, and smooth muscle cells ( 26 ). After cleavage of the 18-amino acid signal peptide, the mature apo E protein has 299 amino acids. Three major isoforms of apo E (E3, E2, and E4) exist, which are caused by a single amino acid substitution at two different sites of the protein ( 27 ) as shown in Table 1 . The differences among these isoforms result from different apo E alleles. The alleles are given designations using the Greek letter epsilon, i.e., ε2, ε3, and ε4. Although the ε3 is suggested to be a normal or wild-type allele, evidence exists that ε4 allele may be the ancestral allele ( 28 ). The 3 apo E alleles yield 6 possible phenotypes, i.e., E2/E2, E2/E3, E2/E4, E3/E3, E3/E4, and E4/E4. The classical molecular abnormality causing dysbetalipoproteinemia is the homozygous variant known as the E2/E2 phenotype, which leads to a substitution of arginine for cysteine at position 176 (p.Arg176Cys). This variant is associated with an autosomal recessive inheritance of dysbetalipoproteinemia. Table 1. Major Isoforms of Apo E Due to Different Amino Acids and Charges View in own window Isoform E2 E3 E4 Apo E allele ε2 ε3 ε4 rs number
