Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


major pathways mediate the clearance of remnant lipoprotein particles ( 32 , 33 ). First, apo E-containing remnant lipoproteins directly interact with the LDL receptor and are internalized into hepatocytes via the classical LDL receptor-mediated pathway. Second, apo E-enriched remnant lipoproteins interact with the cell-surface HSPGs before being transferred to LRP and internalized into hepatocytes through LRP. In addition, HSPGs alone can directly mediate lipoprotein uptake. HSPGs are transmembrane core proteins with attached heparan sulfate chains. These heparan sulfate chains are highly negatively charged sugar polymers capable of capturing lipoproteins and other ligands ( 33 ). Thus, the ligand-binding domains of HSPGs are carbohydrates, not proteins. Syndecan-1, an abundant HSPG on the hepatic surface in the space of Disse, is particularly important for remnant clearance ( 34 , 35 ). Furthermore, there is evidence suggesting that scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) may also serve as an additional hepatic remnant receptor ( 36 ). Figure 1 illustrates the pathways involved in the clearance of remnant lipoproteins. Figure 1. Clearance pathways of remnant lipoproteins. The presence of abnormal apo E, which is defective in binding to HSPGs or hepatic receptors, or the absence of apo E could lead to impaired clearance of these remnant particles and the accumulation in the circulation, resulting in elevated levels of cholesterol and triglyceride. Different apo E variants likely affect different pathways of remnant lipoprotein particles, resulting in different patterns of hyperlipidemia and inheritance ( 37 ). Patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) who lack LDL receptors do not have remnant accumulation ( 38 ). However, mice lacking syndecan-1, a core protein of HSPG, develop remnant accumulation despite intact LDL receptors ( 35 ). These studies suggest that HSPGs play a more important role in remnant clearance than the LDL receptor. Accumulation of cholesterol-rich remnant particles leads to their uptake by macrophages, resulting in foam cells found in atherosclerotic lesions and xanthoma. Elevated levels of remnant cholesterol have been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, with a hazard ratio similar to that of elevated LDL-C ( 39 , 40 ). Besides its role in the uptake and clearance of remnant particles, apo E also modulates lipolytic activity. Elevated levels of apo E can impair triglyceride hydrolysis by displacing or masking apo C-II, a cofactor for lipoprotein lipase, resulting in hypertriglyceridemia ( 41 ). In addition, apo E has been shown to stimulate hepatic
