Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


impair triglyceride hydrolysis by displacing or masking apo C-II, a cofactor for lipoprotein lipase, resulting in hypertriglyceridemia ( 41 ). In addition, apo E has been shown to stimulate hepatic VLDL production in animals, further increasing circulating triglyceride levels ( 42 ). However, evidence in humans is rather limited. In individuals with complete apo E deficiency, hypertriglyceridemia is usually not observed since there is no excess apo E and triglyceride lipolysis is not impaired. Pathogenic variants in the APOE gene play a key role in the pathophysiology of dysbetalipoproteinemia. Most cases of dysbetalipoproteinemia are autosomal recessive, with the majority of affected individuals harboring two ε2 alleles. Apo E2 has a binding capacity for the LDL receptor that is only 1–2% of that of apo E3 ( 43 ). Notably, the amino acid residue 176 lies outside the critical binding region involved in ionic interaction with lipoprotein receptors. This amino acid change appears to reorganize the salt bridges and alter the conformation of the amino acid residues 154-168, thereby indirectly impairing the receptor binding ( 44 , 45 ). In contrast, apo E2 retains significant binding affinity for HSPGs and the HSPG/LRP ( 37 , 46 ). Therefore, relatively normal binding of apo E2 to HSPG may compensate for defective binding to the LDL receptor, thereby protecting against the development of hyperlipidemia. In fact, most subjects with the E2/E2 phenotype are either normolipidemic or even hypolipidemic ( 9 ) and have a reduced risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 47 ). Overt hyperlipidemia, also known as type III hyperlipidemia or type III hyperlipoproteinemia, develops only in the presence of additional environmental or genetic factors. These secondary factors may involve conditions associated with overproduction of VLDL or impaired clearance via the LDL receptor or the HSPG/LRP pathways as shown in Table 2 . Insulin resistance, for example, is associated with the activation of the SULF2 gene, which encodes sulfatase 2 and causes degradation of HSPGs in mice ( 48 ). Thus, the presence of apoE2/E2 is necessary but not sufficient to cause an abnormal lipid profile. In the recessive form of dysbetalipoproteinemia, elevated lipid levels rarely appear before adulthood. Estrogen is known to enhance both LDL receptor expression and the lipolytic process. Therefore, women who are ε2/ε2 homozygotes are protected against the development of overt hyperlipidemia until after menopause. Additionally, common gene polymorphisms involved in triglyceride metabolism influence susceptibility to overt
