Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


process. Therefore, women who are ε2/ε2 homozygotes are protected against the development of overt hyperlipidemia until after menopause. Additionally, common gene polymorphisms involved in triglyceride metabolism influence susceptibility to overt hyperlipidemia ( 49 ). Table 2. Metabolic Conditions Known to Precipitate Hyperlipidemia in Dysbetalipoproteinemia View in own window Lipoprotein overproduction Impaired clearance - Insulin resistance - Type 2 diabetes - Nephrotic syndrome - Excess alcohol intake - Estrogen treatment - Pregnancy - High fat diets - Medications: corticosteroids, retinoids, atypical antipsychotics, antiretrovirals, immunosuppressive drugs - Increased age - Menopause - Hypothyroidism - Insulin resistance In approximately 10% of patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia, the disease is caused by autosomal dominant pathogenic variants in the APOE gene. These rare variants typically involve single amino acid substitutions within the critical binding region of apo E (residues 154–168) that interacts with the LDL receptor, thereby directly impairing receptor binding ( 50 ). Other variants disrupt the receptor binding of apo E or result in apo E deficiency. Furthermore, these dominant variants exhibit severely impaired binding to HSPGs. This defective HSPG binding in the dominant form of dysbetalipoproteinemia suggests that normal LDL receptor binding alone is not sufficient to ensure proper clearance of remnant lipoproteins. As a result, the HSPG binding affinity of apo E variants is considered a key determinant of the inheritance pattern of dysbetalipoproteinemia. In the autosomal dominant form, a single allele carrying these variants is sufficient to cause overt hyperlipidemia without the need for secondary factors and lipid abnormalities in these cases presumably begin at birth. To date, approximately 30 APOE variants associated with autosomal dominant dysbetalipoproteinemia have been reported ( 50 - 52 ). Autosomal dominant dysbetalipoproteinemia can occasionally be misdiagnosed as FH ( 50 ). The key differences between the autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant forms of dysbetalipoproteinemia are shown in Table 3 . Table 3. Characteristics of Autosomal Recessive and Autosomal Dominant Dysbetalipoproteinemia View in own window Recessive Dominant Presence of β-VLDL Yes Yes Lipoprotein preference of apo E HDL Triglyceride-rich lipoproteins LDL receptor binding Defective Defective HSPG binding Normal Defective Defect in receptor binding Indirect Direct Secondary factors Required Not required Occurrence of hyperlipidemia Adulthood From birth Hypercholesterolemia in dysbetalipoproteinemia arises from impaired receptor-mediated clearance of cholesterol-rich remnant lipoproteins, while hypertriglyceridemia results from both impaired lipolytic processing of remnant particles and increased hepatic VLDL production driven by elevated levels of apo E ( 41 , 42 ). Low
