Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


ratio around 2:1) or sometimes higher than total cholesterol levels. Severe hypertriglyceridemia resulting in acute pancreatitis has been reported in some cases of dysbetalipoproteinemia. Although total cholesterol levels are usually elevated, LDL-C levels are almost always reduced ( 17 ). The cause of low LDL-C levels in dysbetalipoproteinemia is due to an impairment in the apo E-mediated conversion of remnant lipoproteins to LDL ( 67 ). Normally, once apo E on remnant lipoproteins binds to HSPGs on hepatocytes, HSPG-bound hepatic lipase removes triglyceride from these remnants and converts them into LDL. The presence of abnormal apo E2 in dysbetalipoproteinemia appears to impair this process, leading to low levels of LDL-C. Since remnant lipoproteins are enriched in cholesterol with a higher VLDL-cholesterol/triglyceride (VLDL-C/TG) ratio, a fixed ratio of VLDL-C/TG used in the Friedewald formula is invalid. In fact, dysbetalipoproteinemia is listed as one of the exceptions in the original report that the Friedewald formula should not be used ( 68 ). VLDL-C levels, calculated by triglyceride/5, are therefore underestimated, leading to overestimation of calculated LDL-C. Calculated LDL-C levels derived from the Friedewald formula or the NIH equation, as well as measured LDL-C levels from a homogeneous direct LDL-C assay, have been shown to overestimate plasma LDL-C levels in patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 69 , 70 ). HDL cholesterol levels are also modestly reduced in subjects with dysbetalipoproteinemia. Apo B levels are typically not markedly elevated. Although Apo E levels are higher in individuals with dysbetalipoproteinemia, there is an overlap with those without the condition ( 71 ). Based on lipid phenotypes, dysbetalipoproteinemia should be suspected in the following situations ( 72 ). (1) dyslipidemia patients whose total cholesterol and triglyceride levels are both elevated and approximately equal. (2) mixed hyperlipidemia in which apo B level is relatively low in relation to total cholesterol level. (3) Significant disparity between calculated LDL-C and directly measured LDL-C levels. DIAGNOSIS Dysbetalipoproteinemia cannot be diagnosed with a single straightforward test, nor can it be identified solely through conventional lipid values. Historically, diagnosis usually requires a biochemical approach to demonstrate the presence of remnant accumulation in the circulation and a genetic approach to characterize the apo E genotype. The presence of β-VLDL indicates dysbetalipoproteinemia regardless of whether hyperlipidemia is present or not. Lipoprotein electrophoresis is a classical method originally used to characterize different lipoproteins and to classify various types of dyslipidemia. Different lipoprotein families display distinct bands
