Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


hyperlipidemia is present or not. Lipoprotein electrophoresis is a classical method originally used to characterize different lipoproteins and to classify various types of dyslipidemia. Different lipoprotein families display distinct bands on serum electrophoresis. Using paper, agarose, or cellulose acetate as the media, chylomicron stays at the origin whereas HDL migrates to the most advanced position, which is called an α band. Between the origin and the α band, a β band indicates LDL, whereas a pre-β band represents VLDL. On polyacrylamide gel, however, the migration pattern is slightly different in that VLDL (pre-β lipoproteins) migrate behind instead of in front of the LDL (β-lipoproteins) ( 73 ). Serum agarose gel electrophoresis has been traditionally used to detect the remnant lipoproteins and to diagnose dysbetalipoproteinemia. On paper, agarose, or cellulose acetate electrophoresis, the demonstration of a broad β band, extending from the β position into the pre-β position, indicates the presence of remnant lipoproteins ( 74 ) as shown in Figure 3 . However, a broad β band is found in less than half of patients ( 75 ) and can be found in other conditions ( 76 ), suggesting that the presence of a broad β-band in lipoprotein electrophoresis is neither sensitive nor specific for the diagnosis of dysbetalipoproteinemia. On polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the presence of small VLDL and IDL along with the absence of a β-migrating lipoprotein band have also been used to indicate dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 73 , 75 ). Figure 3. Plasma lipoprotein electrophoresis in 0.5% agarose gel demonstrated a broad β band in a patient with dysbetalipoproteinemia (left) and a normal pattern in a normal subject (right) (from ( 31 )). Another method used to characterize different lipoproteins is ultracentrifugation. Using preparative ultracentrifugation to isolate various lipoprotein families, lipid composition of different lipoprotein fractions can then be determined. Compared to the normal pre β-VLDL, β-VLDL remnant particles are more cholesterol-enriched and triglyceride-depleted. Normally, the cholesterol/triglyceride mass ratio in VLDL is 0.2 or less and the cholesterol/triglyceride ratio in β-VLDL is higher. A VLDL-C/VLDL TG mass ratio (both in mg/dL) >0.42 or VLDL-C/VLDL TG molar ratio (both in mmol/L) >0.97 is considered diagnostic of dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 77 ). Several studies have also tried to identify cut points for detection of β-VLDL using a VLDL-C/plasma or total TG ratio. The most frequently used cutoff for diagnosis of dysbetalipoproteinemia is the Fredrickson criteria, which is VLDL-C/TG >0.30 (mass ratio) or
