Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


cholesterol assay Nakajima et al., 2007 ( 82 ) - RLP-C/triglyceride >0.23 Identification of apo E phenotype and/or genotype can help establish the diagnosis of dysbetalipoproteinemia. Nowadays, conventional apo E phenotyping by isoelectric focusing is replaced by a number of simple and more accurate APOE genotyping methods. When apo ε2/ε2 homozygosity is discovered in subjects with dysbetalipoproteinemia, immediate family members should be screened for the presence of hyperlipidemia. The presence of apo ε2/ε2 by itself without overt hyperlipidemia is not a critical risk factor for premature ASCVD. Therefore, counseling should be focused on eliminating secondary factors known to cause hyperlipidemia, such as obesity, diabetes, or alcohol consumption. In patients with suspected dysbetalipoproteinemia, if the apo ε2/ε2 homozygosity is excluded, next generation sequencing can be performed to identify rare APOE variants associated with the autosomal dominant form. Since not all identified variants in the APOE gene are causally related to dysbetalipoproteinemia, a comprehensive approach is advised to determine the pathogenicity of the variants detected using both in vitro and in vivo functional studies ( 52 ). In this condition, 50% of first-degree relatives are affected. Therefore, cascade screening should be performed in a manner similar to that for FH. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, appropriate treatment should be initiated. TREATMENT Dysbetalipoproteinemia responds well to therapy ( 17 ). However, data from the UK Biobank and the US NHANES cohorts show that the majority of subjects with dysbetalipoproteinemia remain untreated despite their high atherogenic risk ( 21 , 23 ). Dietary modifications and addressing secondary metabolic factors form the cornerstone of therapy. Restriction of caloric intake in those who are overweight and reduction of saturated fat and cholesterol in the diet help normalize lipid levels ( 18 ). There are no specific dietary guidelines for patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 91 ); however, reducing dietary cholesterol and saturated fat while increasing polyunsaturated fat intake is recommended ( 18 ). Weight reduction, glycemic control of diabetes, cessation of alcohol intake, and treatment of hypothyroidism can also lower lipid levels. LDL-C levels cannot be accurately measured or calculated in patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 70 ). In addition, LDL-C levels are typically not elevated and do not reflect high cardiovascular risk in these patients. Therefore, LDL-C levels should not be used as a treatment target in dysbetalipoproteinemia. It is recommended that the primary target of treatment is non-HDL-C level ( 50 , 73 ), which can
