Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type 3 Hyperlipoproteinemia)
KEYWORDS: apo, dysbetalipoproteinemia, pubmed, remnant, cholesterol, levels, lipoprotein, triglyceride, lipoproteins, ratio, lipid, clin, type, apolipoprotein, patients


levels should not be used as a treatment target in dysbetalipoproteinemia. It is recommended that the primary target of treatment is non-HDL-C level ( 50 , 73 ), which can be reliably measured using standard assays of total cholesterol and HDL-C ( 70 ). The secondary target of treatment is triglyceride level. In some cases, medications are required to lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and statins and fibrates are the medications of choice, respectively. Evolocumab, a PCSK9 inhibitor, has also been shown to reduce total cholesterol, remnant cholesterol, and triglyceride levels in patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 92 , 93 ). Resolution in xanthomas and regression of atherosclerotic lesions have been observed after normalization of lipid levels ( 94 ). CONCLUSION Dysbetalipoproteinemia remains an underrecognized genetic lipid disorder. Pathogenic variants in the APOE gene lead to defective apo E-mediated remnant clearance and accumulation of remnant lipoproteins characterized by elevation of both total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, palmar and tuberous xanthomas, and an increased risk of CAD and PAD. The HSPG-binding affinity of the apo E variants appears to be an important determinant of the different modes of inheritance. Historically, diagnosis requires sophisticated methods to demonstrate the presence of remnant lipoprotein particles (β-VLDL) and the pathogenic variants in the APOE gene. Currently, a simple diagnostic test for dysbetalipoproteinemia does not exist and several algorithms using various lipid and apo B parameters have been proposed for screening for this condition and further genetic testing. Recent data suggest that the phenotype of dysbetalipoproteinemia may be more heterogeneous and a milder form of dysbetalipoproteinemia without the apo ε2/ε2 genotype is called multifactorial remnant cholesterol disease to differentiate it from the more severe form in those with apo ε2/ε2 genotype. Nevertheless, subjects with dysbetalipoproteinemia are usually responsive to lifestyle modifications and conventional lipid-modifying therapy, including statins and fibrates. Despite renewed interest and recent advances in understanding this condition, several knowledge gaps remain. These include the precise mechanisms involved in the clearance of remnant lipoproteins, the true prevalence within the general population, the roles of genetic and environmental factors in modifying disease expression, the underlying mechanisms of PAD involvement, the development of a simplified diagnostic test for clinical use, the establishment of standard guidelines for screening, and the creation of evidence-based guidelines for optimal treatment and cardiovascular risk reduction. REFERENCES 1. McGinley J, Jones H, Gofman J. Lipoproteins and xanthomatous diseases. J Invest Dermatol. 1952;19(1):71-82. [ PubMed
