Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


19.2% and 3.9% to 6.1%, respectively, between 1992 and 2018. Hispanic, Mexican American, and Black children had a higher prevalence of developing obesity (26.9% and 24.2%, respectively) compared to non-Hispanic white children (16.1%) in 2017-2018 ( 4 ). Figure 1. Prevalence of males and females aged 20-74 with overweight and obesity in the United States between 1988 and 2018. The table represents overweight and obesity trends overall. Values are age-adjusted by the direct method to the year 2000 U.S. Census Bureau estimates using the age groups 20-39, 40-59, and 60-74. Females who were pregnant were not included in the analysis. Source: CDC/NCHS, National Health Examination Survey and National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. The racial and ethnic disparities in overweight and obesity prevalence are a result of the effects of both social and environmental factors contributing to physiological changes over time ( Figure 2 ). The growing health disparities following the COVID-19 pandemic encapsulate the interaction between social, environmental, and physiological components of health. Symptoms of COVID-19 were more severe in individuals with obesity, exposing them to greater risks of hospitalization, long-term comorbidities, and even death ( 5 , 6 ). Simultaneously, obesity prevalence increased at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, most pointedly among children and individuals from marginalized backgrounds ( 7 ). During the pandemic, school shutdowns, limited access to exercise facilities and fresh foods, along with declining mental health rates culminated in increases in metabolic health risks including obesity, highlighting the importance of considering both biological and behavioral aspects of weight regulation ( 7 , 8 ). The worldwide acceleration in obesity prevalence is commonly explained by a gene-environment interaction. Overtime global populations have endured rapid socioeconomic shifts from their traditional environment where human manual labor was the primary driver of economic growth and sustainability, to a modern environment characterized by industrial and technological advances. This shift lessened the need for physical activity and changed the food supply, leading to physiological and behavioral adaptations among people. As illustrated in Figure 2 , the “traditional” environment is defined by whole food consumption and high occupational physical activity levels entrained normal appetite regulation which was coupled with energy expenditure to result in maintained leanness (leptogenic) and a lower BMI. In contrast, the industrial revolution and technology boom promoted obesogenic behaviors, such as the consumption of abundant, sweetened, and inexpensive calorie-dense and ultra processed food (UPF) and sedentariness. In obesogenic
