Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


In contrast, the industrial revolution and technology boom promoted obesogenic behaviors, such as the consumption of abundant, sweetened, and inexpensive calorie-dense and ultra processed food (UPF) and sedentariness. In obesogenic environments, food intake is uncoupled from energy expenditure and the population has a higher BMI than compared to that of the leptogenic environment. Figure 2. The potential effects of genetic and environmental drivers on adiposity are assessed by body mass index (BMI). Some concepts described in this figure were proposed by Bouchard et al. ( 9 ). This figure was reprinted with permission from Galgani & Ravussin ( 42 ). The following sections review the physiological regulators of energy balance and weight loss and maintenance to further understand the effects of changing environments on physiology and behaviors that affect weight regulation. The chapter concludes with a discussion of physiological factors that are contributing to weight gain and obesity. ENERGY BALANCE The balance between energy intake and energy expenditure determines the body energy stores ( Figure 3 ). Energy intake is defined as the calories consumed and metabolized from food and drink, while energy expenditure consists of three components: 1) resting or basal metabolic rate – the energy required for basic organismal functions, 2) activity energy expenditure – the energy required for all non-sedentary activity, and 3) the thermic effects of food – the energy needed to digest and metabolize food. The thermic effect of food makes up approximately 8-10% of the total energy expenditure, while activity energy expenditure and resting metabolic rates are highly variable depending on an individual’s body composition and lifestyle. Fat free mass particularly is the largest determinant of energy expenditure ( 10 ). Energy is primarily stored in the body as fat. This renders the balance between energy intake and energy expenditure the main determinant of body fat acquisition and loss. For body weight to be maintained, a long-term energy balance with a possible variation of 100-250 calories per day (i.e., the energy imbalance gap) is required ( 11 , 12 ). The energy balance equation ( Energy Balance = Energy Intake - Energy Expenditure ) is used to predict fluctuations in body weight when energy intake or energy expenditure change. Despite the intuitiveness of the energy balance equation, Alpert ( 13 ) elegantly demonstrated that it is inadequate for calculations on living organisms, given that it does not account for increasing or decreasing energy expenditure
