Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


energy balance equation, Alpert ( 13 ) elegantly demonstrated that it is inadequate for calculations on living organisms, given that it does not account for increasing or decreasing energy expenditure that ensues alongside weight gain or loss ( 14 - 16 ). Contrary to initial assumptions, small increases in energy intake sustained over several years do not lead to large weight gain. The more appropriate equation shown below incorporates the use of rates by introducing time dependency and allowing the effect of changing energy stores (especially fat-free mass and weight) on energy expenditure into the calculation ( 13 ). Rate of Change of Energy Stores = Rate of Energy Intake - Rate of Energy Expenditure This equation explains why a small initial positive energy balance (i.e., from an increased energy intake) will not lead to large weight increases over a number of years. After a short period of positive energy balance, the energy stores (fat mass and fat-free mass) will increase, in turn increasing energy expenditure thereby matching energy intake. These fluxes restore energy balance when there is a higher energy intake, greater energy expenditure, or larger energy stores compared to the initial energy balance state. Weight gain can therefore be viewed not only as the consequence of an initial positive energy balance, but also as the mechanism by which energy balance can eventually be re-established. This highlights the non-linear relationship between the changes in energy fluxes and the changes in energy stores. To minimize fluxes in energy balance, it is important to calibrate energy intake with body weight. In January 2023, the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine published updated Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) providing the US and Canada populations with guidance on energy intake requirements to maintain a healthy weight status. The DRI includes estimated energy requirement equations for males and females in different age categories and separate DRI equations are provided for children, adolescents, and pregnant individuals. DRI equations account for factors contributing to energy expenditure such as gestational age, obesity category, and physical activity levels ( 17 ). In addition to providing energy intake estimates, the DRI also provides nutrient specific goals for maintaining a healthy weight and overall metabolic state. The following section will explore the role of nutrient balance in body weight regulation. NUTRIENT BALANCE Nutrition is a critical part of maintaining health and well-being and nutritional status affects clinical outcomes such as
