Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


explore the role of nutrient balance in body weight regulation. NUTRIENT BALANCE Nutrition is a critical part of maintaining health and well-being and nutritional status affects clinical outcomes such as obesity. Nutrient intake requirements depend on various factors such as age, sex, and activity level. A classical approach to understanding how a chronic mismatch of intake and expenditure might occur is to examine dietary recommendations for macronutrients (i.e., carbohydrates, proteins, and fats) and their contribution to overall caloric intake. An imbalance in nutritional intake can lead to malnutrition and hidden hunger ( 18 , 19 ). In the US, the Food and Nutrition Board of the Academy of Medicine issues nutrition recommendations for populations across the lifespan providing Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Ranges (AMDR) that can be used to assess nutrient intake. The AMDR expresses intake recommendations as a percentage of total caloric intake for proteins (10-35%), carbohydrates (45-65%), and fats (20-35%) ( 20 ). These ranges are based on evidence from intervention trials, suggesting they provide the lowest relative risk for chronic diseases and should be tailored to the individual to ensure proper nutrient intake. Protein Balance Protein stores constitute an important component of body composition, specifically lean body mass, and are vital for growth and development, physical functioning, and hormone balance. Protein stores respond to growth stimuli such as growth hormones, androgens, physical training, and weight gain. In addition, dietary protein intake is required to replace irreversibly oxidized amino acids that cannot be synthesized in the body (e.g., essential amino acids). The AMDR for protein is 10–35% of caloric intake which is 1.05–3.67 g/kg of body weight/day when the reference body weights (57 and 70 kg for women and men, respectively) are used. This translates to an estimated energy requirement of 36.5 kcal/kg body weight/day ( Figure 3 ) ( 21 , 22 ). The actual protein requirement of an individual depends on sex, body weight, lean body mass, activity level and other factors that influence the rate of protein synthesis and degradation (e.g., protein turnover). Protein stores are ~1% and therefore tightly controlled and physiological mechanisms exist to ensure protein balance is achieved in healthy individuals on a day-to-day basis ( 23 ). As such, protein imbalance is not a direct cause of obesity. The fate of excess protein is not in tissue storage, but excretion through urea or other metabolic pathways ( 24 ). In a controlled
