Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


are stored as glycogen, yet the body storage capacity of glycogen is limited to 500-1000 g on average equating to ~2000-4000 kcals of energy stored as carbohydrates (500 g x 4kcal/g) ( 29 ). Dietary intake of carbohydrates corresponds to ~50-70% of carbohydrate stores, compared to ~1% for protein and fat ( Figure 3 ). Because glucose is the main source of energy, the AMDR for carbohydrates is the highest of the macronutrients at 45-65% of caloric intake. The homeostatic regulatory mechanisms that occur to maintain euglycemia suggest that carbohydrate availability is important for energy balance. Intake of dietary carbohydrates stimulates both glycogen storage and glucose oxidation, thereby suppressing fat oxidation ( 30 ). However, a modern hypothesis to explain the increased prevalence of obesity is the carbohydrate-insulin model of obesity. Ludwig and colleagues postulate that diets with a large relative intake of carbohydrate elevate insulin section, thereby suppressing the release of fatty acids from adipose tissue ( 31 ). In turn, these decreases circulating fatty acid subsequently partitioning substrates away from fatty acid oxidation and directing them to adipose tissue storage. This metabolic dysregulation leads to a state of cellular ‘internal starvation’ triggering compensatory mechanisms of increasing hunger and decreasing energy expenditure ( 31 , 32 ). However, both animal models and human studies testing the carbohydrate-insulin model have mixed results, suggesting the important aspect of the model may relate to the relative intake of carbohydrate in the diet ( 31 ). Moreover, excess intake of carbohydrates during overall excess energy intake results in high levels of acetyl-CoA, which is eventually converted to malonyl-CoA, the precursor of de novo lipogenesis. During excess carbohydrate and energy intake, carbohydrate stores remain in balance while excess carbohydrates are converted to fat contributing to weight gain. This is supported by a large analysis of US dietary data that suggests the increased consumption of refined carbohydrates is positively associated with weight gain ( 33 ). While there is no clear evidence suggesting that altering the relative intake of total carbohydrate in the diet is an important determinant of energy intake ( 34 ), there is strong evidence that reducing total carbohydrate intake (e.g., < 45%) is effective for improving weight loss, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), and triglyceride profiles ( 35 ). Indeed, a large randomized controlled trial examining the effects of diets varying in carbohydrate to fat ratio on energy expenditure during weight loss
