Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


(HDL), and triglyceride profiles ( 35 ). Indeed, a large randomized controlled trial examining the effects of diets varying in carbohydrate to fat ratio on energy expenditure during weight loss found in participants consuming low carbohydrates (20%), energy expenditure was increased by an average of 209 kcal/day compared to a 91 kcal/day increase in the moderate carbohydrate group (40%). Therefore, lowering dietary carbohydrate increased energy expenditure during weight loss maintenance ( 36 ). Fat Balance Dietary fat provides energy and essential fatty acids that cannot be synthesized in the body. Fatty acids, although often seen as harmful, are critical for life as they support membrane structure and function, cell signaling, steroid hormone production, and metabolism ( 37 ). The daily fat intake represents <1% of the total energy stored as fat ( Figure 3 ), but the fat stores contain about 3 times the energy of the protein stores ( 38 ). The AMDR for dietary fats (20-35%) with the minimum recommendation ensuring there is adequate consumption of total energy and essential fatty acids to prevent atherogenic dyslipidemia that can occur with low fat, high carbohydrate diets ( 39 , 40 ). The maximum of 35% fat intake relies on limiting saturated fat and on the observation that higher fat diets lead to consumption of more calories often resulting in weight gain ( 39 ). Fat stores are the energy buffer for the body, and fat and energy balance are tightly positively associated ( 41 ). A deficit of 200 kcal of energy intake over 24 hours thus means that 200 kcal of energy expenditure comes from fat stores, and the same is assumed for an excess of 200 kcal of energy intake, which is stored as fat. As increased dietary fat intake leads to fat storage and, ultimately, to increased adipose tissue mass ( 42 ), a reduced fat oxidation that favors positive fat (and thus total) daily energy balance may indicate a greater predisposition to weight gain over time ( 43 ). This principal has been demonstrated in conditions of spontaneous overfeeding, where the entire excess fat intake was stored as body fat ( 44 ).One randomized controlled trial examining two 24-hr 200% overfeeding dietary intake (high carbohydrate and high fat) found a high fat overfeeding diet was linked to a decreased capacity to oxidize dietary fat, thereby leading to greater weight gain at 6 and 12 months
