Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


and high fat) found a high fat overfeeding diet was linked to a decreased capacity to oxidize dietary fat, thereby leading to greater weight gain at 6 and 12 months ( 45 ). Interestingly, a 24-hour fast also disrupted metabolic oxidation rates such that a lower (or higher) 24-h oxidation during fasting was associated with lower (or higher) 24-h oxidation during feeding and overfeeding, respectively ( 45 ). In contrast to the other macronutrients, body fat stores are large and fat intake has little influence on fat oxidation ( 30 , 46 ). When a mixed meal is consumed, there is an increase in carbohydrate oxidation and a decrease in fat oxidation, demonstrating the macronutrient composition of a meal significantly affects metabolism. The addition of extra fat in a mixed meal does not alter the nutrient oxidation pattern ( 30 , 46 ). The amount of total body fat exerts a small, but significant, effect on fat oxidation, with higher body fat levels leading to higher fat oxidation. This may be a mechanism allowing for the attenuation of the rate of weight gain when high levels of dietary fat are consumed ( 47 ). Given that energy balance is the driving force for fat oxidation ( 41 , 47 ), fat oxidation increases when energy balance is negative (i.e., energy expenditure exceeds energy intake). Additionally, the type of dietary fat consumed may have implications for metabolic health and weight balance, with recommendations encouraging the consumption of polyunsaturated fats over saturated fats for metabolic health ( 37 ). Figure 3. The daily energy and nutrient balance in relationship to macronutrient intake, and oxidation for a 30-year-old female that is 90-kg and 165 cm tall with 35% body fat on a 2,400 kcal/day standard American diet (35% fat, 50% carbohydrate, 15% protein) ( 48 ). Energy stores were calculated using the energy coefficient for fat free mass (1.1 kcal/g) and fat mass (9.3 kcal/g) ( 49 ). Macronutrient intake and oxidation are based on individual energy requirements computed using the Dietary Reference Intake equations ( 17 ). Macronutrient percentage, equivalent to the USDA Dietary Guidelines for Americans ( 50 ), is shown on the left as absolute intake in kilocalories and on the right as a percentage of its respective nutrient store. Because carbohydrate and protein intake and oxidation rates are tightly regulated daily, any inherent differences between energy intake and energy
