Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


the right as a percentage of its respective nutrient store. Because carbohydrate and protein intake and oxidation rates are tightly regulated daily, any inherent differences between energy intake and energy expenditure therefore predominantly impact body fat stores. During chronic overfeeding (shown in red), the oxidation of carbohydrate and protein is increased to compensate for their increased intake and at the expense of fat intake and the increase in fat oxidation is not equally coupled with its intake. Thus, if sustained fat kilocalories are stored, fat stores expand, and body weight is gained. This figure was adapted with permission from Galgani & Ravussin ( 42 ). Alcohol Balance Alcohol consumption is considered a risk factor for weight gain and obesity contributing to other noncommunicable diseases and early mortality ( 51 ). Alcohol, an energy dense diet component, provides 7 kcal/g. Evidence suggest there is a hierarchy in macronutrient oxidation rate during the postprandial state with the sequence alcohol > protein > carbohydrate > fat ( 52 - 54 ). Diet induced thermogenesis is increased after meals rich in alcohol (~20% of energy) ( 54 ), suggesting the body recognizes the caloric contribution of alcohol similar to the other macronutrients. The energy derived from alcohol consumption is additive to other energy sources, promoting positive energy balance and leading to weight gain ( 55 ). Alcohol consumed before or with meals induces an orexigenic effect, which increases appetite and reduces satiation via mediation of the rewarding perception of food leading to greater food intake ( 55 ). However, prospective studies demonstrate that light-to-moderate alcohol intake is not associated with adiposity gain while heavy drinking is more consistently related to weight gain ( 56 ). The interindividual differences between alcohol consumption habits and the types of alcohol (e.g. beer, wine, liquor) may have a differential impact on abdominal adiposity and weight gain ( 57 ). A population-based cross-sectional study found alcohol intake was inversely associated to relative body fat in women whereas spirits consumption was positively related to central and general obesity in men ( 57 ). This may reflect a variance effect by sex and the type of alcohol consumed on body weight regulation. While the imbalance between alcohol intake and oxidation may not be a direct cause of obesity, it may be linked to behavioral factors that are related to obesity. Energy Imbalance Is Buffered By Fat Stores The intake of carbohydrates,
