Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


not be a direct cause of obesity, it may be linked to behavioral factors that are related to obesity. Energy Imbalance Is Buffered By Fat Stores The intake of carbohydrates, protein, and alcohol, and subsequent oxidation rates, are tightly regulated. Amino acids, glucose, and alcohol oxidation rates adjust to the amount consumed. Fat oxidation, however, relies on various regulatory mechanisms such as leptin, peptide YY and ghrelin, to regulate energy expenditure, satiety, appetite and hence energy stores ( 58 , 59 ). Specifically, leptin, an adipose tissue derived hormone, controls adipose tissue mass by regulating energy intake and energy expenditure via negative feedback loop hormonal signaling to the hypothalamus ( 60 ). Lower leptin levels decrease energy expenditure and inhibit appetite regulation, which is an issue often observed in obesity ( 61 ). However, because fat provides a greater storage of energy, there may be a higher propensity for the body to store excess energy intake as fat, thus, directly contributing to the flux in adipose tissue mass and associated weight regulation ( Figure 3 ). Another way energy imbalance is buffered by fat storage is through glucagon like peptide-1 [GLP-1], a gut hormone vital to glucose homeostasis, which acts through the GLP-1 receptor ( 62 ). GLP-1 decreases blood glucose levels by stimulating insulin secretion and by inhibiting glucagon secretion. These mechanisms decrease endogenous glucose production, subsequently reducing the need for energy intake and decreasing gastric emptying time ( 63 , 64 ). Obesity interferes with gut hormones’ (e.g., GLP-1) ability to secret peptides (e.g. AgRP, peptide tyrosine tyrosine [PPY]), thereby interfering with the homeostatic control of body mass via energy intake (brain) and energy expenditure (metabolism) regulation ( 65 ). Is A Calorie Truly A Calorie? Thermodynamically, a calorie is a unit of measurement that reflects the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of 1 kg of water by 1°C. However, when evaluating the metabolizable energy content of calories from macronutrients, many factors influence the actual caloric value of food. For example, dietary fiber, often found in carbohydrate sources, has been shown to decrease transit time of food in the intestine, resulting in less time for digestion and absorption of energy ( 66 ). The thermic effect of food, the obligatory energy expenditure, increases with digestion and processing of ingested foods. Conversely, degradation of amino acids increases transit time of protein sources. Thus, diet composition has
