Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


effect of food, the obligatory energy expenditure, increases with digestion and processing of ingested foods. Conversely, degradation of amino acids increases transit time of protein sources. Thus, diet composition has a strong effect on the thermic effect of foods with isocaloric amounts of protein having a greater thermic effect compared to carbohydrates and fat. Diets high in carbohydrates, fat, or both, produce a 4%-8% increase in energy expenditure ( 67 ), while meals high in protein cause an 11%-14% increase above resting metabolic rate due to the extra energy needed for amino acid degradation ( 68 ). One study comparing isocaloric low-fat and very low-carbohydrate diets found that total energy expenditure was approximately 300 kcal/day higher in the low-carbohydrate diet, an effect corresponding to the amount of energy typically expended in 1 h of moderate-intensity physical activity ( 69 ). As protein content was the same in both diets, the authors suggest the dietary composition differentially affected the availability of metabolic fuel types and efficiency, changes in hormone secretion, and skeletal muscle efficiency as regulated by leptin. As such, a calorie ingested does not necessarily correspond to a calorie absorbed, highlighting the importance of diet content on weight regulation. This is highlighted in an examination of a plant-based, low-fat diet versus an animal-based, ketogenic diet on ad libitum energy intake showing that the low-fat diet led to ~690 kcal/day less energy intake than the low-carbohydrate diet over 2 weeks ( 70 ). Furthermore, the same research group assessed the effects of UPF on energy intake finding an ultra-processed diet increased calories (508 kcal/day), carbohydrates (280 kcal/day), and fat (230 kcal/day) when compared to an unprocessed diet ( 71 ). Notably, weight changes were highly correlated with energy intake with the ultra-processed diet leading to a ~1 kg weight gain in 2 weeks, whereas the unprocessed diet led to a loss of ~ 1 kg. DIETARY IMPLICATIONS FOR WEIGHT LOSS Dietary modification is central for weight management and obesity treatment. A variety of approaches exist with weight loss diets including versions of energy restriction, manipulations of macronutrient composition, and dietary intake patterns ( 72 ). While caloric restriction is the most common method for weight loss, other methods such as time-restricted feeding, low-fat, and low-carbohydrate diets may be as effective. However, there are considerations with weight loss like weight cycling and disease status that should evaluated to ensure long-term success. Calorie
