Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


feeding, low-fat, and low-carbohydrate diets may be as effective. However, there are considerations with weight loss like weight cycling and disease status that should evaluated to ensure long-term success. Calorie Restriction Calorie restriction followed by macronutrient modification are the primary non-surgical and non-pharmaceutical drivers of weight loss ( 73 ). Caloric restriction is the reduction of average daily caloric intake below what is typical or habitual without causing malnutrition or restricting the intake of essential nutrients allowing for the diet to provide sufficient micronutrients, fiber, and energy needed for metabolic homeostasis ( 74 ). Caloric restriction may be more successful than other dietary strategies because it is an eating pattern rather than a temporary weight loss plan. Several approaches can be taken to achieve caloric restriction. A prescribed eating plan that consists of 1,200-1,500 kcal/day for women and 1,500-1,800 kcal/day for men ( 75 ). Another approach is to determine baseline energy requirements, modify them to factor in an individual's level of physical activity, and create a 500 kcal/day (women) or 750 kcal (men) energy deficit. When caloric restriction is paired with behavioral changes (e.g., monitoring food intake, physical activity), an average weight loss of 8 kg by 6 months can be expected ( 75 ). Tools like the NIH Body Weight Planner that estimate energy intake required for the target weight loss can be useful for self-management. Other options exist such as popular commercial diets such as Atkins, Weight Watchers, and Zone diets, which focus on macronutrient composition in addition to calorie reduction. These diets have shown modest long-term weight loss after 1 year ( 73 ). As discussed throughout this chapter, reducing daily calorie intake is the most important factor for weight loss and is outlined in the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines 2013 for the management of overweight and obesity in adults ( 76 ). Results from a systematic review and meta-analysis of 8 clinical trials concluded that 20-30% caloric restriction induced weight loss in overweight (-6.50 kg) and obese (-3.30 kg) adults, with greater weight loss in studies that were ≥ 6 to ≤ 11 months (-8.70 kg) and ≥ 12 months long (-7.90 kg) compared to studies of shorter duration of calorie restriction (≤ 5 months; -4.26 kg). Further, 20-30% calorie restriction reduced fat mass in overweight ( -3.64 kg) and obese adults (-2.40 kg), again, with greater losses
