Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


duration of calorie restriction (≤ 5 months; -4.26 kg). Further, 20-30% calorie restriction reduced fat mass in overweight ( -3.64 kg) and obese adults (-2.40 kg), again, with greater losses with > 6 months of calorie restriction (-5.80 kg) compared to ≤ 6 months of duration (-1.91 kg) ( 77 ). However, more human clinical trials are needed to fully understand the long-term implications such as weight maintenance. Time-Restricted Feeding In a fasting diet, an individual does not eat at all or severely limits dietary intake during certain times of the day, week, or month. Recently, intermittent fasting, limiting the number of hours (e.g., 6-8 h) each day food can is consumed, has become a popular and effective dietary pattern for weight loss, as the primary focus is on frequency of eating ( 78 ). This eating pattern may be a practical way to reduce caloric intake because there is less time for regular eating. Time-restricted feeding may improve body weight regulation through the extended fasting duration, which promotes the mobilization of free fatty acids and increases fat oxidation and the production of ketones ( 79 ). While there is no calorie goal for time-restricted feeding, there is about a 3-5% caloric reduction as a result of having less time to eat during the day ( 80 ). Currently, there are only a few human trials examining time-restricted feeding (eating window ≤ 8-10 h for ≥ 8 weeks). One study demonstrated weight loss of 3.3 kg (95% CI −5.6 to −0.9 kg) with a self-selected 20% reduction in daily caloric intake estimates ( 81 ). Another study examining restricted feeding (without calorie counting) to an 8 h window (10:00 to 18:00) for 12 weeks demonstrated a 2.6 ± 0.5% weight loss compared to control ( 82 ). Restricting energy intake to a short window during waking hours and extending the length of the overnight fast appears to provide metabolic and potential health benefits, but more human research is needed. Additionally, for time-restricted feeding to be effective, a reduced calorie intake relative to energy expenditure must be achieved. Compared to a traditional caloric restriction diet, time-restricted feeding may pose unique barriers to weight loss such as diet quality, scheduling conflicts, and social influences ( 80 ). Low-Carbohydrate vs Low-Fat The most common adjustment to macronutrients for weight loss has been a reduction in fat intake since, in comparison to both carbohydrate
