Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


social influences ( 80 ). Low-Carbohydrate vs Low-Fat The most common adjustment to macronutrients for weight loss has been a reduction in fat intake since, in comparison to both carbohydrate and protein, fat contains more than twice as much energy per gram and fat tends to be overconsumed compared to dietary recommendations. Dietary macronutrient composition has been studied extensively regarding weight loss efficacy. The results of these studies were combined in a recent meta-analysis ( 83 ) where a total of 53 randomized controlled trials that imposed a low-fat diet or an alternative dietary intervention for 1 year. Collectively, these studies showed that dietary interventions targeting reduced fat intake do not lead to significantly greater weight loss than dietary interventions targeting reduced carbohydrate intake, which produced an average long-term weight loss of 1.15 kg ( 83 ). The reported weight loss with a low carbohydrate diet should be cautioned. It may be ill-advised to tout low-carbohydrate higher-fat diets as superior to low-fat diets since only 1 extra kg of weight was lost, which can be considered irrelevant and even indicative of weight maintenance in clinical settings. Low-carbohydrate diets have had positive effects on health; however, the reduction of refined carbohydrates can induce weight loss through a decrease in the insulin-induced action for lipogenesis (storage of excess carbohydrates in adipose tissue) and the action to inhibit lipolysis ( 84 ). Since refined carbohydrates are strong stimulators of insulin, the unintentional reduction in refined carbohydrates as a result of improved overall diet quality in low-carbohydrate diets could be the reason for weight loss success ( 34 ). Furthermore, carbohydrates that are higher in fiber may reduce the metabolizable energy content leading to lower total calorie consumption. The low-fat versus low-carbohydrate diet debate for weight loss was recently put to the test in an elegant study conducted at the NIH ( 85 ). Individuals with obesity were randomized into 2 groups in an in-patient clinical setting where one group received 30% fewer calories from fat (~800 kcal/day) while keeping carbohydrates comparable to the baseline diet and the other group received 30% fewer calories from carbohydrates (~800 kcal/day) while keeping fat comparable to the baseline diet. Interestingly, only the reduced carbohydrate group had an increase in fat oxidation, whereas the reduced fat group did not. However, the reduced fat group astonishingly had a greater rate of body fat loss even though fat oxidation was
