Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


increase in fat oxidation, whereas the reduced fat group did not. However, the reduced fat group astonishingly had a greater rate of body fat loss even though fat oxidation was unchanged ( 85 ). The reduced carbohydrate group, however, saw a reduction in insulin secretion. The mathematical model that was used to simulate the effects of these 2 diets on weight and fat suggests that the reduced fat diet group would continue to show enhanced fat loss for up to 6 months ( 85 ). Although as energy balance is reached again with weight loss, differences in fat loss between groups will likely diminish over time. Additionally, systematic review and meta-analysis comparing 14 dietary macronutrient patterns demonstrated that most macronutrient diets resulted in modest weight loss over 6 months, but weight reduction and improvements in cardiometabolic factors largely disappeared after 12 months ( 86 ). This suggests that caloric restriction, regardless of whether the diet is low fat or low carbohydrate, can lead to weight loss. Recently, the focus on intra-individuality surrounding carbohydrate and fat oxidation has gained momentum. In a 12-week weight loss study, 145 participants with overweight/obesity were identified as fat-responders or carbohydrate-responders based on their combined genotypes at 10 genetic variants, and then randomized to a high-fat or high-carbohydrate diet. However, weight loss did not differ between the genotypes ( 87 ). Another randomized control trial examining whether a low-fat diet compared to a low-carbohydrate diet related to genotype patterns or insulin secretion found no significant differences in weight loss over 12 months between the low fat and low carbohydrate diets, and neither genotype pattern nor baseline insulin secretion was associated with the dietary effects on weight loss. Taken together, it appears that understanding who may benefit from a low-fat versus low-carbohydrate diet remains convoluted ( 88 ). Weight Cycling Weight regain following weight loss is a common issue that people with obesity encounter. Common mechanisms of action that spur weight regain are related to gut hormone secretion profiles, changes in appetite and reward centers related to food, decreases in energy expenditure, and changes in body composition ( 89 ). Indeed, research demonstrates that the ratio of fat mass to fat-free mass in an individual can predict food and macronutrient intake impacting energy homeostasis ( 90 ). Even with assisted weight loss (e.g., anti-obesity medications, bariatric surgery), weight regain can occur. Repeated episodes of weight loss and
