Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


should be counselled on weight loss and the importance of weight loss maintenance because subsequent weight regain might be worse for long-term health than maintaining the original obese state. Personalization of Weight Loss and Weight Loss Maintenance Interventions The concept of precision medicine is rapidly gaining attention as an innovative approach for the management of obesity. Within this concept, individual differences in genes, demographics, environments, and lifestyles are considered for nutrition, exercise, and medical prescriptions. Individual-specific diet and physical activity components are identified and used for tailoring weight loss or weight maintenance strategies ( 110 ). By evaluating an individual’s cardiometabolic profile and other risk factors associated with obesity, precision health directly targets the disease. Laboratory tests for the assessment of metabolic profiles, metabolomics, and nutritional status are recommended along with the assessment of diet quality. Better understanding the differing phenotypes of obesity may aid in addressing anti-obesity treatment response heterogeneity among individuals. Obesity-related cardiometabolic complications and metabolic disorders are often liked to a proinflammatory state ( 111 ). Yet, the occurrence of these obesity-related morbidities is not present in all individuals with obesity. Consequently, the terms “metabolically unhealthy obese” and “metabolically healthy obese”, have been introduced to define individuals with obesity who have cardiometabolic risk factors or those who do not, respectively ( 112 ). While there is no standard definition of these obesity phenotypes, the most common criteria to define metabolically unhealthy obese are based on the presence of ≥ 2 of the 4 diagnostic criteria for metabolic syndrome ( 112 ). Other proposed criteria to identify obesity phenotypes are the presence of insulin resistance, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels, and indices of visceral adiposity and fatty liver. Identifying the phenotype of obesity can provide a tailored approach to clinical care for those with overweight and obesity. Recent work by Acosta and colleagues suggests obesity presents in 4 distinct ways: hungry brain (abnormal satiation), emotional hunger (hedonic eating), hungry gut (abnormal satiety), and slow burn (decreased metabolic rate) ( 113 ). In a 12-month pragmatic weight management trial with 450 adults, 32% of patients were presented with hungry brain, 32% with hungry gut, 21% with emotional hunger, and 21% with slow burn. Addressing hedonic eating behavior (energy intake), homeostatic eating behavior (hunger, satiation, and satiety), and energy expenditure (resting metabolic rate) separately was shown by Acosta to provide a deeper assessment of potential mechanisms for precision health for obesity
