Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


to 2018 ( 128 ). A possible reason for diet quality decreasing in the US could be due to the increase of UPF ( 129 ). UPF have become a large source of dietary food intake in high-income countries, including the US ( 130 ), and such foods have become increasingly available around the world due to the globalization of food systems (i.e., post 1970s). UPF are foods that have 5 or more ingredients, including chemically synthesized ingredients that are not found in unprocessed or minimally processed foods, such as artificial sweeteners, hydrogenated oils, and colorants ( 131 , 132 ). UPF are cheaper for consumers as they are mostly produced from high yielding crops such as soy, wheat, and maize. Data indicates that sales of UPF, but not ultra-processed beverages, per capita have been steadily increasing since 2012 in the US ( 130 ). A NHANES cross-sectional analysis in US adults age >19 years indicates that UPF consumption increased from 2001-2002 to 2017-2018 ( 129 ). Further, consumption of UPF has been positively associated with obesity possibly due to being energy dense and containing higher levels of trans- and saturated fatty acids, sodium, sugar, and refined carbohydrates ( 132 ). A randomized controlled clinical trial showed that energy intake was significantly increased in weight-stable adults during the UPF diet compared to the unprocessed food diet, with increased consumption of carbohydrates and fat ( 71 ). Weight gain was also correlated with UPF diet while losing weight was correlated with the unprocessed food diet ( 71 ). Intrauterine and Intergenerational Effects As obesity is continuously rising, the prevalence of obesity in pregnant women has also increased ( 133 ). In addition to the interrelated physiological and environmental components affecting metabolism, recent work shows that obesity (and other disorders) may be the result of genetic and epigenetic programming that occurs in utero and can be traced back up to two generations (Figure 4). Genetics alone are unlikely to be causing the ballooning of obesity observed the past decades, as genetic mutations are the result of evolutionary pressures occurring over multiple generations ( 134 , 135 ). Instead, environmental factors contributing to physiological changes can have implications for health and weight regulation in future generations. Rodent studies show that overfeeding results in increased body weight and adiposity both in sample animals and also in their offspring across 3 generations ( 136 ).
