Body Weight Regulation
KEYWORDS: weight, energy, pubmed, obesity, intake, fat, free, pmc, pmc free, article, free article, article pubmed, loss, diet, body


in future generations. Rodent studies show that overfeeding results in increased body weight and adiposity both in sample animals and also in their offspring across 3 generations ( 136 ). Environmental changes, such as the shift towards predominantly obesogenic environments promote the expression of so-called “mal-adaptive” genes, predisposing the offspring to greater metabolic health risks ( 137 ). Accumulating evidence suggests that predisposition to obesity starts in utero if not earlier. Epigenetic factors such as the intrauterine environment affect health and phenotype outcomes in the offspring. Pregnant individuals with obesity are at risk for having infants born large for gestational age, which increases the infant’s risk for adult-onset obesity ( 138 ). Furthermore, pregnant individuals with obesity are also at higher risk of having overweight or obesity during postpartum and entering a subsequent pregnancy with obesity, perpetuating a cycle of weight gain, putting both parent and child at risk of adverse health outcomes. Lifestyle interventions during pregnancy focusing on altering the maternal milieu through increased physical activity, time-restricted eating, and individual feedback are likely to lead to healthy pregnancies and outcomes ( 139 - 142 ). Obesogenics (Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals) Obesogens, ingested or internalized environmental chemicals, interfere with endocrine signaling leading to adiposity and weight gain ( 143 ). Increased exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) in the past half-century is both an ecological and a health concern. EDCs can be naturally occurring or man-made chemicals, with the most common including bisphenol A (BPA; used in plastic manufacturing), pesticides, phthalates (liquid plasticizers common in food packaging, cosmetics, and fragrances), and per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS; chemicals common in paper, non-stick pans, and clothing) ( 144 ). All of these substances affect numerous metabolic outcomes, including adipocyte differentiation, number, size, and function, lipid profiles, energy intake, energy expenditure, the gut microbiome, basal inflammation, and insulin resistance ( 145 ). The most common methods of exposure include in utero , environmental exposures, food and beverages, cosmetics, household products, pollution, drugs, medical devices, and toys. Early exposure leads to higher risk for subsequent disease development later in life, as the umbilical cord, placenta, and breast milk are primary accumulation locations of EDCs and routes of exposure to developing young at their most susceptible ( 146 ). Given the abundance of obesogens in our everyday lives, it is imperative the obesogen hypothesis/model of obesity receive greater attention by the broader scientific community as a
