HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Published in final edited form as: Gastrointest Endosc. 2019 June ; 89(6): 1075–1105.e15. doi:. ASGE guideline on the role of endoscopy in the evaluation and management of choledocholithiasis MPH7, Victoria K. Cortessis, PhD1, Hannah Schilperoort, MLIS, MA8, Lynn Kysh, MLIS8, of Practice Committee Chair Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA); Center for Chronic Disease Outcomes Research, Minnesota, USA Gainesville, Florida, USA 7Department of Gastroenterology, Archbold Medical Group, Thomasville, Georgia, USA 8Norris Medical Library 9Division of Hepatobiliary Surgery & Liver Transplantation 10Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition . Olympus. S. A. Fehmi, P. Yachimski: Consultant for Boston Scientific. L. H. Jamil: Consultant for Aries Pharmaceutical; speaker for Aries Pharmaceutical. M. A. Khashab: Consultant for Boston Scientific Corp, Olympus, and Medtronic; medical advisory board for Boston Scientific Corp and Olympus. N. Thosani, S. B. Wani: Consultant for Boston Scientific Corp and Medtronic. All other authors disclosed no financial relationships relevant to this publication. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript USA California, USA 14The Permanente Medical Group 17Department of Gastroenterology Iowa, USA Boston, Massachusetts, USA 20Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, McGovern Medical School, UTHealth, Houston, Texas, USA Bronx, New York, USA Aurora, Colorado, USA Abstract Guidelines for appropriate use of endoscopy are based on a critical review of the available data and expert consensus at the time the guidelines were drafted. Further controlled clinical studies may be needed to clarify aspects of this guideline. This guideline may be revised as The recommendations in this document were based on reviewed studies using the GRADE and systematic review methodologies described in the Methods section. This guideline is intended to be an educational device to provide information that may assist endoscopists in providing care to patients. This guideline is not a rule and should not be construed as establishing a legal standard of care or as encouraging, advocating, requiring, or discouraging any particular treatment. Clinical decisions in any particular case involve a complex analysis of the endoscopist to take a course of action that varies from these guidelines. INTRODUCTION Bile duct stones (choledocholithiasis) most frequently result from the migration of gallstones from the gallbladder into the biliary tree. Gallstones are the consequence of cholesterol supersaturation in bile, inadequate bile salt levels or function, and diminished contractility of the biliary epithelium because of the multifactorial effects of diet, hormones,
