HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


Gallstones are the consequence of cholesterol supersaturation in bile, inadequate bile salt levels or function, and diminished contractility of the biliary epithelium because of the multifactorial effects of diet, hormones, and genetic Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript predisposition. 1,2 Prospective population data reveal that 10% of American adults will develop symptomatic gallstones over the course of a decade.2 Greater than 700,000 will undergo outpatient cholecystectomy, and despite 436,000 being managed as outpatients, the annual cost exceeds 6.6 billion dollars.2,3 Among those with symptomatic cholelithiasis 10% to 20% have concomitant choledocholithiasis.4 An analysis using Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG); International Classification of Disease, 9th Revision (ICD-9); and Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes suggests that each episode of choledocholithiasis results in a cost of 9000 dollars.5 Furthermore, choledocholithiasis is the leading cause of acute pancreatitis, which results in 275,000 hospitalizations annually at a cost of 2.6 billion dollars.6 ERCP has transformed bile duct stone removal from a major operation to a minimally invasive procedure. Over the past 3 decades a number of strategies have been introduced to address even the most difficult bile duct stones, including large balloon papillary dilation and cholangioscopy-guided intraductal laser and electrohydraulic lithotripsy (EHL).7,8 However, a significant risk (6%-15%) of major adverse events associated with ERCP-guided treatment of bile duct stones has also been recognized.9,10 This has underscored the need to identify appropriate candidates for this procedure and to reserve biliary endoscopy for patients who have the highest probability of intraductal stones. AIMS/SCOPE The aim of this document is to provide evidence-based recommendations for the endoscopic evaluation and treatment of choledocholithiasis based on rigorous review and synthesis of the contemporary literature, using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework. The GRADE framework is a system for rating the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations that is comprehensive and transparent and has been recently adopted by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE).11 This document addresses the following 4 clinical questions: 1. What is the diagnostic utility of EUS versus MRCP to confirm choledocholithiasis in patients at intermediate risk of choledocholithiasis? 2. In patients with gallstone pancreatitis, what is the role of early ERCP? 3. In patients with large choledocholithiasis, is endoscopic papillary dilation after sphincterotomy favored over sphincterotomy alone? 4. What is the role of ERCP-guided intraductal therapy (EHL and laser lithotripsy) in
