HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


3. In patients with large choledocholithiasis, is endoscopic papillary dilation after sphincterotomy favored over sphincterotomy alone? 4. What is the role of ERCP-guided intraductal therapy (EHL and laser lithotripsy) in patients with large and difficult choledocholithiasis? Five additional clinical questions were addressed by the guideline panel using comprehensive literature review but not adhering to GRADE methodology: (1) Is same admission cholecystectomy necessary for patients with gallstone pancreatitis? (2) Are (US) able to predict choledocholithiasis? (3) What is the optimal timing of ERCP for choledocholithiasis in patients undergoing cholecystectomy? (4) What is the role of ERCP in Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the management of Mirizzi syndrome and hepatolithiasis? (5) What is the role of bile duct stents in the management of choledocholithiasis? METHODS Overview This article was prepared by a working group of the Standards of Practice (SOP) Committee of the ASGE in conjunction with a GRADE methodologist. This document includes a systematic review of available literature along with guidelines for the endoscopic diagnosis and management of choledocholithiasis. The panel members first formulated the relevant questions and agreed on patient-important outcomes for each question, which were subsequently approved by the ASGE Governing Board. The GRADE framework was used to comprehensive literature review, and recommendations were based on consensus opinion. All recommendations were drafted by the full panel during a face-to-face meeting on March 17, 2018 and approved by the SOP committee members and the ASGE Governing Board. Panel composition and conflict of interest management The panel was composed of a GRADE methodologist (S.S.), 4 content experts with expertise in systematic review and meta-analysis (J.L.B., S.A.F., B.J.Q., D.S.F.), a content expert independent of the SOP committee (P.Y.), a hepatobiliary surgeon (L.M.), committee chair (S.B.W.), and the other members of the SOP committee. The panel members disclosed possible intellectual and financial conflicts of interest in concordance with ASGE policies ( mission-and-governance/asge-conflict-of-interest-and-disclosure-policy.pdf). Formulation of clinical questions the ASGE SOP Committee. Four of these questions were deemed to be amenable to a PICO approach. For each PICO question we identified the population (P), intervention (I), comparator (C), and outcomes of interest (O) (Table 1). Patient-important outcomes included confirmation and complete clearance of choledocholithiasis as well as associated adverse events. The clinical questions were approved by the ASGE Governing Board. Literature search and study selection criteria For each PICO question a comprehensive
