HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


of choledocholithiasis as well as associated adverse events. The clinical questions were approved by the ASGE Governing Board. Literature search and study selection criteria For each PICO question a comprehensive literature search for existing systematic reviews and meta-analyses was first performed. If no published review was identified, a systematic review and meta-analysis was performed. For PICO question one, two, and four, a librarian (LK) created and documented search strategies in the following bibliographic databases: Ovid Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science on September 21, 2017. For PICO question three, a librarian (HS) created and documented search strategies in the following bibliographic databases: Ovid Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science on November 16, 2017. A combination of subject headings (when available) and keywords were used for the concepts lithotripsy, balloon dilatation, sphincterotomy, and bile Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript duct stones. No language or other limits were applied. See Supplementary Tables 3A-4D for full search strategies including database details. In an effort to capture unpublished studies LK and HS conducted searches in Google Scholar and ClinicalTrials.gov. Due to database constraints and lack of replicability, only the first 200 citations from Google Scholar were collected. Only English language citations were included. Cross-referencing and forward searches of the citation from articles fulfilling inclusion criteria were performed using the Web of Science. For PICO questions 2 and 3 only randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were included in the primary analyses. Given limitations in the available literature, randomized controlled and observational cohort studies were included in searches for PICO questions 1 and 4. Identified citations were imported into EndNote x7.7.1 (Clarivate Analytics, Philadelphia, Pa), duplicates remove by the Bramer method,13 and uploaded into Covidence (Melbourne, Australia). Data extraction and statistical analysis For questions that required meta-analysis, data extraction was performed by at least 2 independent reviewers. Pooled effects were derived using random effects models and the specific summary statistic depended on the relevant outcomes: overall diagnostic odds ratio (OR) for PICO 1, risk ratios for PICO 2, summary OR for PICO 3, and pooled proportions were used to estimate effect size and direction when direct comparisons were unavailable. Heterogeneity was quantified by the I2 statistic (I2) and evaluated by sensitivity analyses. Funnel plots and analyses stratified by study design were used to evaluate for publication bias and influence of
