HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


was quantified by the I2 statistic (I2) and evaluated by sensitivity analyses. Funnel plots and analyses stratified by study design were used to evaluate for publication bias and influence of study quality. Certainty in evidence Quality of evidence.—The certainty in the body of evidence (also known as quality of the evidence or confidence in the estimated effects) was assessed for each of the outcomes of interest, following the GRADE approach based on the following domains: risk of bias of individual studies, imprecision, inconsistency, indirectness of the evidence, and risk of publication bias. The certainty was categorized into 4 levels ranging from very low to high (Table 2).14 In this approach evidence from RCTs starts at high quality but can then be rated down based on assessment of above domains. On the other hand, evidence from observational studies starts at low quality and then is potentially downgraded based on the above variables or upgraded in case of dose–response relationship, large magnitude of effect, or confounding. For each PICO, an evidence profile or summary of findings table was created using the GRADEpro/GDT application ( Development of recommendations.—During an inperson meeting, the panel developed recommendations based on the following: the certainty in the evidence, the overall balance of benefits and harms, values and preferences associated with the decision, and available data on resource utilization and cost-effectiveness. The final wording of the recommendations (including direction and strength) was decided by consensus and was approved by all members of the panel. The recommendations are labeled as either “strong” or “conditional” according to the GRADE approach. The words “the guideline panel recommend” are used for strong recommendations and “suggest” for conditional Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript recommendations. Table 3 provides the suggested interpretation of strong and conditional recommendations by patients, clinicians, and healthcare policymakers. Patient values and preferences.—Few publications addressing choledocholithiasis have measured or addressed patient values and preferences. Single-step treatment (combined laparoscopic cholecystectomy and bile duct exploration [LC-BDE]) was associated with higher patient satisfaction scores than the strategy of ERCP before cholecystectomy.15 This was attributed to shortened hospital stay. In a trial of EUS/ERCP before cholecystectomy versus ERCP after cholecystectomy in patients with a positive intraoperative cholangiogram, quality of life outcomes were assessed using EuroQol Group, 5-level (EQ-5D-5L) scores.16 there was no statistically significant difference in the EQ-5D-5L scores for the 2
