HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


MRCP, but this did not take into account the cost of anesthesia. Additionally, this analysis assumed a very modest sensitivity of .4 for MRCP. MRCP was more cost-effective than EUS when the sensitivity of MRCP was assumed to be greater than .6.20 Additionally, the meta-analysis did not address adverse events. Among the included trials, 2 studies reported no serious adverse events associated with EUS or MRCP, and the rate of adverse events was not documented in other reports.17,26-29 Nevertheless, diagnostic EUS used to evaluate for choledocholithiasis is associated with a low but finite (.02%-.07%) risk of perforation.30 Certainty in the evidence.—Although the 5 trials were observational, they were prospective, comparative, and blinded (Supplementary Table 2, available online at www.giejournal.org). The authors used the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 (QUADAS-2) tool to assess for risk of bias and found that none of the included trials had high likelihood of bias; 4 were intermediate and 1 low (Supplementary Fig. 1, available online at www.giejournal.org). The quality of evidence was rated down for inconsistency given the high I2 and for imprecision suggested by nonoverlapping CIs Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript among the included studies (Tables 5A and 5B). Hence, the overall quality of evidence for the outcome was rated to be low for EUS but moderate for MRCP (rated down for inconsistency). Considerations.—The current evidence indicates that EUS and MRCP have high specificity for choledocholithiasis, although EUS may be more sensitive. However, an important consideration is the cost of EUS, particularly if anesthesia services are used for sedation, and the fact that it is operator-dependent. Similarly, patient inconvenience related to the procedure may influence decisionmaking. The meta-analysis did not address cost, adverse events, and patient preferences for EUS versus MRCP. Additionally, the studies have variable inclusion criteria, and a significant number of patients were ineligible for 1 or both tests. Given the low quality of evidence supporting this recommendation, it is likely that further evidence on adverse events, cost, and patient experience may impact future recommendations. Discussion.—EUS has a comparable accuracy with diagnostic ERCP for evaluation of choledocholithiasis and is associated with a significantly lower adverse event rate.31 Among patients at indeterminate risk, EUS before ERCP may obviate the need for the latter.31,32 MRCP overcomes the limitations of transabdominal US, particularly the obfuscation of the distal bile duct because
