HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


patients at indeterminate risk, EUS before ERCP may obviate the need for the latter.31,32 MRCP overcomes the limitations of transabdominal US, particularly the obfuscation of the distal bile duct because of intraductal air.19 In the meta-analysis of head-to head studies by Meeralam et al,24 the specificities of both EUS and MRCP were very high (.97 vs .92), consistent with a Cochrane meta-analysis,33 which primarily used indirect comparison of the 2 tests. In the Cochrane review the sensitivity of MRCP and EUS were also comparable.33 However, in the meta-analysis of direct comparison studies by Meeralam et al24 the sensitivity of EUS was superior to MRCP. In the 2 individual studies with the largest discrepancy between the sensitivity of EUS and MRCP, the false-negative MRCPs were for small stones (6 mm in diameter).17,27 Kondo et al27 proposed that EUS be considered in those with a negative MRCP. Although this may not be necessary unless there is strong study. Nevertheless, the relative cost of EUS versus MRCP in the era in which monitored anesthesia care is frequently used for EUS is unknown. Furthermore, although low, the adverse event rate of EUS is not zero.30,31 Although more widely available, EUS is also referral center may render it inconvenient. Additionally, prospective studies reveals that learning curves for EUS are highly variable, with approximately one fourth not achieving competence at the end of advanced endoscopy training, highlighting the need for more standardized approaches to training and evaluation for EUS.34 The implications of this are that performance characteristics of EUS outside of the research setting are likely to be even more variable, leading to lower diagnostic test accuracy. Other considerations include patient-specific factors that may limit the feasibility of using a specific test, such as claustrophobia and pacemakers (which may preclude MRCP) or a history of GI bypass procedures (which may preclude EUS). Question 2: In patients with gallstone pancreatitis, what is the role of early ERCP? Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation: In patients with gallstone pancreatitis without cholangitis or biliary obstruction/choledocholithiasis we recommend against urgent (within 48 hours) ERCP (strong recommendation, low quality of evidence). Summary of the evidence.—The patient-important outcomes for this clinical question were mortality and systemic and local adverse events of pancreatitis (critical). This question had been previously addressed in a Cochrane systematic review conducted by Tse and Yuan
