HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


= 0) compared with conservative therapy. No episodes of perforation or cholangitis were reported in these studies. No episodes of post-ERCP pancreatitis were reported, although it was acknowledged that this is difficult to measure in patients who already have pancreatitis. Certainty in the evidence.—Although the included studies were RCTs, the quality of evidence was rated down given that all but 1 trial had an unclear or low risk of bias (Supplementary Fig. 2, available online at www.giejournal.org). Specifically, only 2 studies reported the use of random sequence generation for randomization, and a single trial reported the use of concealed allocation. For the outcome of mortality, we also rated down for inconsistency given the high I2. The certainty in the evidence was moderate for local and systemic adverse events. Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Considerations.—Although the overall quality of evidence across outcomes was low, the panel members made a strong recommendation against early ERCP in those with gallstone pancreatitis (but without cholangitis or biliary obstruction) given the lack of benefit and potential for increased harm of ERCP. Studies included in the meta-analysis differed in how early ERCP was defined; some studies used time from admission to procedure time versus time from symptoms, whereas others used the time frame of 48 to 72 hours. The committee believed that early ERCP defined as within 48 hours was most appropriate given that urgent ERCP is of benefit in those with cholangitis with or without gallstone pancreatitis if done in the first 48 hours.38,39 There was also extensive panel discussion regarding early ERCP for patients with gallstone pancreatitis and concomitant biliary obstruction or choledocholithiasis given a favorable but nonsignificant trend. The panel voted to exclude patients with simultaneous biliary obstruction or choledocholithiasis and gallstone pancreatitis from the recommendation against early ERCP for gallstone pancreatitis. Discussion.—The concept of early ERCP for gallstone pancreatitis originates from observational surgical reports that suggested operative relief of bile duct obstruction in gallstone pancreatitis decreased mortality.40,41 Those who underwent surgical exploration at >48 hours exhibited more severe histologic lesions than those who had ampullary gallstone impaction for ≤48 hours.40,41 In this multihit theory of gallstone pancreatitis it is postulated that passage of small calculi through the ampulla initiates acute pancreatitis and larger choledocholithiasis persistently obstructed at the papilla result in severe disease.42 However, an RCT of early surgery
