HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


postulated that passage of small calculi through the ampulla initiates acute pancreatitis and larger choledocholithiasis persistently obstructed at the papilla result in severe disease.42 However, an RCT of early surgery for gallstone pancreatitis demonstrated that early intervention resulted in increased morbidity and mortality.43 This favored an alternate “single-hit” hypothesis that gallstone pancreatitis results from passage of an initial gallstone through the ampulla and additional surgical or endoscopic manipulation of the region is more likely to exacerbate than alleviate inflammation. Additional supportive evidence for this approach is found in endoscopic series in which most patients with gallstone pancreatitis have negative cholangiography even among those with rising liver tests.44,45 In their meta-analysis, Tse and Yuan35 demonstrated that early ERCP does not decrease the mortality or adverse events of gallstone pancreatitis. The panel’s recommendation against ERCP was thus driven by the need to minimize risk and undue harm; ERCP carries a risk of harm in addition to cost and inconvenience without clear benefit. The results of the meta-analysis differed from the findings of the earlier trials by Fan et al36 and Neoptolemos et al.37 However, these earlier trials included patients with concomitant pancreatitis and cholangitis. These trials also demonstrated a greater benefit for those with predicted severe pancreatitis, which was not seen in later trials. However, they used predictive scoring systems such as Ranson’s and Glasgow whose components (ie, white blood cell count) are also elevated in cholangitis.46 Our recommendation against early ERCP does not apply to patients with gallstone pancreatitis and cholangitis, given the demonstrated benefit of ERCP in the setting of cholangitis.38,39 More recent reports by Oria et al47 and Folsch et al48 used more focused inclusion criterion, which enables a more nuanced application of their findings. Both studies excluded patients with cholangitis, which benefits from early endoscopic therapy.38,39 Folsch et al excluded patients with a bilirubin <5 mg/dL and Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript instituted ERCP for patients who developed fever, an increase of bilirubin >3 mg/dL, and refractory biliary type pain. One challenge in informing the recommendation for early ERCP for gallstone pancreatitis is that a method to diagnose post-ERCP pancreatitis in those with concomitant gallstone pancreatitis is lacking.35 Given this limitation, Tse and Yuan could not directly compare adverse events for early versus conservative management. Nevertheless, ERCP is associated with a significant 9.7% to 14.7%
