HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


pancreatitis is lacking.35 Given this limitation, Tse and Yuan could not directly compare adverse events for early versus conservative management. Nevertheless, ERCP is associated with a significant 9.7% to 14.7% risk of post ERCP pancreatitis and .9% to 6% risk of other adverse events including hemorrhage, perforation, and cholangitis.49,50 Future trials would also be improved by adoption of consistent terminology to define inclusion criteria and score outcomes such as the Tokyo cholangitis criterion or Revised Atlanta Pancreatitis classification.51,52 These recommendations are consistent with the recent American Gastroenterological Association Institute Guidelines on Initial Management of Acute Pancreatitis that also suggest against routine use of urgent ERCP for gallstone pancreatitis.53 Question 3: In patients with large bile duct stones, is endoscopic papillary dilation after sphincterotomy favored over sphincterotomy alone? Recommendation: In patients with large bile duct stones, we suggest performing endoscopic sphincterotomy followed by large balloon dilation (ES-LBD) rather than endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) alone (conditional recommendation, moderate evidence). Summary of the evidence.—The patient-important outcomes for this clinical question were bile duct clearance, adverse events, and the requirement for mechanical lithotripsy. The evidence profile is presented in Table 7. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate these outcomes. A systematic search in collaboration with an information specialist revealed 4233 abstracts (Supplementary Table 3, available online at www.giejournal.org). Authors of the studies were contacted if there was concern for longitudinal publication of the same cohort and to obtain missing information. Studies that reported ES-LBD for stones of a wide range of diameters were not included unless the subset of results for stones ≥1 cm were reported. We identified 9 RCTs comparing ES-LBD versus ES alone. These studies reported on 551 patients who underwent ES-LBD and 551 patients who received ES alone. Based on random effects models, patients were more likely to have complete clearance of large stones by ES-LBD versus ES alone (pooled OR, 2.8 [95% CI, 1.4-5.7], I2 = 26%) (Fig. 1, Table 8). A funnel plot showed low likelihood of publication bias. No significant difference in first procedure clearance for ES-LBD versus ES (OR, 1.8 [95% CI, .9-3.7], I2 = 63%) was found. There was a decreased requirement for mechanical lithotripsy in those treated with ES-LBD versus ES (OR, .2 [95% CI, .1-.7], I2 = 82%) (Supplementary Fig. 3). For the outcome of adverse events, there was no difference in overall adverse events (OR, .8 [95% CI, .5-1.4], I2 =
