HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


[95% CI, .1-.7], I2 = 82%) (Supplementary Fig. 3). For the outcome of adverse events, there was no difference in overall adverse events (OR, .8 [95% CI, .5-1.4], I2 = 0) or specific adverse events of cholangitis, pancreatitis, bleeding, or perforation. In a sensitivity analysis, we included the 22 observational comparative reports in addition to the 9 RCTs (ES-LBD, 1939 patients; ES alone, 2148 patients). There was greater overall Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript clearance (OR, 2.33 [95% CI, 1.66-3.28], I2 = 30%) and first procedure clearance (OR, 2.09 [95% CI, 1.41-3.09], I2 = 66%) in the ES-LBD cohorts (Supplementary Figs. 4 and 5, available online at www.giejournal.org). Certainty in the evidence.—There were no issues with risk of bias as summarized in Supplementary Figure 6. The quality of evidence was rated down for imprecision (Table 7). There did not appear to be serious indirectness or inconsistency. Overall certainty was determined to be moderate. Considerations.—The panel had significant discussion about the overall quality of evidence and the balance between benefit and harm. There was acknowledgment that the heterogeneous classification of adverse events made it difficult to compare the proportions of patients who develop adverse events and, in particular, severe adverse events, combined with variability in techniques. The panel voted to make a conditional recommendation for ES-LBD over ES. Additional studies using well-characterized definitions of adverse events as well as more standardized balloon sizes and sphincterotomy extent may impact this recommendation. Furthermore, studies on cost and procedure times are also needed. Discussion.—ES-LBD was developed to facilitate removal of large stones and to avoid the increased rates of pancreatitis seen when balloon dilation was performed without sphincterotomy for choledocholithiasis.54,55 Although the relative performance varies among the 9 RCTs comparing ES-LBD and ES alone, the summary effect demonstrated greater overall successful stone removal for ES-LBD. When all comparative trials (including observational studies) were included, a consistent finding was observed. A recent meta­ analysis of RCT by Park et al56 reported greater first procedure clearance for ES-LBD than ES among those with large and small stone sizes. In contrast to the study by Park et al, we include 2 additional RCTs published in 201757,58 and only included the subsets of studies by Teoh and Li, which reported specific results for large stones (Table 8).8,59 Another important consideration was heterogeneity in the techniques
