HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


in 201757,58 and only included the subsets of studies by Teoh and Li, which reported specific results for large stones (Table 8).8,59 Another important consideration was heterogeneity in the techniques of ES-LBD: The maximum size of the papillary dilation balloon ranged from 15 to 20 mm, some groups used a complete sphincterotomy from the biliary orifice to the horizontal fold, whereas others made an incision 33% to 66% of the distance. Also, the minimal stone size for inclusion varied from 10 to 15 mm. Summary estimates suggest that adverse events for ES-LBD were comparable with ES alone. Nevertheless, their classification was highly variable. Although the Cotton Consensus criteria were ostensibly used in most studies, it was subjected to various “modifications.”60-63 Stefanidis et al70 reported a high rate of cholangitis with ES, but the cases were all mild and responded to conservative treatment. In a recent multicenter study, Karsenti et al57 reported comparable adverse events for ES-LBD versus ES but described that 2 patients in the former group developed life-threatening adverse events, whereas those after ES were mild. In a large multicenter retrospective series by Park et al,64 it was reported that 10% (95/946) of ES-LBD procedures were associated with adverse events. Multivariate analysis indicated that complete ES (to transverse fold) was associated with bleeding and long distal strictures associated with perforation. The authors advocate avoiding a complete ES before LBD, and the approach should be used with caution in those with distal biliary Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript strictures. It was also recommended not to dilate to greater than the size of the bile duct. Standardized granular definitions of adverse events with specific classification by severity are needed to better compare these methods. Alternative approaches to ES-LBD such as laser lithotripsy may be a consideration in patients with specific anatomic features such as distal biliary stricture. The RCTs provided little evidence regarding cost or length of hospitalization associated with these approaches. Jun Bo et al65 reported a shorter length of stay for those managed with ES-LBD versus ES (11 days vs 15 days). Nevertheless, the need for greater than a week of hospitalization in both groups is unclear.65 Relative procedural costs ranged from higher for ES-LBD,65 similar,57 or less particularly if ES was supplemented with mechanical lithotripsy.57 Although not limited to patients with large stones, Teoh et
