HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


unclear.65 Relative procedural costs ranged from higher for ES-LBD,65 similar,57 or less particularly if ES was supplemented with mechanical lithotripsy.57 Although not limited to patients with large stones, Teoh et al8 reported that overall cost of hospitalization was less for ES-LBD, $ (U.S.) 5025 (interquartile range [IQR], 4150-5235), than ES, $6005 (IQR, 4462-5441). In an observational study of ES-LBD versus ES, Itoi et al75 reported shorter procedure duration (32 vs 40 minutes) and decreased fluoroscopy time (13 vs 22 minutes). The randomized trial by Li et al59 replicated these data but included patients with all stone sizes. Among individual trials of ES-LBD versus ES for large stones there were no significant differences in procedure time.57,65,66 However, variable definitions of procedure duration (ie, cannulation to drain placement vs time from scope introduction to removal) prevented quantitative pooling of the individual trials for this outcome. The trend toward greater first procedure clearance could be proposed as a surrogate of overall procedure time potentially in favor of ES-LBD. Trials examining cost, approaches. Question 4: What is the role of intraductal versus conventional therapy in patients with large and difficult choledocholithiasis? Recommendation: For patients with difficult and large choledocholithiasis we suggest intraductal therapy or conventional therapy with papillary dilation. The choice of therapy recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Summary of the evidence.—The outcomes of interest for this clinical question were complete stone removal (critical), removal in the first session (important), and differences in adverse events (important) or procedure duration (important). Only 1 RCT addressed this question.67 Therefore, evidence from observational studies was also used. The evidence profile for this question is provided in Table 9. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to compare intraductal versus conventional treatment for difficult and large choledocholithiasis. Intraductal therapy included cholangioscopy and fluoroscopically guided laser and EHL. Conventional therapy included mechanical lithotripsy, balloon extraction, and papillary dilation. In collaboration with a research librarian the extant literature from inception through October 2017 (Supplementary Table 4, available online at www.giejournal.org) was searched, and a total of 3257 abstract and 663 full text articles were identified. We reviewed 182 studies reporting Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript on patients treated specifically for bile duct stones with diameter ≥1 cm or for which removal was characterized by authors of the report as difficult for other reasons (ie, anatomic considerations
