HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


to studies in which papillary dilation was used. There was no difference in overall frequency of adverse events between intraductal and conventional therapy (summary estimates of proportion, .08 [95% CI, .06-.11], vs summary estimates of proportion, .09 [95% CI, .08-.11]). Mechanical lithotripsy was more frequently required with conventional than with intraductal therapy (summary estimates of proportion, .29 [95% CI, .23-.36], vs summary estimates of proportion, .19 [95% CI, .10-.29]) but less so for studies that used papillary dilation. Overall stone clearance for intraductal therapy with laser was not significantly different from EHL (summary estimates of proportion, .94 [95% CI, .91-.96], vs summary estimates of proportion, .91 [95% CI, .86-.95]). Certainty in the evidence.—The quality of evidence was rated down to very low given that the observational studies were deemed to be at high risk of bias using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale Tool (Supplementary Table 5, available online at www.giejournal.org). We also rated down for inconsistency as reflected by the high I2 values and also indirectness given that an indirect comparison approach was required. Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Considerations.—The panel agreed on a conditional recommendation that large or difficult bile duct stone may be managed either by intraductal therapy or by conventional therapy, which includes ES-LBD. There was extensive discussion regarding the potential high cost, procedure time, and inconvenience (referral to tertiary centers) related to cholangioscopy-guided therapy. It was also discussed that training in cholangioscopy and large balloon papillary dilation is needed. It was acknowledged that future studies would be enhanced by the development and implementation of a standardized lexicon to grade bile duct stones in a hierarchical manner based on size and objective features and that detailed cost-effectiveness, procedure time, and quality of life assessment may also impact future recommendations for this clinical question. Discussion.—Large (>10 mm) size stones and those with unusual hardness or eccentric shapes may be difficult to remove.68 Additionally, the presence of an abnormal distal duct (oblique, narrowed, perivaterian), stone impaction, or high multiplicity may render stones refractory to extraction. The recent introduction of more evolved cholangioscopes, including those that are disposable and provide high-resolution images, has intensified interest in intraductal treatment of difficult choledocholithiasis using EHL and laser lithotripsy.57,69 Systematic review of the endoscopic management of difficult bile duct choledocholithiasis reveals similar proportions of successful clearance (.92 for both) with use
