HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


of difficult choledocholithiasis using EHL and laser lithotripsy.57,69 Systematic review of the endoscopic management of difficult bile duct choledocholithiasis reveals similar proportions of successful clearance (.92 for both) with use of intraductal and conventional nonintraductal approaches. This is in contrast to the 1 randomized trial comparing intraductal versus conventional treatment of large choledocholithiasis that demonstrated greater clearance with intraductal therapy (.93 vs .67, P = .009).67 There are several explanations for this difference. When stratified by use of LBD the meta-analysis found that intraductal therapy was superior to conventional treatment when ES-LBD was not performed as part of conventional therapy. In the randomized trial, ES-LBD was potentially underutilized in that large (>12 mm) dilation was used in <20% of patients in the conventional arm. Additionally, the results may be impacted by discrepant enrollment criteria based on stone size.70,71 Other investigators studied intraductal therapy only in patients who had failed conventional (mechanical lithotripsy or papillary dilation) therapy.72,73 In the RCT by Buxbaum et al,67 randomization was stratified on whether the procedure was their first ERCP or whether than had undergone a previous ERCP in the prior 3 months. Increased success for intraductal versus conventional therapy was seen in those who had undergone prior ERCP (.90 versus .54), with no difference among those who had not undergone a prior procedure. There was inconsistent reporting of procedure or fluoroscopy times for the 2 approaches among the observational studies included in the meta-analysis. In the RCT comparing intraductal and conventional approaches, the procedure time was longer for intraductal, 120.7 ± 40.5 minutes, compared with conventional therapy, 81.2 ± 49.3 minutes.67 There is also very limited study on the cost of difficult bile duct stone management. A recent publication modeled the use of cholangioscopy-guided laser lithotripsy after unsuccessful mechanical lithotripsy compared with repeat conventional approaches.74 Using cost data estimate a cost savings of 363 Euros per patient. Nevertheless, the high cost of digital cholangioscopes has resulted in administrative approval being required for their use in Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript many tertiary care centers. Assessment of the extant literature underscores the need for a direct comparison of intraductal versus ES-LBD and accords with the current state of clinical equipoise. It also underlines the need for controlled study of management algorithms for specific stone types (ie, attempt first procedure clearance with ES-LBD followed
