HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


2010 ASGE guidelines will result in performance of diagnostic ERCP in 20% to 30% of cases (Table 12).90,92 Assessment of the criterion in a small series of pediatric patients demonstrated similar findings; ongoing studies suggest a possible role for conjugated bilirubin in this population.98,99 Given the high risk and lack of benefit of diagnostic ERCP, there is a call for improvement. This reflects an increase in the threshold probability of choledocholithiasis required by endoscopists from historic levels of <50%.100 After excluding patients with cholangitis, Adams et al91 found that the 2010 ASGE criterion had an accuracy of only 62%, sensitivity of 47%, and specificity of 73% for choledocholithiasis or sludge (Table 13). Integration of a second set of liver laboratories did not markedly improve the performance characteristics. A second article using an ethnically and demographically distinct cohort yielded consistent results.93 In a very large cohort, He et al94 found that the existing guidelines had a specificity of 74% and positive predictive value of 64% (Tables 13 and 14). However, when revised to define high probability as the combined findings of total bilirubin >4 mg/dL and dilated duct or a stone on US, this improved the specificity to 94% and positive predictive value to 85% (Tables 13 and 14). Nevertheless, this approach improves specificity to the detriment of sensitivity, expands the intermediate category, and increases the need to arbitrate by EUS or MRCP. of persistent choledocholithiasis. Jovanovic et al101 demonstrated that an artificial neural network could be developed to predict choledocholithiasis with 93% sensitivity and 68% specificity. Nevertheless, the reliable input data needed to fit complex exponential formulas might not be readily available at most centers, and it is unclear whether its performance changes with evolution in patient population. Sherman et al102 proposed a scoring system using ductal diameter, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, alkaline phosphatase, and total and direct bilirubin to predict persistent choledocholithiasis in patients with gallstone pancreatitis. The authors found that a score of 0 had a negative predictive value of 100% and score of 5 had a positive predictive value of 100%. Nevertheless, it is unclear whether Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript these asymptotic scores applied to a significant portion of the population because those with scores of 1 to 4 required additional testing with IOC or MRCP. It is possible that the protean and nonspecific causes
