HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


a significant portion of the population because those with scores of 1 to 4 required additional testing with IOC or MRCP. It is possible that the protean and nonspecific causes of liver test and ultrasonic anomalies may limit the ultimate capability of these clinical features to predict choledocholithiasis. Although the performance of various clinical factors was retrospectively studied by He et al,94 in practice the group performed MRCP for 90% of patients who underwent ERCP. As a consequence, 97% of those who underwent ERCP were found to have stones in comparison with 72% to 80% of cohorts using only the clinical predictors recommended in the ASGE 2010 guidelines. Multiple controlled tandem and RCTs have shown that EUS before ERCP decreases the requirement for ERCP, lowers adverse events rates, and is not associated with higher rates of subsequent biliary adverse events because of “missed stones.”31,32,103,104 After reviewing the comprehensive contemporary evidence, the panel of experts suggested the 2010 criterion be revised to decrease the use of diagnostic ERCP, which has significant risk but minimal benefit. Given a lack of correlation, gallstone pancreatitis was removed as a criterion. Because 3 studies have shown improved specificity with a combination of total bilirubin >4 mg/dL and bile duct dilation, this was included as a high-risk criterion. Thus, the panel recommended the following high-risk criteria: cholangitis, stone on imaging, and the combination of total bilirubin >4 mg/dL and bile duct dilation (Table 15). The latter was defined as >6 mm in adults who have not undergone and 8 mm in those who have undergone cholecystectomy.94 Intermediate criterion were defined as abnormal liver biochemical tests, age >55 years, or bile duct dilation. It proposed that patients with any of the high-risk criteria proceed to ERCP and those with intermediate-risk criterion undergo cholecystectomy with or without IOC or intraoperative US if indicated for symptomatic cholelithiasis. This stratification and management approach will require validation in future large prospective trials. Finally, specific guidelines for ERCP in pediatric patients with choledocholithiasis will likely require further research, and current adult guidelines may not be directly applicable. What is the optimal timing of ERCP for choledocholithiasis in patients undergoing cholecystectomy? Recommendation: We suggest that pre- or postoperative ERCP or laparoscopic treatment be performed for patients at high risk of choledocholithiasis or positive IOC depending on local surgical and endoscopic expertise. Comprehensive review.—There are several approaches to the management of choledocholithiasis when cholecystectomy
