HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


performed for patients at high risk of choledocholithiasis or positive IOC depending on local surgical and endoscopic expertise. Comprehensive review.—There are several approaches to the management of choledocholithiasis when cholecystectomy is planned; they are frequently described as 1-step approaches when 1 combined surgical procedure is used versus a variety of 2­ step approaches using surgery and a minimally invasive bile duct clearance procedure. One frequently used 2-step pathway is to perform ERCP for patients at high risk for choledocholithiasis before cholecystectomy. Rogers et al23 randomized 100 patients to this 2-step approach versus a 1-step LC-BDE and demonstrated comparable proportions of stone clearance 98% versus 88% as well as adverse events. Patients managed by the Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1-step surgical approach had a shorter time from the first procedure to discharge compared with the 2-step algorithm. Subsequent RCTs have similarly demonstrated comparable success and adverse events for this comparison but longer hospitalization for ERCP before cholecystectomy.15,105 An alternative 2-step approach is to perform LC with IOC and subsequent postoperative ERCP for positive IOC.106 Rhodes et al106 compared this algorithm with the single-step LC-BDE and found comparable success and adverse events but a nonsignificant trend toward shorter hospitalization. Among those randomized to laparoscopic treatment, however, 23% required subsequent ERCP. Laparoscopic treatment is simpler in patients amenable to trancystic treatment compared with those who require a choledochotomy. Nathanson et al107 performed a RCT in which only 86 patients who failed laparoscopic transcystic bile duct stone clearance at time of LC were randomized to choledochotomy versus postoperative ERCP. There was comparable success for ERCP versus choledochotomy, (96% vs 98%), vs 7.3%). Given a postcholedochotomy bile leak rate of 14.6%, the authors recommended that this approach should be used with caution for inflamed ducts and those less than 7 mm in diameter. A new algorithm was presented by Iranmanesh et al.16 The authors randomized 100 patients defined as intermediate risk for choledocholithiasis based on the 2010 ASGE guidelines to EUS with ERCP for positive endosonography followed by cholecystectomy versus cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiogram followed by intraoperative or postoperative ERCP if positive. The authors found that the latter strategy was associated with significantly decreased length of stay (5 [IQR, 5-8] versus 8 [IQR, 6-12] days). This was driven by a fairly low 21% prevalence of choledocholithiasis. Although all patient randomized to
