HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


of intrahepatic lithiasis include recurrent cholangitis, cholangiocarcinoma, and atrophy of the affected hepatic lobe.120 Although studies are very limited, approximately two thirds of patients with intrahepatic biliary disease have favorable responses to conventional endoscopic approaches.121 Advances in peroral cholangioscopy, including the development of flexible, high-resolution endoscopes, have enabled successful endoscopic therapy in laser and electrohydraulic treatment in >85% of patients.7,69 Nevertheless, although not significant, there was a trend toward lower success (OR, 2.7 [95% CI, .6-12.6]) for intrahepatic disease in international multicenter cohort studies of cholangioscopic-guided stone treatment.7 There is also a role for percutaneous therapy. Akin to endoscopic approaches, this has been bolstered by percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopic lithotripsy via a catheter or t tube. In a large series of patients with recurrent pyogenic cholangitis, 85.3% achieved clearance with this approach.122 However, in certain cases strictures and casts of stones may obviate clearance by either endoscopic or percutaneous approaches, and partial liver resection in those with good hepatic function enables success in >80% of patients with severe intrahepatic stone disease.123,124 Thus, a multidisciplinary approach is recommended including the endoscopist, radiologist, and surgeon for intrahepatic stone disease.115 What is the role of bile duct stents in the management of choledocholithiasis? Recommendation: Plastic and covered metal stents may facilitate removal of difficult choledocholithiasis but require planned exchange or removal. Comprehensive review.—Biliary stents are commonly used to maintain biliary drainage between ERCP in patients with difficult choledocholithiasis and signs of infection.125 However, it has also been proposed as a treatment strategy for difficult choledocholithiasis. Bergman et al125 studied long-term therapy using a 10F polyethylene stent, which was only exchanged for recurrent problems in 58 elderly patients (median age, 83 years). Although the strategy was initially successful, over time 38% developed recurrent cholangitis, and in 12% it was fatal. In a comparison of EHL versus permanent stent therapy for difficult stones, Hui et al126 demonstrated that EHL was associated with a much lower rate of recurrent cholangitis, 7.7%, than the latter, 63.2%. In a randomized comparison of duct clearance versus long-term biliary stent placement, Chopra et al127 consistently demonstrated that Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript although procedural adverse events were higher for duct clearance, 16% versus 7%, it was associated with lower rates of long-term biliary adverse events, 14% versus 36%. The authors concluded that destination therapy of biliary stents for
