HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, author manuscript, manuscript, patients, ercp, choledocholithiasis, manuscript author, adverse, events, pancreatitis, adverse events, studies, eus, cholecystectomy, versus


protocols and a systematic classification of stones. Furthermore, testing of algorithms that consider training and cost­ effectiveness are needed to determine if and when EUS, MRCP, and additional studies should be used to evaluate patient in the intermediate-risk category.22,27,134 Direct comparative trials of intraductal and ES-LBD methods are needed to define an optimal approach for stones with specific features. Additionally, training and competency algorithms for large balloon dilation, cholangioscopy, and future technologies will need to be developed for trainees and endoscopists already in practice who encounter difficult bile choledocholithiasis as well as challenges such as Mirizzi syndrome and intrahepatic lithiasis. Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Future studies will also need to further define the interplay between evaluation, endoscopy, and surgery to optimize quality and cost in patients with biliary disease.135 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS GRADE methodology was used to develop practice guidelines for the diagnosis and standards for guideline creation. These Guidelines use an evidence-based approach to inform a series of practical clinical questions encountered by those caring for patients with choledocholithiasis; these include the use of MRCP versus EUS for intermediate-risk patients, the role of early ERCP for gallstone pancreatitis, and the utility of papillary dilation after sphincterotomy and intraductal therapy for large and difficult concretions. Furthermore, the optimal timing of cholecystectomy, the use of endoscopy vis-a-vis surgery, and the role of endoscopy in difficult cases such as Mirizzi syndrome and intrahepatic lithiasis is addressed. A practical algorithm to risk stratify and manage patients has been developed. The aim of this guideline, as summarized in Table 17, is to enable the clinicians to gauge the available literature to provide the most informed care of patients with choledocholithiasis. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Abbreviations: ASGE American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy CI confidence interval CPT current procedural terminology DRG diagnosis-related group EHL electrohydraulic lithotripsy EQ-5D-5L EuroQol Group, 5-level ES endoscopic sphincterotomy ES-LBD endoscopic sphincterotomy followed by large balloon dilation GRADE Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation I2 the I2 statistic ICD-9 International Classification of Disease, 9th Revision IOC intraoperative cholangiography IQR interquartile range Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 November 16. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript LC cholecystectomy LC-BDE combined laparoscopic cholecystectomy and bile duct exploration OR odds ratio PICO Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome PONCHO trial
