Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: pfas, figure, purine, fgar, deficiency, novo, fibroblasts, synthesis, structural, purine novo, variants, analysis, protein, novo synthesis, levels


phosphoribosylformylglycineamidine synthase pcDNA4_Flag_PFAS_Arg811Trp, pcDNA4_Flag_PFAS_ (PFAS) deficiency, which was identified in two individuals with Asn264Lys, pTagBFP_PFAS_Glu228- Ser230del, pTagBFP_ prematurity, short stature and recurrent episodes of seizures PFAS_Arg811Trp and pTagBFP_PFAS_Asn264Lys constructs with mild cognitive impairment. were prepared by Site- Directed Mutagenesis. 2 | Methods 2.2 | PFAS Enzyme Catalytic Activity Sequencing analysis, cultivation of primary skin fibroblasts (SF), PFAS catalytic activity was measured in SF and recombi- lysate preparation, western blot analysis, LC–MS/MS analysis of nant protein samples. Recombinant Flag- PFAS proteins were 2 of 8 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 produced 24 h post- transfection in HeLa PFAS deficient cells The catalytic pocket with bound substrates was localised using , which were transiently transfected with expression vec- structural alignment with the crystal structure of PFAS from tors encoding Flag- PFAS variants. The catalytic activity of PFAS Salmonella typhimurium (PDB ID 1T3T) and from Thermotoga was assayed in a coupled reaction with the recombinant protein maritima (PDB ID 2HS4). Structural models were analysed and MBP-A IRS (5′-p hosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthetase; visualised by PyMOL Viewer and UCSF ChimeraX. EC 6.3.3.1) cloned from E. coli. MBP (maltose- binding protein) was used as a fusion tag to facilitate protein expression and pu- rification. The reaction used labeled 13C - formylglycinamide ri- 3 | Results botide (FGAR) as substrate, and the product was measured by LC–MS/MS. The first case (II.1 in Figure 2A) was identified from a bio- chemical screening of patients with various forms of neuro- logical impairment . The LC–MS/MS screening of purine 2.3 | Structural Analysis de novo synthesis intermediates in urine samples revealed ab- normally high urinary concentrations of formylglycinamide Structural analysis of PFAS mutants was performed with a riboside (FGAr). Follow- up biochemical studies conducted theoretical model generated by Alpha- Fold (AF- O15067- F1). from 3 to 8.5 years of age revealed consistently elevated urinary FIGURE 2 | Pedigree, cDNA sequencing and LC–MS/MS profiling of purine metabolites in urine and serum samples from the case 1 family. (A) Pedigree of the family: Black symbols represent the affected individual, (+/−) indicates the presence (+) or absence (−) of the noted variant. (B) Accumulation of formylglycinamide riboside (FGAr) in the urine and (C) serum of the patient and his siblings or parents. FGAr concentrations were significantly increased in both the urine and serum of the patient compared to control samples. Data are presented in standardised boxplot graphs, showing the box from the first
