Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: pfas, figure, purine, fgar, deficiency, novo, fibroblasts, synthesis, structural, purine novo, variants, analysis, protein, novo synthesis, levels


concentrations were significantly increased in both the urine and serum of the patient compared to control samples. Data are presented in standardised boxplot graphs, showing the box from the first to third quartiles, whiskers representing the minimum and maximum, and all data points displayed. Statistical signif- icance was assessed using one- way ANOVA in GraphPad software, with p- values indicated as **** for p ≤ 0.0001 and ns (non significant) for p > 0.05. (D) cDNA sequencing of PFAS transcripts from patient blood shows an in- frame deletion (NM_012393.3:c.681_689del) caused by the genomic PFAS variant NC_000017.10:g.8159584G>A. This aberrant splicing is absent in the paternal cDNA, which shows only the wild- type sequence. A second variant, NM_012393.3:c.2431C>T (missense), is present in the patient and the maternal cDNA displays only the wild- type sequence at this site. 3 of 8 concentrations of FGAr varying between 74 and 170 mmol/ enzyme activity (Figure 3C) compared to control fibroblasts. mol creatinine (normal range 1.6–6.9), with normal levels of Enzymatic activities of the recombinant p.Arg811Trp and other purine intermediates, including glycineamide riboside p.Glu228_Ser230del forms were reduced to 57% and 14% of the (GAr), formylglycineamidine riboside (FGAM), AIr, CAIr, wild- type PFAS, respectively (Figure 3D). Immunofluorescence SAICAr, AICAr and formylaminoimidazole carboxamide ribo- and confocal microscopy studies demonstrated that when cul- side (FAICAr), SAdo, inosine, xanthine, hypoxanthine and uric tured in purine- depleted media, the affected skin fibroblasts acid. Metabolic investigations conducted in the proband's clin- have a reduced ability to form purinosomes (Figure 4A). This ically unaffected siblings (II.2 and II.3, respectively) revealed was corrected by transfection with the pTagBFP_PFAS_wt but no abnormalities (Figure 2B). The serum FGAr concentration not the mutated constructs (Figure 4B). Consistently, transfec- increased to 7 μmol/L (normal range 0.07–0.3) at 3 years of age, tion with the corresponding mutated pcDNA4_Flag_PFAS did with no other abnormalities in purine intermediates. Metabolic not correct FGAR/r levels in PFAS deficient HeLa cell lysates investigations conducted in the proband's clinically unaffected whereas transfection with the wild- type construct decreased parents (I.1 and I.2, resp.) revealed no abnormalities (Figure 2C). both (Figure 4C) . The boy was born prematurely at 28 weeks of gestation with The second case was identified in the Netherlands through a intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), birth weight of 420 g collaboration facilitated by GeneMatcher (https:// genem atcher. and length of 28 cm. Early postnatal adaptation was unevent- org/ ) . The proband presented
