Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: pfas, figure, purine, fgar, deficiency, novo, fibroblasts, synthesis, structural, purine novo, variants, analysis, protein, novo synthesis, levels


retardation (IUGR), birth weight of 420 g collaboration facilitated by GeneMatcher (https:// genem atcher. and length of 28 cm. Early postnatal adaptation was unevent- org/ ) . The proband presented to a clinical geneticist in her ful with Apgar scores of 8 and 9 at 5 and 10 min, respectively. twenties. While she could not provide extensive details about However, he required a prolonged stay in the neonatal inten- her birth and early years, she recalled being small for gestational sive care unit due to bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Clinical in- age with a low birth weight. Despite achieving normal devel- vestigations revealed a large patent ductus arteriosus and mild opmental milestones, she remains short. Her height is 160 cm, lays in the developmental milestones. He required surgical re- chart. She did not finish high school due to learning problems. pair for hypospadias. At 4 years, he had two epileptic seizures, She had her first seizure at age 20, when she fainted and vom- characterised as benign epilepsy with occipital spikes (BEOS— ited. She was found by her brother, who knew the symptoms Panayitopoulose variant). At the current age of 8.5 years, he is from another sister who had epileptic seizures. There were no 125.5 cm tall (5th percentile), weighs 22 kg (5th percentile) and previous triggers, and she had never experienced this in the has a head circumference of 49 cm (< 3rd percentile). Clinically, past, neither absences nor other forms of seizures. She does not he has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and anxiety de- drink alcohol, take drugs, or smoke. She did not seek medical pressive disorder. Electroencephalography revealed epileptic evaluation at that time. Several years later, she had another sei- graphoelements with sharp spikes and slow waves in the right zure. Antiepileptic drugs were administered: first valproic acid parietal and left occipital regions. Both parents and two siblings and then lamotrigine. However, she stopped taking lamotrig- are healthy. ine on her own and has never had a seizure since. Her medical history includes several bone fractures and joint dislocations. Since elevated urinary and serum concentrations of FGAr Physically, she is a slender woman with hirsutism on her cheek- suggested PFAS deficiency, targeted sequencing of PFAS com- bones and upward- slanting eyes. She is from a Turkish con- plementary DNA and genomic coding regions was performed sanguineous family of 15 children, with six of her siblings also and revealed two
