Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: pfas, figure, purine, fgar, deficiency, novo, fibroblasts, synthesis, structural, purine novo, variants, analysis, protein, novo synthesis, levels


that patients´ skin fibroblasts functional 5- aminoimidazole- 4- carboxamide ribonucleotide had about 30% PFAS protein levels (Figure 3B) and 16% PFAS transformylase/IMP cyclohydrolase (ATIC), and PAICS, have 4 of 8 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 FIGURE 3 | Characterization of PFAS variants: Structural and functional analyses in fibroblasts and recombinant proteins. (A) Structural map- ping of the variants using a theoretical model generated by Alpha- Fold (AF- O15067- F1). The positions of the auxiliary ATP and active sites were localised based on the crystal structures of PFAS from Salmonella typhimurium (PDB ID: 1T3T) and from Thermotoga maritima (PDB ID: 2HS4). The positions of the variants are highlighted as orange spheres. The in- frame deletion Glu228_Ser230del affects a flexible part of the helical region connecting the linker between the N- domain and the FGAM synthetase domain. The Asn264Lys and Arg811Trp substitutions are located at the FGAM synthetase domain, distant from the active site. They can induce local destabilization due to steric clashes and gain of polar interaction with Asp761 in the case of Asn264Lys or due to the presence of a more hydrophobic residue at the protein surface in the case of Arg811Trp. (B) Western blot analysis of skin fibroblasts using antibodies against GART, PFAS, PAICS, ADSL and ATIC revealed reduced levels of PFAS and PAICS, while the levels of other DNPS enzymes were comparable to those in control fibroblasts. Protein levels were normalised to GAPDH, Actin and MYH9. (C) PFAS enzyme activity in fibroblasts from case 1 was reduced to 16% of control levels. (D) The catalytic activity of the recombinant Flag_PFAS protein Glu228- Ser230del was decreased to 14%, Arg811Trp to 57% and Asn264Lys to 11% activity compared to Flag_PFAS_wt. Data are presented as stan- dardised boxplot graphs, with the box spanning the first to third quartiles, whiskers showing the minimum and maximum values, individual data points displayed, and the median represented by a line. Experiments were performed at least three times (n ≥ 3). Statistical significance was assessed using one- way ANOVA in GraphPad software, with p- values indicated as ** for p ≤ 0.01, *** for p ≤ 0.001 and **** for p ≤ 0.0001. been characterised in humans. In this study, we report for the , trifunctional phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransfer- deficiency. noimidazole synthetase (GART) , PAICS , ADSL and ATIC in model organisms and humans. PFAS catalyses the fourth step of purine de novo synthesis and is
