Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: pfas, figure, purine, fgar, deficiency, novo, fibroblasts, synthesis, structural, purine novo, variants, analysis, protein, novo synthesis, levels


trifunctional phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransfer- deficiency. noimidazole synthetase (GART) , PAICS , ADSL and ATIC in model organisms and humans. PFAS catalyses the fourth step of purine de novo synthesis and is a component of the protein core of the purinosome (Figure 1.) Dominant PFAS mutations have been reported in mice with cra- The vital importance of purine de novo synthesis is demon- niofacial abnormalities . Recessive loss- of- function deletion strated by the embryonic lethality caused by either pharmaco- of PFAS caused pupal lethality in Drosophila melanogaster . logic inhibition or loss- of- function mutations of the enzymes The recessive missense form p.Arg1205Cys of PFAS has been along the pathway, including phosphoribosylamidotransferase identified as likely causal for embryonic lethality in cattle . 5 of 8 FIGURE 4 | Legend on next page. The p.Arg1205Cys amino acid substitution potentially affects The two probands reported in this investigation have bi- allelic the structural stability of PFAS by disrupting three polar inter- hypomorphic missense or in- frame deleted PFAS variants that actions localised in the contact area between glutaminase and affect structurally important amino acid residues and decrease FGAMs domains. but do not eliminate PFAS protein amount and enzyme activity. 6 of 8 Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 2025 FIGURE 4 | Functional complementation of PFAS deficiency. (A) Purinosome formation in skin fibroblasts of case 1. Patient and control skin fibroblasts were cultured in purine- depleted medium and confocal fluorescence microscopy was used to detect fluorescently labeled endogenous pro- teins PPAT and GART. In control fibroblasts, purinosome formation was observed, characterised by granular staining and significant colocalization of PPAT and GART in the cytoplasm. In contrast, fibroblasts from case 1 displayed diffuse cytosolic staining of PPAT and GART with no significant overlapping signals. (B) Purinosome formation was restored following transient transfection with an eukaryotic expression vector encoding wild- type PFAS (pTagBFP_PFAS_wt). However, transfection with vectors encoding pTagBFP_PFAS variants, Glu228- Ser230del and Arg811Trp, failed to restore purinosome formation. (C) Transfection of PFAS- deficient HeLa cells with the pcDNA4_Flag_PFAS_Glu228- Ser230del, pcDNA4_Flag_ PFAS_Arg811Trp and pcDNA4_Flag_PFAS_Asn264Lys constructs corresponding to patients' variants did not correct FGAR/r levels in cell lysate, whereas transfection with the wild- type construct decreased both. Similar to other defects of enzymes of the purine de novo syn- thesis pathway , decreased PFAS content compromises Author Contributions purinosome formation and function in affected skin fibroblasts and potentially in other cell types. This leads to the accumula-
