Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease
KEYWORDS: pfas, figure, purine, fgar, deficiency, novo, fibroblasts, synthesis, structural, purine novo, variants, analysis, protein, novo synthesis, levels


novo syn- thesis pathway , decreased PFAS content compromises Author Contributions purinosome formation and function in affected skin fibroblasts and potentially in other cell types. This leads to the accumula- M.Z. and S.K. wrote the manuscript text and prepared the figures. V.S., tion of the PFAS substrate FGAR and of its dephosphorylated K.E.S. and O.S. performed the genetic analyses. J.Z., K.E.S. and A.J.B. collected clinical data and performed clinical data analyses. V.B. pre- form FGAr, which are detectable in serum and urine. The pared cellular models and performed all the cell culture and microscopy pathogenicity of de novo purine synthesis deficiencies has been experiments as well as microscopy data analysis. V.S., O.S., A.H., M.K. attributed to the cytotoxic effects of accumulated metabolites and M.Z. conducted functional studies. S.K., A.J.B. and M.Z. reviewed . Both FGAR and FGAr have demonstrated cytotoxic and and edited the manuscript. All authors reviewed and approved the final neurotoxic effects on the viability of several cell lines, including version of the manuscript. a neuronal CAD- 2A2D5 (CAD5) cells . Accordingly, pro- bands presented with prematurity, short stature and recurrent Acknowledgments seizures with relatively mild neurological manifestations. Their Open access publishing facilitated by Univerzita Karlova, as part of the clinical presentation points to pathogenetic effects on purine Wiley - CzechELib agreement. metabolism and purinergic signalling in the musculoskeletal and nervous systems . Ethics Statement Genetic defects of purine de novo synthesis are rare. Estimates All procedures followed were in accordance with the ethical standards from loss- of- function allele frequencies reported in Exome of the responsible committee on human experimentation (institutional and national) and with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975, as revised in Aggregation Consortium (ExAC) database suggest a prevalence 2000 (5). Informed consent was obtained from all patients for being in- of ADSL deficiency of approximately 1 in 1,240 ,710, with a car- cluded in the study. rier frequency of 1 in 557 . A similar analysis using the gno- mAD database identified 245 loss- of- function PFAS variants in Conflicts of Interest 936 of 1609350 alleles and 30 ‘likely deleterious’ missense vari- ants (defined by the Combined Annotation Dependent Depletion The authors declare no conflicts of interest. (CADD) score above 30) in 1239 of 1,609,901 alleles. This suggests a combined carrier frequency of 1 in 722, with an es-
