NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: acarbose, diabetes, miglitol, drugs, inhibitors, injury, type, type diabetes, alpha glucosidase, glucosidase, alpha, glucosidase inhibitors, liver, hepatotoxicity, agents


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Alpha Glucosidase Inhibitors. [Updated 2021 Jan 12]. Bookshelf URL: Alpha Glucosidase Inhibitors Updated: January 12, 2021. OVERVIEW Alpha glucosidase is an intestinal brush border enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of disaccharides which is necessary for the absorption of starch, dextrins and disaccharides. Inhibition of this enzyme causes malabsorption and slowing of absorption of carbohydrates and decreases the postprandial rise in blood glucose. These drugs may also increase the release of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) which may contribute to their glucosing lowering effects. Alpha glucosidase inhibitors have been shown to be effective in improving glycemic control in type 2 diabetes. Two alpha glucosidase inhibitors have been approved for use in the United States, acarbose (Precose) in 1995 and miglitol (Glyset) in 1996. While these two agents have a similar mechanism of action, they have different chemical structures and pharmacokinetics. Acarbose is a modified bacterial enzyme that is not appreciably absorbed, while miglitol is a synthetic pseudo polysaccharide that is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Both drugs are taken three times daily with meals (with the first bite) and cause mild carbohydrate malabsorption. Common side effects of both agents are flatulence, abdominal bloating and discomfort and diarrhea. Ironically, acarbose which has little systemic absorption, has been clearly linked to rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury, while no specific instances of such injury have been attributed to miglitol. For this reason, these two agents are discussed separately and references to their safety and potential hepatotoxicity given with each agent. Drug Class: Antidiabetic Agents Drugs in the Subclass, Alpha Glucosidase Inhibitors: Acarbose, Miglitol ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 12 January 2021 Zimmerman HJ. Oral hypoglycemic agents and other diabetes therapy. In, Zimmerman, HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott,1999: pp. 575-9. (Textbook of hepatotoxicity published in 1999 mentions that several instances of serum enzyme elevations and at least two cases of liver injury with jaundice have been linked to acarbose use; no mention of miglitol). Bhardwaj SS, Chalasani NP. Antidiabetic drugs. Cardiovascular and antidiabetic medications. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 2nd ed. New York: Informa Healthcare USA, 2007, pp. 611-7. (Review of hepatotoxicity published in 2007 mentions that acarbose has been associated with hepatocellular injury despite the fact that it is minimally absorbed, but that
