Conditions affecting the left side of the heart
KEYWORDS: left, ventricular, hypertrophy, atrial, ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular, left atrial, wave, electrocardiographic, leads, cardiomyopathy, seen, changes, patients, criteria


Many cardiac and systemic illnesses can affect the left side of the heart. After a careful history and examination, electrocardiography and chest radiography are first line investigations. Electrocardiography can provide supportive evidence for conditions such as aortic stenosis, hypertension, and mitral stenosis. Recognition of the associated electrocardiographic abnormalities is important as misinterpretation may lead to diagnostic error. This article describes the electrocardiographic changes associated with left atrial hypertrophy, left ventricular hypertrophy, valvular disease, and cardiomyopathies. Conditions affecting left side of heart covered in this article Left atrial hypertrophy Left ventricular hypertrophy Valvular disease Cardiomyopathies (hypertrophic, dilated, restrictive) 1/16 Left ventricular hypertrophy Voltage criteria Limb leads R wave in lead 1 plus S wave in lead III >25 mm R wave in lead aVL >11 mm R wave in lead aVF >20 mm S wave in lead aVR >14 mm Precordial leads R wave in leads V4, V5, or V6 >26 mm R wave in leads V5 or 6 plus S wave in lead V1 >35 mm Largest R wave plus largest S wave in precordial leads >45 mm Non-voltage criteria ⩾ ⩾ Delayed ventricular activation time 0.05 s in leads V5 or V6 0.05 s ST segment depression and T wave inversion in the left precordial leads The specificity of these criteria is age and sex dependent Left atrial abnormality The term left atrial abnormality is used to imply the presence of atrial hypertrophy or dilatation, or both. Left atrial depolarisation contributes to the middle and terminal portions of the P wave. The changes of left atrial hypertrophy are therefore seen in the late portion of the P wave. In addition, left atrial depolarisation may be delayed, which may prolong the duration of the P wave. The P wave in lead V1 is often biphasic. Early right atrial forces are directed anteriorly giving rise to an initial positive deflection; these are followed by left atrial forces travelling posteriorly, producing a later negative deflection. A large negative deflection (>1 small square in area) suggests a left atrial abnormality. Prolongation of P wave duration to greater than 0.12 s is often found in association with 2/16 a left atrial abnormality. Normal P waves may be bifid, the minor notch probably resulting from slight asynchrony between right and left atrial depolarisation. However, a pronounced notch with a peak- to-peak interval of >0.04 s suggests left atrial enlargement. Any condition causing left ventricular hypertrophy
