Conditions affecting the left side of the heart
KEYWORDS: left, ventricular, hypertrophy, atrial, ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular, left atrial, wave, electrocardiographic, leads, cardiomyopathy, seen, changes, patients, criteria


slight asynchrony between right and left atrial depolarisation. However, a pronounced notch with a peak- to-peak interval of >0.04 s suggests left atrial enlargement. Any condition causing left ventricular hypertrophy may produce left atrial enlargement as a secondary phenomenon. Left atrial enlargement can occur in association with systemic hypertension, aortic stenosis, mitral incompetence, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Left ventricular hypertrophy Systemic hypertension is the most common cause of left ventricular hypertrophy, but others include aortic stenosis and co-arctation of the aorta. Many electrocardiographic criteria have been suggested for the diagnosis of left ventricular hypertrophy, but none is universally accepted. Scoring systems based on these criteria have been developed, and although they are highly specific diagnostic tools, poor sensitivity limits their use. Electrocardiographic findings The electrocardiographic features of left ventricular hypertrophy are classified as either voltage criteria or non-voltage criteria. The electrocardiographic diagnosis of left ventricular hypertrophy is difficult in individuals aged under 40. Voltage criteria lack specificity in this group because young people often have high amplitude QRS complexes in the absence of left ventricular disease. Even when high amplitude QRS complexes are seen in association with non-voltage criteria—such as ST segment and T wave changes —a diagnosis cannot be made with confidence. Typical repolarisation changes seen in left ventricular hypertrophy are ST segment depression and T wave inversion. This “strain” pattern is seen in the left precordial leads and is associated with reciprocal ST segment elevation in the right precordial leads. The presence of these ST segment changes can cause diagnostic difficulty in patients complaining of ischaemic-type chest pain; failure to recognise the features of left ventricular hypertrophy can lead to the inappropriate administration of thrombolytic therapy. Furthermore, in patients known to have left ventricular hypertrophy it can be difficult to diagnose confidently acute ischaemia on the basis of ST segment changes in the left precordial leads. It is an advantage to have old electrocadiograms for comparison. Other non-voltage criteria are common in left ventricular hypertrophy. Left atrial hypertrophy or prolonged atrial depolarisation and left axis deviation are often present; and poor R wave progression is commonly seen. 3/16 The electrocardiogram is abnormal in almost 50% of patients with hypertension, with minimal changes in 20% and obvious features of left ventricular hypertrophy in 30%. There is a linear correlation between the electrocardiographic changes and the severity and duration of the hypertension. High amplitude QRS complexes are seen first, followed by
