Conditions affecting the left side of the heart
KEYWORDS: left, ventricular, hypertrophy, atrial, ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular, left atrial, wave, electrocardiographic, leads, cardiomyopathy, seen, changes, patients, criteria


ventricular hypertrophy in 30%. There is a linear correlation between the electrocardiographic changes and the severity and duration of the hypertension. High amplitude QRS complexes are seen first, followed by the development of non- voltage criteria. The specificity of the electrocardiographic diagnosis of left ventricular hypertrophy is improved if a scoring system is used. Scoring system for left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) —suggested if points total ⩾5 Electrocardiographic feature No of points Amplitude (any of the following) 3 ⩾ Largest R or S wave in limb leads 20 mm ⩾ S wave in leads V1 or V2 30 mm ⩾ R wave in leads V5 or V6 30 mm ST-T wave segment changes typical for LVHin the absence of digitalis 3 Left atrial involvement 3 Left axis deviation 2 ⩾ QRS duration of 0.09 s 1 ⩾ Delayed ventricular activation time in leadsV5 and V6 of 0.05 s 1 Valvular problems A normal electrocardiogram virtually rules out the presence of severe aortic stenosis, except in congenital valve disease, where the trace may remain normal despite a substantial degree of stenosis. Left ventricular hypertrophy is seen in about 75% of patients with severe aortic stenosis. Left atrial enlargement may also be seen in the electrocardiogram. Left axis deviation and left bundle branch block may occur. 4/16 Electrocardiographic features of valvular disease The electrocardiographic features of aortic regurgitation include the features of left ventricular hypertrophy, often with the strain pattern Mitral stenosis is associated with left atrial abnormality or atrial fibrillation and right ventricular hypertrophy Mitral regurgitation is associated with atrial fibrillation, though again the features of left atrial hypertrophy may be seen if the patient is in sinus rhythm. Evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy may be seen The cardiomyopathies Diseases of the myocardium are classified into three types on the basis of their functional effects: hypertrophic (obstructed), dilated (congestive), or restrictive cardiomyopathy. In cardiomyopathy the myocardium is diffusely affected, and therefore the resulting electrocardiographic abnormalities may be diverse. Common features of cardiomyopathy include electrical holes (Q waves), conduction defects (bundle branch block and axis deviation), and arrhythmias Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy This is characterised by marked myocardial thickening predominantly affecting the interventricular septum and/or the apex of the left ventricle. Electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy is found in 50% of patients. A characteristic abnormality is the presence of abnormal Q waves in the anterolateral or inferior chest leads, which may mimic the appearance
