Conditions affecting the left side of the heart
KEYWORDS: left, ventricular, hypertrophy, atrial, ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular, left atrial, wave, electrocardiographic, leads, cardiomyopathy, seen, changes, patients, criteria


ventricular hypertrophy is found in 50% of patients. A characteristic abnormality is the presence of abnormal Q waves in the anterolateral or inferior chest leads, which may mimic the appearance of myocardial infarction. As the left ventricle becomes increasingly less compliant, there is increasing resistance to atrial contraction, and signs of left atrial abnormality are commonly seen. Atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardias are common arrhythmias in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Ventricular tachycardias may also occur and are a cause of sudden death in these patients. 5/16 Main electrocardiographic changes associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Left ventricular hypertrophy Left atrial enlargement Abnormal inferior and anterior and/or lateral Q waves Bizarre QRS complexes masquerading, for example, as pre-excitation and bundle branch block Dilated cardiomyopathy Many patients with dilated cardiomyopathy have anatomical left ventricular hypertrophy, though the electrocardiographic signs of left ventricular hypertrophy are seen in only a third of patients. In some patients the signs of left ventricular hypertrophy may be masked as diffuse myocardial fibrosis can reduce the voltage of the QRS complexes. If right ventricular hypertrophy is also present the increased rightward forces of depolarisation may cancel out some of the leftward forces, again masking the signs of left ventricular hypertrophy. ECG changes in dilated cardiomyopathy Left bundle branch block Left atrial enlargement Abnormal Q waves in leads V1 to V4 Left ventricular hypertrophy Arrhythmias—ventricular premature beats, ventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation Signs of left atrial enlargement are common, and often there is evidence of biatrial enlargement. Abnormal Q waves may be seen, though less commonly than in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Abnormal Q waves are most often seen in leads V1 to V4 and may mimic the appearance of a myocardial infarction. Restrictive cardiomyopathy 6/16 Restrictive cardiomyopathy is the least common form of cardiomyopathy and is the end result of several different diseases associated with myocardial infiltration—for example, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, and haemochromatosis. The most common electrocardiographic abnormality is the presence of low voltage QRS complexes, probably due to myocardial infiltration. Both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias are common. Electrocardiographic findings in restrictive cardiomyopathy Low voltage QRS complexes Conduction disturbance Arrhythmias—supraventricular, ventricular Patient with restrictive cardiomyopathy due to amyloidosis (note the low voltage QRS complexes and the right bundle branch block)
