OxfordMedicalCaseReports,2022,5,188–190
KEYWORDS: pnh, negative, blood, patient, patients, case, cell, thrombosis, marrow, haemolysis, diagnosis, revealed, saudiarabia, haemoglobinuria, form


and thyroid-stimulating hormone, were done and found to be normal. Bone marrow biopsy revealed a hypocellular marrow with remarkable infiltration by dysmorphic megakaryocytes, some active myelopoiesis and erythropoiesis and sever fibrosis (mf 2.5) (Figs1– Figure3.MassonTrichromestainsofbonemarrowconfirmthe 3). A molecular study revealed positive CALR, whereas presenceofseverefibro-collagendeposits. BCR-ABL,JAK2 and MPL were not detected.Further,the chromosomal analysis revealed t (12,13) and classified under a high-risk category of primary myelofibrosis Following confirmation of diagnosis and risk strati- based on both the Dynamic International Prognostic fication, the patient was transferred to another centre Scoring System (DIPSS) and Genetically Inspired Prog- for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation nostic Scoring System (GIPSS) .The presence of non- with the aim of prolonging survival and increasing the cardiacchestpainandnew-onseterectiledysfunctionin possibilityofcure. thecontextofbonemarrowfailureraisedthepossibility of PNH, where nitric oxide is expected to be depleted, DISCUSSION resulting in vasoconstriction. Flow cytometric assays from peripheral blood revealed 83.3% CD59-negative Paroxysmalnocturnalhaemoglobinuria(PNH)isaclonal granulocytes and 0.03% CD59-negative red blood cells hematopoietic stem cell disorder with heterogeneous 190 | OxfordMedicalCaseReports,2022,Vol.5,No.9 InterestGroupclassifiesitintothreecategories.Theclas- particularlyifitcoexistswithotherbonemarrowdis- sical presentation is intravascular haemolysis accom- orders. PNH testing is recommended for patients with panied by unusual site thrombosis or smooth muscle a previous diagnosis of AA, MDS, as well as those who dystonia in the form of abdominal pain, oesophageal havethrombosiswithunknowncytopeniaorintravascu- spasm,orerectiledysfunction.Theothertwocategories lar haemolysis.Hence,additional studies are needed to are subclinical PNH and PNH in the context of marrow betterunderstandtheassociationbetweenPNHandMPN failure syndrome, including aplastic anaemia (AA) and and whether all or only certain groups of patients need myelodysplasticsyndrome(MDS). tobescreenedforPNHandviceversa. The International Clinical Cytometry Society (ICCS) guidelines state that all patients with thrombosis with ACKNOWLEDGEMENT unknown cytopenia or intravascular haemolysis should Thanks to the patient for allowing us to share this case undergoPNHscreening.Additionally,ICCSrecommends withthescientificcommunity. screening all patients with AA and MDS, even in the absenceofhaemolysis. Several case reports indicate the coexistence of PNH CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT withPMFandothermyeloproliferativeneoplasms(MPN). SomeofthesecaseswereharbouringeitherJAK2V617F or Noconflictofinteresttodisclose. CALR mutations in their PNH clone. However, most of thesecaseswerediagnosedwithPNHseveralyearsafter FUNDING being diagnosed with one of the MPNs. These findings support the hypothesis that clinically significant PNH No financial support for the research, authorship, or results from a stepwise progression of multiple genetic publicationofthiscasereport. mutationslikeMDSorMPN. To our knowledge, this is the third case where CONSENT PNH is present simultaneously with PMF. Previously Writteninformedconsentwasobtainedfromthepatient reported cases presented with overt PNH in the form topublishthiscasereportandimagesinthisjournal. of haemoglobinuria and thrombosis. Unlike previously reported cases, PNH diagnosis in our patient was easy to miss due to a lack of laboratory evidence of REFERENCES
