Endovascular stent–graft placement in thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections
KEYWORDS: patients, stent, studies, graft, reported, stent graft, aneurysm, thoracic, aorta, varied, case, case series, aortic, series, endovascular stent


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of endovascular stent–graft placement in thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections indicates that it is a suitable alternative to surgery in appropriately selected patients, provided that the normal arrangements are in place for consent, audit and clinical governance. 1.2 Clinicians should enter all patients having endovascular stent–graft placement in thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections into the thoracic stent–graft registry supported by the Vascular Society of Great Britain and Ireland and the British Society of Interventional Radiology. 1.3 The procedure should be performed by a multidisciplinary team with access to facilities for cardiothoracic surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 A thoracic aortic aneurysm is a condition in which weakening of the wall of the aorta leads to a localised dilatation of the vessel. In an aortic dissection, there is leakage of blood between the layers of the vessel wall. Aneurysms and dissections may rupture, causing massive internal bleeding. Rupture of the thoracic aorta has high mortality, even with treatment. 2.1.2 Conventional surgery for aneurysms of the thoracic aorta involves replacing the affected part of the aorta with a synthetic graft. Aortic dissections may be managed medically or surgically, depending on the site involved and whether there are complicating features. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Endovascular stent–graft placement involves inserting a metallic stent covered with graft material inside the aorta. This is usually achieved by catheterising the femoral arteries. The stent–graft is positioned and deployed using X-ray guidance. 2.3 Efficacy 2.3.1 A systematic review of the published evidence on this procedure was commissioned by the Institute. A total of 29 studies were identified for inclusion (27 case series and two comparative observational studies). 2.3.2 In one comparative study, the technical success rate was 100% (67/67 patients). The overall technical success rate was 93% across 18 studies (16 case series and two comparative studies). 2.3.3 The rate of conversion to open repair varied from 0% (0/26 patients) to 7% (1/14 patients). The proportion of patients who experienced an increase in aneurysm size varied from 0% (0/18) to 7% (2/29) of patients. In the study with the largest number of patients, the aneurysm increased in size (by ( 5 mm) in 5% (4/84) of patients. The proportion of patients who experienced a decrease in aneurysm size varied from 100% (18/18) to 17% (5/29) of patients. For more details, refer to
