Rivaroxaban for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with coronary or peripheral
KEYWORDS: risk, aspirin, rivaroxaban, people, events, plus, plus aspirin, disease, compass, bleeding, rivaroxaban plus, ischaemic, treatment, artery disease, artery


risk of bleeding. 2 Information about rivaroxaban Marketing authorisation indication 2.1 Rivaroxaban (Xarelto, Bayer), co-administered with aspirin, is indicated for 'the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients with coronary artery disease or symptomatic peripheral artery disease at high risk of ischaemic events'. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The recommended dosage for rivaroxaban is 2.5 mg taken orally twice daily in combination with a daily dose of 75 to 100 mg aspirin taken orally. Price 2.3 The list price for 56 tablets of rivaroxaban 2.5 mg is £50.40 (company submission). The treatment period is indefinite. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by Bayer, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG), and the technical report developed through engagement with stakeholders. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. The appraisal committee was aware that several issues were resolved during the technical engagement stage, and agreed that: • It is more clinically plausible to substitute transition probability values used in the economic model that were numerically zero with non-zero values taken from the REACH registry. • The company's economic model underestimates the effect of varying the stratified mortality outcome 'cardiovascular death' in its sensitivity analyses. The company used the hazard ratio (HR) value for 'all cardiovascular death' from the COMPASS trial and assumed the same HR for all stratified death events in its model. Each mortality HR was then varied separately in the deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Because each death rate only included a small proportion of all cardiovascular deaths, the effect of varying the HRs individually in the sensitivity analyses was underestimated. This issue had no effect on the results of the base-case analysis and only related to the uncertainty in the sensitivity analyses. The committee recognised that there were remaining areas of uncertainty associated with in its decision making. It discussed the following issues (issues 1, 2 and 3), which were outstanding after the technical engagement stage. Clinical need and current management Patients rely on clinicians to discuss with them the benefits and risks of treatment options 3.1 The patient expert explained that people with coronary or peripheral artery disease have serious concerns about the risk of having events such as heart attack and stroke. They noted that coronary or peripheral artery disease is a challenging condition requiring significant lifestyle adjustments, including diet and exercise, which can affect the
