Rivaroxaban for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with coronary or peripheral
KEYWORDS: risk, aspirin, rivaroxaban, people, events, plus, plus aspirin, disease, compass, bleeding, rivaroxaban plus, ischaemic, treatment, artery disease, artery


such as heart attack and stroke. They noted that coronary or peripheral artery disease is a challenging condition requiring significant lifestyle adjustments, including diet and exercise, which can affect the whole family. It is important that people understand why they are being offered a dual therapy and how the drugs work, because this can help with adherence to treatment. The patient expert explained that patients rely on clinicians to discuss with them the best treatment options. All options should be discussed, weighing up the potential benefits and risks of potentially long-term medication. The committee concluded that patients rely on clinicians to present the best treatment options to them, and all potential benefits and risks should be fully discussed. Patients would welcome an additional treatment option with an acceptable benefit-risk ratio for the prevention of atherothrombotic events 3.2 NICE's guideline on myocardial infarction: cardiac rehabilitation and prevention of further cardiovascular disease (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) recommends dual antiplatelet therapy for people who have had an acute myocardial infarction. NICE's guideline on management of stable angina recommends considering aspirin 75 mg daily for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. NICE's technology appraisal guidance recommends ticagrelor in combination with aspirin for preventing atherothrombotic events in people who have had a myocardial infarction and are at high risk of a further event. The clinical experts noted that despite widespread use of aspirin in both acute and secondary care, the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction and dying from cardiovascular disease remains high for these patients. An additional treatment option that could reduce this risk would be welcomed by patients. The potential clinical benefit from treatment would need to be assessed, taking into consideration the potential risk of major bleeding events. The committee concluded that people with coronary artery disease or peripheral artery disease would welcome an additional treatment option with an acceptable benefit-risk ratio for the prevention of atherothrombotic events. Clinical evidence It is appropriate to consider the overall COMPASS population for decision making 3.3 COMPASS is a double-blind randomised clinical trial comparing rivaroxaban plus aspirin against aspirin alone in people with stable coronary artery disease or peripheral artery disease who are at high risk of ischaemic events. The company presented data for the overall trial population and also for 3 subpopulations that it identified as being at especially high baseline risk of ischaemic events: people with coronary artery disease and
