Rivaroxaban for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with coronary or peripheral
KEYWORDS: risk, aspirin, rivaroxaban, people, events, plus, plus aspirin, disease, compass, bleeding, rivaroxaban plus, ischaemic, treatment, artery disease, artery


data for the overall trial population and also for 3 subpopulations that it identified as being at especially high baseline risk of ischaemic events: people with coronary artery disease and peripheral artery disease, people with coronary artery disease and heart failure, and people with coronary artery disease and poor kidney function. The risk of ischaemic events is related to the person's medical history and the extent of atheroma. People with heart failure, diabetes, poor kidney function or diffuse atherosclerosis affecting several areas (such as the coronary and peripheral arteries) are at higher risk of events. However other factors also increase risk including diabetes, high body mass index and smoking. At technical engagement, it was queried whether the company's subgroups are clinically relevant and represent people at highest risk of atherothrombotic events who are likely to benefit most from treatment with rivaroxaban plus aspirin. The clinical experts agreed that although these subgroups are clinically identifiable and relevant, there are other groups of people who are also at high risk. These include people who have had myocardial infarction or stroke, and those with multi-vessel coronary disease and diabetes. These people could derive similar benefit from rivaroxaban plus aspirin as seen in the 3 subgroups, because there was no between-group heterogeneity in relative treatment effects reported in COMPASS. The committee acknowledged the company's attempt to predict people with higher baseline risk using the 3 subgroups but noted that although the subgroups are illustrative of people at high risk, they do not identify all people at highest absolute risk of ischaemic events. The clinical experts also highlighted the difficulty in identifying people who are at greatest risk in clinical practice and agreed that, because there is no inter-group difference in treatment effects in COMPASS, the results from the overall population should be considered for decision making. However, the committee was aware that, within the overall eligible population, clinicians are likely to identify people at highest absolute risk of ischaemic events and offer rivaroxaban to those who are likely to have the highest potential absolute benefit. People at high risk of ischaemic events and no known increased bleeding risk will have the most favourable benefit−risk profile. The committee concluded that the efficacy results from the whole COMPASS population should be considered rather than the 3 subpopulations identified by the company, and it did not consider the subgroups further. Rivaroxaban plus aspirin reduces the risk of
