Rivaroxaban for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with coronary or peripheral
KEYWORDS: risk, aspirin, rivaroxaban, people, events, plus, plus aspirin, disease, compass, bleeding, rivaroxaban plus, ischaemic, treatment, artery disease, artery


whole COMPASS population should be considered rather than the 3 subpopulations identified by the company, and it did not consider the subgroups further. Rivaroxaban plus aspirin reduces the risk of cardiovascular events 3.4 The primary efficacy outcome in COMPASS was a composite of 3 major cardiovascular events: myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke and 'cardiovascular death'. The committee noted that rivaroxaban plus aspirin showed a statistically significant relative risk reduction of 24% in major cardiovascular events compared with aspirin (HR 0.76, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.66 to 0.86; p<0.001). Two of the individual components of the primary composite outcome also showed statistically significant relative risk reductions in the treatment arm: 42% for ischaemic stroke (HR 0.58, 95% CI 0.44 to 0.76; p<0.001) and 22% for cardiovascular death (HR 0.78, 95% CI 0.64 to 0.96; p=0.02). The committee concluded that rivaroxaban plus aspirin reduces the risk of cardiovascular events compared with aspirin alone, and that the greatest effect is for ischaemic stroke. Rivaroxaban plus aspirin increases the risk of major bleeding 3.5 The primary safety outcome in COMPASS was major bleeding based on a modification of the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) criteria. Major bleeding was defined as a composite of fatal bleeding, and/or symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ (such as intracranial, intraspinal, intraocular, retroperitoneal, intraarticular or pericardial, intramuscular with compartment syndrome, or bleeding into the surgical site requiring re-operation), and/or bleeding leading to hospitalisation (with or without an overnight stay). The risk of major bleeding, as defined by the modified ISTH criteria, increased by 70% in the rivaroxaban plus aspirin group compared with aspirin alone (HR 1.70, 95% CI 1.40 to 2.05; p<0.001). The bleeds in the rivaroxaban plus aspirin group were mostly gastrointestinal, with non-significant differences for the other components of the primary safety outcome. The committee concluded that rivaroxaban plus aspirin increases the risk of major bleeding compared with aspirin alone. Rivaroxaban should only be used in people at high risk of ischaemic events defined by the inclusion criteria of COMPASS 3.6 The clinical experts highlighted that COMPASS is a highly selected population that includes people at high risk of ischaemic events but excludes people with a known increased bleeding risk. The committee noted that the benefits and risks of rivaroxaban plus aspirin are only known for the specific population of people in COMPASS; that is, people with a high risk of ischaemic events as
