Rivaroxaban for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with coronary or peripheral
KEYWORDS: risk, aspirin, rivaroxaban, people, events, plus, plus aspirin, disease, compass, bleeding, rivaroxaban plus, ischaemic, treatment, artery disease, artery


the benefits and risks of rivaroxaban plus aspirin are only known for the specific population of people in COMPASS; that is, people with a high risk of ischaemic events as defined by the inclusion criteria of the trial. The committee recalled that the clinical benefits and risks associated with rivaroxaban plus aspirin are finely balanced (see section 3.4 and section 3.5). The committee noted that rivaroxaban plus aspirin is contraindicated in cases of active clinically significant bleeding and in people with lesions or conditions considered to be a significant risk factor for major bleeding. It agreed that a person's risk of bleeding should be assessed before rivaroxaban is considered as a treatment option. The decision to start treatment should only be taken after an informed discussion about the risks and benefits of rivaroxaban, weighing up the risk of ischaemic events against the bleeding risk. The committee concluded that rivaroxaban should only be considered a treatment option for people at high risk of ischaemic events as defined by the inclusion criteria of COMPASS. Comparators Clopidogrel is not a relevant comparator for the overall COMPASS population 3.7 The company did not present evidence for rivaroxaban plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel. The clinical experts explained that clopidogrel is the preferred antiplatelet treatment for people with peripheral artery disease (based on NICE's technology appraisal guidance for the prevention of occlusive vascular events), but it is not a relevant comparator for the whole COMPASS population. This is because aspirin is the preferred treatment for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in people with stable coronary artery disease, and clopidogrel is only recommended when aspirin is unsuitable because of contraindication or hypersensitivity. The committee concluded that clopidogrel is not a relevant comparator for the overall COMPASS population and that it is appropriate to base its recommendation on a comparison of rivaroxaban plus aspirin with aspirin alone. The indirect comparison of rivaroxaban against ticagrelor does not provide reliable estimates of relative effectiveness or risk of bleeding 3.8 To estimate the relative efficacy of rivaroxaban plus aspirin compared with ticagrelor plus aspirin, the company did an indirect treatment comparison of COMPASS against data from another trial (PEGASUS). The ERG highlighted that the indirect comparison is methodologically sound, but there are important differences between the patients included in the 2 trials. The proportion of people who had had a myocardial infarction was 100% in PEGASUS, but 62% in COMPASS. Also,
