Rivaroxaban for preventing atherothrombotic events in people with coronary or peripheral
KEYWORDS: risk, aspirin, rivaroxaban, people, events, plus, plus aspirin, disease, compass, bleeding, rivaroxaban plus, ischaemic, treatment, artery disease, artery


are important differences between the patients included in the 2 trials. The proportion of people who had had a myocardial infarction was 100% in PEGASUS, but 62% in COMPASS. Also, the time since a myocardial infarction was between 1 and 3 years in PEGASUS, but in COMPASS people could have had a myocardial infarction at any time within the past 20 years. A clinical expert also noted that people in PEGASUS and COMPASS did not necessarily have the same baseline bleeding risk, and the trials used different methods to define significant bleeding (modified ISTH in COMPASS and TIMI in PEGASUS), making it difficult to compare the rates of bleeding in the 2 trials. The committee noted that the company did not use the results of the indirect comparison in its economic model. It concluded that COMPASS and PEGASUS have too many differences to allow a reliable estimate of the relative efficacy or bleeding risk of rivaroxaban plus aspirin compared with ticagrelor plus aspirin. The company's economic model The model is appropriate for decision making 3.9 The company modelled cost effectiveness using a Markov model with 5 states (event-free, non-fatal myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke, intracranial haemorrhage and death). These were subdivided into acute event (0 to 3 months after an acute event), post-event (3 or more months after an acute event) and second acute event. The efficacy and clinical parameters in the model were derived from COMPASS for the comparison of rivaroxaban plus aspirin against aspirin alone. For the comparison against ticagrelor plus aspirin, the results from the indirect comparison of COMPASS and PEGASUS were not directly used to inform the economic model. Instead, the model used HRs from the COMPASS and PEGASUS trials, which the committee considered appropriate. The committee concluded that the structure of the company's model is appropriate for decision making. Cost-effectiveness estimates Rivaroxaban plus aspirin is cost effective compared with aspirin alone 3.10 The company's base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for rivaroxaban plus aspirin compared with aspirin alone is £14,185 per quality- adjusted life year gained. The committee noted that the ICER is in the range normally considered cost effective and therefore concluded that rivaroxaban plus aspirin is a cost-effective use of NHS resources in people who are at high risk of ischaemic events as defined by the inclusion criteria of COMPASS (see section 3.6). 4 Implementation 4.1 Section 7(6) of the National Institute for Health and
