Syncope
KEYWORDS: syncope, cause, symptoms, cardiac, patients, clinical, heart, evaluation, usually, testing, medications, patient, position, loss, findings


Syncope is a sudden, brief loss of consciousness with loss of postural tone followed by spontaneous revival. The patient is motionless and limp and usually has cool extremities, a weak pulse, and shallow breathing. Sometimes brief involuntary muscle jerks occur, resembling a seizure. Near-syncope is light-headedness and a sense of an impending faint without loss of consciousness. It is usually classified and discussed with syncope because the causes are the same. Seizures can cause sudden loss of consciousness but are not considered syncope. However, seizures must be considered in patients presenting for apparent syncope because history may be unclear or unavailable, and some seizures do not cause tonic-clonic convulsions. Furthermore, a brief (< 5 second) seizure sometimes occurs with true syncope. Diagnosis depends on a careful history, eyewitness accounts, or fortuitous examination during the event. Pathophysiology of Syncope Most syncope results from insufficient cerebral blood flow. Some cases involve adequate flow but with insufficient cerebral substrate (oxygen, glucose, or both). Insufficient cerebral blood flow Most deficiencies in cerebral blood flow result from decreased cardiac output (CO). Decreased CO can be caused by Cardiac disorders that obstruct outflow Cardiac disorders of systolic dysfunction Cardiac disorders of diastolic dysfunction Arrhythmias (too fast or too slow) Conditions that decrease venous return Outflow obstruction can be exacerbated by exercise, vasodilation, and hypovolemia (particularly in aortic stenosis and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy), which may precipitate syncope. Arrhythmias cause syncope when the heart rate is too fast to allow adequate ventricular filling (eg > 150 to 180 beats/minute) or too slow to provide adequate output (eg, < 30 to 35 beats/minute). Venous return can be decreased by hemorrhage, increased intrathoracic pressure, increased vagal tone (which can also decrease heart rate), and loss of sympathetic tone (eg, from medications, carotid sinus pressure, autonomic dysfunction). Syncope involving these mechanisms (except for hemorrhage) is often termed vasovagal or neurocardiogenic and is common and benign. Orthostatic hypotension, a common benign cause of syncope, results from failure of normal mechanisms (eg, sinus tachycardia, vasoconstriction, or both) to compensate for the temporary decrease in venous return that occurs with standing. Cerebrovascular disorders (eg, strokes, transient ischemic attacks) rarely cause syncope because most of them do not involve the centrencephalic structures that must be affected to cause loss of consciousness. However, basilar artery ischemia, due to transient ischemic attack, stroke, or migraine, may cause syncope. Rarely, patients with severe cervical arthritis or spondylosis develop vertebrobasilar
