Syncope
KEYWORDS: syncope, cause, symptoms, cardiac, patients, clinical, heart, evaluation, usually, testing, medications, patient, position, loss, findings


remote the syncopal event, the more difficult the diagnosis. Information from witnesses is quite helpful and best obtained as soon as 8/14 possible. Guidelines for evaluation and management are available from the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (1) and the American College of Cardiology (2). History History of present illness should ascertain events leading up to the syncope, including the patient’s activity (eg, exercising, arguing, in a potentially emotional situation), position (eg, lying or standing), and, if standing, for how long. Important associated symptoms immediately before or after the event include whether there was a sense of impending loss of consciousness, nausea, sweating, blurred or tunnel vision, tingling of lips or fingertips, chest pain, or palpitations. Length of time recovering should also be ascertained. Witnesses, if any, should be sought and asked to describe events, particularly the presence and duration of any seizure activity. Review of systems should ask about any areas of pain or injury, episodes of dizziness or near-syncope upon arising, and episodes of palpitations or chest pain with exertion. Patients should be asked about symptoms suggesting possible causes, including bloody or tarry stools, heavy menses (anemia); vomiting, diarrhea, or excess urination (dehydration or electrolyte abnormalities); and risk factors for pulmonary embolism (recent surgery or immobilization, known cancer, previous clots or hypercoagulable state). Past medical history should ask about previous syncopal events, known cardiovascular disease, and known seizure disorders. Medications used should be identified (particularly antihypertensives, diuretics, vasodilators, and antiarrhythmics—see table Some Medications that Cause Syncope). Family history should note presence at a young age of heart disease or sudden death in any family member. Physical examination Vital signs are essential. Heart rate and blood pressure are measured with the patient supine and after 3 minutes of standing. Pulse is palpated for irregularity. General examination notes patient’s mental status, including any confusion or hesitancy suggesting a postictal state and any signs of injury (eg, bruising, swelling, tenderness, tongue bite). The heart is auscultated for murmurs; if present, any change in the murmur with a Valsalva maneuver, standing, or squatting is noted. Careful evaluation of the jugular venous waves (see figure Normal Jugular Vein Waves) while palpating the carotid or auscultating the heart may allow diagnosis of an arrhythmia if an ECG is not available. For example, cannon "a" waves occur when the atria contraction takes place against a closed tricuspid valve and indicate atrial-ventricular dissociation. The abdomen is palpated for
