Syncope
KEYWORDS: syncope, cause, symptoms, cardiac, patients, clinical, heart, evaluation, usually, testing, medications, patient, position, loss, findings


ECG is not available. For example, cannon "a" waves occur when the atria contraction takes place against a closed tricuspid valve and indicate atrial-ventricular dissociation. The abdomen is palpated for tenderness, and a rectal examination is done to check for gross or occult blood. A neurologic examination is done to identify any focal abnormalities, which suggest a central nervous system cause (eg, seizure disorder). 9/14 Red flags Certain findings suggest a more serious etiology: Syncope during exertion Multiple recurrences within a short time Heart murmur or other findings suggesting structural heart disease (eg, chest pain) Older age Significant injury during syncope Family history of sudden unexpected death, exertional syncope, or unexplained recurrent syncope or seizures Interpretation of findings Although the cause is often benign, it is important to identify the occasional life-threatening cause (eg, tachyarrhythmia, heart block) because sudden death is a risk. Clinical findings (see table Some Causes of Syncope) help suggest a cause in many cases. A few generalizations are useful. Benign causes often lead to syncope. Syncope precipitated by unpleasant physical or emotional stimuli (eg, pain, fright), usually occurring in the upright position and often preceded by vagally mediated warning symptoms (eg, nausea, weakness, yawning, apprehension, blurred vision, diaphoresis), suggests vasovagal syncope. Syncope that occurs most often when assuming an upright position (particularly in older patients after prolonged bed rest or in patients taking medications in certain classes) suggests orthostatic syncope. Syncope that occurs after standing for long periods without moving is usually due to venous pooling. Dangerous causes are suggested by red flag findings. Syncope with exertion suggests cardiac outflow obstruction or exercise-induced arrhythmia. Such patients sometimes also have chest pain, palpitations, or both. Cardiac findings may help identify a cause. A harsh, late-peaking, basal murmur radiating to the carotid arteries suggests aortic stenosis; a systolic murmur that increases with the Valsalva maneuver and disappears with squatting suggests hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Syncope that begins and ends suddenly and spontaneously is typical of cardiac causes, most commonly an arrhythmia. Syncope while lying down also suggests an arrhythmia because vasovagal and orthostatic mechanisms do not cause syncope in the recumbent position. Syncope accompanied by injury during the episode increases the likelihood of a cardiac cause or seizure, and therefore the event is of greater concern. The warning signs and slower loss of consciousness that accompany benign vasovagal syncope somewhat reduce the likelihood of injury. 10/14 Loss of consciousness during
