Syncope
KEYWORDS: syncope, cause, symptoms, cardiac, patients, clinical, heart, evaluation, usually, testing, medications, patient, position, loss, findings


the event is of greater concern. The warning signs and slower loss of consciousness that accompany benign vasovagal syncope somewhat reduce the likelihood of injury. 10/14 Loss of consciousness during a seizure or postictal confusion can sometimes be confused with syncope, but muscular jerking or convulsions that last more than a few seconds, incontinence, drooling, or tongue biting, if present, usually point to a seizure. Testing Testing typically is done: ECG Pulse oximetry Sometimes echocardiography Sometimes tilt table testing Blood tests only if clinically indicated Central nervous system imaging rarely indicated In general, if syncope results in an injury or is recurrent (particularly within a brief period), more intensive evaluation is warranted. Cardiac and brain imaging are not done unless indicated by clinical findings (suspected cardiac etiology or neurologic deficits). Patients with suspected arrhythmia, myocarditis, or ischemia should be evaluated as inpatients. Others may be evaluated as outpatients. ECG is done for all patients. The ECG may reveal arrhythmia, a conduction abnormality, ventricular hypertrophy, pre-excitation, QT prolongation, Brugada syndrome, pacemaker malfunction, myocardial ischemia, or myocardial infarction (3). If the diagnosis is questionable after this basic evaluation, measuring cardiac biomarkers and obtaining serial ECGs to rule out MI in older patients plus ECG monitoring for at least 24 hours are prudent. Any detected arrhythmia must be associated with altered consciousness in order to be implicated as the cause, but most patients do not experience syncope during monitoring. On the other hand, the presence of symptoms in the absence of rhythm disturbance helps rule out a cardiac cause. An event recorder (which can record cardiac rhythm for longer periods) may be useful if warning symptoms precede syncope. A signal-averaged ECG may identify predisposition to ventricular arrhythmias in patients with ischemic heart disease, suspected arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, or in patients during the post-myocardial infarction period. If syncopal episodes are infrequent (eg, < 1/month), an implantable loop recorder can be used for longer term recording. This device continuously records the rhythm and can be interrogated by an external machine that allows the cardiac rhythm to be printed. Pulse oximetry should be done during or immediately after an episode to identify hypoxemia (which may indicate pulmonary embolism). If hypoxemia is present, CT angiography is indicated to rule out pulmonary embolism. Laboratory tests are done based on clinical suspicion; reflexively obtained laboratory panels are of little use. However, all females of childbearing age should have
