Syncope
KEYWORDS: syncope, cause, symptoms, cardiac, patients, clinical, heart, evaluation, usually, testing, medications, patient, position, loss, findings


indicated to rule out pulmonary embolism. Laboratory tests are done based on clinical suspicion; reflexively obtained laboratory panels are of little use. However, all females of childbearing age should have a pregnancy test. Hematocrit is measured if anemia is suspected. Electrolytes are measured only if an abnormality is clinically 11/14 suspected (eg, by symptoms or medication use). Serum troponin is measured if acute myocardial infarction is suspected. Echocardiography (either point-of-care ultrasound [POCUS] or a traditional echocardiogram) is indicated for patients with clinically unexplained syncope, exercise-induced syncope, cardiac murmurs, or suspected intracardiac tumors (eg, those with positional syncope). Stress testing (exercise or pharmacologic) is done when intermittent myocardial ischemia is suspected. It is often done for patients with exercise-induced symptoms. Exercise testing is less valuable unless physical activity precipitated syncope. Tilt table testing may be done if history and physical examination indicate vasodepressor or other reflex-induced syncope. It is also used to evaluate exercise-induced syncope if echocardiography or exercise stress testing is negative. Invasive electrophysiologic testing is considered if noninvasive testing does not identify arrhythmia in patients with any of the following: Unexplained recurrent syncope Unexplained red flag findings Ischemic cardiomyopathy, non-ischemic cardiomyopathy, and adult congenital disease, or unexplained syncope that does not otherwise meet criteria for an implantable cardioverter- defibrillator (ICD) used for primary prevention An electrophysiologic study that is negative for an inducible abnormal rhythm defines a low-risk subgroup with a high rate of remission of syncope. The use of electrophysiologic testing is controversial in other patients. EEG is warranted if a seizure disorder is suspected. CT and MRI of the head and brain are indicated only if signs and symptoms suggest a focal CNS disorder. Treatment of Syncope 12/14 In witnessed syncope, pulses are checked immediately. If the patient is pulseless, CPR is begun. If pulses are present, severe bradycardia is treated with atropine or external transthoracic pacing. Isoproterenol can be used to maintain adequate heart rate while a temporary pacemaker is placed. Tachyarrhythmias are treated; a direct-current synchronized shock is quicker and safer than medications for patients who are not stable. Inadequate venous return is treated by keeping the patient supine, raising the legs, and giving IV normal saline. Tamponade is relieved by pericardiocentesis. Tension pneumothorax requires insertion of a pleural cannula and drainage. Anaphylaxis is treated with parenteral epinephrine. Placing the patient in a horizontal position with legs elevated typically ends the syncopal episode if life-
