Syncope
KEYWORDS: syncope, cause, symptoms, cardiac, patients, clinical, heart, evaluation, usually, testing, medications, patient, position, loss, findings


insertion of a pleural cannula and drainage. Anaphylaxis is treated with parenteral epinephrine. Placing the patient in a horizontal position with legs elevated typically ends the syncopal episode if life- threatening disorders are ruled out. If the patient sits upright too rapidly, syncope may recur; propping the patient upright or transporting the patient in an upright position may prolong cerebral hypoperfusion and prevent recovery. Specific treatment depends on the cause and its pathophysiology. Driving and use of machinery should be prohibited until the cause is determined and treated. Geriatrics Essentials: Syncope The most common cause of syncope in older adults is postural hypotension due to a combination of factors. Factors include rigid, noncompliant arteries, reduced skeletal muscle pumping of venous return due to physical inactivity, and degeneration of the sinoatrial node and conduction system due to progressive structural heart disease. In older adults, syncope often has more than one cause. For example, the combination of taking several heart and blood pressure medications and standing in a hot church during a long or emotional service may lead to syncope even though no single factor might cause syncope. Key Points Syncope results from global central nervous system dysfunction, usually resulting from insufficient cerebral blood flow. Most syncope results from benign causes. Some less common causes involve cardiac arrhythmia or outflow obstruction and are serious or potentially fatal. Vasovagal syncope usually has an apparent trigger, warning symptoms, and a few minutes or longer of postrecovery symptoms. Syncope due to cardiac arrhythmias typically occurs abruptly and with quick recovery. Treatment is directed at the underlying disorder. 13/14 If a benign etiology is not clear, driving and use of machinery should be prohibited until the cause is determined and treated—the next manifestation of an unrecognized cardiac cause may be fatal.
