Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, serum, patients, surgery, pituitary, urine, fluid, osmolality, adh, days, mmol, phase, case, excess


Reminder of important clinical lesson Case report Isolated second- phase diabetes insipidus post- transsphenoidal surgery Annalisa Montebello ,1 Darryl Portelli,2 Mark Gruppetta1 1Department of Diabetes and SUMMARY rising slowly increasing to 131 mmol/L 4 days later Endocrinology, Mater Dei A 57- year- old woman presented with severe lethargy, (figure 1). She remained clinically well throughout 2Department of General Internal resection of a growth hormone secreting pituitary adenoma. She was found to have severe hyponatremia Msida, Malta of 115 mmol/L. Importantly, she was neurologically intact INVESTIGATIONS and clinically euvolaemic. Her fluid intake was restricted Investigations included a full blood count, renal Correspondence to Dr Annalisa Montebello; and her sodium levels increased to 131 mmol/L over 4 function, paired serum and urine electrolyte a. montebello@ smd18. qmul. days. She made a full recovery. levels, paired serum and urine osmolality, a 9 am ac. uk She was diagnosed with isolated second-p hase serum cortisol, glucose and thyroid function tests. diabetes insipidus, a state of symptomatic hypoosmolar Serum sodium was 115 (135–145 mmol/L) in the Accepted 12 June 2020 hyponatremia that usually occurs 7–10 days after context of a low serum osmolality of 245 (282– transsphenoidal surgery. The sodium levels improve with 300 mOsm/kg) and an inappropriately high urine fluid restriction. osmolality 808 (50–1200 mOsm/kg). A full blood count, thyroid function tests, serum glucose, 9 am cortisol and lipid profile were within normal limits (table 1). BACKGROUND The sodium level of 115 mmol/L can be explained Postoperative isolated second- phase diabetes insip- by a surge in antidiuretic hormone (ADH) release idus is an important clinical entity to recognise. from damaged axons that course to the poste- Patients are usually well and clinically euvolaemic rior pituitary gland. This leads to fluid retention soon after their pituitary surgery and are discharged and hyponatremia if excess intravenous fluids are home. They may then present a few days later with administered or if the patient ingests large amounts collapse or seizures due to an underlying severe of hypotonic fluids such as water. hyponatremia. The patient’s cortisol was checked as hypocorti- solemia may lead to hyponatremia. Thyroid func- CASE PRESENTATION tion tests confirmed euthyroidism. Hypothyroidism A 57- year-o ld woman known case of type 2 diabetes can also be a cause of hyponatremia. Glucose and hypertension underwent transsphenoidal and lipid levels were also collected to exclude a surgery (TSS) for a growth hormone secreting pseudohyponatremia. pituitary microadenoma in October
