Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, serum, patients, surgery, pituitary, urine, fluid, osmolality, adh, days, mmol, phase, case, excess


a cause of hyponatremia. Glucose and hypertension underwent transsphenoidal and lipid levels were also collected to exclude a surgery (TSS) for a growth hormone secreting pseudohyponatremia. pituitary microadenoma in October 2019. The adenoma was completely removed. There were no intraoperative complications. Her fluid status was DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS strictly monitored postoperatively. Serum sodium, The initial evaluation of hyponatremia starts with serum and urine osmolality were monitored every a thorough clinical assessment. Patients presenting 12 hours. Serum cortisol was 516 nmol/L on day with severe symptoms such as vomiting, seizures, 2. Her serum sodium kept within normal limits, Glasgow Coma Scale≤8 or cardiorespiratory arrest she was euvolaemic and was well enough to be warrant immediate administration of 3% hyper- discharged home on day 3 postoperatively. tonic saline, irrespective of the cause.1 She presented to her prescheduled review 7 If the patient presents with mild or moderate days later with nausea, dizziness and severe leth- symptoms that include nausea, confusion or head- argy. Her serum sodium was 115 mmol/L. Her 9 ache, the cause of hyponatremia should be estab- am cortisol and thyroid function tests were within lished for adequate management. Initially, the cally euvolaemic and not passing excessive amounts Second, a paired serum and urine osmolality and © BMJ Publishing Group of urine. She was admitted for further monitoring urine sodium level are taken. A true hyponatremia Limited 2020. No commercial permissions. Published by BMJ. Serum sodium, serum and urine osmolality were In our case, our patient was euvolaemic and had checked regularly. Her fluid intake was restricted hypoosmolar hyponatremia with an inappropri- To cite: Montebello A, to 1.5 L/day . ately high urine osmolality. This suggests that she Portelli D, Gruppetta M. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e235499. Her serum sodium continued to drop reaching a was not releasing free water. doi:- lowest value of 107 mmol/L on the first day post- Hyponatremia postpituitary surgery pres- 235499 admission. After 2 days, her serum sodium started ents a wide differential diagnosis. These include Montebello A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e235499. doi: 1 Reminder of important clinical lesson in CSW causes less sodium reabsorption at the proximal tubule and more sodium excretion.4 CSW presents very similarly to the SIADH with low serum sodium, a low serum osmolality, inappropriately high urine osmolality and high urine sodium loss. The urinary sodium excretion is higher than the intake in CSW resulting in a negative net sodium balance
