Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, serum, patients, surgery, pituitary, urine, fluid, osmolality, adh, days, mmol, phase, case, excess


low serum osmolality, inappropriately high urine osmolality and high urine sodium loss. The urinary sodium excretion is higher than the intake in CSW resulting in a negative net sodium balance with polyuria. In SIADH, urinary sodium excretion equates sodium intake.4 In CSW, there is a decrease in extracellular volume, body weight, central venous pressure and haemoconcentration resulting in a higher urea, uric acid, haemoglobin, potassium and low plasma aldosterone. SIADH presents with euvolaemia or mild extracellular expansion.2 Patients with SIADH have a low Figure 1 Sodium trends over 4 days of admission with fluid plasma renin, low haematocrit, low plasma urea and uric acid.4 restriction. TREATMENT hypocortisolaemia, excess fluid administration, concurrent The patient was treated with fluid restriction and this was effec- medications, cerebral salt wasting (CSW) and hypothyroidism. tive over a few days. Her fluid intake and output were strictly Hypocortisolaemia is an important differential for euvolaemic monitored. Serum sodium, serum and urine osmolality were hyponatremia occurring in the initial postoperative days.2 Low monitored frequently. which is an ADH secretagogue. Cortisol is also a direct inhibitor indication. Treatment of hyponatremia depends on the severity of ADH, thus ADH levels are increased when cortisol levels are of symptoms. In all cases, sodium correction should not exceed low.3 10–12 mmol/L sodium per day or 18 mmol/L in 48 hours. Another possible cause of early postoperative hyponatremia is excess fluid administration intraoperatively or postopera- OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP tively. This leads to hypotonic polyuria. Vasopressin is released The sodium levels increased to normal over 4 days. The patient in response to surgical stress resulting in fluid retention. Intra- was followed up at outpatients clinic and the sodium levels venous fluids should be stopped as soon as patients are able to remained stable. There was no sign of residual tumour on MRI drink. Medications that cause syndrome of inappropriate ADH postoperatively. secretion (SIADH) are other potential causes. These include diuretics, antipsychotics, selective serotonin receptor inhibitors, DISCUSSION tricyclic antidepressants and non steroidal antiinflammatory Thirteen to thirty- five per cent of patients undergoing TSS drugs. develop hyponatremia postoperatively. 2%–7% are symptom- Hyponatremia may also develop due to excess desmopressin atic.2 It is most commonly due to excess ADH secretion post- administration used to treat postoperative diabetes insip- operatively but may be due to surgical complications such as idus (DI). Postoperative DI is often transient and can often be meningitis or bleeding.2 managed with just fluid replacement.
