Reminder of important clinical lesson
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, serum, patients, surgery, pituitary, urine, fluid, osmolality, adh, days, mmol, phase, case, excess


hormone. This may last 3–5 days and further exacerbate the SIADH- like 2 Montebello A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e235499. doi: Reminder of important clinical lesson state. Patients therefore need to be counselled to limit their oral There have been numerous studies investigating any predictive intake of hypotonic fluids such as water, so as not to induce causes for hyponatremia postpituitary surgery. Women are more hyponatremia.5 likely to develop transient hyponatremia and are three times more likely to have severe hyponatremia.6 8 Patients who have previous transient diabetes insipidus are Third phase two times more likely to develop hyponatremia postopera- The third phase represents with polyuria due to complete exhaus- tively.8–10 There is still a debate whether micro or macroade- tion of ADH stores. A clinical picture suggesting DI recurs. nomas are more likely to cause hyponatremia postoperatively. Triphasic DI occurs in 1%–2% of patients undergoing TSS.6 Macroadenomas were more likely to cause hyponatremia in a Isolated second phase occurs in 8%–21% of patients postpitu- study by Kelly et al.11 However in other studies, macroadenomas itary surgery.4 Isolated second phase DI occurs when some but were more likely.8 not all of the axons passing from the hypothalamus to the poste- rior pituitary are damaged. The remaining functioning axons Contributors AM and DP wrote up the case report together with MG’s constant still produce enough vasopressin to avoid the first and third review and advice. phases of DI. Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any Release of excess ADH leads to plasma volume expansion funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. and sodium and water excretion via the functioning kidneys. Competing interests None declared. Thus, a euvolaemic state is maintained.2 During this phase, any Patient consent for publication Obtained. excess fluid intake results in hyponatremia. Patients present with Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. collapse, nausea, headaches or seizures usually 7–10 days post- surgery/head injury. Fluid restriction results in resolution of the ORCID iD hyponatremia within a few days. Annalisa Montebello http:// orcid. org/ 0000- 0002- 8676- 4233 In a study by Kristof et al, 75.4% of patients post- TSS devel- oped water and electrolyte disturbances. 21% of these patients REFERENCES had isolated hyponatremia with a nadir of 132 mmol/L at day 9. 1 Ball S, Barth J, Levy M, et al. Society for endocrinology endocrine
