9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


Supplementation to HIV and TB Patients during Treatment Henrik Friis, Mette Frahm Olsen, and Suzanne Filteau 308 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health common. In some settings, more than half of the TB patients starting anti-TB treatment are HIV co- infected . Similarly, a large proportion of HIV-patients starting ART treatment will also have TB, partly because newly diagnosed TB patients are tested for HIV and referred for treatment and because HIV patients are screened for TB. Some studies have shown that micronutrient supplementation may affect progression and trans- mission of HIV (Fawzi et al., 2002, 2004), and micronutrients may be of importance for primary TB infection or actual TB disease (van Lettow and Whalen, 2008). As such, there might be a role for micronutrient interventions that target individuals at risk of HIV and TB infections or in the early stages of these infections. Patients with advanced HIV infection and clinical TB disease often live in food-insecure settings, and their habitual diet does not contain enough energy and nutrients to meet their requirements. There is, therefore, a need for effective nutritional interventions that target HIV and TB patients as part of comprehensive medical and social care packages. In addition to ameliorating food security and nutritional status, such interventions may also have a beneficial impact on disease and treatment outcomes. HISTORY, CURRENT PRACTICES, AND RECOMMENDATIONS tubErcuLoSiS Tuberculosis is an ancient disease for which effective drugs have only become available over the last half-century. Because the cardinal manifestation of TB is wasting or cachexia, the potential role of nutrition in its prevention and treatment was recognized early. Initially based on anecdotal evidence and layman wisdom, but later supported by research, nutrition became the backbone of TB treat- ment for centuries. The history of TB and the early research on the effect of nutrition and diet have been reviewed elsewhere (van Lettow and Whalen, 2008). After the discovery of the first effective anti-TB drugs—streptomycin in 1948 and rifampicin in 1952 (Whalen and Semba, 2001)—nutrition was no longer the main TB therapy and apparently did not find its place as auxiliary therapy, not even in low-income settings. A seminal study that reflected and contributed to this paradigm shift was conducted in the late 1950s in Madras City, now Chennai, India, and published in the paper, “The Role of Diet in the Treatment of Pulmonary Tuberculosis: An Evaluation in a Controlled Chemotherapy Study
