9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


late 1950s in Madras City, now Chennai, India, and published in the paper, “The Role of Diet in the Treatment of Pulmonary Tuberculosis: An Evaluation in a Controlled Chemotherapy Study in Home and Sanatorium Patients in South India” . In brief, patients with TB from a poverty-stricken community in Madras City were randomized to treatment at home or at a sanitarium. Both groups received the same treatment, but those treated at home had a markedly poorer diet while also being physically more active, as compared to those treated at the sanatorium. The paper concluded that, “initial chemotherapy of patients at home can be successful even if the dietary intake is low through- out the period of treatment,” although sputum conversion seemed to occur earlier and weight was considerably greater in those treated at the sanatorium (Figure 9.1). Since then, TB patients have usually been treated at home, through the Directly Observed coming for drugs. The seriously sick patient, requiring initial inpatient treatment, may receive hos- pital food, although in many settings no food at all is provided. In TB programs where nutritional support is given, as actual food supplements, food vouchers, or cash, it has often not been specifi- cally for nutritional reasons, but as an incentive to improve adherence, as poor adherence can be a cause of treatment failure and transmission. Support for Patients with Tuberculosis (WHO, 2013), which represented the first nutritional rec- ommendations in this area. The guideline recommended that individuals with TB disease should receive an assessment of their nutritional status and appropriate counseling. TB patients with mod- erate undernutrition who fail to regain normal body mass index (BMI) after two months of TB Macronutrient Supplementation to HIV and TB Patients during Treatment 309 Males Females Sanatorium Sanatorium Home Home )bl( thgieW naeM ni esaercnI 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Duration of Treatment (months) FIGURE 9.1 Weight changes over a 12-month period, according to sex of patients and place of treatment. treatment should be evaluated for adherence and comorbidity, receive nutrition assessment and counseling, and, if indicated, be provided with locally available nutrient-rich or fortified supplemen- tary foods. Furthermore, it is recommended that TB patients with severe acute malnutrition should be treated in accordance with WHO guidelines for treatment of malnutrition. Hiv infEction HIV is a more recent disease, first reported in 1980 among homosexual men in the
