9 Macronutrient
KEYWORDS: hiv, patients, treatment, supplementation, nutritional, art, weight, months, hiv patients, bmi, food, lns, mass, trial, infection


malnutrition should be treated in accordance with WHO guidelines for treatment of malnutrition. Hiv infEction HIV is a more recent disease, first reported in 1980 among homosexual men in the United States (CDC, 1981) and in Africa in 1983 . These case reports were followed by studies showing a huge prevalence in a number of sub-Saharan countries . The early research agenda focused on drugs and vaccines, given the success from the field of TB and other infections. The first drug, zidovudine, became available in 1987, less than a decade after the first case reports, and effective treatment was developed within 15 years (highly active antiretroviral treatment in the early 1990s) (Sepkowitz, 2001). Nutritional research, on the other hand, was slow to get underway, and for many years focused on micronutrient supplementation only. In 2003, WHO published a report from a technical consultation titled Nutrient Requirements for People Living with HIV/AIDS (WHO, 2004), which concluded that energy requirements are likely to increase by 10% in asymptomatic and 20% to 30% in symptomatic HIV-infected adults. However, to date, there are no recommendations for patients with HIV, as there are for TB patients. Currently, governments and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are distributing various food families. These include food baskets, fortified blended foods, and lipid-based nutrient supplements (LNS). Supplementation may target HIV patients with different stages of HIV infection (pre-ART or ART) and may be based on different inclusion criteria or simply judgment. The objectives also differ among supplementation programs. The aim may be to ameliorate household food insecurity, often considerably exacerbated by HIV infection, or to increase adherence to ART programs, or supplementation may be given in the hope that it will affect HIV progression, treatment outcomes, and survival. The effects of such programs are rarely evaluated, and in some settings several pro- grams are running simultaneously without proper coordination. 310 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health POTENTIAL EFFECTS OF NUTRITIONAL INTERVENTIONS nutritionaL StatuS at trEatmEnt Start Individuals with TB are likely to have been undernourished at the time of exposure, as poverty is not only associated with undernutrition but also with risk factors for TB exposure, which include crowding, alcohol, and smoking . The same applies to HIV, as food insecurity is associated with unsafe sex . Although HIV often thrives in the context of socioeconomic inequality rather than being strictly poverty driven, poor individuals are much more vulnerable to
